Each of the book of Acts and chapter seven. Though there is obviously a long speech that Stephen gives us a little bit of a good idea. I will read uh verses fifty-four through sixty, and we're just gonna redeal with that section. Hear now the word of the Lord. When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed at him with their teeth. But he, being full of the Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God. And Jesus standing at the right hand of God and said, Look, I see the heavens opened and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. Then they cried out with a loud voice, stopped their ears, and ran at him with one accord, and they cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their clothes at the feet of a young man named Saul, and they stoned Stephen as he was calling on God, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit Then he knelt down and cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not charge them with this sin. And when he had said this, he fell asleep. Let's pray. O Christ, what we have here before us is a martyr. He is not the first. There have been many witnesses to you. And what it looks like to fear you rather than fear man. We pray that we would learn our lesson today, that we would hear it not only in our ears but in our hearts. We pray, Lord, that you would make us to have hearts that chase after you and only fear you. In Christ's name, Amen. You may be seated In the last two weeks, the title of the sermons was similar to the one that you'll see in your bulletin today. We've been playing off of a theme with the strong rods. Two weeks ago, it was the strong rod of Christ's compassion. Last week it was the strong rod of Christ's wisdom. And this week we continue with the image of a rod. But you know, I had thought that I should probably ask you: do you know what we mean by rod when we place that title in the bulletin? It is a biblical image used in several places. It is the biblical image of a strong branch, which brings fruit and it brings shade to its community. And by using this image of the strong rods of compassion or of wisdom, we're acknowledging that God supplies his community with strength So that we may help in our time of internal need or external need when chaos and difficulty strike, or sorrow from the inside or the out Christ gives us strength, and he'll give, for example, deacons strength. That's what we acknowledged two weeks ago, that we have actually an office set aside to have a kind of strength given to it from Christ, and that they are strong rods of compassion and sympathy. They are strong rods encouraging us to generosity in our tithe and our offering. Last week we saw another strong rod whose name is Stephen, he is also a deacon, but he ended up being a Strong rod of wisdom resisting the inquisition of what appeared to be an entire crowd from a synagogue called the Synagogue of Friedman. And this week, we're going to take one step further. This week we see that Stephen was not just a strong rod, but a very strong rod. the strongest that you can be. For he will resist the devil in the name of Christ, even to the point of death And he ends up standing in a long line of witnesses, and this morning he is saying, Look, fear the same things I fear, and be a witness with me. And may that be. The most important question that he raises in our midst is: what wisdom did Christ give Stephen to stay so strong? It is remarkable. Have you put yourself in his shoes or sandals, whatever? If you were being stoned, how would you respond? Would you have prayed for the people that were stoning you? Did you notice that he did that? Just like Christ did for those who put him on the crucifix, the cross, rather? What wisdom was present there? What wisdom did Christ give Stephen to stay so strong? I think the short answer is given to us in A lot of different ways throughout the scriptures. The way that the Proverbs put it, since we're talking about wisdom, is it says it's the fear of God The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. And that fear of the Lord is captured here in this vision that is given to Stephen by Christ himself. It says here in 55 and 56, but he, being full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God, and he said, Look! I see the heavens opened and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God, and it is in this looking and this vision that is given to Stephen that there is a kind of summary of everything That is involved in the fear of God. And I can't go through everything, obviously. But I'll just draw out a couple pieces of the wisdom. Stephen sees the eternal Christ. He sees the Christ in the flesh, and he fears him. He fears his plan, he fears his judgment, which is what the standing is all about at the right hand. He fears the reward that Christ would give, as opposed to the reward that he could get if he avoided the stoning And he had all of that fear in the face of those who were stoning, and he feared Christ and all the things that that vision meant more than the people with the stones in their hands getting ready to kill him. And that would kill him. Now that is the fear of God. And that is a wisdom that is given to God's people by Christ. And you know this really shouldn't surprise us, should it? Let me ask you. Did it surprise you in my prayer? I think I said this in my prayer. I don't have a habit of remembering them. But do you did did you hear in the prayer that Stephen is not the first Christian martyr? And if he's not, it should not surprise us that we would see the fear of God more than the fear of man, that wisdom given to others besides him and before him. And therefore it shouldn't surprise us. Because all the saints of the past had the same wisdom to some measure and therefore the same strength. What I'm saying to you is this: this wisdom that we're looking for, how can we be strong enough? It's the fear of God. Well, the same son of man which Stephen saw that gave him that fear is the same Son of Man who emboldened all of the saints of the past and who will embolden you. Now, what is the classic place we must go to in the scriptures to see saints who are witnesses of being fearful more of God than of man? Where do we need to go? Hebrews 11, thank you. Praise God. You get some kind of gift. He has the gift of the Holy Spirit. Thank you very much, Marlon. Yes. So I just want to bring out a couple to you where Christ is mentioned explicitly as the thing that those witnesses or martyrs saw when they looked. It's the same eternal Christ. And they gained the same wisdom and of the power of fearing him more than man. Listen to this from Hebrews 11, 24 through 29. By faith, Moses, when he became of age, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin. Why? Because he esteemed the reproach of Christ Greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, and listen to this language, for he looked to the reward. Here's another one. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the Pharaoh, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible, the eternal Christ. By faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, lest he who destroyed the firstborn should touch them. All along he's got the eternal Christ in his sight, does he not? That's what the witness is. And now you know that the next part of Hebrews 11, which is a classic text for us or record. Is that this author will say, I do not have enough time to tell you all of the people that were looking on to the eternal Christ to have wisdom in the fear of God as opposed to men. And he says it something like this, and what more shall I say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah and David and Samuel and all of the prophets. Who were killed at the hands of God's people, who through faith subdued kingdoms, worked righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire Who was present with them when they were in the fire, but the image of the Son of Man? They escaped the edge of the sword Out of weakness they were made strong. How? Remember, that's the question we're asking. How were they made strong? By looking. Stephen's call to look with the exclamation point is the same call that has echoed down through the ages. It is the same call that is given to you as you too are witnesses. to Christ and his wisdom, showing that you fear him more than you fear man. That is how you will be strong This one vision of Stephen is but a figure of the wisdom given to all of the saints, and that wisdom is the fear of God. There is a measure of that in us. There is a measure that Stephen worked out to the full, as well as many other saints. There is a measure of this truth inside of us. And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul, but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. And that is truly embodied by Stephen himself as it was in many others. Despite what was happening around him with the crowds and the stoning. Stephen knew that Christ was in charge, and that Christ would vindicate him, and that the gates of hell would not prevail. And it is with this faith. It is with this faith that there was more fear of Christ than there was of those who had picked up the stones. We will hear something similar because it's always among the saints. I've got good news for you. It's actually in you too, saint. In the Reformation, do you know how the saints put this? Let good and kindred go, this mortal life also. The body they may kill. God's truth abideth still. His kingdom is forever. That came out of their hearts then. That is the faith of Stephen. That is the strength of every saint. It is how any saint would get through those kinds of difficulties. It is the wisdom of the fear of God. Now, this brings us to a main question, right? You can see that you're already involved in this story, this record here, that you're sucked into this. And so there is a question that is placed right on your lap. And it is this. Do you by faith see what Stephen sees? Do you, by faith, see what Stephen sees leading to the fear of Stephen, which is the fear of God? And I want you to think carefully about this. Because that's what Hebrew 11 is there for. They want you to think very, very carefully about your answer. That is the purpose of all of the people, all of the witnesses, all of the martyrs. It's the same word. Do you know, we got Hebrews 11. Thank you, Keith, for that. What is that passage typically called, if you were to summarize it? The cloud of witnesses. It's called the cloud of witnesses. And here's the question that you have to answer. You have to decide. They're witnessing to a wisdom that is given to us saints from the eternal Christ, that He's present in every single age, and He will strengthen His people in every single age. Here is what you have to decide. Are those cloud of witnesses false witnesses or are they true witnesses? You have to decide. And then if you decide, no matter which way, there's a path that you must go down. And that path, if you say that these are true witnesses, means that He must hold you captive in everything in your life, that everything will be different from this day forward if this is the first time that you will confess it. Let me put this in context. Last week we heard sobering news that Christians are empowered to bring order and beauty to this world. That's sobering because to have such a grand responsibility, it's just sobering. Now be sober more with the continuation of this truth. There are some children of the serpent present who hate the fact that we're trying to bring God's order to this world. That's even more sobering. We learned that last week. And today we're going to take we take it we are taking one more step and we are sobered a third time. Christ in His wisdom, we can see here with Stephen and all of the other witnesses that Christ in his wisdom still permits the serpent to strike and to bruise the church. The war that was pronounced in the beginning, where there shall be a bruising of the heel and then a crushing of the head, is still continuing. And as you can see in Stephen, sometimes the bruise is so deep and it is caused by so many stones and such hatred that you will die. And Christ is giving permission in his wisdom for that to take place. And so it is it is, can you not see that it is the most important question that you must ask? And that any hate that is present in the world for the order which you want to bring by the desires that have given to you by the Spirit Any desire that you have to bring the kingdom, if there's anyone fighting against that, even in the littlest way, know that that seed of hate, if it were given full reign, would grow up into something that murdered you. And so, in some sense, no matter what level of difficulty you are dealing with, it is all a part of the same thing, and you must answer, therefore, a most important question: what will give you the strength To not just bring beauty to this world in the name of Christ, but to bring beauty in the face of trouble and difficulty and death. Knowing that there's a dragon and he has many children. Well, obviously the answer has been given to you multiple times now. The answer is that the only wisdom That will give us the strength to do this is the wisdom that comes from Christ that He's always given to every saint, and that is that we would fear Him more than man. Fear Him even more than the devil The answer is that we must all by faith see and fear what Stephen sees and fears. Though you do not have the same heavenly vision, we must by faith see the same things that Stephen sees and be fearful of that more than what could happen to our bodies. Now, I don't want you to take that as if I'm rebuking you like you haven't had any fear of God. I actually would encourage you that I have seen the opposite in you. And I think that's really great news. Even before this sermon was given, before perhaps you've seen these truths, before you've gotten to understand what these witnesses are standing for. Before seeing how the eternal Christ has always been giving this wisdom throughout ages, I have seen his wisdom in you I have been watching you closely, and I have seen that Christ has given you the same wisdom in a measure that he gave to Stephen In all that you have faced this past year, even to this day, instead of fear of the world, I have heard a phrase continually coming from your lips. And I wonder if you've heard the same thing. Have you heard the people around you Though they could have just given up or been totally discouraged, instead, from their mouth comes this phrase: Christ is still on his throne. Have you heard it? Where does such a truth and belief come from? As a confession about reality, where does that coming from? It's coming from Christ Himself. It is the same confession you have as a saint that now, you know what that does? Here's the greatest news of all Hebrews chapter 11 is about the cloud of witnesses. And guess what cloud you are officially a part of? You too are a witness to the confession of what Christ is doing in this world. And you're putting it in terms of He is on the throne. Is that not what Stephen said? Look! And we're saying it in our own way without even knowing. Christ does that work even when you're not looking. But I want to do I do want to ask you, is that entirely correct? Do we need to become just a little bit more accurate to get as far as Stephen got? When we say Christ is on his throne, I usually hear that, and I I think you mean he's over there on his throne sitting down to the right hand of the Father. But Stephen sees a vision and Christ is not sitting. Now that's significant. It is particularly significant if you pay attention to the details. And realize that this is a call for us to remember all of the Psalms. When the people of God call out to their God, there comes a time when he does no He no longer sits in judgment but stands. And the people of God are always calling for him: Rise, Lord, we plead with you, deliver us. And that is what we see there with Christ. It increases the power of the vision. Christ has risen from his seat of power because he hears the groaning of his people, he hears their prayers, and he is about to act. It is in my mind that Christ stood and he saw all the people in that crowd that killed Stephen, and those who did not repent he destroyed in 70 A. D. They cried out that they would be able to die more quickly because of how horrible it was. Stephen was right to fear the Lord. And when they started to fear him, it was too late. And so from now on, in light of what Stephen has said and the vision that he has given us that we must embrace by faith, perhaps we should start saying Yes, Christ is on his throne, but let me add further, I by faith see Christ standing up, and he's at the right hand of God, and I will fear no man, I will only fear Christ. That's the confession of the church. That I pray, and I pray that it uh comforts you in the sense of the Latin, that you would become stronger. that you would be emboldened, that you would recognize the kind of power that is on your side, that has manifested itself in the creation of this world. The maintaining of this world, the maintaining of every single saint throughout all of the ages unto the end. It is the Christ. I do pray that you are strengthened by that and that your world changes. I do have another task for you this morning besides becoming strengthened yourself. Perhaps this morning you will be renewed by the transformation of your mind, and now you'll begin to do the will of God, which is to fear Him. But there is also another will of God that you must do, besides just thinking of yourself and your own congregation, which is not wrong. You must begin to take notice of the great persecutions that are happening across the world to other churches besides our own We must pray for them that they would have the fear of God. We must figure out ways to support them, to remind them. of the vision that Stephen has here, that they must always look. The reason why I'm telling you this is because we have witnesses that are being martyred across the world today. Let me tell you about one man. This just happened recently. There was uh a man in a pastor in Ethiopia. He was preaching regularly on the Lord's Day about Jesus' death, Jesus' resurrection, the forgiveness of sins. Some locals became very disturbed by this, and they started with intimidation techniques, which I've actually seen before, where they would come to the church services, their regular attenders. And they would sit in the front to mock him, so that he was distracted and to intimidate him. Well, they became so emboldened that one day when he was preaching on the forgiveness of sins and Christ's resurrection, One of them jumped up with a knife in his hand, stabbed him, and it it uh split open his kidney and he died before medical assistants could get there. This is recent And I have heard from that church by way of a letter that they want you to pray for his wife and his children Do you see the involvement we need to have? There's another example of a 15-year-old in Laos. Her name is Sa. I think I'm pronouncing that correctly, probably not. But this is uh as recent as November 20th. Her parents found out that she is a professed follower of Jesus Christ, and her parents took all of her clothes and threw them out onto the street. She's 15 years old. They told her to go live with the Christians. So Sa is currently staying with Pang and her mother, who is a widow. Sounds like the book of Ruth. This letter that I received asked that we would pray for Sa. That she would continue to grow in her faith and pray that God would bless Peng and her mother for their faithfulness and hospitality. That we would pray also that Saw's parents would hear the gospel and accept Jesus as their Lord and Savior just as their daughter did. Do you see the marks of Stephen in these prayer requests? Wanting even prayers for their enemies. Ethiopia is a long way away, an out of sight, out of mind. But by faith we must see them too. Laos is far away, and by faith we must see them too. We must realize That in Hebrews there's not only a chapter 11, but a chapter 12 that puts us all in the same course. And it says this. Therefore, we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which so easily ensnares Let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking on to Jesus. The author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, And he has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Amen. Let's pray