But you must continue in the things which you have learned and been assured of, knowing from whom you have learned them. And that from childhood you have known the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete. Thoroughly equipped for every good work. Amen. Please pray with me. Oh God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we pray that you would work through your preached word this morning. We pray, Lord, that by your Spirit you would change us on the spot, correct us, reprove us, give us instruction in righteousness. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. When the children were younger After a long day of play, and the heart the house was totally dark, I would sometimes wake up in the middle of the night, and for whatever reason, I would have to go to the back room. There would be no real light for me to be able to see, but I would just wing it. I'd make it fine out of my bedroom into the hall I'd make it fine going down the hardwood floors. They kind of had a uh a reflection on them where I could see where I was going and I didn't run into the fridge. But then once I got into the back room that was carpeted, it was inevitable that I could not avoid stepping on their Lego pieces. Anybody ever step on a Lego piece? It's um one of the miseries of humanity. It is it is very difficult. After I had done that enough times and as I by God's Spirit grew in wisdom I started to bring my phone with me and I turned that little flashlight on and I had a path that was well lit. And I did not most of the time step on little Lego pieces. That's an image that is very like what we see within the scriptures: that we have a well-lit path, not by a literal flashlight, but by the word of God. I wonder here this morning if some of you find that the Word of God lights up the paths of your life. I wonder if you have become cynical or skeptical about that, and you've turned to other sources to have a clear light on the path of your life. The Holy Scriptures are the main topic of our passage this morning. It's the title of the sermon, as you can see within your bulletin, and it's a continuation of Paul's ministry to Timothy and the Spirit's ministry to Timothy. to you and me in all of the different ages of the church. Here we see that Paul has been seeking to build up Timothy's confidence. And there's no wonder why he's known Timothy is known as timid. He's known as having been despised by certain members of the community or in the congregation. He's got stomach issues. Just makes him really look like a frail person. But we know from last week that he has spent the ultimate internship with the Apostle Paul. He followed the Apostle Paul's teaching in all the manners of his life. He was there for the persecutions and man, what an internship. What a way to have some kind of confidence that you're not a novice, you're not totally green, and you're not a newbie as Paul pushes Timothy over into the Ephesian church to minister there. And even if things were over his head, Paul told us last week that any of those things that arose that were way out of his control, which is just about everything, Jesus Christ delivers us. He never leaves us nor forsakes us. Now it's pretty curious that after that passage we looked at last week and learning about all those things, there was a general principle that Paul still wanted to state, despite your readiness for the ministry. Due to your awesome internship and Christ being on your side. Remember that principle we read? Evil men and impostors will grow from worse to worse. It's right there in the paragraph above where we read this morning. And that was a warning for us to know, to be forewarned, is forearmed, to know what happens when you're in these kinds of seasons, is that we're going to need all the help that we can get. So far, he's got the help of a great internship. He's got the help of the Lord on his side. Well, this morning, the other help is now listed for us, which we didn't get a chance to last week, and that's the help of the Holy Scriptures. The Holy Scriptures, the light that lights up our path, that keeps us from stepping on things far worse than Lego pieces. The Spirit this morning in this passage wants to teach you something, and it's this. Jesus Christ gave you his word in order for you to be able to serve him Jesus Christ gave you. He gave you. And he gave you his word in order for you to be able to serve him. I want to look at this under Christ's service and God's Word. We'll unfold it in Christ's service. and God word. That's the first thing that we see here in this passage beginning in verse 17. It's not the first in order, but it's the first that I draw your attention to in verse 17 is that service is on the forefront of the Apostles Paul's mind. And that Christ has not only called Timothy to service, but all of us into his service. We know that from earlier passages talking about the servant of the Lord. But here it is said explicitly in verse 17. Take a look at it with me. That the man of God or God's man may be complete. How? He would be thoroughly equipped for every good work. We're talking about the good works of service. That Timothy is supposed to be doing for this particular church and that we are to be doing for Jesus Christ. Christ calls you to do good works in service to him. Now, Timothy was called to be a man of God, completely, thoroughly equipped for every good work, and he has called him to be equipped to serve Christ well, but that's not just for Timothy alone. You are called to be a man or a woman of God thoroughly equipped for every good service. Do you remember us having this conversation from the book of Titus? or the letter of Titus. The same kinds of words are used to alert you that you've been called away from sin and into service. If you want to write this down and then talk about it over lunch, it's Titus chapter 2, verse 14. It says this about the ministry of Jesus Christ: that He gave Himself for us. Why? So that he might redeem us from every lawless deed and instead purify for himself his own special people that are zealous. For good works or service. Christ redeemed you. Christ purified you with his spirit, Christian The Spirit has created in you a zeal for good works and service for Christ and for his kingdom. I was watching a show on hunting dogs, surprise, surprise, and I was learning that different dogs were bred to have a high drive for different situations. Have you ever heard of the technical terminology of drive with dogs and high drive? If you haven't heard of it, if you haven't read about it, I bet you have seen it if you have a dog. High drive means they're taking off across the field at something, and depending on the dog you have, they'll take off for different things. If you have that little yappy dog That little yappy dog was probably bred to catch rodents in castles, and they like little things like squirrels. Or if you have rats, don't admit it, but they'll chump they'll catch your rats too. Some dogs have high drives for retrieving ducks and geese. Some have high drives for protection and they're more inclined towards policed work. And we could talk about this drive, this high drive within dogs as a kind of zeal that they have for different things. Well You and I, by nature, have a high drive, we learned from earlier passages, to love ourselves. A high drive, many scriptures teach us a high drive to turn away from God and be at enmity with Him. And yet something has happened. Jesus Christ in his ascension has sent you his Holy Spirit and He has changed your drives I understand that it's not perfect yet. That's why Jesus Christ talks about this as being reborn. You ever seen a little baby? Of course you have. Babies are usually perfect in that they have all their parts. But they've got a long way to go in terms of the f the full breadth of the parts that they're going to have. Their hands and their arms and their muscles still have lots of progressive progress and development. And it's the same thing with you But at least, Christian, the seed had been planted by the Spirit of God, and your drives have been changed. And Christ keeps working on you and your zeal to serve him in good works. And it grows more and more, from faith to faith, from glory to glory. Even if your drive is not what you want it to be, as a Christian, if we were to just sit down for a couple minutes, we would get to the bottom of it and we would see, even they're not they're probably not what you'd want them to be, but they're still there. There's something present in you that is a gift from Jesus Christ, and that your drives have been changed. That you, even if it's small, love God. And you want to serve him. And now praise God, from whom all blessings flow, even for your love, to serve Christ by doing good works. Now, you can see in verse 17 that, and then looking at Titus, all the background that's involved in us becoming equipped, thoroughly equipped for every good work. That it corresponds with the grand redemptive plan that Jesus Christ has. But that's just one verse, and our passage is much longer than that. Paul has something else on his mind than talking about the good works that you were meant to do. He has on his mind, how is it that you can become equipped to do those good works. And that's our second point. It's God's word. It's God's word. This is exactly what Paul says in verse 16, and it will take up the rest of the sermon. He says in verse 16, if you take a look there, he says, all scripture Is given by inspiration of God. This is why the whole title of this is God's Word on the second point. God has in fact given us his word. You do not have handed down to you another traditional philosophical textbook or something like that. He's saying here that you have God's word. The translation here in my translation at any rate, it says all scripture is given by inspiration of God. Does anybody else have that translation? That's a pretty um that translation is pretty influenced by the Latin Vulgate, uh where they're thinking of a Latin word to make that translation. If you wanted a more direct correspondence to what's going on in front of you here within our passage, it would be something like all scripture is God breathed. Breathed out by God, God's breath. Scripture is God's breath, or Scripture is the voice of God, or Scripture is God's words. I like that last one because this is how Jesus talks about the Holy Scriptures. He says these are God's words. Jesus talks about God's word in John chapter 10, verse 35. He's talking about a different topic, but in the midst of that topic, he says this. He says, if he called them gods, to whom the word of God came. And then he equates Word of God with the next sentence. He says, and the scriptures cannot be broken. You see what he did there? The scriptures, just like we're hearing about in our passage, and Word of God, are synonyms. If you wanted a fuller picture of this, that you have been given God's word, if you wanted a fuller picture of this, you could see the origins of the Holy Scripture as God's word in 2 Peter, which we included in your bulletin today as one of our readings. Take a look at that. It's inside of the first page. 2 Peter 1, verses 16 through 21 is in here, and I'll just mention verses 20 through 21. This is a full picture of the origins of the Holy Scripture. Knowing this first, that no prophecy of Scripture is of any private interpretation. For prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. Now that's a that's a mouthful. But the thing I want you to notice is, I just want you to ask the question, from where are the scriptures? And then re-take a look at what I just wrote read to you where it says is of any private interpretation. They're trying to point out This doesn't come from me and my private selection or understandings. I'm not the origin. In fact, no human is the origin. of these things called the Holy Scriptures. Instead, if you look at the next sentence, prophecy never came by, you see that, the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. Here we see that though men are writing these things down or receiving the words, the words are not theirs. You could summarize this whole conversation from the Old Testament prophets when they say, thus spake the Lord, not thus spake Isaiah. Thus spake the Lord, you have God's word. That is the Holy Scriptures Now, he doesn't just tell us, hey, you have God's word. He does tell us that, but he goes on to tell us that there's two main ways That God intends for us to use his word. The first way is given in verse 15. I wonder if you caught that right away. It says in verse 15 that the scriptures are able to make you wise for salvation in Christ Jesus. That is the first way in which We are equipped to do every good work and to serve Christ is that they make us wise for salvation in Christ Jesus. Have you ever read this verse before? How did you make sense of wise for salvation? What did that mean? Wise for salvation means that you would know how to be saved. Now, if you were to look at this word saved in scriptures, you could be saved from a lot of different things. But here there's a specific saving that needs to take place. The saving that Paul has on his mind here is save from the final judgment and reformation of the world under Christ's order. Now, just to bring that out in high relief so that we can understand it, let me give you a contrast. Let's say instead of you being wise for salvation, let's say that you're a fool with reference to salvation. What would that look like? What would it look like for you to be a fool with reference to salvation? Well it would consist of a couple different things, wouldn't it? Number one, if you're a fool with reference to salvation, you deny that any this that this salvation that we're talking about, that this salvation is unnecessary. That it's it doesn't need to happen because these things like judgment do not exist. That's not what's going on in the world. That would be a fool with reference to salvation, and that you would deny the need for this kind of salvation to begin with. Now, has anybody ever heard that level of denial? You should all be nodding yes, because it pervades your co-workers and your family members and your friends. They deny that there's any afterlife. They deny that there will be any accountability for human action by way of God. They deny even at this point that there is a God. And are avowed atheists. Now, is this new to the human race? That we would be fools with reference to salvation? Not according to Peter. In 2 Peter, if you wanted to look at this over launch, this would be a great conversation, by the way, from 2 Peter 3, verses 2 through 7. If you look at 2 Peter, there were fools with reference to salvation during his time. And even going as far back as the times of Noah, Peter says that you may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets. And of the commandment of us, the apostles of the Lord and Savior, knowing this first, that scoffers will come in the last days. Sounds like what we're reading, doesn't it? 2 Timothy. Well, what will these scoffers teach? What will they say? What will they scoff at? Scoffers will come in the last days, walking according to their own lusts, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? Judgment by God on the human race. Hilarious For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue just as they have from the beginning. There's no such thing as a judgment. Nobody's held accountable to each their own. Peter goes on and he says, For they willfully forget. They forget that judgment has happened once before. That by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water, by which the world that then existed perished. Being flooded with water. But the heavens and the earth which are now preserved by the same word are reserved for fire until the day of judgment and perition of ungodly men. Do you want to know how there's going to be a judgment in the future? There was a judgment in the past. That's his argument there. They said things have always just gone on naturally. It's kind of a natural selection and evolution argument. We've just progressed. And he's saying, no, have you forgotten? There was already a judgment and there will be one again. That is what it would look like in part to be a fool with reference to salvation. You would have reasoned and suppressed so many different things to think there's no salvation that's necessary. But you who meditate on God's word, you are not a fool with reference to salvation. You are wise for salvation. Now, being wise for salvation would mean not only that you would know that you need to be saved. But how it is to be accomplished. And what does our verse say? Sometimes we can get confused on little prepositional phrases. How do we receive salvation according to this verse? Is it not in Christ Jesus? Our salvation is in him. You know that the only way to be saved is through Jesus Christ's life, his death, his resurrection, his ascension, and continual working with you. And you have faith As a Christian, you have faith in him for salvation as your Savior But you don't just have wisdom and salvation for yourself The context here tells us we're as being people of God, or a man of God, or a woman of God, that we should be wise for salvation for everybody that is around us. If you're to be thoroughly equipped for every good work, and the first good work is for you to be wise in salvation, then mothers Where do you think you need to share your wisdom of salvation? Is it not with your children? If you have an unbelieving husband, is it not with your husband? Those of you who are grandmothers and you bring that little grandchild up on your lap, you know what that you need to help them to understand? You know what you need to help them to grow in? Wisdom in salvation in Christ Jesus. That is the first good work that the Holy Scriptures have equipped you to do. Even if the uh the way that you say it sounds imperfect or Or maybe it sounds childish. God is telling you that he couples himself to his word. And he works through his word that even your children, your grandchildren, your friends and your co-workers. might hear and perhaps even receive their Savior and salvation. Timothy would tell the Ephesians, wouldn't he? You would tell your children and your friends and your family, you're not going to be a fool that doesn't believe in a day of reformation under God. But you have wisdom from the scriptures. God's word makes you wise in salvation. And that is the first good work which you are created, or recreated rather, to do. But there's a second one. And that takes us into this next verse. God gave you his word not only to be wise for salvation in Christ Jesus. But secondly, to help your fellow Christians around you to change more and more into the image of Jesus Christ. You are to be your brother and your sister's helper. By the power of the Holy Spirit. You can see this point in verse 16. It now talks about the prophet or the use of the scriptures. We've already seen one use, make you wise for salvation. It's able to do that, it says that. And now scripture is profitable for change. It says all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Now, I want to just step through each one of these words: doctrine, reproof, correction, and instruction in righteousness. First, you can find all of the teaching or doctrine in the Holy Scriptures that are necessary for you to know God's will. It teaches all things necessary for life and godliness. When God wants each of you to know about faith, what you should believe If God wants you to know about your duty toward him, what you should do, and who you should be, do you know where you can turn? The Holy Scriptures, God's Word. It is an absolute standard given by God for human living. Now that's the doctrine. Secondly, the Bible not only tells us what God requires of us, it goes on to convict us of our failures to fulfill those requirements. Does anybody have any experience with that? That you read your Bible, or somebody tells you what it says, and then you check the Bible, and yup, it does say that, and then something happens inside of you where you immediately draw the conclusion, I didn't do that Or I I did commit that. Or I did omit that. Because God works in his scriptures like that with you. He not only instructs you, he brings about conviction within you. Now the word convict, according to one author, is a court term. That means to prosecute the case against one that is declared guilty of the crime of which he is accused. And Jesus tells us in John chapter 17 that the Spirit specifically takes up that work, driving home in you, pointing out to you the ways in which you have fallen short here, that he might take you to other purposes. That's the second in our list, which is reproof. We then move on to correction, and that's the third thing. It corrects you. Now what does that mean? Literally, the word means to stand up straight again. And I like how this one commentator put it. He says, if the Bible convicts you of sin, knocks you flat on your face. It also picks you up, dusts you off, gets you out of the trouble you have brought on yourself, and heads you in the right direction for the future. There are your holy scriptures. But there's one more. And that's not an and it's still not enough. You will once more fall into the same sins if you do not adopt God's new ways. And so the fourth thing that the Bible does is discipline you in righteousness. It says instruction in righteousness. in the NKJV. By godly biblical discipline, you must learn to put off the old sinful ways while replacing them by the power of God with God's righteous ways. Now if you spent any time here in under sermons or if you've been in our Sunday schools, you know that this is reflected, this not just the negative but the positive is reflected in all of our teaching. Even when we read, you shall not kill We seek to point out that the point of that commandment is you shall give life. And that's God's point with you that He's making here, that He accomplishes through His Word, by the power of His Spirit. That he does not just leave you on the floor. He doesn't just stand you up and then you have to figure out where you're going. He shows you the new way that you ought to go and the new things that you ought to put on after you have taken off the old. What you have before here you hear in 2 Timothy 3, verse 16, is a process of change from faith to faith and glory to glory. How hopeful! How confident we can be, even in seasons of evil, when we have God's word at our side. Because Jesus Christ gave you his word in order to serve him well. As you look at these verses, I wonder if there's anybody out there. who has given up on the scriptures being a source of help for you Our main teaching this morning was that Jesus Christ gave you his word in order to serve him well, and you have been seeking to serve him well, and you don't find his word of very much help. I wonder if that expresses some of the difficulties that you have with it. I wonder if you could even relate that to the two ways that we talked about within the the passage here. That you turn to the scriptures in order for you to be wise for salvation. And you find that you still fall short in understanding what's going on with salvation. Or being able to share that with other people. Now there could be a thousand different reasons on why we would have difficulty grasping these scriptures that are given to us. But one that seems to rise up above them all is that we are seeking to try to understand and profit and use these holy scriptures. in a way that God did not intend for us to use them. There are two main ways by way of application of everything that's been said this morning. That I've seen in myself and that I've seen in you that dead end Christ's scriptures. Number one We tend to use these scriptures not for the profit of those who are around us, but to get to gaslight people so that we can continue in our sin. A prime example of this would be your wife finally getting the courage to say something to you about how you're affecting all of the children. And you just tell her to read Ephesians and to learn about submission. Now, some of you, your jaw might drop and you would say, no, surely no one says that. But it happens every single day. And that is not how God intends his scriptures to be used. Let me just ask you a question. Do you think that God is going to underwrite you? As you seek to use his word for your evil purposes, we've got to be honest with ourselves I had a very difficult lesson in this, and I imagine I have a lot more lessons to go. I started off because of who I am, my personality, and all of my sin I gave my wife a very difficult time in our marriage, especially for the first three years. And I would study those scriptures and study those scriptures and study those scriptures, having become a Christian. And then when she would want to help me out, I would use the scriptures to suppress the truth and stay in my unrighteousness. But Jesus Christ didn't leave me there. He did what he does through his word, what he said he does through his word. There was a day, I'll tell you about another time, where he brought that conviction in. And I had to leave a room because I was in tears over who I had become. And I called my wife and I confessed my sin to her. Sins. Sins and sins. So maybe you've been using number one his word in a way that he never intends for you to profit by. And if that is you, you can even just learn from my story that there's redemption for you. There's change for you by his word. The second one is this We tend to think as a people of God that I'll just understand the scriptures as an individual of God. And that is not how it is going to work. You will gain some understanding by sitting yourself in the park, watching the squirrels playing on the trees, maybe the sun's coming up. And you're just having a wonderful devotional. You will definitely, the Lord will minister to you in those private times. But by and large, the Lord ministers to us by his word as we learn his word together as a family of God. You will notice that there are a couple things that Christ is doing in this congregational ecosystem. He gives certain people gifts where they will always know the word better than you in certain ways. And you can learn from them. And then there are those who have far more experience in walking with God than we do. And they're able to not just explain what the verb means in the Greek, but they can show you what it looks like and how God taught them to do such and such. Your husband struggling with Alzheimer's. There's somebody who already had lessons from God and his word on how to walk such a path. Your husband struggling with pornography, there are other women that have already walked through that path that God has taught through His Word. And they are here to teach you. I'd encourage you to take a look at 2 Corinthians to see how the body is meant to function. Look at 1 Corinthians And how the arm is meant to be connected to the leg and the eyes to the nose. We're all supposed to be working organically together, even in the understanding of his holy scriptures. Those are two main ways that can keep us from really benefiting from His Word. And I wonder if you're struggling with one of those ways. Have you been using His Word in a way to just cover up your own sin? And have you been trying to just be an island doing this whole thing on yourself, by yourself, not really joining the church community? Let's take a look at that scripture again as we end. If either one of those things describe you, do you know what you need to do? You need to turn to God's word. It'll begin with you gaining some instruction, because the word is profitable for doctrine. And in that instruction, you will gain some conviction by the work of the Holy Spirit. And though you fall on your face through correction, he lifts you back up and dusts you off. And then in the instruction for righteousness, you put on a new set of clothes with a new path and a new direction, a new purpose. Because we're a people full of hope. The Lord, even if you're a sinner, especially if you're a sinner, the Lord will not leave you. He'll not leave you in your sin and forsake you. He says so in his word. And Jesus Christ gave us his word in order for us, even as sinners. Please join me in a word of prayer. Oh Lord Jesus Christ, your word has gone out. I pray that it would not return to you void. I pray that you will have stirred up in your people the very things we read about by way of your word here in this passage. I pray, Lord, that we would not go off and be by ourselves, but that we would move towards each other with your word in hand. Oh Lord, make us a real church, a real congregation. Of course we are, Lord. I just ask that you'd take us further along the way in our development. I pray, Lord, that it would result in the world receiving a testimony that you are at work, that you are saving sinners. I pray that that would result in those that you're drawing from the world becoming wise in salvation. I ask those things in your name. Amen. Amen.