It's uh my my heart leaped for joy in hearing all of us together stating the Apostles' Creed uh in unison. The declaration of that faith comes from the Holy Spirit purifying your hearts. I just started to think of all of the salvation in this room. from Jesus Christ. And we'll read more about more of his salvation in 1 Timothy 1, verses 1 through 7 today. So if you could please turn there in your scriptures, 1 Timothy 1, 1 through 7. I'll begin in verse one. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the commandment of God our Savior, and the Lord Jesus Christ, our hope. To Timothy a true son in the faith. Grace, mercy, and peace from God our Father and Jesus Christ our Lord As I urged you when I went into Macedonia, remain in Ephesus, that you may charge some that they teach no other doctrine, nor give heed to fables and endless genealogies. Which cause disputes rather than godly edification, which is in faith. Now the purpose of the commandment, or charge, is love from a pure heart, from a good conscience, and from sincere faith from which some, having strayed, have turned aside to idle talk, desiring to be teachers of the law, understanding neither what they say nor the things which they affirm Let us pray. Oh Christ, in each age you have given your church work to do. And in every age, generally speaking, you've given us the same work to do. We pray, Lord, here that through your word Accompanied by your spirit, that you would equip us for the work of our age. That is the work of every age. We pray that you would make us a people that would protect the deposit of faith that has been handed down to us. End of your practice. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. When I would speak with folks this past week It was not unusual for them to bring up to me the image of an apple tree. And that was good, because that means they remembered at least something of the sermon and therefore something of our last sermon in Titus together. We ended the Titus series with the landscape really of an apple orchard. The point to be made was that we are meant to be fruitful and to cast shade, especially for those of our brethren. And if we wanted to be more accurate of or paint more of an accurate picture, if you wanted to fill out that landscape and represent more of what was said in that letter to Titus, then you would need to add, folks uh coming over top of the horizon, heading into the orchard with axes and flames, wanting to burn the orchard down, and even some who belong in the orchard becoming a problem With their own acts, and therefore the need for there to be people appointed to protect and to make sure that the orchard thrives. That's a more full picture of Titus if we want to stick with the apple orchard imagery. Well, this morning we move away from Titus in that series And we move into 1 Timothy, and you'll notice many similarities. I wondered if you already did notice some similarities in the endless genealogy talk that you heard this morning. You'll notice many similarities between Paul's concerns to Titus and Timothy. And really, between the role of Titus and Timothy, they're acting very similarly in the kind of work that Paul has them doing. And so what I'd like to do, as always, is to begin with just a few observations, kicking us off here in 1 Timothy. and then a few observ a few applications. The first thing I want you to notice is that Paul starts off this whole letter, and this needs to carry through through the rest of 1 and 2 Timothy for you. He starts the whole thing off by charging Timothy. Now do you have you ever been at a a charge I was charged right up here by Arch van Devender, and he charged me with the accounts of Jesus restoring Peter, saying, Do you love me? Then feed my sheep. And Arch said those words over and over again to me, charging me with the care of this congregation as they took vows to my uh authorization. Well, we have a charge going on here, and it carries through the whole letter. That's really what this whole thing is. It's helping Timothy and the church throughout the ages to understand what our charge is. You can notice that in verse 3. It's right there. As I urged you or charged you when I went into Macedonia, remain in Ephesus that you may charge some that they teach no other doctrine. In verses 1 and 2, therefore, since the charge is the centerpiece of the table, so to speak, in verses 1 and 2, Paul is going to give the authoritative structure. for the charge. So you could imagine standing there with Timothy perhaps receiving his ordination and Paul charging him, and you could be sitting there wondering and saying, Well, what gives this guy, Paul, the right to charge this guy to do all of this within the congregation? Well, that's what we have in verses 1 and 2. Paul is an apostle. This is a declaration of his authority. He has the right to do this. Notice that he says in these verses 1 and 2 that not only is he of an apostle, but he was commissioned. Not by men or women. He was commissioned by God the Father himself and the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And it is with that authorization that he writes this letter. It's with that authorization that he commissions Timothy to work in the Ephesian church. Paul has every right to write every word that he says here within this letter. Now, after establishing the authority, Paul gives the main task of the charge. So we not only have the authority to charge, but a main task for the charge. Timothy must make sure, says Paul, that no other doctrine is taught within this Ephesian church. Now those are loaded words, and if you know your scriptures, then you've heard those exact words or words that are similar. In fact, Paul speaks more fully about no other doctrine later in this same letter. Listen to what he says by the time we get to chapter 6 of this charge. If anyone teaches otherwise And does not consent to the wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which accords with godliness, he is proud He knows nothing. He is obsessed with disputes and arguments over words that come from envy, strife, reviling, evil suspicions, useless wranglings of men of corrupt minds and destitute of the truth who suppose that godliness is a way to make some money. But you need to withdraw yourself from such people. We heard the same kind of language in Titus about withdrawing. Now that's 1 Timothy 6, 3 through 5. Those are that is a description of those who have chosen another doctrine. Now, when I say those words, can you think of another passage that says, you shall not give yourself over to another doctrine? Well, there's a really famous one from Galatians chapter 1, verse 6. I wonder if that's the one you were thinking about And it says, I marvel that you were turning away so soon from him who called you in the grace of Christ to another or different gospel. That's what's going on here. That is what at stake. And so in summary, our first observation is this. Timothy is charged to maintain congregational loyalty to the apostolic teaching, otherwise known as the wholesome words, otherwise known as the commission of Jesus Christ. And it is those words, that teaching, that promotes true godliness. No other doctrine should be taught, whether in word or deed. Now, here's the second observation is that there is a goal that is stated also for Timothy. He is to maintain the words of the teaching of the apostles, but he is not to do so just as an end in itself. He's not just a guardian of words. It is part of a larger goal which God has given for the church. And this goal is brought out by a few key words within the passage that you would want to confer with each other over lunch about. The very first word I want to draw to your attention is in verse number four. Take a look with me. Nor give heed to fables and endless genealogies which cause disputes. Those are the things we don't want to be a part of, but then he gives a contrast of those things we do want to be a part of. Rather, we want to be a part of godly edification. That's the first key word. This is a special word within the scriptures. It refers this edification word refers to an overarching plan which God has to order his people in salvation and glory. The root of the word edification, some of you know this, and I love to remind you of it because it's so full and rich with meaning. The root of the word edification comes from building from constructing something, particularly the construction of a household. But you could think of a ranch or an estate And all that it would require, all of the planning and all of the activity that would be required to establish this great plan to have this glorious estate or household or ranch That's all behind this word. And therefore, the goal of Timothy's charge, consequently, is to keep building up the household or the ranch of faith with the tools that God gives him for this stewardship. That's how we have to think about it. That's the larger picture. He's not just a keeper of words. He is the steward of a whole ranch. And this includes, most emphatically, the apostolic understanding of redemption. Remember, there's no other doctrine. There's no other way of doing things than the way of I've installed in order for the success of this ranch or for this household. We have to go along with God's plan. Now that's the first key word, godly edification. But the sec there's another one that's brought out in verse number 5. And if you look closely at this verse, verse 5, it says, Now the purpose of the commandment is love. And then he goes on. The purpose of the commandment is love. Within here is another key word. The temptation, when we hear that phrase, is to think that Paul has jumped into a discussion of the Ten Commandments. Now all of a sudden he's talking about the purpose of the Ten Commandments. No, that's not what's going on here. Commandment here is the same word in the Greek, just as we see in verse 3, which is translated charge. So, what Paul is doing here is he's saying, the purpose, you know the purpose of this charge that I've given to you. Paul is telling Timothy that the purpose or the charge of the goal of his charge is a community of love. Now, Timothy therefore is a steward of the household of God, and his job is to keep working to make sure the Ephesians grow into a family. That does not love based on the doctrines of, say, our culture. That's not how Christians love. Our culture doesn't know what love is any longer, though on all their lawns it says love. No, our doctrine must remain here also, and the purpose of the charge is love. Love in accordance to the context of the canon. That means The purpose of the charge is that this church in Ephesus would love God with all their heart, and they would love God with all their mind, and they would love God with all of their resources, and they would love their neighbor as themselves. That they would be a community of the Shema. That's what he has in mind here. That's the second observation based on those two key words, godly edification and The purpose of the charge is love. And now, lastly, I want you to notice, this covers the rest of the verses here in this passage, is that there is a description of his opponents. Notice the description of the troublemakers at Ephesus in verse 6. They have strayed and turned aside from the true and godly way And instead they have turned to vain or useless talk and fruitless lives. Do you remember that moment when Jesus saw the fig tree before he went in to cleanse the temple? That moment of the fig tree before he cleansed the temple was a symbolic moment to show what he had to do to the leaders and to the temple. Do you remember what the problem was with the fig tree? It was supposed to be bearing fruit, but it wasn't. So he cursed it, it withered, and it died. And that was his commentary on what the leaders of the temple had done also. And that is a description here of this group of people. People. Though they pretend to be a tree that is good for fruit and has lots of shade, if you eat from them, they will poison you and overturn your families Now I just use the language from Titus for that, but it's the same kind of thing going on. So they desire. Look at verse number seven. This is a group of people that really think they understand the Ten Commandments, the Torah and the Law, but they don't. This isn't, you know, all of Paul's words here in verse number seven, basically Paul is saying They think they understand the Ten Commandments, but I assure you they are incompetent in the law. They are incompetent. They trample on the law and God's intent for it And they twist it so that it destroys people instead of bringing them life. They would actually use the law to keep people away from salvation. That's some of the background to that. So, when we take all of these observations and we were to gather them up as a kind of beautiful bouquet of truth, then we would have this The church is still under the same charge given to Timothy. We are responsible to make sure that we all remain rooted in no other doctrine. But the apostolic doctrine. We are responsible to make sure that we all remain rooted in no other doctrine, but the apostolic doctrine. Now, what I'd like to do is unfold that in two main parts, apostolic teaching, and then I want to give you an example. Of a kind of living day moment of people doing exactly what Paul told Timothy to do. I want to show you another church that just did it in April. So let's begin with the first heading, which is apostolic teaching. Let's make sure we really understand what we mean by that. You can see That the church is to remain rooted in the apostolic teaching as early as Acts chapter 4, verse 42. Listen to this. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine, and fellowship and the breaking of bread and in the prayers So now you can see this is a kind of mission statement that's meant for the church. Acts 2. 42 or 4 uh 4. 42. And that's actually our mission statement. It's usually on our bulletin and there it is. Right in the cover, right there. It's like a paraphrase of acts of that same act. And you'll notice the first thing there, right from the beginning, everyone understood that they were to continue steadfastly, not in some other doctrine, but in the apostles' doctrine. In fact, this drives our own mission statements. Now, let me ask you about an apparent tension based on what I just said and things I've said in just about every other sermon that I've given. In most sermons, I tell you that we must use the entire canon or the entire collection of scriptures. Have you ever heard me say that to you? I tell you, we must use the whole canon of Scriptures in order to understand God's intent for His Word. His whole word is a light unto our path, not just a couple passages. And we've got to use the scripture to understand the scripture. Now, here's the apparent tension because now I'm telling you that you must understand everything by the or you must understand the apostles' teaching in order to understand the scripture. So is it all the scriptures, or is it just the apostles portion of the scriptures? And she says yes. I just set you up for that spike. You're welcome. Yes. How can both be true? And the answer is yes. The answer is both. Y'all are too quick. When we say that we must be rooted in the apostles' teaching, this is what we mean. We mean that we must follow the lead of the apostles. in how they understood all of the scriptures themselves. Now I want you to consider it this way. Do you remember our time in Luke together? Of course you do, because you memorize every sermon. I'm so proud of you. I want you to listen again to the work of Christ among the apostles before the ascension. Here's the work of Christ As a prophet particularly, among the apostles at the end of Luke. This is Luke chapter 24, 44 through 45. Listen to this. Then Jesus said to them, These are the words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and in the prophets. And in the Psalms concerning me. And he opened their understanding that they might comprehend the scriptures. You see that? So you got Christ teaching the apostles all of the scriptures. The scriptures from Moses to the prophets to the wisdom literature unfold who God is, his plan of salvation, and our place in all of it. And to preserve the purity and truth of all of this, Jesus showed the apostles, under the supervision of the Holy Spirit, how to understand not just some recent activity that Jesus did. Jesus went to the apostles and he taught them how to understand all of the scriptures with him at the center. The apostles then passed on their knowledge to the church. That knowledge was verbal. Some of it was also written down, and it is preserved for us here in the New Testament Gospels, the pastoral epistles. And the rest, the Book of Romans, they pass down their knowledge to church congregations and leaders in order to keep the way pure and the truth alive in a world of lies. And that's what you have in front of you. You have the apostles showing you how to understand the entire collection, which is another way of saying for you to understand what God has revealed to you about who He is What he's doing through his son and his spirit in salvation and what he requires of you. They show you all of that When we say that we are responsible, therefore, to remain rooted in the apostolic teaching, we don't just mean some of the teaching. We don't mean some of the practices which we find within the New Testament. We're not just readers of the apostles' readings, because the apostles themselves point us into the whole collection. If you grabbed an apostle's hand and they turned to you and they said Will you understand the scriptures with me? And you say, yes, I would like to do that. They would run with you over into the Old Testament to show you everything that God has planned for his people. That's the image that we should have within our mind. We mean that as a church, we have the responsibility, therefore, to maintain in faith and practice the apostolic understanding of every jot and tittle of the scriptures. They are our rule of faith. We follow them. They are the leaders. They are the expert readers. They are the expert scholar understanders, so to speak. Now let me give you an illustration. And this illustration capitalizes on the idea that Paul has placed Timothy in Ephesus in order for godly edification or construction or building of the ranch or the household of God. When building a house, I'm sure you all know this. We have many carpenters in this room. When building a house, it is important to make sure the walls are plum and the floors are level, is it not? But it is. Carpenters therefore use a level while setting the foundation in every wall. Back in the day we used to have this thing called a plumb bob, and it was something, it was just a weight at the end of a strings where you could make sure that things were plum. Nowadays we just have these fancy levels we stick on the side of a wall or we set it on top of foundation block and we look for that bubble to center and boom We know that the building is upright and level. What we are learning this morning is that the church has the responsibility to profess and to build the household of God in a similar way. We use the level or the bubble in the level of the apostles And their teaching on all of Scriptures to make sure that the foundation of God's kingdom is level and every one of our practices Are plum. Otherwise, how would you know? The main question for you today, especially as a person existing in 2023 Is how do you know? What is your straight edge? And our answer is the apostles. That's one of the reasons why Christ has given them to the church. Who is the cornerstone of the church? It is Christ. And does he not then uphold the foundation? And who is the foundation? But the apostles and the prophets. And what is built on top of those three? But the whole house and temple of God. There's the building imagery. And to stay, therefore, square and level and plum with that foundation, our straight edge is the apostolic teaching, and we have a responsibility to make sure that we remain rooted in it. Now that's what I mean, and that's what he means by apostolic teaching. No other doctrine but apostolic teaching. Now the second thing I want to do this morning is to just give you an example In our passage, Timothy is facing a group of people who teach the law in a way that is out of level or not plum with the apostles' understanding of the law, which Christ Himself had given to them. And we can talk more about that next week. It's all law talk next week. Most of the commandments are actually listed in the next passage. So we'll talk about that. But for now, I want you to see a recent example of a church doing its job in remaining plum and level with apostolic teaching. And this comes from something I noticed among GAFCON. Is anybody aware of GAFCON? On April 17th through the 21st of this year, 2023, there were many Anglicans that meant in Kigali, Rwanda. For the fourth Global Anglican Future Conference, or GAFCON. Global Anglican Future Conference. During their time there, they addressed a crisis within the Anglican Church of England. What had happened just in February of 2023 is that the General Synod of the Church of England gave a majority vote enabling bishops to give God's blessing to same-sex couples. Now I want you to be aware of a distinction. One of my goals is to always represent people fairly. The Church of England does not permit clergy to marry anyone but male and female. They believe that that is the only way for a person to be united in marriage. But though that is still upheld by them, they have now allowed a blessing to be given. Now, what is a blessing within the Anglican or the Church of England? You probably don't know. Sometimes we're not familiar with these things, but Here is an official way of understanding it. Blessing a same-sex marriage is an official pronouncement by the church of God's love for the couple and his favor on their homosexual relationship So that's what happened in February. And then we had over a thousand people, over a thousand Anglican leaders meet in Rwanda. In April, they were the leaders at GAFCON, and they decided as a true church to confront the Church of England and the decisions that they have made that are out of level with the apostolic teaching. In light of our passage This morning, I want you to listen to the words. These are taken right from the declaration that they have made on the website. I want you to listen to the words of these brothers and sisters And what they have declared to the entire world in the face of the Church of England and the Archbishop of Canterbury This is what they say. Listen to how they're pulling from Paul to Timothy. The Bible is God's written, breathed out by God as it was written by his I'm sorry, the Bible is God's word written. It is breathed out by God as it was written by his faithful messenger, 2 Timothy 3. 16. It carries God's own authority. It is its own interpreter. It does not need to be supplemented, and nor can it ever be overturned by human wisdom. They continue by saying, God's good word is the rule of our lives as disciples of Jesus, and it is the final authority in the church They kept going and they said, it grounds, it energizes, and it directs our mission in the world. The fellowship we enjoy with our risen and ascended Lord is nourished as we trust God's word, as we obey it and encourage each other to allow it to shape every area of our lives. And then they went on and they said, this fellowship is broken. When we turn aside from God's word, or attempt to reinterpret it in any way that overturns the plain reading of the text in its canonical context so as And so deny its truthfulness, deny its clarity, deny its sufficiency, and thereby its authority. And then they kept going. And they said this since the Lord does not bless same-sex unions, It is pastorally deceptive and blasphemous to craft prayers and invoke blessing in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Any refusal to follow the biblical teaching that the only appropriate context for sexual activity is the exclusive lifelong union of a man and a woman in marriage violates the created order, Genesis 2. 24 and Matthew 19, 4 through 6, and endangers salvation, 1 Corinthians 6. 9. And then they went right to the head, the leader of the leaders, and they say this in closing. Public statements by the Archbishop of Canterbury and other leaders of the Church of England in support of same-sex blessings are a betrayal of their ordination and consecration vows to banish error. and to uphold and defend the truth taught in the scriptures. Now that is a good example. That is a good example of a group that knows exactly the truth of our doctrine this morning. Exactly the charge that Paul had given to Timothy and from Timothy handed down to all of us. Now you can find that online if you were to just type in uh GAFCON and and uh you can find there's much more that they said. They go on to say that the uh archbishop can no longer be trusted and he is incompetent. Now that, my friends, is an example of a group of leaders seeking to fulfill the same charge. Paul gave to Timothy, and it is the same charge that falls to us today. Now I heard a bunch of noise there at the end. They have been working with the Archbishop for years Trying to get him to see the light. They did not, he did not just make a single mistake and then they're out the door. They have been working tirelessly to try to correct this. But they keep walking towards the darkness. And so they have made this declaration. And they have done so in line with the plumb bob and the level. And that is the same level and the same plumb bob that has given to us today here at Seven Run. And so let me ask you. Look at that church. Look at all that is at stake for them in Rwanda as they make these kinds of declaration to powerful people in England. And in light of them standing before you as your brothers and your sisters, let me ask you: do you take the purity of the church seriously? By God, I hope that we do. Do you take the purity of the church seriously? Are you, this is the main question really of the whole letter, are you, Christian, ready to live up to the charge? Because the charge is to you and to your children also. When someone comes in with a charismatic personality, everybody likes them. They've got great leadership skills, but they're not plum and level with the apostolic teaching. And they are persistently not so. What will you do? Perhaps you'll try to create as little damage as possible by being silent. And here's my final question for you. Is it possible that God sees your silence as consent and irresponsibility to what he has given to you in his chart? Now that's a judgment call from case to case. But know that there are more tools in our tool bag besides silence, especially when so much is at stake. Salvation and its message itself. I'll leave you with this. Brothers and sisters, the church is still under the same charge that is given to Timothy. We therefore are responsible to make sure that we all remain rooted in no other doctrine but the apostolic doctrine. Amen.