Amen. If you have a copy of God's Word, please go ahead and open it to Mark chapter 1. And please remain standing for the reading of God's Holy Word. We're beginning a series through Mark. Every chance that I get that I'll be preaching here will be going through the Gospel of Mark. There will still be some times where Pastor Jesse will take the evening service, and I think he'll probably continue on through Proverbs. to help us wrap that up. But we'll be going through Mark and we'll be giving it as uh as much attention as the Lord gives us the grace to give to it. Mark chapter 1, we'll be starting with this first section, verses 1 through 8. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, as it is written in the prophets: Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight. John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching a baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. Then all the land of Judea, and those from Jerusalem, went out to him, and were all baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins. Now John was clothed with camel's hair and with a leather belt around his waist, and he ate locusts and wild honey, and he preached saying, There comes one after me who is mightier than I, whose sandal strap I am not worthy to stoop down and loose. I indeed baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. Let us pray. Almighty God, we thank you for your holy word, and we thank you for your spirit We beg you now that a highway, a straight path in our hearts would be made by him, that your word would take root in our hearts, and that through it you would make us more like Jesus Christ. And Father, I pray, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. You notice that Mark starts in that very first verse with a kind of purpose statement. Subject statement, letting us know exactly how we should understand all that follows. This is the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And so if we're going to understand this book the way Mark wants us to understand it, we need to know what is a gospel. And so we have to ask ourselves, what is the gospel? Now, sometimes familiarity can dull a thing's significance in our life Many of you have heard the word gospel since before you knew what words were. Some of you probably heard the word gospel and the words of the gospel when you were in your mother's womb. Well, the word gospel literally means good news or a good message. And the Lord, in his sovereignty, has worked out all of human history that all those gospels that came before, all the good news. that may have existed has basically been forgotten, and the word gospel today singularly means the good news about the Lord Jesus Christ. It is the good news that there is redemption and salvation from our sin, and that there is reconciliation between man and God In his mercy, the Lord Almighty has recorded and preserved this good news for us in different books, which are called Gospels. And if you were to look at the Greek titles to these books, they are the Gospel according to Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John. It's not the Gospel of Matthew It's not the gospel concerning Matthew. It's not the gospel of Mark or the Gospel concerning Mark. It is the gospel, the good news, according to Mark. Now, each of these different gospels are different. If you were to read them back to back, you'd notice there are some things that show up in one gospel that don't show up in the others, and this is because each of the gospels were written with their own tone, they have their own theological purpose, they have their own unique audience that God had the gospels be written for. Yet all of them are equally true. All of them are vital and important for the church. Now we're going to be taking this journey through the Gospel of Mark, so we need a little bit of background to make sure that we understand it as Mark wanted us to. Who is Mark? Mark the Evangelist, or John Mark. He's a Jewish man. He was an early convert to Christianity, and Acts chapter 12 tells us About Peter. When Peter was in jail before Herod could execute him, there's a miracle that happens. And An angel leads Peter out of the prison and through the city, and he leads him to a house where there are Christians gathered and praying. We're told that this is the house of someone named Mary, and we're told that this Mary is the mother of John Mark Later, this Mark accompanies Barnabas and Saul. He gives the good news of that miraculous release from jail for Peter to the brothers in Jerusalem. And then he travels as an assistant to Barnabas and to Saul on some of their missionary journeys It is traditionally and generally accepted that Mark, who's mentioned at the end of Peter's epistle in 1 Peter 5:13, that this is the Mark, whom Peter says is his son. Well, who is Mark's audience? Now there are many, what I'll charitably call novel ideas about the Bible, how it was written, where it came from. I think you should all know that on this journey through Mark, I'm functioning under a very important assumption, a very important presupposition. Now, presupposition is this. The gospel, according to Mark, is God's infallible holy word. The assumption we should all have together is that this is true. And it contains truth. It contains an accurate account of our Lord Jesus' life and ministry. And so when we look at the Gospel of Mark, we are going to be seeing the truth about Jesus. And Mark wrote this gospel for a very particular purpose. He wants to prove that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. He tells us that in the very beginning at verse 1. But as we go through this gospel, we're going to see that he does this in a in a very interesting way. The Gospel of Mark shows us the servant Savior. Shows us Jesus, who perfectly obeys his Father, the Son, perfectly obeying. And we see the Son, we see the Savior acting. We see him doing. He will be healing and cleansing and actively bringing salvation. It is this action which drives the narrative of Mark's gospel. And he He quickly leads the readers through all of the events, through everything that happens. Immediately is the word that characterizes Mark. And we will see that he immediately, with great speed, moves us through all of the action to get us to the pinnacle The very center of the gospel according to Mark, which we find in Mark chapter 8, verse 29. It's at this point where Jesus is talking with his disciples and he's asking them a question, and he says Who does everybody else say that I am? And they give all kinds of different answers. But here in 829, Jesus says, but who do you say that I am? And Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ. Mark wants us to see clearly that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. Now we'll get a lot more information about Mark as we go through this, but for now, this is where we'd want to start. We're going to start right here where Mark starts us. At the very beginning Of the gospel of Jesus the Christ, the Son of God. So let's look together at verses 2 through 8, and we're going to see that God prepares his people to receive His Son. This first section of Mark teaches us that God prepares his people to receive his son. And we're going to look at this in two divisions. We'll see first God's preparation in verses 2 through 6. And then we'll look at God's Son in verses 7 through 8. So God's preparation, verses 2 through 6, and God's Son, verses 7 and 8. So first we look at God's preparation. We see that he prepared his people through the Old Testament prophets. This section starts as it is written in the prophets Now Mark's audience was not to Jews. His audience were Gentile converts, and it's generally accepted that they were in Rome. It is also accepted that this is a distillation of Peter's teaching about the good news of Jesus Christ. Mark worked very closely with Peter. And Peter was the Ivanis account. So if Mark is not writing to Jews, we understand then why he doesn't name the prophets like some of the other gospel writers do. It's likely that these converts, these Gentile converts, wouldn't have recognized the name of a prophet at all. Yet they would have a concept of prophecy and of prophets from their own culture. They knew what prophecy was. And after their conversion, it was likely that they would have then understood the prophets and prophecy from now their Christian perspective, and they would have understood it to be God Speaking through his chosen mouthpieces. It would have been the words of the true and living God given to his people through a human being. Mark wrote this account of Jesus to prove that he's the Christ, the Messiah, who comes and acts to save his people. He's the king. The long-awaited king who would perfectly rule God's people. He's the light of the world who would draw all of God's holy people to himself. And so Mark paraphrases and combines two very specific prophecies because these prophecies are concerning the final messenger the last one who would come before the Messiah. He says, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. That first prophecy, the first part of this, comes from Malachi chapter three And I want to quote it in full, because you'll see why Mark chose this. The full quote is: Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord, whom you seek, will suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, in whom you delight. Behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. God wanted his people to be prepared for the Messiah's coming. And he promised that he would send one final messenger, one final prophet, and that after him the Messiah would suddenly come to his temple. The second quote is from Isaiah 40, verse 5. We read the larger context of that in our confession of sin And God wanted his people to recognize this final messenger, this last prophet, in the way that he would minister. He would minister in the wild places. He would preach. He would literally cry out and call the people to prepare themselves He would call the people of God to make an express highway for the Lord in their hearts. And so Mark records these prophecies. And then immediately introduces us to the final messenger, the very last Old Testament prophet. And we'll see him in verses four to six. The first way we recognize this last Old Testament prophet is through his ministry. And it says in verse 4: John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching a baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. John's ministry was in the wilderness. It was in the untamed places, the places that are empty of the prosperity and riches or the influence of other nations and other religions. He ministered in the wilderness exactly as Isaiah prophesied he would. John came baptizing and preaching. He came with a cleansing. With a washing, I'm not going to get into all of the many debates about baptism. We could have fun conversations about that in the future. But what we have to really understand is that at its essence, baptism is a cleansing. It is a purification. And he came with a cleansing, a purification for the repentance, for the remission of sins. We're familiar with repentance. Repentance is turning away from evil, turning away from wickedness, and turning towards good, turning towards righteousness. The people of God had strayed from his true teaching and his true religion, and the religious leaders had transformed the worship of Jehovah even after they were miraculously restored to the promised land, they had turned it into something false. Just something that wasn't even close to what God had designed for his people The people of God, the people of Israel, needed to turn away from their false religion in order to be prepared to encounter the Almighty Himself, the one who's coming. the anointed one of the Most High God, the Messiah, the Christ. Now to me this is reminiscent of the period of consecration that Israel underwent for those three days before the Lord himself came down on Mount Sinai. The people needed this message. They needed John's cleansing to prepare their hearts to encounter the Christ. They needed the purification of that baptism. That they would have a straight path made in their heart for God. This baptism of repentance was for the remission of sins. He baptized them as a sign of their turning away from the false gods and the false worship. The false ways of dealing with their sin, so that they could recognize that only God can remit sins. Only God can forgive sins. Only God's prescribed method for his people will actually deal with his people's sin, not the false sacrifices of the temple. Because those false sacrifices had been transformed into money-making schemes for the religious leaders. John shows himself a true prophet. In doing exactly what God's prophets had done all throughout the Old Testament, he preached the turning away from sin and turning unto God for salvation. Now the Lord didn't just work through his ministry, the ministry of John, to show that he was this last prophet, this last messenger. He worked through the response of the people. to his ministry. Look at what happens in verse 5. Then all the land of Judea and those from Jerusalem went out to him and were all baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins. They left their comfy homes, they left their city dwellings, and they went out into the untamed wilderness to receive a baptism from what we'll see later sounds like a crazy person. But most importantly, they weren't just going out there to receive the ministry. They actually confessed their sins. Their response was a true response to the Word of God working through his prophet. And as if that wasn't enough, like I said, we come to verse 6. In which we have a physical description. And this description sounds a whole lot like another Old Testament prophet. It says, Now John was clothed with camel's hair and with a leather belt around his waist. And if you were to turn to 2 Kings 1, verse 8, we have this description of Elijah. Elijah had met with some of King Ahaziah's men. He had a very unpleasant message for the king. Ahazia had turned away from God, just like his father Ahab. And so Elijah was given a message to tell him that he was surely going to die. And he was going to die because he acted as if there were no God in Israel because he was looking for healing and he had sought it from Baelzebub, which you may have heard that name, the master of flies. In verse 8 we have this. Then Ahaziah says to his servants, What kind of man was it who came up to meet you and told you these words? And so they answered him: A hairy man. Wearing a leather belt around his waist. And Ahaziah says, uh, that's Elisha. That's Elijah, the Tishvite. Now Malachi has another prophecy concerning this last messenger. It's in verses 5 to 6. It gives us a little bit more information about what the messenger was going to do. He says, Behold, I will send you Elijah. The prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and strike the earth with a curse. In Luke, another gospel, we're given a very specific statement when the prophecy about John is given. It says that he's going to do exactly this. He's going to do exactly what Malachi prophesied he would do, and he would do it in the spirit and power of Elijah. Well, we know whose spirit filled Elijah We know whose spirit gave him power at Mont Carmel. It's the same spirit who empowered empowered John And so Mark tells us: look, the ministry of this man shows he's the last prophet. The response to his ministry shows that he's the last prophet. The way he even looks shows that he's the last prophet. And if that's not enough, look at his humble reliance upon God. He ate locusts and wild honey. Now some of us might say, why did God record that for us? It's important because we see that this one, this minister of God, this blast prophet, he is fed entirely at God's hand. He only eats what God provides. It isn't until the twenty-first century where people start thinking about farming locusts. Locusts just happen naturally in the environment. And we're told specifically that it's wild honey, it's not cultivated honey. This is the honey that he can find out there where God is giving it to him. This is a supreme contrast to those who would put themselves forward as prophets, priests, ministers in John's day, in Jesus' day. They who had authority over the people of God and led the religion, they were social elites They were wealthy and rich. They ate like royalty. They wouldn't be caught living off of locusts and wild honey. Like the Old Testament prophets, we see that John is an Old Testament prophet, relying on God, holy, to be sustained and to be provided for. And like an Old Testament prophet, this last Old Testament prophet, John the baptizer, has a prophecy. And he has a prophecy concerning the Messiah, the one that he's been sent to go before to prepare the people to encounter him. His prophecy is the gospel. It's the good news. It is the coming of God's Son. And we see that there in verses 7 and 8. It is good news for all of God's people to hear that the mighty one comes. Look what he says in verse 7. And he preached, saying, There comes one after me who is mightier than I, whose sandal strap I am not worthy to stoop down and loose. Boy, if the people who were flocking to John thought he was something special, if they thought that he had a refreshing message or that he was something new and exciting for them to go after, just imagine what would happen. When the wondrous and marvelous Son of God arrives, John knew his place, he knew his purpose. He was not trying to convert the people of God to love and worship him He wanted them to love and worship the one coming after him, the Messiah. And that the Messiah is coming. It's been the good news for the entire history of Israel and all the people of God, but that he would be coming right then. After that last prophet, I can just imagine what kind of thrill would have been in my heart if I had been there receiving the baptism of John and then hearing that after him comes the Christ. It is the best news because the mighty one of God is coming. But it's not just good because of that. Not just that he's going to come and arrive. It's that he's going to do something. And so John says in his message that the Son of God is going to save his people. I indeed baptized you with water. But he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. John's cleansing was symbolic. It represented the repentance of the people, their submission to God for the remission of sins. But the cleansing of the Son of God would not be symbolic. It is not temporary, it is not earthly. The Christ will baptize and cleanse and purify his people finally, completely, spiritually. And so Mark begins this account of his gospel, his account of the good news, by showing that the promised last prophet, the promised final messenger, has come. And it is John the baptizer. So God prepares his people that they would be ready to encounter his son, to receive his son, the living God. And this shows us exactly how much God loves us, doesn't it? God loves his people so much that he doesn't leave them to wonder at what he's doing. He's given his word. All of the Old Testament prophets Had pointed towards this salvation in the Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God. He has prepared you to recognize Jesus, to embrace his Son. And so think about that, brothers and sisters. How did God prepare you? Does it cause your soul to well up with gratitude, thinking about the way that He brought you to Him? It should fill you with joy. Even if your story, even if your path to coming to Christ had many twists and turns. He knew every single aspect of your journey. In fact, God planted it, He planned it, He prepared it specifically for you, that you would be made ready to encounter the Son of God. That you would flee to him when he is presented to you. And we should remember this when we begin to worry about the people we love. When we begin to worry about those who seem to be running as fast as they can away from true religion and away from Christ. That's exactly the situation of the first century Jews, wasn't it? But don't fear. Don't worry. God prepares his people to encounter his son. He will not leave them. He will not forsake them. If they belong to him, no matter what their path looks like, you can trust that it is a path God has planned to prepare them to receive his son. It's very possible that he's used you as that preparation. And we as parents really understand this because it's our job, it's our duty to prepare our children. To raise them in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, that they would understand who Christ is when they are finally encounter him. But there's only so much that we as parents can do. There's only so much that teaching and memorizing and drilling and repeating and all of that. There's only so much preparation that does. What we as parents must do is live a real faith and sincerely submit to God so that when they want to know how they're supposed to live, they can look at us and they can say, that's the example. There's another aspect of preparation that we need to consider. And that's that we need to be engaged in the same kind of preparation that God's people were. When they went out in the wilderness to meet John, they were ready to be cleansed. They were ready for the forgiveness of their sins. And we need to prepare our hearts. Are we ready for God to forgive our sins? Do we confess our sins regularly, one to another? Are we preparing our hearts to encounter Christ every Lord's Day, every Sunday when we come here to worship? Because if we want Christ to come with power and healing in our lives, we've got to be prepared. Do you want him to come and have power and healing in your marriage or your relationships? Then you'll need to confess your sins. You'll need to do exactly what the people of God had to do. Will you have to turn away from evil and turn unto the good You'll need to repent of certain words and behaviors and attitudes. You'll need to repent of going after your own desires and your own goals and your own whatevers. And you'll need to submit yourself to exactly what God has determined a Christian marriage to be. You'll have to submit yourself to what He designed husbands. to act and how he designed wise to act. And so how are does God prepare us for this? Well he's given us his word That shows us what his design for all of these areas of life are. He's given his church. He's given his officers and his pastors and his teachers that we can understand what it is that the word is saying. If you want Christ to show up at your job and your occupation, well, what are you going to have to do? You're going to have to prepare yourself to encounter Christ there. You have to work as a Christian, work as one who's working for Christ Himself, not just for the paycheck, not just for a particular boss, but working for God, working as unto the Lord. If we want Christ to come with power and healing in our lives, we need to accept his method of preparing us. And commonly we call these the ordinary means of grace. You've probably heard that term. We get it from Westminster Shorter Catechism, question number eighty-eight. What are the outward means whereby Christ communicates to us the benefits of redemption? The outward and ordinary means whereby Christ communicates to us the benefits of redemption are his ordinances, especially the words, sacraments, and prayer, all which are made effectual to the elect for salvation. Sometimes we summarize these by saying that the ordinary means of grace are worship, the word, prayer, and fellowship. Worship kind of incorporates ordinances and sacraments. And so we can prepare ourselves to encounter Christ in our own lives by these ordinary means. Order your life around these ordinary means. Very simple illustration. If you order your life around worship, you'll have to be prepared. It's essential. At the very least, you have to prepare yourself to wake up at a specific time on Sunday morning to get yourself dressed and fed and get everybody into the worship service of God. We know it takes a lot of preparation just to get ourselves here physically. But being here present physically is not all we need. We need to be present mentally and emotionally and spiritually, and so it takes even more preparation. For that to happen. Sometimes it'll mean we have to say no to a fun hangout or party on a Saturday night. It means we'll have to say no to ourselves for that last episode of that show or to watch that late movie. We'll have to say no to ourselves when the desire to sleep in is really strong. And even when all that's in place, and we're completely present at worship, we have to prepare ourselves to receive God's word in the worship service. We need to know how we should read our Bibles. We need to know how we are to pray. We need to prepare our entire week, leading us up to receive God's Word. We need to learn how to fellowship with believers. Sometimes we think this is just hanging out with friends. That comes pretty naturally to us. Fellowship is more than that. And so we need to prepare ourselves to learn what it is that God is doing. We need to take advantage of the ordinary ways that God prepares us to encounter Him and His Son. And we got a helpful reminder of that in the sermon this morning. Prayer. Prayer is vital for the Christian life. And we saw, Pastor Jesse helped us see that prayer doesn't primarily change everything out there, right? Prayer changes us. And God prepares us for the life that He has us living through prayer. He makes us ready that we will find him, see him, recognize him, be able and ready to encounter and receive him. Because our prayer life has gotten us ready to see God at work. Brothers and sisters, we must recognize that we are not always ready for God to act. We're not always ready to encounter him in the various aspects of our life. But rejoice. Rejoice. Because God does not wait for you to be ready. He prepares his people to receive his son. God prepares his people to encounter the Son of God, the Christ, the Lord Jesus. And he does this through his ordinary means.