That you have made us your children, that you've adopted us through the work of Jesus Christ. Lord, we ask that you would bless us today as our Father. We pray that you would relieve our doubts. That you would comfort us in our sorrow and our pain, that you would help us to see that there really is victory in Jesus and that it can begin now We pray, Lord, that you'd help us to hang in there with you during the hard times and actually to even grow in our esteem of you. We ask, Lord, that you'd help us to understand your word and how to exist in a holy, peaceful fellowship today in this class. Lord, we ask that you be with us as we consider you and your triumphal entry and as we enter into our services of Monday, Thursday, Good Friday, and celebrating your resurrection and the world to come on Easter. Lord that I ask that you be with uh each of your uh children here today in the name of Christ. Amen. Alrighty. Well we are going to do quite a few things today. The first thing I want to do is go over the syllabus. The second thing I want to do is let you know What we're going to do today in this class. And that's it. So the first is that next week is Easter break. So there is not a Sunday school next week, next Sunday. So that'll give you an extra week if you need it. But the Sunday after Easter, we will be going over chapters 11 and 12. of your book. And that will catch us up on the syllabus. Then we have one more Sunday after that for the final chapter, which is chapter 13. So make sure you're going along there with the syllabus. No class next Sunday, and then the Sunday after that, we'll go over 11 and 12, Sunday after that 13, and that closes us out. Today, I want to go over some important questions, and that will be by way of a sort of review. My hope in the Important Questions section is to share with you some of the conclusions that I've arrived at from my own experience in wrestling with the Fourth Commandment. The second thing I want to do is go through, see if you have any questions with regard to chapter 9 relative to the practices of the early church, the medieval church, or the Reformation Church. And then lastly, I hope we spend a good deal of time on chapter 10, where we'll just look together at Psalm 92. as uh as a psalm that illuminates what the day should look like on the Lord's day. Psalm 92. So let's begin then with just some important questions and important statements that I hope are helpful to you. It's one thing to read a book about the Lord's Day or about anything really, and it is another thing to have to go through your life experiencing it. There are so many different uh situations that the Lord brings into your life providentially that makes you consider things you would never consider if you're just reading a book. I think it was Ernest Hemingway uh who compared uh in terms of eating seafood, he said reading about oysters and tasting them, there's really just no comparison there The person who has actually tasted the oyster is having a quite a different experience than the one who's only read about them. And that's the same thing in trying to live out any of the commandments to tell you the truth, and that would include the fourth command also. So what I'm hoping to do is just share a little bit with you of some of the things that I've arrived at over time or that I still wrestle with. Number one is when you go through a book like this and you know that there are other books out there, it can feel a bit overwhelming. Quite honestly. So I think it's important with a topic like this to get down to the basics. To get back to what are some of the fundamental things that we're able to affirm Now you may find in trying to answer that question that there is nothing that you can affirm. You may plead total ignorance on this issue I would say for myself, I would say there are a couple things that I'm able to affirm. When things get complicated or overwhelming in my head, there's some basics that I can go back to. Number one, I really do believe that God reveals his moral will. That's number one. And when I say moral will, I define that as those things which God requires of all human beings. Number two, I believe that God has summarized his moral will in Ten Commands. As a summary, it's not the full explication of his moral will. That leads to the third point, which is his moral will is unfolded, not summarized, but is unfolded for our better understanding of what he requires of us throughout the entire canon of Scripture. Now we have been through the in the West in the larger and the shorter catechism, we studied the law together. I hope you remember that, where we were had all kinds of case studies in front of us that were kind of crazy about rock concerts and stuff. And with each one of those, there were judgment calls that had to be made. Lots of different considerations that go into the more difficult cases. And you need all of Scripture to be able to determine really what does God require of me in this situation. I think we can all, if you've been on the earth for just a little while I think you can attest to the fact that when you're younger you really don't know what to do. But God in his mercy over time really does show you. He shows you how to handle situations you never would have been able to handle before. And they actually become a little bit pre pretty simple to be able to handle. There's always something that throws us for a loop uh in our lives that we're just we're just out of our depth. That happens all the time. Well uh not all the time. But there are things where he teaches us, and by way of experience, and the Holy Spirit superintending the experience and the scripture, we learn from the total scripture how we're to please him. In other words, how to live in accordance with his commands by the grace of the Holy Spirit. So I think that there's no difference with the fourth command. And that is my fourth thing that I'll mention to you that gets me back to the basics. I believe the fourth command is a command of God's moral will. Alrighty. So those are four basics that I get back to. And since I go down that path, I then have to ask a very important question. If the fourth command is a moral law, looking throughout all of the scripture, what does that command require of me? What does it require of me? And what does it forbid? Now I think that's a really Important question, and I wanted to give that to you. That is a question that I ask myself all the time, given a particular situation. What does the command require of me and what does it forbid? So I hope those four kind of foundation stones are helpful to you, and then that question I hope is helpful to you. It doesn't give you the answers. But what it does is I think it frames the situation correctly. And having even the right frame, I'm telling you, that's like, as G. I. Joe would say, that's half the battle. Right. Okay, Natalie. When I um you intended the word if instead of sin the commandment is a is more law. Yeah, you could say sense if you would like. I think that it is a moral law. I'm just reasoning conditionally. So you could say sense, that's fine. Okay. Yeah. I think I'm I think I'm aware that some people wouldn't affirm it. Okay. So I'm just saying, but if you do affirm those things, then you would ask the question, well what does the command require of me? Right. So um now here's the thing that I have found. Even if we agree on everything that I have just said When you ask the question, what does God require and forbid of me within the fourth command? When you get into the particulars of difficult cases, Christians disagree among themselves on how it should be applied. Christians at one point will think one thing, and when they're twenty years older than that, they'll actually think a different thing because they'll be growing in their understanding of what does the command require. When you are actually making a moral decision, there are a m lot of different things that are going on inside of your head and your heart, and it can be very difficult to make make the decision well. I think we all look back with hindsight twenty twenty saying I would have done that a little bit differently. So that being the case, I really do think that it's important just with a like with any other moral decision that we must be in prayer asking God to reveal the truth. So I try myself to pray, and this is my prayer, and I wonder if this will be helpful to you as you're dealing with this. Fourth command. Lord, would you help me to be pure in heart? And the reason why that is my prayer is because there's an observation that I've made of myself, especially with regard to the fourth command, though I've seen it with every other command too, and that is I'm a liar. I will figure out a way not only to lie to other people, but to lie especially to myself. There's no one I lie to more than to myself. When I want something, I will deceive myself and I'll twist God's word in order to justify myself in getting it. So that's the case with all of the commands. When I was a young man, let's say I was in my twenties and I was I was dating Holly. I was trying to figure out a way to be more intimate with her than I should be. And I would figure out a way for Scripture to help me out. And it is the same thing with the fourth command. Or it can be, is what I'm saying. I'm just saying we have to watch ourselves because we deceive ourselves. So I've tried to go to the Lord in prayer with these kinds of things, asking, please make me pure of heart and to not twist something and to adopt some theological position that I don't know if it's true or not. I just want something that's going to um allow me to do whatever I want to do. There is that thing within the human heart. And especially with the fourth command, that can happen. There are so many different, there are different theological positions that have been taken on the fourth command by major scholars. And you can use a major scholar and the life of his work in order to justify you and your position. But if you were your heart were revealed, it would reveal you never cared about the truth. You were only looking for a way to protect yourself so that you could do whatever you wanted to do to justify yourself, basically. I'm not accusing anybody in here of that. I'm just saying that's what human beings do. I know that's what I do, so I try to pray, Lord, please help me to be pure of heart. Now, I'll share with you in my experience I don't know what the percentage is, but there are many times when I'm not pure of heart. I just plow forward. And then the Lord brings people into my life to rebuke me and to hold me accountable. So I do ask him to do that too. Please bring people in my life that know how to make a point. And he does. He brings people in my life that I can see it's not because they were on a debate team. It was because Jesus Christ sent them and there's no denying it. That happens to that happened to me, I remember, like with my children when they were younger. They'd be four years old. And I would be justifying something and they would just look at me. And they would say something like, You know that's not true. Or whatever it is. And I'm like, that's not a four-year-old. That's Jesus talking through a four-year-old. Like, what is happening here? uh where they're able to just cut through it all. Uh Jesus works through people like that. So that has also been a part of um the prayers. Okay, so just to summarize very quickly, I think it's important to get back down to the basics I think it's a basic thing to affirm that the fourth command is a command of his moral law. And then number two, when we go to apply any of the commands There tends to be disagreement in our moral judgments, especially on difficult cases, so we need to keep that in mind. And that leads us into the third, which is we must be prayerful and realistic about who we are as deceiving creatures. We deceive others and we deceive ourselves. We will tell others and tell ourselves, no, we're really just after the truth. And I when I have been working with people, I have found that's mostly not the case. Nor do I have I found that people make decisions mostly because of theological positions that they have read in papers or books. There's something else going on. It's very rare for a person to change for a theological position, for example. Okay, so again, I'm just trying to relay some experience to you. After all that is said, the other thing I wanted to say under the category of watch yourself is that please be very careful of adopting practices all of a sudden which will cause an unhealthy disturbance in the community around you. There are other considerations. And God takes peace among his people very, very seriously. I told you the story, and this is only by the grace of God, I told you the story where I came from a place where observing a uh a holy day of the Sabbath and there being any kind of command on what you to do or not do That was foreign to me. I didn't think of it as a command at all. I didn't think it was relevant. I especially didn't think it was relevant in terms of my shopping practices So I showed up here as an intern with two buckets of hot Kentucky fried chicken that I had just picked up. I was really excited because I thought, man, people love are gonna love this. This is a gift to them And um some people did love it, uh but my mentor rebuked me for that. Now he didn't rebuke me harshly because he saw that it was largely out of ignorance. But there was still a correction that took place. Now when he corrected me, do if any of you know me, do you think that I all of a sudden just changed my theological position that day? There's no way. Uh-uh. If anything, if somebody corrects me, my initial response is to get back in their face a little bit, especially with my mentor. The uh instead what uh Holly and I decided to do, and Holly was certainly not convinced, what we decided to do was to submit for the peace and the purity of a congregation and to not undermine the leadership. And that was a decision that we made. And I wanted to share with you the verse that guided me on that. This is the verse that Jesus gave to me in order to move down that kind of path with a clear conscience and not just feel like a coward or something. And it was this, 1 Corinthians 10, 23 through 24. And I think it was good for the time. All things are lawful for me, but not all things are helpful. All things are lawful for me, but not all things edify. Let no one seek his own, but each one the other's well-being. And uh he was able to use that verse with me at that time. I I look at that verse a little bit differently now in terms of where it should be applied, but that was very helpful to me at the time Okay. Um and then I only have two more things I wanted to share. Um And it uh this is another one. Whichever side of the aisle you're on with one of these kinds of topics where you know that your brothers and sisters ag disagree with each other I think it's very important to uh realize that behind your doubts, this is a principle that you can hold on to for a lot of different things. But behind your doubts are your own sets of beliefs. Behind your doubts are your own sets of beliefs. So for the just for the sake of an example, I'll just say, let's say that you doubt me as a sabotagon. And let's say that you view me as pretty silly for having adopted it. I think one of the best things that you could do is you could realize You behind the doubts and the ridicule or the silliness that you have for me are your own set of beliefs. And I would ask, have you critiqued your own set of beliefs upon which your doubts are based? As much as you have critiqued my set of beliefs, oftentimes our beliefs that are generating our doubts remain hidden, and we have not submitted them to critique. You think just by putting me back on my heels that I'm the one with the problem, but you've never taken the time to challenge your own self or where your doubts are coming from. Now I think that's true with any position, that that's what should happen. But I think if therefore if it's true for any, then it could be uh uh true for this also. And I think that that I'm gonna say a little bit more about this, but I think what that does at the very least is you'll start to see the beliefs that your doubts are based on. They're not as secure as you thought they were. And even if they are, they took they take harder thinking than you realize they did. And it will create a little bit of compassion for another person who believes something. I think that's important. Okay, especially in today's day where absolutely everything is doubted. This is the age of skepticism. So Let me say a few words from an author that has helped me to think about these things like this. He says, all doubts, however skeptical and cynical they may seem, are really a set of alternate beliefs. You cannot doubt belief A except from a position of faith in belief B. The only way to uh let me see, do I really want to get into that? Okay, here's one. Um it would be inconsistent to require more justification uh for Christian belief than you do for your own, but that is frequently what happens. So that's speaking to a skeptic who constantly doubts Christianity. But I would say we could apply that to ourselves that it's it's it's inconsistent to require a person to justify themselves over and over again and you never do. Well, why do you have the beliefs you do So I think that's important to remember. We doubt other people sometimes even with ridicule, but please remember that our doubts are built on beliefs, and we should subject we should subject our own beliefs. upon which our doubts are based to the same level of critique. And I'll give a a provisio there as God requires you to do so. I don't think you're supposed to be turning uh overturning everything you think every second of your life. God will bring you providentially into particular situations where you have to think harder. There's seasons of that. Thank God it's not all the time, because I would I would die from exhaustion. But there are definitely seasons and depending on your position within the church you will have more seasons of it and you'll have less. Um I happen to be in a position where m I mostly hear people's doubts and they are and I'm they're constantly arguing. Which is so strange that I'm in this position because I'm not a debater. I'm I'm just not good at that. Yeah. Yeah, I I'm I don't I definitely don't think of myself as a debate. I know some people who really reason well, and it's not me. But but if um But if you decided to get drunk, DUI, and thrown in jail, I'll be there in jail to help you. I mean that's what I'll try to do. So Okay, so all of that being said, getting back to the basics, being very careful with who we are as deceiving creatures And then and be willing to realize that your doubts are based on alternate beliefs. That's a summary of everything I have said so far. I wanted to give you a quick example So we could kind of work that last principle out a little bit. Does anybody remember the controversy that kind of spread across social media? when um Christmas landed on a Sunday. And there were some churches within our own experience that decided to cancel their services. Okay. So this is a great example in figuring out some of the beliefs that are involved with the fourth command. I would ask you to just imagine that you're a part of that session meeting. I don't know that they would have a session, but they might have elders or something, so we'll just call it a session meeting and they're all there and they and somebody brings up as a a part of the the agenda about a month earlier from Christmas and they say, you know, I've been looking at the church calendar And did you know that Christmas falls on a Sunday this year? Well, I would like to make the motion that we don't have services on Christmas Day. And a person says, second. Then we have a person all the way down the end who stands up and they say, well I really think that we should be worshiping on that day and that the services shouldn't be canceled. Thank you so much for your time here. They sit back down. Everyone else looks at them like they're crazy. Now, my question to you is The look of craziness that they're looking at that one person with, that is an expression of their doubt in that person's unspoken position. Because they just said, this is what I think we should do. They didn't tell the reasons. Now to begin with in this scenario, what are the alternate beliefs behind the skepticism and the doubt that they have for that person's position? What would you think some of them are? This is a way to work out that last principle. Go ahead. So what people who want to cancel services would be. Yeah. They haven't shared their reasons for why they think the service should be canceled. We have no idea what their beliefs are They've only shown skepticism or doubt. But what I'm s the principle I'm saying is is behind every doubt is an alternate belief. What are their alternate beliefs that remain unspoken? Let's just guess. You got any? You think that you might have one? Yes. Um speak nice and loud. That um they want to give the family an opportunity. to visit with each other that would be abbreviated if they actually had to because they don't want to mess up Christmas morning for their kids. Okay. Uh it is more important for families to keep Christmas traditions than to interrupt them by a worship service. Yeah. I mean we have no idea, it's a hypothetical. But okay, that would be an alternate belief. And if it were It would finally be spoken. It's more important to keep family traditions uninterrupted than to have a worship service. You could now, now that it's out in the open, you could evaluate, well, is that true? We could work on that. Okay, so you already start to see why I like this principle so much. It gets things out in the open that need to be out in the open. Okay, what could be another alternate belief? We'll subject the other person to Some criticism too. But for now, the rest of the session is there, all agreeing in doubt. What would be another alternate belief they might hold that is fueling their doubt and skepticism? Okay, well Holly was first and then Christina. Sorry, Christina. It wasn't favoritism. Okay. And we have We can worship, we can go to church every other Sunday. But Christmas is once a year and this is a special time. Okay, Christmas is yeah, and then we would have to tease that out a little bit because there's actually beliefs underneath of that that are fueling it. Um Okay, I want to leave it alone though. Okay, that's good. Christmas only happens once a year. We could worship anytime. Oh hold on one second, young man. Christina. Fair enough, you were following up on ho with Holly's. Yeah, I'll let uh let Christina go though. Thanks, Brian. So there is no moral command to gather weekly as the congregation. Okay, there you go. So that would be a principle that a person would hold that would generate doubt is there's no moral command to meet every week. Especially on Sunday. And we could go a little bit further and we could say, well maybe they then the belief is this is just like a matter of man made convenience. Uh people like to do it this often on this day, and so we kind of go with the flow and it doesn't hurt anything. So no problem canceling it. In the same way that you might move any other meeting to a different day of the week or not have it. Okay, very good. Thanks. Yeah. Brian, you're up. Yeah, go for it. like you know in the time of these game babies show bred so there are exceptions okay for whatever need they are. Maybe that's Okay. So the belief you're saying that might be fueling what the beliefs that Holly expressed would be, well There are exceptions to these kinds of things, and this is a time where we could make an exception. There are um mitigating circumstances We're not going to ask everybody to cancel their Christmas morning with each other. We're not going to tell they already did all the shopping for the casseroles and the and the whatever it is. We're not going to do that to them. Okay. Holly, did you have another one? Yeah, the idea. I think during that time sometimes people made the choice to do a work service on Saturday night in replacement of Sunday. Yeah. So that it would still I don't know, so that it you could still celebrate Christmas but you were still celebrating the Lord's Day, but in a different way. So that's another Okay, so some of the beliefs that will come out of there is the day doesn't matter We get to determine whatever day it is or how regular it is. That's what Christina was giving us. So we're going to go ahead and move it to Saturday And by the way, we really don't need to meet together at all. There is no difference between us gathering together or you just sitting in your house and saying a few prayers. That both God looks both down on both of those things, and he is greatly pleased. Okay, now again, I haven't debated any of these positions, but what we're seeing here is that behind the doubt I think we all know this intuitively. I'm just trying to bring it out explicitly. Behind all the doubts are alternate beliefs. And then once we get those surfaced, you can say, well, is that true? Okay, I think Nick was up and that that'll be the last one. Or actually, I think Darren ha I'll let Darren go last. kind to give our pastor and all the support staff and the choir and the bands and the A-B people off for the day like everyone else is off for Christmas. Okay, so everyone's off for Christmas. Except for firemen. Okay. No. Everybody is off for Christmas. Let's be kind. and give the church staff off for Christmas too and not require them to have a service. Okay. So that could be an alternate belief also. Behind that alternate belief You'd have to work your all your way all the way back to, most likely, Christina hit the root, where there's a particular belief that there is no authority to say that one day is different than another. And and then you get to choose however regular it is or on what day it is. Okay, what do you think the alternate beliefs are or do you think the beliefs are now when that when they were all let's just say they as a session they shared all that. That one person who was saying no we should have the services looked at them with a bunch of skepticism and doubt, like, are you all crazy? What but then he never expressed his beliefs. What do you think his alternate belief is behind his doubt? Yes. That the traditions of men are not from uh the man of God Alright. So one alternate belief might be the traditions of men don't trump the command of God. It with you guys enough. And he believes they're nuts. Okay. Got it. Oh you you believe it or not. Okay, got it. Members' line of thinking would be more aligned with Exodus 31, 16, 17. Therefore, the people of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, observing the Sabbath throughout their generations. That's the covenant forever Between me and the people of Israel, and six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and seven days the rest of the earth fresh. So he thinks it's a moral command. Well and not just uh convenience Okay. Uh we had one person, I thought, Chase and then Darren, and then we'll close this part. it being a religious holiday and that it would be more fitting that if Christmas falls on Sunday that we it's fortunate that we We get to gather together on the very day. Okay. So if there's anything we should be doing on Christmas Day in celebration of the Incarnation, it should be corporately worshiping him. It would be an alternate belief that he may hold. That is fueling his doubt of what they're saying. Okay, Darren. the the idea that you do you do what you do because it's your duty to do it. And therefore you would not give it Whatever falls on Sundays is irrelevant. We this is what we do on Sundays we go to church. I'm just saying that could be another moment. Say that again. Um it sh you do what you do regardless of whether or not it falls on a Sunday. So that's what we on Sunday we go to church Yeah. So so it would be something like morals are absolute, they don't change. Is that pretty much kind of the principle that would be behind that? Yeah. Like my father would say when we would move to a new place, he would say, he picked the closest Baptist church and that's what we got. Uh-huh. He wouldn't examine it. It was just a SDC church, though, that's what we'd got We sta stuck sta stuck it out in one church for ten years even though they were completely off the rock or crazy little but you just you wouldn't you did what you were supposed to do. So So well that's that that could be ultimately. I'm not saying that obviously there's a bunch of others that that could be. No, you're you're right. That will go into a certain mindset on uh that we've that we've all seen. All right. Did you already give yours? What did you say? I don't even remember what you said. But it's uh fitting. Oh it's fitting, yeah. I'm sorry. You are remarkable. And I always remember the thing you said. I'm sorry. I don't know why I blanked on that. You're important to me, Jason. Marilyn. The Sabbath must make a man, throw a man for the Sabbath. And with the arguments of the guy that must have services could be Um God has given you the gift of the Sabbath, why would you prefer to sit by your Christmas tree on the why would you not take advantage of this gift? Right. Okay, very good. So anyway, you get the idea. Now, one conclusion you should not draw in this particular case especially is that well we all have different beliefs and to each their own. I'm not saying that. I'm saying that behind doubt is an alternate belief that is useful to surface so that things can be examined on why are we doing what we're doing. In other words, we want to hold everything subject to the word of God. And I think this is a way of getting at that. is to realize that behind your doubts all alternate beliefs. Okay. Now, are there any questions? Those were just some important principles and questions I wanted to share with you. Are there any questions before we get into chapter 9 and 10? Hey Carol. I hate to raise this, but go for it. So when churches canceled because of weather. Yeah. Is there this wrestling of all of this going on in the background? Among us, yeah. About the decision and how to make the decision. Uh yeah, uh I would say among our leadership they're definitely wrestling. Uh am I missing what you're after? No, I was just asking because sometimes I think that the the challenges what uh you know you're weighing things but we're we're in a culture where we lean more towards canceling we do Which is very early in the case. Yeah. That's true. For example. Um yeah. Yeah, usually the reasoning is that um uh for the weather like for uh snow would be that God isn't calling us to put people in uh harm's way. So then you have to make a judgment call on are they in harm's way? And and that can depend on how the forecast turns out Sometimes it's super obvious though. And other times it's it's not. Yeah, but you you're r I think you're right too, and we have wrestled with this as a a leadership because you don't there's no such thing as a leadership. There's individual people who have individual judgments that all form together to make judgments as a group and each of them have a little bit of a different proclivity also. Um so but I think overall within our culture it seems to me like we are more prone to canceling than pushing through. I kind of have a picture in my head of like Well, if the car won't get out of the driveway, we're all walking to church. But that is 25 miles. Come on, I did this with one boot on. And so the way it seems like it was in like the seventies. I don't know. Yeah. So thank you. Yeah. Any other questions? Yes, Bill. Well, it it a little bit stresses me that Cancel Evening service for Mother's Day, Father's Day, Father Day. Yeah. All sorts of reasons. Is that really a good reason for canceling? Yeah, the whole the Hallmark Days. Although I do like Mother's Day. Um Yeah, that's a good question. Uh rather than just answering it here. So did everybody hear Bill? Bill is saying, okay, well what about the cancellation of evening services for this, that, and the other thing Alright, so if you I don't want I can't spend I want to get into chapter nine and ten, but if you were to look at it the way we were, some of the beliefs that would go into that would be, judging from Bill's tone He thinks that it is morally obligatory to have an evening service, to worship morning and evening Mm-hmm. And there's probably an alternative belief to where it is nice to give that opportunity to God's people, but not morally obligatory So then you'd have to examine which belief is right, which one is supported by the scriptures. And then, let's just say that you did land on Bill's position. We should be worshipping morning and evening. Then Are there times when it can be canceled and what are those times? Is Mother's Day one? Is Father's Day one? Is because we had a meet and greet one Is you'd ha you'd have to is Christmas one? Is Easter one? You'd have to work you have to start working through those times. Okay. Any other questions on this one? Yes. Yes there. And Christians have not been commanded by the law. He commanded us to serve him. But everything else is not not commanded by God. Yeah, especially within the reformed world, you're making an excellent point. Is that that guy at that session meeting may have been influenced by the reformed tradition and would say We are to be we are regulated in our worship to only worship as God commands. And God has not commanded us to observe special holidays except for the Lord's Day. So there is no moral obligation to observe Christmas. So we shouldn't elevate a ha a holy day above um or a man made holy day versus a God made holy day. Yeah, that would be something you would hear pretty regularly. In fact, has anyone visited or been a part of churches that will not observe Christmas? Or any other holiday only observe the Lord's Day? I'm seeing one hand. Anybody else? I went to seminary with a number of people that did this. Yes, sir? Yeah. Yep. Alright, and then you have a church like Severn Run where there is the observation of um several uh church feasts. You will have this coming week, Monday Thursday, Good Friday, Easter Sunday, though it will still be called Lord's Day. And in other churches within our denomination, they would celebrate Pentecost. Which one am I forgetting, Sarah, for the five feasts? Ascension. Ascension? Maybe. Yes. Yeah, so there'll be five feast days that'll be celebrated within some churches. And you would need to see why is it that they hold to that. And do they see those feast days as morally obligatory? Or are they just saying, well, this is a, you know, we could have a service any day of the week we want. We can't tell people they have to make any day, but we could offer one and it would be to their benefit to remember about these things That's how we view Monday, Thursday, and Good Friday, by the way. So I don't get on people's cases for not coming Although I think it's beneficial. Okay, so let's go ahead now and is there any questions from you in chapter nine with the early church, medieval church, or reformation church? And if you do have a question, could you just let me know what page you're wondering about? Uh Dr. Piper gave this chapter stating really clearly in the beginning that the church history Um non-sacred church history is not infallible. There are plenty of examples in church history you shouldn't follow. But he thought it was helpful for you to be able to see the consistent practices of the church in each era. Did anybody have any questions about that? I didn't expect much. It was more of like a history lesson. Any surprises? In reading this? Yes. Weren't they inconsistent? So what do you start doing in the beginning? Um maybe there was some of the reason why I don't I don't know. The reason why I said consistent is because He seems to be wanting to draw a thread that whether it's the early, the medieval, or the Reformation Church, you're finding that there's this practice that's in continuation. That exists. Yeah. Did you want to say anything about the very beginning though with uh the he does mention the s struggles and criticism We don't have to, just wonder it. That's what I meant though. Jewish you know, th they base it all in the Old Testament and so some of them argued that Yeah, and he seems to be saying that their motives for doing so was that they were very concerned about Judaizing Do you agree with that? Yeah. Yeah. Yes, sir? I thought it was interesting that when it it comes to the word saying some of the church early church fathers were saying that there wasn't a sadly of and they if there is a but there is a worse thing. If they wanted to distance himself from It's that cost of the word Sabbath or I don't know, maybe the G I the Sabbath. But then they said, but there is the Lord's Day. So that I just thought that was interesting. But I know uh former friends of mine who said the Lord's Day, the Lord's Day And have a problem if you say the word Sabbath. Yeah, I I have friends that are like that also and they'll insist if I am going to use the word Sabbath that I say Christian Sabbath. Christian Sabbath, yeah, which will be the eighth day or the Lord's Day. But they will not use the word Sabbath. Yeah. Okay, so you thought that was interesting that that w showed up that long ago? Yeah. Uh-huh. Yeah, I thought that was interesting also. Anyone else on the history? Yes sir. Just an observation and maybe just my reading though there's a thing that stuck out at me is it didn't s it doesn't seem like there's like a lot of maybe inconsistencies or different practices related to like the position that uh Dr. Pfeiffer was taking. But it seemed to me like if you look through the whole history, it wasn't really until the Puritan that you had something written down very clearly that is the position That Dr. Pipe was taking. There were like hints of it here and there, and maybe some you could look at some threads that may have gone, but it really wasn't very clear that the way Dr. Pipe would answer the question you posed is what is the fourth community currently require and forbid. His answer to that really wasn't consistently clear until the pure Yeah, so if that's true then it would be analogous to um he mentions in that chapter that it takes a while for the church to systematize. And that, for example, we didn't have a very clear understanding of the relationship between the father and the and the son and the son to the father until AD 325. And and perhaps what you're pointing out is maybe we didn't have a system up systematized or um or a more developed outlook on this until we get into the uh fifteenth or sixteenth century. Something like that. Is that right? Okay. Okay, that's interesting. Uh-huh. Yeah, very good. Sarah, did I see you I was just kind of saying somewhat similar with that. Like although there is a constant threat of some sense of rewards days There there were many like it was not monolithic in any way and a lot of the early church fathers and the medieval church and even the Reform The the reformers thought that like we're not it's not the fourth commandment, the fourth command passed to it. Like there are all sorts of different things that we don't maintain and performation now that were pretty consistent even though there were some consistent aspects of the stuff as well. I guess I was just a little surprised to to see how much variation Sarah was in the history of the church of the S. Alright, very good. So Sarah was, just so everybody can hear, Sarah was surprised, I think the summary is, Sarah was surprised to see the variation in practices. Is that fair? Yes. Okay. Surprise. Alright, anybody else on chapter nine? Yes, sir. Um it this really started at the in the last three or four pages of chapter eight, but um uh just uh early church the the apostles and and the commandment or that we have to do what the apostles taught, but also what the apostles did. uh and mimic them in their practices even if it's not necessarily hey we can like develop this theologically from this passage to this passage to this passage Um even in the confession, some of the scripture proofs that they give for the first day of the weekend at Christian Sabbath Focus more on the practice of the of the early church. That's true. And I and I kind of I kind of thought with some of the denser or more um uh questionable or hey this argument is a little confusing parts of chapter eight on the theology once you get to actually what did they do It's pretty it was pretty clear. Just that that um requirement that we are supposed to moment down are uh uh in what a in a clear practice of the early church And that kind of goes into chapter nine, but we didn't get a chance to get to that part of chapter eight. That was more of something you were ab able to just read on your own. But um if you didn't hear Jeff, he's pointing out that a key argument an observation for the way in which the fourth commandment is applied is looking at the example of the apostles that the example of the apostles is, well, it will be called normative, meaning that God's moral will is being shown to you not just with words, but also by human examples. Sometimes that is referred to as story as Torah, to where you you you would look at David, for example, or someone else, their actions become authoritative lessons on the moral will of God. And that is true in spades when it comes to an apostolic example. Jeff would be the the godly example of the apostles is a revelation of God's moral will. Yeah. Okay, so let's go then to chapter 10 with the ten minutes that we have remaining, and I would like you to turn to Psalm 92. Now Bill is going to use this psalm to establish that there should be morning and evening worship. That was one of the first things I noticed though. Yeah. Okay. So with uh Psalm ninety two I thought what we would do rather than just going through the book again is we can make some observations here together. I'll go ahead and read the psalm And then you can bring out the observations that Pipa has given to you in the book, you're welcome to bring out your own observations. But I would say that The underlying belief here that is moving us forward is that Psalm ninety-two is revealing to you God's moral will on how the fourth commandment should be spent. That's at least, if that was not stated outright in the chapter, that is implied Uh not not too subtly. That's the idea. Is that looking at the whole canon of scripture, if you want to start discovering what it looks like to obey the fourth command in Psalm ninety-two is given there in part for that purpose. And you can see there at the top of Psalm 92 the title is A Psalm, a Song for the Sabbath Day. Okay. So let me go ahead and read that to you. It is good to give thanks to the Lord and to sing praises to your name, O Most High, to declare your loving kindness in the morning and your faithfulness every night. on an instrument of ten strings, on the lute and the that's how you say that? Lute lute and the harp, with harmonious sound. For you, Lord, have made me glad through your work. I will triumph in the work of your hands. O Lord, how great are your works! Your thoughts are very deep. A senseless man does not know, nor does a fool understand this. When the wicked spring up like grass, and when all the workers of iniquity flourish, it is that they may be destroyed forever. But you, Lord, are on high forevermore. For behold, your enemies, O Lord, for behold, your enemies shall perish. All the workers of iniquity shall be scattered But my horn you have exalted like a wild ox. I have been anointed with fresh oil. My eye also has seen my desire on my enemies. My ears hear my desire on the wicked who rise up against me. The righteous shall flourish like a palm tree, he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. Those who are planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God. They shall still bear fruit in old age. They shall be fresh and flourishing, to declare that the Lord is upright. He is my rock. So if this is a song for the Sabbath and the people of God were singing it, and these were an expression of their aspirations Then the argument is that this should be our aspirations and the way that we should be singing and spending our Sabbath also. This contains our hopes and what we would be focused on in that day. It seems like a pretty straightforward way to think about it. Let's b just take each stanza by stanza. So the first I I think that's the way you say it. I actually have hardly any formal education So one so when we get into verses one through four, would you call that a stanza? Somebody out there? Yeah, is that right? Yeah, okay. And then in the stanza there's verses Is that what you would say? Anybody out there a poem person? Yes, is that right? Okay. Did I get it okay? Alright, thanks. Way to go. Okay, so within the first stanza, the first four verses, what is it that we can glean here in terms of the observation of our Lord's Day? And you're welcome to use the observations from the book. We don't need to come up with anything fancy. Yes, Darren? There's a morning and evening. There's a morning and evening experience. Okay. Gotcha. Yes, sir. Question, is this a song like about the Sabbath or a song that was sung on the Sabbath? Yeah, that's a good question. I don't know the answer to that right off the top of my head. Yeah. My impression is that it's one that would be used on the Sabbath for God's people on the you know. that the whether this is what they would sing on the Sabbath and aspire to. But I don't I'd have to look that up, I'm not sure. Let me know if you find out. That's really useful context though for understanding how any of this could potentially be normative. Uh-huh. Yeah. What what would you s what what would you what do you see as the usefulness of that context? You see there's a difference if it's one or the other? Yeah. So singing on the Sabbath about the things that are good to do as the people of God If everything that we sang on the Sabbath day, because we were using music that was made for congregational worship. If we were to then take that to imply that anything inside those that music is supposed to be done on a Sunday or on a Sabbath day in particular Um or that it somehow is saying, well, this is how Sabbath day worship is supposed to happen specifically. Um that seems like a pretty big list. of things? Okay. As opposed to like are we allowed to sing about how we worship God through the week on a Sabbath day? Okay. I'm not following you exactly, but I usually find that in my reasoning I'm like it takes me about twenty minutes to catch up to you. So I'll talk to you. I'll just ask you later if I'm still curious. Okay. Alright. Yes. I I guess uh first just a concrete example is like the morning and evening thing. That's saying if this If this is a song that's about the Sabbath, saying that there should be worship in the morning and the evening, that's one thing. But if it's just saying we should be singing to the Lord every day of the week, we just have to be proclaiming that truth on the Sabbath. Oh okay. Now I understand. Okay, gotcha. Yeah, thanks. Now I see the difference. Okay. I think Sarah, I had Sarah first and Christina. Yes. Well, in the three backs up instruments of 10 screen and then So the indications that we should be actually taking on Sabbath incorporate worship can use Okay, so that there can so there can be instrumentation, we should be together in doing so. Um we do have with Brian's question and with uh Ryan's questions, we do have them asking, is this psalm normative for our Sabbath observance at all? Right. Yeah, okay. So that's a question that's come out of this. Yes, Christina? I wonder if it's more helpful to think about if this is a description of worship Uh-huh. Then it can have implications for the Sabbath and implications outside of the Sabbath without it being normative where this is exactly what happen in the Sabbath. So I think so in that I think we can look at it without saying it's necessarily this is exactly what has to happen on the Sabbath or what It may not nothing outside of it can happen outside of the Sabbath, but we can look at it and agree. I I agree I think this clearly indicates That lots of instruments are of lawful use of worshiping God in the congregation. So if we understand the title as saying a song for the Sabbath day, meaning this is some directions these are some of the directions for how to worship on the Lord on the on the Day he has appointed. Instruments are allowed on that. Yes. Or in worship in general If it's, you know, in in the morning and evening, I think we would say that in general, even on every day, it is particularly good to remember him in the morning and in the evening and Of course we incorporate that also in how we order our Sabbath days, but it but then it doesn't have to have necessarily the implication of the morning service and the evening. In service because it's also scribing worship generally a coming. Um Not it not to me. But it's me. I swear it is. So th uh it just takes me a minute. Okay, we're running we ran out of time So the easy answers, it sounds like where we are, at least some of us in the classes, we're not convinced that this psalm is normative for the Sabbath. That's still a question for us. There's probably still some questions as to whether the fourth command is moral at all. And if you do observe the fourth command, you're probably doing so just because that's the tradition. I'm seeing that's probably some of the mindset in the class. It's good for me to see that. If, however, you did see this as normative, and that might be a big if for some of you. Some of the easiest observations would be you should be giving thanks to the Lord. So it's a day of thanksgiving and praise, verse number one. Dr. Pipa points out there's two different names for God that are given there, and that they point to who he is as a person that we should be reflecting on on that day And this is all a part of the lighting in him, and that can be done in song with instrumentation. If you were to continue on in verse number five, not only would you reflect on who he is and his character, but you would be Focused on what he has accomplished, what are his works. That's usually divided in the work of creation and the work of redemption And so you can start to look at that in the past and what he has revealed within his scriptures, but you could also use the day to then reflect on how has he made a difference in your own life. So you could be delighting in him in that way. Thirdly, once we get to especially verse number 10 This is understood as a foreshadowing and interjection ultimately of Jesus Christ as the Messiah who has been anointed by the Father to destroy all of God's enemies. So then the Sabbath becomes a day for you to delight in God and that He has made promises to you and victory is yours in Jesus Christ. that you should be using the day to remember your eternal rest in him and all of the benefits that you will receive from him since you have been made members of the covenant of grace by being united to your federal head, who is Jesus Christ. So that would be another thing that you would remember. And that takes us all the way to the end actually. But although Pipa does observe in 12 through 15 that it is also a day to remember That part of the victory of Jesus Christ is your own renewal and recreation. That there is not only a justification that has taken place, but there is a continual renewal and sanctification that Jesus Christ is working within you. And it is good to remember that. It is a great day to remember to put to death sin and to seek to live for righteousness. But it is also a day to remember that what Jesus Christ has started in you, he will complete. And that we're not to lose our hope. So if you accept this as a song that helps you to show how to delight on the Sabbath. then those are the observations I myself would make. And I think they correspond to each stanza. Okay, so next week we are not having Sunday school. And Sunday school is not morally obligatory, so I don't want to hear any arguments. But if you do have doubts about what I'm saying, it's because you have an alternative belief that needs to be examined All right. And you're probably deceiving yourself because by nature you're a liar. And that's the summary of today's lesson. Okay, let's go ahead and pray. Heavenly Father. We thank you for being our Father with all of our doubts and all of our questions. And Lord, each of us here have different personalities. Some of us are by nature really cynical and skeptical. It takes us a while. Uh you hang in there with us. Others of us lord are on the other end of the spectrum and we just kinda jump and it can be rash We don't really consider what's going on. And Lord, you also have put in our midst those who are mature who wear who weigh things carefully like the Bereans. but aren't learning constantly but never really understanding. I thank you, Lord, that you hang in with all of us. And I pray that you would give us wisdom. Give us the wisdom of knowing your moral will. I ask that you would give us the wisdom of maintaining peace together as brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ. I ask these things in your name. Amen.