From Proverbs chapter 1, 8 through 19. Marilyn, can you grab me a Trinity hymnal, please? Thanks My son, hear the instruction of your father, and do not forsake the law of your mother, for they will be grace, a graceful ornament on your head, and chains about your neck My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent. If they say, Come with us, let us lie and wait to shed blood, let us lurk secretly for the innocent without cause. Let us swallow them alive like Sheol. And whole like those who go down to the pit. We shall find all kinds of precious possessions. We shall fill our houses with spoil. Cast in your lot among us. Let us all have one purse My son, do not walk in the way with them. Keep your foot from their path, for their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood. Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird, but they lie in wait for their own blood. They lurk secretly for their own lives. So are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain. It takes away the life of its owner. Let us pray. Father, we pray that you Would work by way of our high priest, king, and prophet, Jesus Christ. All authority has been given to you, Lord Jesus And we pray that you would lead us into the wisdom of your moral order by way of this series, and that you would do so particularly with the truths you relay to us tonight. In the name of Christ. Amen. Thanks. Appreciate it. You may be seated. Well, as a summary and review from last week, we may say that God the Father, through the Son and His Spirit governs the world in part by appointing fathers and mothers of the faith to develop and maintain his moral order through their instruction and training. This week we continue with the first teaching from the father and mother of Proverbs. And so I have a series of observations for you, and then an application. I have a single application tonight. These observations real end up being lessons in and of themselves. This is full of truth. It's rich. It's uh It's a treasure box that I keep trying to get to the bottom of, and I just keep finding more and more treasure. And so you may want to take notes on each of the observations, even in terms of the lessons we learn here. Here's the first observation. The parents frame the child's life in terms of a path Now, when I say things like that, I immediately want you to feel a moral responsibility to do the same thing. These are authorized models that are given to us. These are not cute little sayings That you can take or leave. If you want to raise someone up in discipleship or mentorship, you need to adopt path language. And that's what we see here. You can see this explicitly in verse 15. Keep your foot from their path. In verse 11, it is implied: come with us. It is an invitation to a path of life. And you'll mention, you can look through, there is other mentions of path, at least one other, towards the end of the proverb. This proverb is therefore not relaying only one scenario to you. If it were, it would hardly be relevant to most of you. By way of a typical example, instead The proverbist presents a mode of being or way of life that in fact manifests in many ways. There are many ways in which this path can unfold. This is supported, for example, by the general language of death in verse 12, Sheol. In essence, what the parents represent here is The path of hell, which leads to hell, which is why the image of a path is so important. A path goes somewhere. That's part of the nature of a moral world. Your actions take you someplace What you do matters. Under this general category are a host of types of paths. That's observation number one. And by the way, I don't think, therefore, it's a mistake that John Bunyan chose a path for the 99% of his book You're either on the path or you've fallen off of it and you've got to get back on. Observation number two. The specific path receiving emphasis in this particular proverb. May be seen by the summary verse in verse 19. Now that's the whole moral of the story right there. So are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain. It takes away the life of its owners. The problem here with this path is not a desire for personal property. That's fine. It is not even that there's a problem with wealth or gain in a general sense The problem is that some gain wealth unlawfully, or outside the moral order of which God established and maintains. If you read through Proverbs, you will notice a basic contrast between the way of death and the way of life. These are two ways that run all the way through the book. For example, it would be worth your time to do a comparison and contrast between our proverb here tonight, particularly verse 13. And Proverbs 24, verses 3 and 4. I'll say that again, Proverbs 1:13 and Proverbs 24, 3 and 4. Let me do a contrast right in front of you. We shall find all kinds of precious possessions. We shall fill our houses with spoil. And then in contrast to Proverbs 24, verses 3 and 4 Or in comparison, through wisdom a house is built, and by understanding it is established, by knowledge the rooms are filled with all precious and pleasant riches. That's an interesting comparison, isn't it? Between the path of life and the path of death, or the house of life and the house of death, both proverbs present houses that are full And full of riches at that. The house of life, however, is full, notice, due to the knowledge, wisdom, and understanding exercised by the head of the house and his helper. Now those three terms are very important, and we'll get into those later, especially by chapter three. Wisdom is a kind of craftsmanship, which leads to, in this case, a productive orchard. Chapter 24. Knowledge and understanding are the virtues necessary to know God's will, the plan how to achieve it, and the stamina, especially when times get tough. The contrast really could not be more stark between how both houses are filled. The one is through industrious hard work and wisdom, and then the house of death is through antisocial behavior and murder and lying and cheating. Those in the house of death seek easy money Through antisocial behavior, and those in the house of life work diligently to establish a good life in accordance with the order established by God. Those are the contrasts that we see. And then that's observation number two. Observation number three. And this is one of my favorite observations, and I'm actually going to dwell this on this entirely in the application, because it's so important, especially nowadays. I want you to notice in the proverb that the parents do not use the language which the sinners would use to describe what they are doing Those in the house of death would never describe their path as the path of hell. No one would join them. Hey, come with me to hell! Sorry, I'm busy That's not the hate how they would put it. The parents are instead naming it in accordance with reality. And another example would be in verse 11: they would never admit to their actions being murder, because then they would be held responsible, and they certainly wouldn't admit that the person that they murdered is innocent. Without cause. That they are murdering the innocent without cause. That's an important observation that the parents do not use the language which the sinners would use to describe what they are doing. Observation number four, the parents appeal to the child's natural aversion to annihilation or extinction. In other words, no one wants to be hurt or die. We have a natural aversion to our harm. The expectation, therefore, is that we won't put ourselves in situations that lead to death. That's the natural expectation that you would have for a person who has common sense. In fact, this is a natural expectation that we have not only for humans, but we would have the same expectation for animals. If animals are not able to even acknowledge this, then we know that there is something wrong with them. I remember walking through the woods with a shotgun in my hand, and a deer came up to me I did not shoot it because I knew that there was some kind of neurological problem and I didn't need to develop one by eating its meat. Now I say this because this is the picture that is given to us in Proverbs 1 17 through 18. This is the point of him bringing up the net. Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird. But they lie in wait for their own blood. They lurk secretly for their own lives. Here's the picture. If you creep up on a field of geese with a net And they see you, they will fly away, because they have the wisdom of a goose. If you approach a stray dog, or even perhaps your own dog, with a leash, that shiny little buckle, he will bolt. But here, what you see with these this group of people is that they are so blind to the path of death and of moral of a world with moral consequences. They are so morally out of order that they cannot see it. They lie in wait for their own blood. They take no notice of the trap of the path of death and they run headlong to their destruction. There is nothing we could say. We could talk until we're blue in the face, and they can't see it God runs the universe on the moral principle: you reap what you sow, but these sinners have no sense of a cosmos of moral consequence. And the parents want their son and daughter to have nothing to do with them. Observation number five is kind of technical, but I just want to point out something to you so you don't get confused. Look at verse 19. And our translations are doing a pretty good job. But I just want you to know that when it says, so are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain, it takes away the life of its owner. those pronouns are referring back to gain and it's a kind of unjust gain. So it's unjust gain that takes away the life of the owner of the unjust gain. You've got to make sure you don't get that confused. Uh it can be confusing because it's not exactly clear what the antecedent is unless you can see the all the stuff. Okay But just know that it's referring back to the unjust gain. And that makes a difference because of the main point that he brings out here in this proverb. And it's this. The unjust gain clings to the criminal and eventually destroys him. Or if he wants This is more simple, and both of these are quotes from someone who's an expert in Proverbs, by the way. I just thought they were so perfect, I just might as well quote them. Here's it more simply: Sin begets harm. Let me state those for you again. The unjust gain. That unjust gain. It could be the unjust gain that you see here in this proverb that has to do with possessions. It could be an unjust gain of an illegitimate relationship. That you have with a person, these things are going to stick with you, and they are going to eventually destroy you. Or more simply, sin begets harm. Now the reason wh um what I want to do though is I want to focus on just one of the points that are a part of the proverb. And that has to do with how we use our language, and it's not the language of the sinner, it's the language of the Christian And I want to focus on that because the parents are using a particular way to talk about reality to keep their child or whoever they're mentoring off of this path And I want us to have that as our application. The parents instruct the child this way in order to keep the child from this path. They want them walking on the path of life, and so they end up being exemplary, and we therefore must act like these parents. And we must do so particularly with this main application. And I'm going to title it this: Know Your Path and Speak from Your Path. It has to do with those observations we made earlier with the parents saying that they're murdering innocent people. They're saying it like it actually is. We have a lot to learn here. So this is our application. Know your path and speak from your path. Paths are a major theme running through the proverbs. We have already seen them in these verses. What they represent ultimately, which is why we had the readings that we did in the bulletin, is they represent the paths of the spirit and of the flesh. We sometimes talk about it in terms of two cities, or if you want, you could talk about it in terms of two very different moral orders. Moral orders are ways of organizing the world and the relationship between things. As Christian, as Christians Christ through his Spirit orders our minds and our lives in accordance with his truth. Now we have seen examples of this in the Ten Commandments. The fifth commandment shows that a society is ordered around superiors, inferiors, and equals, and that is a Christian moral order that is different than the moral order that is handed to you outside of the Christian way of life. Outside of the Christian way of life, it is primarily just the moral order of equality, not of inferior, superior, and equal. And that's the problem. The problem is that the world outside of Christ has a moral order also. And they are often more persuasive than Christians and their moral order. And Christians tend to feel apologetic for the moral order that Christ has given to them to begin with. Lately, this has become obvious in the gender discussion. I hadn't seen Christians so aware of the difference between one moral order and another until this gender discussion started. Before that, it just seemed like we were all a part of the same moral order. A separation, however, came about and distinctions started to be made A separation was devised between biological sex and gender. And this separation is in fact born from a much deeper philosophy Of who or what humans are, where we come from, and where we are going, even on the nature of knowledge itself. And here is the issue This is the main issue, and the reason why I chose this application for tonight. Sometimes begin to name and categorize reality From the path and vantage point of the world instead of their path. Which is why the admonition tonight is: know your path and speak from your path. You either think it's the truth or it's not. The answer To the questions that they raise must come from our path. And so, for example, how should you, and I've posed this to you before, how should you, as a Christian, speak about gender And we could talk about it this way: what is a theology of gender? And that is just another way of saying: what does the wisdom of the Son of God have to say about gender as we discover it throughout the entire canon? The canon of scriptures. How should we speak about sexuality from our path? The answer must come from your robust moral order which has given to which is given to us in the scriptures by the wisdom of the Son. And I'm just, I want to reaffirm to you That this is not just one option among many. In reality, this is the only option. It is the only truth. The one that is given to us in the moral order of the scriptures by way of the Son. Now, what I found interesting Is that I don't know if George Orwell was a Christian or not. Does no any anybody know anything about that? I don't know if he was a Christian or not, but he was really on To the way that people speak from a path, from a way of life. They either speak from the flesh or they speak from the spirit. People who spoke from the flesh, he called their language political language. And this is what he says. Listen to this quote. This is excellent. He really nailed it. And he he nails it to um my daughter ended up bringing this up as we were working through some stuff. In 1984, he talks uh there's a language invented called Newspeak And it's the same kind of thing. But here he defines political language and says this. He says: political language is designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable. and to give an appearance of solidity to pure wind. Or well as acknowledging that people speak about things And service to larger paths or agendas and moral orders. As Christians, in other words, you need to live with your eyes wide open Making sure that you are speaking about the world in accordance with Christ and His kingdom And this is especially true as you are teaching those who are under your discipleship or mentorship about the world and its moral order. We must work hard to get this right. We're very, very behind at this point. And we must work hard to get this right. Now, that all is a bit philosophical. The language was kind of general, and I'm not going to give you any examples that are truly helpful, but I am going to give you some examples that are simple Simple examples of how language matters and how we use it. Here's one. When I was trying to talk my wife into getting a dog. I know. It's the dog example. It always comes up. When I was trying to talk my wife into getting a dog, it wasn't just a dog that I was trying to get her to take on. It was a German shepherd I had the whole thing planned out. Then she found out that German shepherds shed so much that there are these uh like dust balls that roll through the house And so a friend of mine said, hey, you know how you can talk her into it even though that is the reality? Call the dog hair puppy glitter. There you go. A totally unhelpful example, but very simply, this is what we're talking about. Dog hair is puppy glitter. I see this I heard this same kind of thing when a woman uh was working around me and she was trying to uphold a particular uh feminine image and she mentions to me that she does not sweat. She glissens. It's the same kind of thing. This is the way that we can use language in order to portray a particular kind of reality before our eyes And those are silly examples, but it gets way more serious. The unjust gain clings to the criminal And eventually destroys him. Or more simply, sin begets harm. And we're going to see that run all the way through these first nine chapters. Sin begets harm. The parents instruct the child this way in order to keep the child from this path. They want them walking on the path of life And so we must act like these parents. What we have done is we've taken a single example from the proverb. We dwelt on the example of speaking from a Christian moral order Naming things as Christ says that they are, and adopting the language and not adopting the language and description of life from the path of the sinner. This is a major step in discipleship and keeping those under our care from destruction. Let us pray.