Chapter 29. And I'll be reading verses uh one through fifteen, but please know that twenty-nine one is the end of chapter 28 in the Hebrew Bible. It really starts in chapter 2, or in verse 2, and that's where I'll be preaching from today. These are the words of the covenant which the Lord commanded Moses to make with the children of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the covenant which he made with them in Horeb. That's the end of that whole law section. And now we're going to move into the final sermon of Moses. Now Moses called all Israel and said to them, You have seen all that the Lord did before your eyes in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh and to all his servants, and to all his land. The great trials which your eyes have seen, the signs and those great wonders. Yet the Lord has not given you a heart And I believe the translation should be until this very day. And I have led you forty years in the wilderness. Your clothes have not worn out on you, and your sandals have not worn out on your feet. You have not eaten bread, nor have you drunk wine or similar drink, that you may know that I am the Lord your God. And when you came to this place, Sihon, king of Heshbon, and Og, king of Bashan, came out against us to battle And we conquered them. We took their land and gave it as an inheritance to the Reubenites, to the Gadites, and to the half tribe of Manasseh. Therefore keep the words of this covenant and do them, that you may prosper in all that you do. All of you stand today before the Lord your God, your leaders and your tribes, and your elders and your officers. All the men of Israel, your little ones and your wives, also the stranger who is in your camp, from the one who cuts your wood to the one who draws your water. That you may enter into the covenant with the Lord your God and into his oath, which the Lord your God makes with you today, that he may establish you today as a people for himself. And that he may be God to you, just as he has spoken to you, and just as he has sworn to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. I make this covenant and this oath not with you alone, but with him who stands here with us today before the Lord our God, as well as with him who is not here today, who is not here with us today. Please pray with me. Father, we have sung it already, but we do pray that you would show us Christ. That you would give us true hearing of the word, which leads to a doing of the word. Lord, as we have been speaking all week, I pray that you would give repentance. and belief, comfort, and strength, that you, Holy Spirit, the great applier, would meet everyone here, how they must be met. In the name of Christ. Amen. Please be seated. Let's imagine that you lived in the days of Jesus as he walked in Jerusalem. And there is a huge crowd that forms around him to hear him. Who are you in the crowd? Do you consider yourself a serious follower? And when people look at you, they know he is a disciple of Christ. She is a disciple of Christ. Or are you hanging back in the crowd undecided? Are you annoyed that there is a crowd because it's just getting in the way of you trying to travel to the place that you're trying to get? Are you more interested in other things and Jesus is not a concern? Are there better things to worry about than Jesus? Those would all be different people within the crowd. Well, I hope this morning. That as you hear his word, and perhaps even as we've already entered his service, that this would be how you would describe yourself in that crowd. You would say, You want to know who I am? The best thing is for you to know whose I am. That is my God. And I am his person. We are his people. That's how you would describe it, and it would be very personal for you. Those are actually the two ways in which this passage is set up before us. I hope you recognize the break there. I am your God is the first part in verses two through nine, and then we are his people is ten through fifteen. And so let's take a look at those two things as we think about ourselves in that crowd. Let's begin with I am your God in verses 2 through 9. In verses 2 through 9, Moses, by a listing or enumerating, gives the great works of God, the wonderful works of God. And that's, we've seen this throughout the service. That's been our theme, and it's the title of the sermon. He starts in verses 2 through 3 with the Exodus event. So take a look at that with me Now Moses called all Israel and said to them, You have seen all that the Lord did before your eyes, and he starts in the land of Egypt. To Pharaoh and to all his servants and to all his land, the great trials. And so think of all of the different plagues. Think of the the the budding staff. Think of the Red Sea. Think of all of those things that are a part of that story, which your eyes have seen, the signs and those great wonders, tying them in to the former generation and what their actual parents saw. And then he moves forward with great force in his sermon here, which is what Moses is doing. And now he's going to talk about the wilderness experiences that they had. Not only had they seen the great works of God in the Exodus event, but they have seen God's great works through the 40 years in the wilderness, as he says in verses 5 through 6. And I have led you forty years in the wilderness. And he starts to enumerate or give a list again of the ways in which God has shown his wonderful works. Your clothes have not worn out on you, I've provided this whole time. And your sandals have not worn out on your feet. You have not eaten bread, and nor have you drunk wine or similar drink. And now I'm going to see if you're really awake for this sermon. How in the world does an example of what he did not give show a great work of God? He says, this is what I gave you, and I also gave you this. Oh, and look what I didn't give you. It's literally what he says right there You have not eaten bread and nor have you drunk wine or similar drink. How is that a proof of a wonderful work of God? You can tell me later if you discovered it before I'm getting ready to say it It shows what they do not have, and therefore shows a great work of God by showing things that human beings could make through agricultural enterprise. In other words, it's not like you go to a tree and you pick off a bottle of wine. And it's not like you go to a bread tree. And that's the whole point here. Bread and wine are works from the hands of humans. And the point here is not about the great and wonderful works of human beings. And what they can accomplish through agricultural creations. The point here is about the great works of God. And so you know what? He didn't feed them with bread, but you know what he fed them with? Mana from heaven, which you cannot make. And you know what they quenched their thirst with, since they didn't have wine? Water from a rock And so it is yet another example, even miraculous examples, showing the wonderful works of God to this people. Besides what had been done in Egypt. And then he'll continue on in verses 7 through 9, showing the victory in the battles. And that's the third set of the great works. Recollecting one after the other, naming the name of those whom they conquered. I mean, they could they they probably remembered what was going on. All to the glory of Now, there's a little bit of a shift here for Moses because after he lists Egypt and after he lists the great works in the wilderness and after he lists the great battles He then moves into this statement in verse 6, which is a purpose statement. It tells us why God lists, why Moses is listing all of these works within his sermon. Why is he telling us this? And here's the answer in verse 6. That you may know that I am the Lord your God. Now you have to be really careful how you read this within our civilization. Moses is not saying here, hey, listen up, atheists, there's five proofs. For the existence of God. That's not what's going on here. He's not giving them proofs that a higher being exists. When he says that he's showing them, I am the Lord your God, you have got to ask the question, what does he mean by the word your? Number one, it's plural. So he's not speaking to any specific individual, but to a whole group of people. A whole nation that has a history. The Ur is plural and it refers to all of Israel. And so what he's saying here, what God is saying through Moses, is that these wonderful deeds and acts and mighty works are used to prove to Israel, this body of people, that this is the God of their fathers. In other words, this is what was happening with this group of people. This is what they were realizing. This is maybe a conversation they would have had. Wait a second. This is the God that We heard about that met and walked in the pool of the garden with Adam. Wait a second. This is the ancient God, Yahweh Elohim, that we heard of. Who spoke to Noah, and he warned him, and he gave him instructions and cubits for an ark. Wait a second, this is the same God who called Abraham out of Ur. In other words, this is the God of our fathers, of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, and he's speaking to us. That's the realization that's going on. This is the God. We've always heard of him, and we heard of what he did in the Red Sea, but we've even seen it in the wilderness. That's the God. It's Yahweh Elohim. He's revealed himself to us. And this really can't be taken for granted. You'd think, well, of course they knew that, but no, that's not the history of the human race. The history of the human race is exceptional dullness toward God Just because God does great works does not mean that people will see him as the great Yahweh Elohim from ancient times. Think of Pharaoh himself. Think of what Joe Maccus was saying here about that group of people that went through the Red Sea is the same generation that was called unfaithful. Behind all of their grumbling, the sin underneath of the sin is that they did not know who he was. They were unwilling to believe that he's the faithful one, the God of their fathers. Would fulfill the promise. It was a denial of him. And so it can't be taken for granted that they would realize this. And that's the great thing about this generation before us. It's actually brought out in the passage. Did you notice when we were reading through all of the language about perception and hearing and sight? Naming those organs given to us that where we take in information? And where we would understand. It says in verse 4, for example, that the former generation could not perceive with their heart. They didn't have eyes to see. They didn't have ears to hear. Sound familiar? But all that has changed. And as I alluded to or as I mentioned to you, as I was reading the actual verse, verse 4. There is a preposition there at the end, and I do not want to get into a conversation about Hebrew prepositions this morning. But we can talk afterward if you'd like, and I can give you the scholarship behind this, but just take a hard look at this passage with you Yet the Lord has not given you a heart to perceive and eyes to s eyes to see and ears to hear, and that word to is add. And the scholarship that I have read is overwhelmingly convincing That it means until this very day. That this with this new generation there is a faith present. Whereas the former that was left in the desert to die Is an example of faith not present. They heard, they saw, but it wasn't mixed with faith, as the book of Hebrews says. But not so with this generation. That's the whole reason why this generation was allowed to go forth And why they had the heart to run into battle, because they actually believed. The Israelites, in other words, could not see until now, with this generation here. The Lord has granted this new generation sight. This generation is able to see at some level and hear of the glory of God and all his works and not suppress it in its entirety with that unbelief. They are, in fact, learning. And they do know that he is Yahweh, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And that is shown over and over again in their faithfulness, at least in the beginning. Their faithfulness already in the wars that they have fought. He is the Lord our God Now, when you realize something like that, that He is the Lord your God, there is one more thing that must be declared. And that is not only is he our God, but we are his people. It just follows naturally. And so let's move into verses 10 through 15 with We Are His People. This is a most exciting time in this passage In verse 10, Moses gives a roll call. And it's nice to see, in reference to last week's sermon, that the little ones are present. He begins not with the little ones but with the heads of the nation in verse 10. He says, All of you stand today before the Lord your God, and you can notice here it's it's It's kind of like a social strata, your leaders and your tribes and your elders. It's really tribe leaders, tribal leaders and your elders and your officers and all the men of Israel And then he in uh addition continues with the roll call call, uh, including little ones and wives, and he even goes on to verse 11 to include the stranger, and in order to show you that he is. Accepting many people that you wouldn't expect, it shows that it's the lowest of the low. Namely, they cut wood and they draw water. I'm not saying that in their person that they are low because they're also made in the image of God. I'm just talking about societal standing. The whole society, therefore, is called to stand, verse 12 And enter into covenant with the ancient God Yahweh Elohim. It is a moment of the fulfillment of the promise that they had been waiting for. A covenant that was spoken, verse 13, to them, and it was sworn to their fathers many, many years ago, Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, it says. The great covenant, again in verse 13. where he establishes them as his people and he is their God. And it is all happening right now in this passage. I mean, can you imagine the kind of conversations that would be going on during this covenant ceremony if you were there in this crowd? What would you be saying to the person next to you? Would you elbow them and whisper something? Could you imagine one brother speaking to another? Because they're both there, they're in the family. Or a husband speaking to his wife, or an Israelite boy speaking to his friend, or one widow speaking to another. I imagine the conversation kind of going like this. Every night when the stars are out, we heard stories about Elohim Yahweh We heard that he put those stars in the sky. It was explained to us. Not that they were swirling balls of gas They explained it to us that these were put in the sky that we would understand what our calendar is, so that we could remember throughout every part of the season who our God is and what He's doing. That he's the creator of heaven and earth, and that he took a seat in his temple, the earth, on the seventh day and rested. And that's why we do it. We were taught that because God did that and we're His His people, we're to do that. We were told about how He appeared to Noah. And to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob our fathers, can you believe that he's here now? That it's not just a story about people we've never met. But that he's actually our God? Can you believe that he has gathered us here to be his people? Can you believe we're a part of this? I wonder if that's how the conversation went, as they realized not only that He is their God, but He has made them through His grace. His people. That's the conclusion that must be reached. The ancient God Yahweh Elochim, the creator of heaven and earth, and the God of their fathers It's part of those names. He revealed himself to them. And it was glorious and wonderful works. He was their God, and they were his people. Now, a question that we have to ask, as we've reached that conclusion from this passage, is: what has happened to this ancient God? Where is he? And what is he doing? He's done much since the time of this passage, as Christians believe For them, he accomplished the wonderful work of the Exodus, and he provided for them in all the ways listed that he went through for the wilderness. But his works have become even greater. God has become man in the person of Jesus the Christ. Which is quite the feat. It is the greatest wonderful work. He was by the Holy Spirit conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary. He did money, wonderful works as God in the flesh. He healed, brought people back from the dead. He was crucified in order to atone for our sins. He was raised again to life to give his new life After 40 days he ascended and he rules from the right hand of the Father, and since that moment he's still doing many great works. And our average attendance here is about 130. So I would say there's 130 great works out there potentially. those to whom he has sent his spirit. He has sent his spirit and since that time almost 2,000 years ago The God man Jesus has been gathering people to himself, making them his people. That's still what is happening. The ancient God is unchanging. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, to this day, there are people in every nation saying, He is my God. I am his person. And congregations are being formed. I mean, imagine it. Imagine how big the congregation is now. Those people gathered in Deuteronomy. I mean that's already a lot of people. I make this covenant and this oath, not with you alone, it says in verse 14. Oh, okay, well there's going to be more people than what are standing here in our passage. But with him who stands here with us today before the Lord our God, as well as with him who is not here with us today. Let me ask you, were you present with this congregation, one Deuteronomy? When this was taking place? But you are one of those believer who was not there with them that day. And who was gathered at a later time. Imagine if all the people that the Lord would gather would start showing up and everyone could see the whole church. Imagine how big it would be. Do you see the implication of this? I'm not even just talking about the invisible church. I'm talking about God's gathered people here on earth The visible church, all showing up like today. How many people are gathered to worship the Lord today? And who gathered them? Is it not just Jesus the Christ from heaven? Is it not the men and the women and their children? Is it not young and old alike? You see the implication. And I hope that there is a realization for you this morning, just as there was a realization for that generation. The same ancient God who made the heaven and the earth The same one who appeared to Adam and Eve, the same one who appeared to Noah and Abraham and Moses, he has revealed himself to you. He has gathered you. It is the most amazing thing that has ever happened to you in your life if you realize the teaching of this scripture: that He's the great gatherer. I have a question. When were you first gathered into the company of the saints? Some of you can answer that. Some of you know what people God used to gather you to Himself. Some of you thought you had it made, and then God showed you, no, you don't. That was part of the gathering. Some of you were gathered while standing in the middle of a street, and you just realized, ah I wonder if he were like Abraham. That's kind of his story. He didn't grow up as a covenant child. He was called out of Ur. Did you grow up not knowing Yahweh as your God and then He called you out of that life? And now you say, no, He's my God. And He owns me. We all have a story. Not everybody's story sounds like that, though. Did you have little children like they did in the crowd? When you said, That's my God, were you holding a baby? Did you have little ones in your hands saying that's our God? That would be another way, is that those little ones, as you were gathered, as their parents. They too came along and they learned about Yahweh, Elohim. They started hearing the ancient stories about Noah's Arki Arkee made of gopher barkie barki. But they were in the congregation too. And and here's a question, were you one of those little ones? Were you one of the little ones in the crowd when your when your parents realized that God was gathering and calling them? Were you standing by your parents and you grew up in the church? I see some of you growing up in the church right now. Did you grow up as a covenant child among the true Israel? And is finally Is this ancient God Yahweh, Elohim, are you sitting here today? And you're beginning to wonder, well, wait a second, now that I hear all these different stories. I think I'm being gathered. I think that the Lord God is calling me. You could be a covenant child in saying that. You could be a covenant child who's been baptized. And you could say, you know what I want to do? I want to claim my the promises. That the baptism is assigned for. I believe that I'm called by that God, who is the ancient God, and he is my God, and I am his person. Every covenant child will need to do that at a certain point. But you may not have even been a covenant child and sitting here. And the events within your life, when you try to make sense of them, the hypothesis that makes the most sense is to say, well, wait a second. I hear what the pastor is saying. I think God is calling me, like Abraham, out of Ur. We are to look around and we are to see what God is doing. He has not gathered two separate people, an Old Testament people and a New Testament. Testament people. We are one congregation of saints. Read the final chapters of the book of Hebrews. We are all saints gathered together. Peter teaches this, but you are a chosen generation speaking to both Jew and Gentile, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. who once were not a people, but are now the people of God, who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. And therefore, as we see ourselves in this great cloud of witnesses, those too who have faith, we must remember it is of the most profoundest and vital importance for you to remember Not just who you are. That is the question that our culture asks. Who am I? This is the real question. Whose am I? Because if God has gathered you, it changes and defines everything. And if he has not, it changes and defines everything. It is not your thoughts about yourself. It is not others' thoughts about you. The only thoughts that matter are what does God think of you? And you'd know that in many ways, especially through his calling, his gathering of you. Those who are growing up in the church, the little ones, you are encouraged by this passage to see the promises given in your baptism or in baptism that you've watched. And to repent and believe that your sins may be washed by the blood of Jesus Christ. Those of you who grew up in the church and are older now You are not your own. Remember this: those of you who have been admitted to the Lord's Supper, you are not your own. He has bought you with a price. You are his servant. Therefore, remember that your faithfulness is not to anything else in this world, ultimately, except to God. Those of you who did not grow up in the church, but whom God gathered out of the world, remember that you were once not his people, but now you are through his mercy. He has let you be grafted in. Be faithful to the Lord, who called you out of darkness and into his marvelous light. And perhaps there are some present today who don't think of themselves as members of God's people. And as I've already mentioned before, there is a question hanging in the air. Is the ancient God Yahweh Elohim revealing himself to you? Is he calling you to be his servant and to join the congregation? You know that crowd we thought of in the beginning of the sermon? Maybe you've been hanging in the back. But as I'm asking this question, you realize, no, he's calling me to the front. And he wants me kneeling and submitting myself to his every word. And it is there that I will only find my happiness and my meaning. When we look at the great congregation that God has gathered from every nation, There's a truth, and this truth is proven by the fact that Jesus has not returned yet. There are still open spaces to be filled in the congregation And I just wonder if one of those spaces is for you. Even if you grew up in the church, maybe you haven't made up your mind. Maybe you want nothing, you don't know if you want anything to do with your baptism. But there are still spaces. And maybe that space is for you. Maybe God is calling you right now through my words, his words. Is that your place? Is he calling you to be a member of his people? Is today the day of salvation where you will say, You are my God, and these are your people. And I've got a spot. Is he calling you to be a member? For you to say, as we see within the passage, He is my God, and we are His people. Let's pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, this is such a hopeful message for us when we combine it with the whole canon that you have revealed. You have not sent us an earthly king. God the Son, you humbled yourself, taking the form of a servant. And doing what was necessary to begin gathering us, to pull your people together from every tongue and tribe and nation And here we are, we give glory to you, and we ask that you in your mercy would gather more. I pray, Lord, that you would bring conviction through your effectual call to those you're calling here today, whether baptized or not. In the name of Christ, Amen