You can open your Bibles. We'll be looking at Ephesians 4, 17 through 24 this morning. And you're if you're able, please stand for the reading of His Word. We're picking up in the middle of an argument. in the middle of an exposition really that the Apostle Paul is giving. And uh if I may, if I could just direct your attention very quickly before the reading to chapter one verse eighteen. Can you turn the main mic down a little bit? I'm ringing. In chapter 1, verse 18, this is a part of the appalling prayer for this congregation. And he says that he is praying that the eyes of your understanding being enlightened And then he he mentions a few things here that he would like them to have for to have enlightenment in. I think I'm a little too low now. Okay. And here, listen to this list, that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. And what is the exceeding greatness of his power toward us who believe? Those are three things that he wants this congregation to know. And the letter is really structured that way. The same three things. He's immediately going to talk about the power of the the that has been given in this whole next chapter. He'll then go to calling and then lastly he'll go to inheritance. So I'd encourage you to take a look at the first part of Ephesians that I won't be preaching on this morning. And when we get into chapter four, what we find is that he's now going to develop the implications of the calling that he wants them to be enlightened about. Sorry about the preposition that He wants them to walk worthy of their calling, and here he's spelling that out for them. What does it look like to walk worthy of their calling? And he'll once again calls call to their mind the great things that God has done. Now listen for that as you hear the actual verses that I'll be preaching on today. It's 17 through 24. We pick up now in that exposition. This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk, in the futility of their mind, having their dark understanding darkened Be an alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart, who being past feeling, have given themselves over to lewdness, to work all uncleanness with greediness. But you have not so learned Christ. If indeed you have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus, think of the calling there. You've been called to something different. that you put off concerning your former conduct the old man which grows corrupt according to the deceitful lusts, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind And that you put on the new man which was created according to God in true righteousness and holiness. Please pray with me. Father, there are grand things spoken here in this passage, and we pray that you would bring them to bear on us, on our minds, our wills, and our affections, that we would walk worthy of the calling to which we were called. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen. Please be seated. We are learning to live with God again. Corumdeo. Before his face And now that you are further along down the path of the series quorumdeo, you can see that the living God is three persons. We've been really going through each member of the Trinity or each person of the Trinity. Now here's a rhyme that we're learning in my household. The Bible teaches that our God is one, made up of three, Father, Spirit, and Son. The Father and Son are one, it is true. The Son and the Spirit also one too. Each one is distinct, yet fully divine, united eternal in love for all time. Trinity means the three persons are one, our one God is Father, Spirit, and Son. Each person of the Trinity contributes to restoring your communion with Him, is what we're basically learning, and how to live with all three persons. God the Father so loved the world, we have heard. uh in a sermon uh a while back, that he sent his only son, the love of the Father. The Son so loved the Father and the world that he took upon himself man's nature. He was conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the Virgin Mary. Jesus was sanctified and anointed with the Holy Spirit beyond measure, so that he might be thoroughly furnished to execute the office of a mediator and surety. And through both the personal and purchased grace of the Son, the justice of God is satisfied, and all the gifts of heaven are yours. That's the grace of the Son. The first gift that Jesus Christ gives us is the gift of the Holy Spirit. And that's the communion of the Spirit that we heard two weeks ago. We learned in the context of smug pride that the spirit is the spirit of regeneration, palaginesis, a regenesis. Notice the word Genesis again. The Spirit hovers over God's people as he hovered over the formless dark void of Genesis 1 and awakens us by enlightening our minds, renewing our wills, and reordering our affections. The result Is that you are persuaded and enabled to embrace the love of God, the Father, and the personal and purchased grace of the Son, as it was freely offered to us in the inscripturated gospel. Or as John Newton has said, amazing grace. How sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me I once was lost, but now am found, Was blind, but now I see. Twas grace that taught my heart to fear, And grace my fears relieved. How precious did that grace appear The hour I first believed. Isn't that lovely? It's the same thing we learned about that effectual call of the Spirit, and yet this is only the beginning of the Spirit's work. And so we move now. And to a second sermon on the work of the Spirit. Actually, the rest of them are on the work of the Spirit. He's very busy. Very busy. Here's another song that goes along with what we'll learn about the Spirit today. Finish then thy new creation. Pure and spotless let us be. Let us see thy great salvation perfectly restored in thee, changed from glory into glory, till in heaven we take our place. Till we cast our crowns before thee, lost in wonder, love, and praise. That's your destination Jesus is not only the author of your faith, but he is the finisher and the perfecter through the Spirit. And so we move from the spirit of palaginesis or regenesis or regeneration to the spirit of sanctification. this morning, and we see it very clearly in 17 through 24. The Spirit has not only remade you, which we learned two weeks ago, but works progressively with you. He changes you from glory to glory. He makes you a new person and ushers you down a new path to a heavenly destination. If you take a look there on the bulletin. The big idea this morning is that God has remade you as a new person with a new path. And this has everything to do with the Holy Spirit. You can see there also that there's two main points, two headings. We'll look at this statement under that we are recreated and that we are redirected. So first we see that God has recreated Christians. Consider with me verse 24. And that you put on the new man, which was created according to God, and true righteousness and holiness. The new man, which was created according to God. I'm gonna nerd out on you for a second, is in the passive voice. Is that really a nerdy thing to say? I don't think so It's in the passive voice, and it really makes a big difference to be able to notice that in verse 24, to be able to see that the Spirit has recreated us. The passive voice, you can see there, it says which was created according to God. It omits the person doing the action, which is why we are told not to write in the passive voice. It's not as colorful. In some s did you know in some societies they often talk in the passive voice? I've heard this Um particularly within an Indian society, not Native American, but Indian society they will speak in a the passive voice They don't want to acknowledge responsibility, particularly in difficult situations. So for example, let's say that there's a car accident. And the policeman comes up to the gentleman with the car that has just hit the pedestrian trying to cross the street. And he says to the person with the car, What happened? The person will reply, The man was hit by the car. There's no actor present. He didn't say in the active voice, I hit the man with the car What you would need to do is to put in the implied actor, and the same thing needs to happen here in this verse. Here in this verse, the same can be said. You can ask the question: who's the implied actor? Who's the one that has created? Who is the one that has made the new man according to God and true righteousness and holiness? Just within that one question, you could give the answer of the whole sermon series, couldn't you? Couldn't you say more remotely that it was the love of the Father that has created? Isn't he the one that got everything moving in the right direction? Couldn't you also say that it was the purchased and personal grace of the Son that is in, in some sense, a bit more removed, but still responsible for the change within the new creation? But certainly you could say the most immediate responsible party for this change, the one to have to create the new creation, is of course the communion of the Holy Spirit. And that's Really, the emphasis that's going on here. You can see the Holy Spirit showing up in verse 30, although I'm not preaching on that verse 30, and do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. We'll talk about the sealing another time. But you can also see that the Spirit is the one, that God, the Spirit is the one doing the recreation. In verses 20 and 21, it's clearly implied there, although the wording is so unfamiliar to us. That it can be difficult and we can get hung up. If you take a look now, please consider with me verses 20 and 21 That there is this new creation, and that I'm arguing that it's the Holy Spirit that does the new creation, and you can see this most clearly in 20 and 21, but you have not so learned Christ. If indeed you have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus. Very strange way to put it, isn't it? You say you learn math or you learn social studies, but you don't usually say I learned Christ. It sounds like a perhaps a hillbilly way of speaking. But he means something um nothing uh mystical or or crazy. In fact, you can understand this very clearly if you were to take a look at the first chapter of Colossians, verses 1 through 8. Will you flip there with me, just so you can have this at your lunch table and be able to talk about this? Together. In Colossians chapter one, one through eight, you can see a chronology here. That the Apostle Paul wants to lay down. You can read through the whole thing later. Actually, I'll just go ahead and read it for you now I'll start at um at verse two. To the saints and faithful brethren in Christ who are in Colosse. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of your love for all the saints. Because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel, which has come to you as it has also in all the world, and is bringing forth fruit, as it is also among you since the day you heard and knew the grace of God and truth. As you also learned from Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf, who also declared to us your love in the Spirit. In Colossians 1:1 through 8, there's a chronology if you were to start with a Paphras and have a very clear person doing something. You see, a Papphorist has ministered to the Colossian church Imagine him showing up in the city with a message. And he's going to stay there for days, and he's going to teach them. In verse 5, you can see that he ministered with the word of the truth of the gospel. Truths about Jesus Christ and about God's kingdom. A path for sowed the seed of the word, and two pieces of fruit appeared. Look at verse 4 for the fruit. We see the fruit of faith within the Colossians, and we see the fruit of love for the Christian community. Faith and love, and if you were to look further, you'd see hope. Faith, hope, and love sprout within this fledgling church? And now the question is, how did they, as a Colossian church, full of Greek idolatry, How did they become new creatures who are able to demonstrate faith and love? And verse 8 gives the answer. It says that the love was in the Spirit And so you can see it's just unfolding in the same way that we have within Ephesians chapter 4. The same thing happened. Paul ministered to them with the seeds of the word, they learned Christ. Do you see how that makes sense now? They learned Christ. They were taught in him through the word of the gospel of the truth. We're familiar with that. We can see a church being planted, people coming to faith, people coming to love, people coming to hope in the inheritance. They were recreated also by the Holy Spirit. They, like us, were given ears to hear and eyes to see. They were given new minds. They were given new wills. They were given new affections. Before they would look at Greek statues of gods and goddesses and they would be attracted. But once the Spirit had filled them, it was no longer attractive. It used to make sense to them, and now it doesn't make sense anymore They have now received and become the habitation or the house of the Spirit of God Himself and have received a new principle of life You know, this reminded me of William Wilberforce. I'm reading his biography now from Eric Metaxis. William Wilberforce grew up with influence from the Methodist Church. Back then they referred to him as the crazy Methodists. But soon he was overcome by worldly life and wealth. If you were to read, it's very interesting. One day, th th this is such a fascinating story, such a difference in culture, he's having a carriage ride with Isaac Milner, and Milner brought his Greek New Testament so they could read it together and discuss the basic tenets of Christianity. Can you imagine? Can you imagine a road trip and someone brings the Greek New Testament? Oh, I don't know. I think Arch tried to do that to me once. They discussed the major teachings of Christ, but there was really no effect upon him in his personal or his political life. In his diary, in these early stages, he says What madness is the course I am pursuing. I believe all the great truths of the Christian religion, but I'm not acting as though I did. Should I die in this state, I must go into a place of misery. And then he says this. Yet may I become religious? He asks. But could I do it? And he says He knows where to look. Has God not promised his Holy Spirit on them that ask him? It's exactly what we're speaking about here. More interestingly, uh I've been quoting Newton a lot, and it's because I'm in this biography, in 1785, William Wilverforce has his great change and is converted. He was recreated according to God and righteousness and holiness after meeting with John Newton to discuss the work of Jesus Christ. And that's what we see here in this first part of the recreation. You can see how the word of truth comes to people and the spirit accompanies it And the Spirit had been present with the person prior to the word even coming to the person, and they're prepared to give themselves over. They have the right affections now. They have the right mind for it. Jesus, through his Spirit, has done all the preparatory work that needed to be done for them to be soil that could receive the seed and for fruit to begin to grow. It's the Holy Spirit that recreates us. And Wilberforce was able to discover that. But it's interesting as he continues in his diary, He doesn't start there, stop there. It's immediate. He immediately moves into the second point of the sermon here, is that there's not only a recreation, but there's a new path. There's a redirection that is given to the life. Listen to this from Wilberforce. The scriptures were plain and could not be gainsayed on this most basic point. All that was his Everything that I owned. Actually, this is Eric Metaxis speaking of William Wilberforce. All that was his, his wealth, his talents, his time was not really William Wilberforce's. It all belonged to God and had been given to him to use for God's purposes and according to God's will. God had blessed him so that he, in turn, might bless others, especially less fortunate than himself. Right upon conversion, William Wilberforce bursts onto the scene doing good things, doing good deeds in the name of Jesus Christ. What's going on there? It's because those who are recreated are immediately redirected. They are redirected in different measure based upon the grace given by Jesus Christ, but they are redirected. There's a funny story, in fact, of William Wilberforce being convicted of the Sabbath and refusing to do particular things on that day, and everyone in society getting upset with them But he did not fold because now he was living for Jesus Christ. He had a new path. And that's what we see here in these next set of verses in 17 through 19 in Ephesians. Recreated Christians are redirected Christians. That's a basic truth of Christianity that does not fail. Paul explains this by contrasting the path of Christ with the path of the world, as you can see in verses 17 through 19. This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk. See the walking theme He's going to take them down a path now, and he's going to show them that there's this progression. The Gentiles are categorically those who stand for a separate culture and are moving down a different path. That is categorically different than the path of the Christian. Notice the sense of progression in the verses. It summarized first As the futility or vanity of their thinking, which oftentimes means idolatry, but it can go beyond that scope, then their thinking is darkened. They have no light. Can you picture that? No light, no, no light at the end of the tunnel toward which to go. They just grope, searching for something to touch, and they lead each other into a ditch. Since God is light, they obviously have no part with him, it says in the verse, being alienated from the life of God. And this is due to the ignorance which is in them, their blindness of will and affection. And look at what has happened here with this progression because of the darkness, because of the blindness, because of the ignorance. The feelings become calloused, it says. You see that there in the verse? Because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart, who being past feeling. Their consciences are seared, and the nerve endings are dulled. The climax of their life story is then presented to us. They give themselves over to every kind of sin, lewdness, and greed. You see the progression, you see the path, it's just getting darker and deeper and more difficult and more ignorant. It's the same progress uh progression actually that you would see in Romans chapter 1 if you wanted to compare the two accounts. They're almost section for section in terms of the progression into a deep, deep kind of sin and blindness. It reminds me of uh uh experience of uh the Pocono Mountains in a Pocono lodge uh with a baby and a wood stove. The parents said, little baby, this is not a good destination for your hands. It'll be painful. It'll hurt. But inside the child, this is what's happening. The smoke. The puff of smoke that comes out of a little circle on the top. It's fascinating. Begins to whet the appetite. And then the embers and the flickering light inside the dark doors. Irresistible. And the smell of potpourri from the kettle on the top, you're all mine. And the baby steps forward, and the parent always intervenes and picks up the baby and moves the child out of danger because the child the parent knows what will happen. But we see within Romans a very profound truth that the worst thing that could ever be given to us is that God would give us exactly what we want. And that is what he does. He gives people over to the blindness of their ignorance. They keep pushing him and pushing him and pushing him and pushing him and saying, I want the wood stove. I want to put my hands on the wood stove. And eventually he says, in an act of judgment, Go ahead. And they move into lewdness and greed. And they're burned. And they're disfigured in their souls. That's the path that we see here. It's the path that we see here that you, Christian, are no longer on. You may not have even realized the kind of destruction that you were moving into, but God as a parent has picked you up from the path of the wood stove and he's moved you on an entirely different path, and he's now redirecting you where you will never be burned. For eternity there will be no torment of flames. Paul's main point is that you are not on the path anymore. So walk worthy of the new path that you're on. You have a new mind. You think that's hot. I'm not going near it. You have a new will and you say, that's hot. I'm going to obey that truth. You have new affections and you say, I don't feel like going near that thing I can see the consequences. Imagine the same child being able to go through that series of having a new mind and will and affections that is in touch with the father's will, the parents' will. He sees the truth of the parents' words and he accepts them. He wants to obey the truth and he loves it also. It's a delight in his mouth. He wants to eat the whole book It's the same thing. With the recreation, there's been a redirection. Not only were the seeds planted, but it's growing up into a harvest of a hundredfold, as Jesus says. That there is a recreation and a redirection, and the direction will most certainly be different. It'll actually be in the opposite direction. God the Spirit has remade and He has directed you. That's the basic truth of the whole sermon. Or the big idea, God has made you a new person and has placed you on a new path. Now let me give you a final analogy that perhaps could be helpful. When a new life is expected, think of that time when a new life is expected in your life Life begins to orbit around the new life that's going to show up. You're either going to uh be giving birth or you're expecting the adoption of a new child, so you immediately begin And working on the nursery, you're babyproofing the house, you're reading all about feeding and nursing and whether you want to be an on-demand napper or a one who plans out or whatever it is. You do, not arguing for either one, don't throw anything at me. You read about developmental stages And when the new life arrives, you nurture that new life. With all of your being, you do. And anything that threatens it, you would destroy, and you'd be right to do so. Tell me that the same thing has not happened with the recreation and the presence of the Holy Spirit. Tell me that there is not a new life within you, a new life that you have adopted into your life. Shouldn't your life be revolving around that and giving nurture to it that it would grow up? Here's the basic question. What I want you to think about yourself right now. What is the destination of your life? Where are you going? Where are you going? Is it the destination of the Gentiles or is it the destination of the Spirit? Very simple. Which path? Our great destination is righteousness and holiness, it says. What that means is that you will be giving your life and love to both God and to man. Here's a quote from C. S. Lewis that I think really captures. And allows us to continue to think about these destinations. What is the destination of your life? It is a serious thing to live in a society of possible gods and goddesses. It means low lowercase, ones moving towards glory, which is what we're talking about. To remember that the dullest and most Uninteresting person you talk to may one day be a creature which, if you saw it now, you would be strongly tempted to worship, or else a horror and a corruption such as you as you now meet, if at all, only in a nightmare. All day long we are in some degree helping each other to one or other of these destinations. Isn't that perceptive? And so let me end with this. Brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ, this I say therefore, and testify in the Lord Jesus Christ. That you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk in the futility of their mind. You must put on the new man which was created according to God and true righteousness and holiness Because God has made you a new person, and he has placed you upon a new path. Let's pray. Father, we think of all the songs that have been written to characterize Your work here. It's getting deep for us. We can see the whole Trinity at work, everything climaxing to bringing your order back to creation, beginning with us. Heaven has come down and glory has filled our souls and given us new direction. Lord, you have given us your spirit, and yet some of us insist upon being on the wrong path. Being confused about our real destination. I pray, Lord, that you would remind us of our destination this day and that we would walk worthy of our calling Work in us, Holy Spirit, for the sake of the Son and for the sake of the Father. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.