No, we didn't make a mistake, Keith. You're good. Thanks. for his faithfulness through all the years. You know in the grand scheme of things, 32 years is a blip on the radar But those long those years seem longer when you start to hear of all of the faithful stories and situations that this church has faced from the beginning. And how God has allowed us to be victorious in Jesus Christ through them all. He has permitted us to remain healthy, and it's not something that we should be taking for granted. We should give thanks. Some of you are new enough where this history will be the first time you've heard of it. Some of you, this is your 32nd time hearing this history. The Severn Run Evangelical Presbyterian Church began as a work of Jesus Christ, and they used the combined efforts of the mission to North America. Some of you know that as MNA And the Committee of the Potomac Presbytery and Saverna Park Evangelical Presbyterian Church. It was originally conceived as an outreach to the Gambrill's Odington Millersville community And and at the time in the nineteen nineties, right there in nineteen ninety actually, it was the fastest growing community in the state of Maryland, this whole Lockchapel situation and area. So this was a strategic locale. A telephone campaign was begun and it was called It's For You. And it was undertaken and successfully completed And slightly, there were slightly under 20,000 calls made to the local community to inquire if there was interest in a new local church Many people responded positively, and some 200 people ultimately came to the first service, which was the 3rd of March, 1991. And um there are actually still some of some of those with us today. It's it's fewer every year, um unfortunately. Do we have anybody here who was here on the opening service? Yeah, go ahead and stand up if you were here on the opening service, please. Yeah, where and and uh where is uh where's Peggy? Where'd Peggy go? Every year I have to drag her into the sanctuary. Come on in. Yeah, so thank you for your faithfulness. Best looking lot in the crowd. Very good. Thank you all. Severn Run started out as a mission church in the PCA, but it became a full-fledged church on their second anniversary, which was March 7, 1993. Arch van Devender was called as the first official pastor, and he was ordained on the fourth anniversary of the church, March 5, 1995. After many years in temporary locations, God gave us our current home in February of 2000. It was the result of much labor and sacrifice on the part of the congregation. and many friends from our sister churches in the area. In March of 2016, I was called as the new pastor. Now, whether it's Arch or myself or all of the different elders or deacons or many different congregation members, throughout the years, this church has earnestly endeavored To serve the Lord by being a place where people can find sacred rest. It is not a place where people find laziness It is a place where people find sacred rest under the branches of Jesus Christ. Our motto from the beginning has been: rest yourselves under the tree. And it refers to the hospitality offered to our Lord by his servant Abraham in Genesis 18. By exhibiting love to strangers, Abraham actually ministered to the person of his Savior. And in the same way, Severn Run understands itself as being a community of believers. Where weary folks who are tired of traveling in a disordered world can be refreshed through the caring, love, and order shown by God's people. Within this vision there are many and varied ministries through which the Lord reaches out his hands to those with whom we come into contact. And worship of our sovereign God is understood as the deepest need for any person. And as such, is the cornerstone of the church's hope for bearing fruit to the kingdom of Christ. The SREPC of today holds hands with the past, ordering all of life to the glory of Christ, especially in Andorrado County. We have held hands with them even in the music selection today. The songs you've already sung sung here since the 90s. We look back with grateful astonishment to what God has done through the history of this church. And we have a resolve to carry God's glory forward. For God has shown Himself faithful to us in all things. Sustaining us when we are weak, encouraging us when we are timid, and providing for us when we are needy. He and he alone is the reason for our existence, And it is to him that we look for all that we need in the coming years of our service. To him and to him alone be all glory and honor and praise now and forever, world without end. Amen. Amen. I like to ask Elder, ruling Elder Joe Maccus to please come up and lead us in a prayer of thanks to God. Let us pray. Oh Father Our God, we thank you, Lord, as you are faithful to your promises. We remember when you revealed your great name to your servant Moses. But you revealed yourself as the Lord, the Lord, a God who is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness Keeping steadfast love for his people, forgiving sin, transgression, and iniquity, but who by no means will clear the guilty Father, I thank you for lighting the lamp that is Severn Run Evangelical Presbyterian Church some 32 years ago. We know you are the one, your son is the one who walks in the midst of your churches, and your Holy Spirit gives them light. I thank you, Father, for your spirit infusing Your people some 30 years ago to start a church and light a fire in this community. Father, we are thankful that you have continued to Grow that flame through ups and downs by your spirit. Father, it is only by your spirit that we can proclaim any victory, and it is by your spirit that I ask. That we, as a church, as a people that is called into the fellowship of your son, continue to grow. As we build each other up in love, continue to grow by your Spirit, help us, Father. Give us the faith, give us the hope, give us the love that you have Taken us out of this world and brought us into the kingdom of your Son. Father, I pray that your spirit will continue to Glorify your Son through this body of Christ, through this household of faith, this family of God that you have called us. To be part of your glorious fellowship. May your spirit grow this church. May the spirit of Jesus Christ continue to light the fire that is your church at Severn Run, to glorify your Son. In his precious name we pray this. Amen. It was um grieving for me to not see our sister Pat Hayes stand. She has been here from the beginning, but she is now with the Lord. So she is not grieved at all. But we miss her, and I hope that you're able to come out tomorrow to her service here at the church. And And um and praise our God for the eternal life that He has given to her. Amen. Let's go ahead and stand now for our scripture reading and for the preaching of His Word. We're opening our scriptures to Ruth chapter four. Now Boaz went up to the gate and sat down there. And behold, the close relative of whom Boaz had spoken came by. So Boaz said, Come aside, friend, sit down here So he came aside and sat down, and he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, Sit down here. So they sat down. Then he said to the close relative Naomi, who has come back from the country of Moab, sold the piece of land which belonged to our brother Elimelech, and I thought to inform you, saying, Buy it back in the presence of the inhabitants and the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, redeem it. But if you will not redeem it, then tell me that I may know, for there is no one but you to redeem it, and I am next after you. And he said, I will redeem it Then Boaz said, On the day you buy the field from the hand of Naomi, you must also buy it from Ruth the Moabitus, the wife of the dead, to perpetuate the name of the dead through her his inheritance. And the close relative said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I re ruin my own inheritance. You redeem my right of redemption for yourself, for I cannot redeem it. Now, this was the custom in former times in Israel concerning redeeming and exchanging to confirm anything. One man took off his sandal and gave it to the other, and this was a confirmation in Israel. Therefore the close relatives said to Boaz, Buy it for yourself. So he took off his sandal, and Boaz said to the elders and all the people You are witnesses this day that I have bought all that was Elimelex and all that was Kilians and Malons from the hand of Naomi Moreover, Ruth the Moabitis, the widow of Melon, I have acquired as my wife to perpetuate the name of the dead through his inheritance, that the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brethren and from his position at the gate You are witnesses to this day. And all the people who were at the gate and the elders said, We are witnesses. The Lord make the woman who is coming to your house like Rachel and Leah the two who built the house of Israel, and may you prosper in Ephraithah, and be famous in Bethlehem. May your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, because of the offspring which the Lord will give you from this young woman. So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife, and when he went into her, the Lord gave her conception, and she bore a son. Then the women said to Naomi, Blessed be the Lord who has not left you this day without a close relative And may his name be famous in Israel, and may he be to you are a restorer of life and a nourisher of your old age For your daughter-in-law who loves you, who is better than better to you than seven sons, has borne him. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Lord God, we thank you for this beautiful part of your total canon of scriptures, for this romantic comedy, coming full circle, and everything being pleasant. We ask you, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would teach us today. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, last week we put a lot of emphasis because of the emphasis of the passage on men, especially. We raise the question, men, are those around you, are there some around you who are struggling? And what responsibility do you have for their well-being? I encourage you also to not let those who may be disordered around you take your responsibility away from you. Remember what God has said. Who around you is exposed to the harsh realities of life? Whether you're a man or a woman, what blanket or wing has God given you to cover those around you? Christian, have you not been covered by Christ? Did he not cover you so that you may have strength to cover each other? Those were some of the questions that we faced last week, and we faced those questions because of our main doctrine, which was this: when you see someone exposed to the harsh elements of the world, you cover them so that they can flourish. That is what it means to be a loyal follower of Christ, belonging to his body. While we've moved into the last chapter of Ruth, we still have one more sermon to go, and it will be a genealogy which leads us to the real point of the whole thing, leading us right into Christ. But I want to take a look at chapter 4 by way of some observations, and then we'll see how useful Christ has made this for us. So please notice a few things with me. Boaz starts in verses one through eight in assembling a court. Now that doesn't sound very romantic, but it is lovely. We left the last scene, if you remember, with Boaz promising to take Ruth's proposal seriously, and this is him doing so. Here in this scene, we can see that Boaz goes right to work. There's all these action verbs surrounding his name where he's taking the initiative and really fulfilling his oath and his vow, like he said that he would He went into a town and he initiated a solution. Now here's the interesting thing too that we see is that it's not just the continuation of Boaz's loyalty to Ruth and Naomi. There's also the loyalty of God underlying everything. You notice that he goes into the town, he knows what he has to get done, and then The person that he needs to talk to, who is the next kinsman, redeemer, just Redeemer, just happens to be walking by And there's God's providence for you again to just make sure you know he's still there, he's doing things, he's the reason why Boaz is successful. So God brings the nearer kinsman redeemer along, and Boaz called him into a city court wherein he had gathered elders in order to be in session. And what you're actually looking at are like court transcripts. Boaz laid out the legal case so that everyone knew what actions needed to happen. He had the whole thing in line. So basically, the case is this. The law clearly states that a near relative should buy the land and support the family in the event of the death of a death. And he goes and therefore goes to the first kinsman redeemer who is obligated to do that kind of redemption. And he says to him, Would you like to fulfill that obligation? Or may I, who is next in line, may I fulfill it? Now, after some deliberation, the relative decides that it is not in his family's best interest to inherit a limelex property and family. There was a little suspenseful moment there where we thought Ruth was going to end up with the wrong guy, but it came around. It came around. And he ended up saying this will not be good for my family or me and my family So the case resolves in Boaz redeeming Elimelech's land and taking on the responsibilities of Naomi and marrying Ruth. He's really concerned when you see Boaz describe the case. He's concerned with maintaining that law of making sure that a family name continues and there's nothing that is snuffed out So we see here in these legal transcripts and proceedings, it is the first legal matter to receive. He is the so-and-so, or the friend. The first legal matter is to resolve that give him the opportunity to redeem the land and the family. He says no. And we see Boaz fulfilling here Deuteronomy chapter 25, if you ever want to take a look at that. So that's the first thing we'll notice is just that court transcript and the result. Here's the second thing, and this is in verses 9 through 12, and these are various responses. from the whole community to Boaz and how he conducts himself, w especially with reference to Naomi and Ruth. And Olimelech, really. They use an old custom where the sandal is given to another as a pledge or a title or a confirmation of the contract or deal. And all the it the elders are there as witnesses to watch this. So Boaz responds, you can see he says, Moreover, Ruth the Moabitis, the widow of Malon, I have acquired as my wife to perpetuate the name of the dead through his inheritance, that the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brethren and from his position at the gate. You are my witnesses this day. Boaz is not here just trying to gain a noble wife. Now that's a great thing. We're told in Scripture that a noble wife is precious, more precious than diamonds and rubies. But you see here that Boaz is expanding it. He is seeking, he is a man who blesses the entire community. That's what's going on here, which is why everyone is on his side. They see him as a fruitful tree in the garden, feeding many families, not just himself. So the people and the elders end up responding They say, we are witnesses. The Lord make the woman who is coming to your house like Rachel and Leah, the two who built the house of Israel. And may you prosper in Ephratha and be famous in Bethlehem. May your house be like the house of Perez, who Tamar bore to Judah, because of the offspring which the Lord will give you from this young woman. And they end up having offspring and they praise her name, Ruth. The people shower Boaz and Ruth with blessing because they are a picture of healthy followers of Yahweh. They pray that their goals would be completed in bringing blessing to Israel. This is not just an individual private marriage that is the blessing. That is a blessing. It is much bigger. You actually saw in that blessing there a hint about what's going on really in the book, and you'll see this next week, that somehow Through all of this maneuvering under God's sovereignty, all of Israel will be blessed. And we can actually we can actually go out even further once we realize that the true Israel includes Certain Gentiles, you could start to say the whole world will be blessed at the arrival of the Davidic Messiah through this family line. Now, remember that our main question, we've had a couple questions, but one of our main ones is: how do we get through the dark days? of the judges. There's a number of answers to that that we've given. But I want to raise another question to point out something here for this particular chapter, chapter 4. We still have that question sitting in the air. How do we get through the dark days of the judges? And for the answer to that question this week, consider this question. What is the primary means that Boaz uses To bless people in this passage. It is quite surprising to modern ears. What is the primary means That Boaz uses. Lately, we've been talking in the metaphorical imagery of a wing. What is the wing that is present here in this passage? This is surprising to the evangelical church, but here we witness God and His sovereignty establishing the health of His people through providential control and His law. used wisely by a man after his own heart. Now that is quite the doctrine this morning, but I think we can reduce it down to something you could I don't like bumper stickers. I guess some of them are funny. But the basic message is the law is a wing The law is meant to be a wing, and you could actually expand it a little bit and make it more personal, and you could say, loyal followers of Jesus Christ use the law to bring life. That's all over this passage. Loyal followers of Christ use the law to bring life. Now What I'd like to do is unfold that, and just for the rest of the time together, we're going to look at the law. And I want to do so with a minor history and some major problems. And then I've got uh some questions for you all. Loyal followers of Christ use the law to bring life. Can you believe it? It's true, the law is a wing. So let's first look at a minor history of the law. Mark has really set us up for success here because he already mentioned the three uses of the law. Reformed Protestants like ourselves have traditionally taught that the law has three main uses God gives us his law, number one, to show us that we have not kept his law. And we are in deep need of his mercy through Jesus Christ. All those who don't love God with all their heart, mind, and soul are deserving of death and need mercy. You have not loved God with all your heart, soul, and mind. And you therefore are deserving of death, and you need the mercy of Jesus Christ. Well, that's the first use, and that's a cute little puritanical syllogism for you. Now the second use that God has for his law is that he gives us his law for the government under the rule of Christ And with the power of the sword to keep destruction and sin from overflowing. Throughout the ages, if you were to picture like a coffee cup, The world likes to just keep pouring more sin into the world, and before it spills over and destroys everything, God has given a sword to some institutions in order to beat it back down at a level that we can handle until he returns. We seem to be at a little bit of a high right now, so I'm looking forward to Jesus Christ interrupting all of the sin. We need some restraint. That's the second use. That's the restraints of sin. Then the third use is that God gives us his law to show us his intended order for his creation, as is especially true for how we are to conduct ourselves according to our natures. as human beings. Due to our blindness of heart and our short circuit circuited conscience, we are often blind to what is good Even when we have the indwelling Holy Spirit. Anyone ever seen a Christian indwelled by the Holy Spirit get the law wrong? Yes. How about within the last five minutes? Probably so. Right. So God gives us his word to show us the moral order and the good that he intends for his creatures. We need to know what pleases the heart of our God. And he gives that to us in his words. When we pursue that order, we have life in accordance with who he has made us to be, actually. So there's a connection between what he has said and the world he has made. That's a very important thing, hopefully we can develop in the future. So that's a brief history. Those are the three uses of the law. You probably knew all of that. Now, there are some major problems that have developed. And that's the second main point here. There are some ditches into which Christians can fall. with regard to those three uses, and it's largely the neglect of one of the uses. So what I want to do is I just want to share a couple ditches. Just imagine that we were walking along a path together and I knew the path And I knew where I had fallen into all the ditches. And when I take you down the path, I'm going to say, up here on the left, it's a little tricky. Don't fall into this ditch. That's essentially what this section is doing here. So, ditch number one: Christians oftentimes neglect the second use of the law, which has to do with our government. Sometimes we as Christians can forget or we can rebel against Christ's authorization of secular government. I want you to remember, when I say the word secular, I mean temporary. That's what the third definition is in the Oxford English Dictionary. And in the history of Protestantism, this is what we mean by the word. We mean a temporal kingdom or a temporary kingdom that Christ has installed temporarily For this time until he returns in order to restrain sin when he will wipe sin off the face of the earth Or until he wipes sin off the face of the face of the earth. So the United States government is just one government, but that's ours, so let's talk about it. The United States government is a temporary institution which keeps Christ, or which through I'm sorry, is a temporary institution which Christ uses to keep a relatively just society. It's not a perfect society. It is a relatively just society. And insofar as the government is making those kinds of decisions, Then we pray for the government, we support the government, we go along with the things that they've said, because they are servants or ministers of God Himself. Romans 13 When the government acts outside of its God-given authority, which it sometimes does, then the church must exercise patience and wisdom largely. That is what the church has done throughout history. Every once in a while there must be a kind of civil disobedience, but there's certain criteria that have to be met for that, and we can talk about it another time. You fall into a ditch as a Christian or follower of Jesus Christ when you fail to see that the temporary government of the United States is one arm of Christ's rule. It is a grace of Christ restraining sin in our country. That's what it's supposed to be. Now the name of that ditch can happen in two names actually. There's two ways to fall into this ditch. And I'm gonna l land on you so I'm gonna give you a kind of a fancy name here, but whatever. The name of the first ditch where you can that this is called is antinomianism. And that just means no law. Some folks can't see a place for any kind of government. The other one is Roman Catholicism. That's the other ditch. Now we're not antinomians as Reformed Protestants, and we're not Roman Catholics as Reformed Protestants. We actually You sometimes we forget as as uh reformers we we were working against two groups, not just the Roman Catholics, but also radical Anabaptists who were anti-Nomian Antinomians see no place for government. Roman Catholics think that the Pope should rule over the secular government. Which then puts the sword in the Pope's hand, and that's not a good hand to have the sword in. And that's what the reformers were fighting against. As Reformed Protestants, we believe that Christ rules over the government and the church, and those two institutions are his two arms, which he rules the world with. One of the arms is temporary, that's the state. The other is leading everyone that Christ calls to eternal life and will remain forever, and that is the church. So that's the first ditch. That one is becoming uh an option more and more in these days, and uh honestly is a difficult situation. The government does not make it easy on us because they violate obvious um ordinances that God has given to us that are just as just kind of plain as day in terms of the creation. It makes people distrust the government, which is a real tragedy. Imagine distrusting an arm that is meant to bless you. It's a real tragedy A real tragedy. And we need to pray for those who are in government that they would repent and serve Christ That's the first ditch. The second ditch is actually more of a problem, or more often of a problem, and it's this As Christians, we tend to over-emphasize the first use of the law. We can act like the only use of God's law is to show us that we are guilty. That we are incapable, and that we're in need of mercy. When you overuse that use of the law, you end up with atrophied Christians who do not know how to act They would not know how to act if they served in government because they would not have the wisdom to know the other use of the law, especially the third, which is how to rule as God would rule, how to have dominion. And that is a major problem even to this day, but I do see it becoming better. It is not as much of a problem in other church communities, but it tends to be so in broad evangelicalism. It is valuable to know that we are guilty. It is valuable to know what your capacity is and is not. You should know what you are able to do. It is valuable to know that you are in need of mercy, but to say that that is the only use that God gives us His law is devastating to the Christian life It makes you impotent to rule. Now I see this for example. I'll bring this up because I still hear this to the day. And I was trained actually in a wrong reading of the Sermon on the Mount, and I thank God that I was introduced to different models. Take certain readings on the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus over and over again says what in that sermon? I tell you the truth. You have sir heard that it was said, you shall not murder But I tell you, don't even be angry with your brother. And he does that over and over, right? In the same section that we have in our bulletin where he criticizes them for being lawless Those who overemphasize the first use of the law say that Jesus is only doing one thing. That Jesus is making sure that we all know that we are guilty. You used to think that you weren't guilty of the sixth command because you never murdered anybody. Well, let me tell you something. If you've ever even been angry with somebody, you're guilty of the sixth command, therefore, you need a redeemer. That's the only way that you are allowed to look at that teaching. Now, here's what I say. That's one of the ways we can look at that teaching. Jesus Christ is doing multiple things depending on to whom he is speaking with. It is, of course, true, but it is not the whole truth. Actually, isn't it funny at the end of the Sermon on the Mount that they are criticized for being lawless? If you take a look at that whole context of what Jesus is doing, Jesus' main emphasis is to show that the teachers during his day have missed the point of the law. They use the law to give them personal fame. Remember the time in the Sermon on the Mount when Jesus says You all fast and you do so in public, so you look extra spiritual. You get a reward with men and women that are around you, but no reward with my Father who is in heaven. He's showing them That they're misusing the law to gain personal fame. Or they're misusing the law to protect abusive people because those abusive people have money who can line the leaders' pockets So that they can afford more things for their family. And Jesus comes and he flips the tables and he says, You're all, as teachers, incompetent for how my law was meant to be used. And here's the primary principle Especially in his Sabbath controversies, my law has always been intended to bring life to people, and you are crushing them with your application of it, and all you do is bring death Now you can receive liberty by recognizing that you're guilty and you need the mercy of God, and you can receive liberty by knowing what God's good will is As you seek to conduct yourself in this world and raise up your family and be a good neighbor. And that's what Jesus was coming to say. Those leaders at that time, the seminary professors during that time, had it all wrong. They probably went to Yale. Actually there's some good scholars at Yale. You shall not is something that we often hear within the commandments. And that can be used as an argument against what we're saying here But if you understand the law, even when you read all of the do not or you shall not in the Ten Commandments, if you read it correctly, you will find that the major purpose of it, even though put in the negative, is a positive The purpose of the law is to point people to what is good and what brings life. We read you shall not, and it sounds like we're just trying to get people to not have any fun or do anything. But even in our confession, our Reformed Protestant confession, it points out that the purpose of the law is first and foremost positive. The sixth commandment, for example, you shall not kill. This is some of the things that are listed. These are some of the things that are listed in the larger catechism. Loyal follower of Jesus Christ. You are meant to preserve the life of yourself and the people that are around you. That's what it means to not kill. Oh, loyal follower of Jesus Christ, you are meant to justly defend others against violence. You should exercise a cheerful spirit and have joy. That is what it means to not murder. You should have charitable thoughts first and foremost about other people unless they give you a reason to show you that's just not going to work. That model's not going to work. That's what it means to not murder. You should forgive others when they injure you. That's what it means not to murder. You should comfort the distress. You should protect and defend the innocent. That's the fulfillment of the law of the sixth command. Even our forefathers have said that. Our Protestant, I'm just reading the exposition of the law at this point from the larger catechism. The first question is, what is your duty or do? Or what is justice? What is the good that we are to accomplish under this law? And those are some examples. The law is always meant to bring life, but oftentimes we fall into one ditch or another. The one ditch, the first ditch that I mentioned is the ditch of failing to see the temporary government of the United States as a gracious arm of Jesus Christ Himself. And the second ditch is that we neglect the other uses of the law by over-emphasizing the first use, thinking that the law is only purpose to make me feel bad about myself. And I'm telling you here today that that's not true. And it's unhealthy for you to think of it like that. Now, I would love to talk about the secular government more later. We have a rich heritage of instruction there. But for now, let me just ask you the question. How is the law functioning in your life? When we go into a time of confession here at Severn Run, do you secretly think in your mind, oh great, the elder gets to go up there and hit me with a moral baseball bat in the back of the head so I can feel terrible about myself again. If so, we're probably both doing something wrong. Because there are more purposes to the law than just making you aware of your guilt and your need of Christ. That is a very important purpose, but there's other purposes. How does the law function in your life as a Christian? We have got to get better at this. It was uh probably a couple months ago. Uh we we go over as kind of like a s um st what's it called? A stay-home case uh vacation or whatever. Vacation, thank you Staycation. We try to head on over to my dad's. He lives in Easton on a nice little piece of property where we can have a lot of fun, go fishing, and all that kind of stuff. We came in from the day's adventures, and we were getting ready to eat some dinner, and one of the children did something. And so I brought the law to them and I corrected them. And they were very sad about what I had done. Dinner started to happen. I Found myself in God's providence alone with my father, eating dinner together. And as he ate, he put the fork down, and he looked up at me and he said, You just misuse the law and you make me sad. And I had uh Couple seconds to think there. And I said I did. I didn't say that to him because I was embarrassed and I was prideful. I'll have to let him know. Unless he's watching this, which he's not. But I had to agree with him. Now, the way that he responded to my misuse of the law, do you think that was reflective of how God thinks of our misuse of the law? Could we get even close by looking at the scriptures? Could we ever find something that resembles God being sad at the misuse of the law? Wouldn't it be really close to say when we misuse his law and fall into various ditches that we grieve his Holy Spirit? This is serious business. Do you use God's goodwill to destroy the people around you? Or are you bringing God's good will to build them up and give them life? Do you use God's goodwill only to crush people around you with guilt? Or do you show them a new way that God has revealed? Do you use the law to justify your unbridled anger and rage and critical spirit? Because after all, you're right. Are you so unpracticed in the use of the law that you are more dangerous than helpful And what are you going to do about that? Do you want to remain clumsy and untrained with the Word of God for the rest of your life? You know what that looks like? Think of the the law of God as a tool in a toolbox. Do you know what it what it's like when I find out Back in the day when I would build houses and I found out a new guy was coming on and he wanted to use the new Matic nail gun and he'd never used that tool before That's dangerous. He's going to shoot himself or somebody else. Is that the way you are with God's word? Dangerous Judge yourself by your fruits. This is all for your good. Look around. When you instruct people in the will of God Do they look like a parched plant that just received rain from you and all their leaves which were withering are starting to go out again? Have you ever seen a plant do that? Where it was withering, and then you gave it some water and you could see it kind of stand up strong? Is that what people are like when you instruct them in God's will? Or are you just another hot wind causing them to finally break? These are serious questions that we have to ask as Christians if you're going to take God and his chapter 4 of Ruth seriously. May we, as loyal followers of Christ, avoid all the ditches, using all three uses of the law to bring life. May God receive glory as the world watches onto the church as we use his law as a wing. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Lord Christ, we are still on that path of seeking repentance that you have brought to our mind when there was a kind of global pandemic explosion. We are still looking at the ways in which we had strayed from you to make our current time resemble the dark days of the judges. And you are showing us the way out. It involves your loyalty to us. It involves our loyalty to each other. And Lord, it involves our loyalty to each other in the application of your word to each other's lives. We pray, God, that your name would be glorious again across the face of the earth, and that it would one means that you would use is the wisdom of your people as they understand your moral will. As they understand the very order that you intend for your creation. I ask, Lord, that you would pour out your spirit, that we would grieve your spirit no more. I ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and prepare ourselves for the supper. And I ask the elders to please prepare the table. We're going to sing together. Jesus, my great high priest. Exhaust life rain, I freaked with one time My guilty conscience seeks those sacrifice It wants it once much love, and now it please before Do this dear shorty spread with a life with life off. He answers and profit broken lost in all my soul I freedom set my short team for I have ears for my instance on eye. Love her sears and place it under Oh shape, station is for Should all the hosts of death and powers of hell unknown For their most dreadful forms of rage and mission. I shall be saved, for Christ is placed of printer and cordial. You may be seated. Let us give thanks for this table. Oh God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for the mercy that you have sent to us in the person of Christ. O Lord, we thank you that you have executed your decree of redemption. We thank you, Christ, for not leaving us as orphans, but ministering to us by the means, your gracious means that you have given to us. You have done so with your word. You are doing so now with your sacraments. The Lord's Supper. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that we would not be blinded to the significance of these signs. Help us to commune with you by way of your spirit, and may you show us all the benefits of being members of the covenant of grace. We ask these things in your name. Amen. This is the table of the Lord Jesus Christ, who sets it for the health of his church, that we would remember him each Lord's day. And we are thankful. If you are not a loyal follower of Jesus Christ, this table is not for you. In fact, we receive a warning in 1 Corinthians 11 concerning the carefulness by which we should approach this table. Therefore, whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this reason many are weak and sick among you, and many die So if you are not a follower of Christ as the elements are distributed, please let them go by. I'd encourage you to cry out to God for mercy. If you do not receive mercy, then instead of Christ's body broken for you, your own body will be broken, and you shall receive his wrath. For your continual rebellion against Him and His Messiah. But it need not be that way. Today is still the day of salvation. Call upon Him for mercy and a redeemer. For those of you who are the followers of Jesus Christ, behold your Christ here in the bread and the wine and the grape juice. Jesus Christ is born or was born without sin, and he remains. Innocence, his whole life, never violating one command in thought or word or deed. He loves God with all his heart, with all his soul, and with all his mind. I ask you, therefore, why is he being punished as a sinful criminal? The great mystery of the cosmos is that Jesus Christ does not die for his own transgressions, but yours. Those who call on him for salvation, who are given the Holy Spirit, who are made his own. Look upon your Christ in the bread and in the wine, and see the one who has taken away your sins. But I encourage you also to see The one who has not just cleansed you from your sin by way of his justifying grace, but one who still is working with you today to sanctify you. That you would be made perfectly in his image, doing all that he commands in perfect wisdom. What a glorious present and future you have as the called ones. And we get to remember all this when we take the bread and the wine. Let's give thanks and then we'll have the distribution. Oh Lord Christ, all around us we see that you care for us. Whether it is the right arm of the temporary government or the left arm of the church Oh Lord, how many other ways do you demonstrate your power? How many other arms are there where you are exercising your authority for the good Even of those who hate you. For you send your reign on the righteous and the unrighteous. But here, Lord, this is a table for those whom you have made right with you And you have extended us your hand of fellowship. We are like a branch connected to you, the vine. And O Lord, may we be reflective of you, and may our witness be a great glory to who you are. Pray, Lord, that through these signs and what they signify, your people would be encouraged, recognizing the grace that has been given to them. Both in their justification, but also their sanctification unto glory. Ask these things in your name. Amen. We're going to begin with the bread. The smaller dish is gluten-free. We're going to take the bread together as a family after the words of institution. Thank you, brothers. So then we'll get it. What a beautiful sight to see Christ nurturing us through the use of bread as a sign to show all of the light that he pours out on us. In the fulfillment of the law, teaching us the law, giving us the law, He has not left us blind walking into ditches. He has made us the righteous, who are the light of the world. For I receive from the Lord that which I also deliver to you. That the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, he took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it. And he said, Take, eat. This is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Let us take and eat. Oh Lord Jesus Christ. whether it is because you are our great high priest, or whether it is because you are our awesome ruling king. Or whether it is because you are our wise beyond all wisdom prophets, you feed us And you give us life in everything that you do, even life eternal. And we are here to remember you. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ. Your due from us is the praise of your name and the devotion of our lives to you and your way. O Lord Christ, we ask that you continue to pour out your spirit and give us the knowledge to know your will and even to obey it. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. We'll also distribute now the cup. The clear glasses on the outer rim or circles are wine. The colored glasses in the center are grape juice. And we'll take this together as a family after the words of institution also. Okay. The same air we also He also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Let us take and drink Oh Lord God, part of the good news, Lord Jesus Christ, of your return is that you will set Justice perfectly in place. I pray that you would make us a group of people that could recognize justice when it happens. And therefore, Lord, we ask that you would give us a wisdom that knows you as our great high priest, knows us as our king, as your king. I'm sorry, as our king, and we know you as our prophet. We ask for this full orb you. In your name. Amen. Amen. We're going to stand and we're going to sing a song that has been here from the founding of this church. So let's stand and sing together. So I heard the glory of the came from glory. I made the fly on Calgary to the same less fight me I first for me. There's an I read all my sins and one love victories. Oh victory, I think all the glory He saw me and for me with his wheeling blood. He loves the air to him And for the law is to win, he comes in to victory. Taking God and great God I burn God is I was blessed to be feeling how we make a way to walk again and possibly to the sea and never mind. Jesus, I feel unrolled and spirit, and somehow Jesus came and brought to me the victory for victory. In Jesus finding more forever. He's hearty and hearty with his reasoning God. He comes here, and not He comes me to the three before. I heard about Venture here will be in glory, and heard of the principle be on the crystal sea. We are taking everyone story. And complete they all think of it to me. Oh victory is Jesus my favor forever. He got me and got me with his reading God. People say Amen. Please join us for some cake and some punch afterwards. Enjoy each other and let's continue celebrating God's faithfulness. Now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God the Father and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen. Amen.