Twenty seven twenty-two. Though you grind a fool in a mortar with a pestle Along with crushed grain, yet his foolishness will not depart from him. Let us pray. Father, I pray that you would accompany the preached word this evening, that you would do your great work upon our naturally foolish hearts. Pray that instead you would make us wise in the Spirit. I pray that your congregation would not just be hearers of your word, but doers. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated While traveling with my family, we play games on the road. Do you and your families have road games? I've seen magnetic chessboards and magnetic checkerboards and um uh license plate games and whatever the games are. Well there there might be one that our family does that I'm not sure if you do, and it's called Animal Eyes. Just give me a minute to explain. Animal eyes means that as you're driving along the road, we tried to encourage our kids from when they were younger to uh not always have their nose in uh l uh whatever they're working on, but also looking out the windows of the car to see the beautiful landscapes that were passing and especially the animals. And if you could spot an animal, then you were considered to have animal or nature eyes, as we actually What we called it nature eyes. You have the ability to look out even while driving at 60 miles per hour or 70 miles per hour and detecting the patterns in the forest and in the wildlife and seeing an animal. Now this becomes even more difficult if we had to drive, for example, to Florida. By the time we get to Florida, it's starting to get dark But right when it's getting darker, when the most interesting animals come out, and you could really win nature eyes if you saw a deer, for example. Or if you saw an armadilla, usually I only see them dead. Or if you see, and this is the great treat for nature eyes, if you see a group of wild pigs. Most of the time, not everybody has nature eyes for that. Only some of us have uh a real keen eyesight and can pick up on those patterns. Well I tell you all of this, this idea of being able to pick up on these patterns, because that's what we're doing here with Solomon and with the Holy Spirit within Proverbs is not exactly seeking to give us nature eyes, but they but it but they the Spirit is seeking to give you eyes that is able to pick up on very important patterns that are a part of life. Now think about this, for example, in like the animal world. God has given instincts to example, for example, to chickens. And they are able to pick up on particular patterns in their environment in order to be able to survive. What would happen to a chicken if they didn't have nature eyes? What if they couldn't see a fox hiding in the brush? What if they were not able to detect a hawk perching in a tree? They wouldn't make it. In the same way, Solomon and the Holy Spirit gives you the Proverbs so that you could develop the right perception and focal points and know what to pay attention to in your life. seeing the right patterns so that you can walk on a path of godly success. Now, what do you think the pattern is in front of us this evening? The pattern in front of you this morning that the Holy Spirit wants you to see is the pattern of the fool. The pattern of the fool. And he's not interested in just giving you information about the fool. He wants you to see the fool and foolishness so that you know how to live better in his world for his glory. So let's go ahead and take a look at the passage together. You can see it's just a one-liner there, Proverbs 27 verse 22 Though you grind a fool in a mortar with a pestle, along with crushed grain, yet his foolishness will not depart from him. Solomon had dealt with enough fools and enough cooking or the preparation of food with a mortise and a pestle that he saw a pattern in the one and a pattern in the other, and he brought the two together so that even if you were a child, you could begin to understand what a fool looks like and how they operate in this world. There's a recognizable vocabulary. Do you see it all there? Imagine that some of these part these items are in your kitchen. Even if they're still in just a box and you thought it was cool because you wanted to get back to like a crafty way of cooking. and never use them. You still recognize the vocabulary here in our verse, grinding. It's not a grinding like this, but it's a grinding like this. Right? The mortar and the pestle and the grain. I wonder if some of you make your own flour. I wonder if you've done that before. Then you have the picture in front of front of you And overall, in general, we have experience with these this vocabulary just in the sense of food preparation. It's still used today when I did research on how to create great barbecue They said one of the keys is that you grind your own spices so that they're fresh. And they had a picture of a mortal and mortar and pestle, and you're supposed to grind these spices, releasing the flavors so that you can have a delicious meal and be the envy of all your friends with your barbecue. Well, in contrast to that, you notice that in that mortar and pestle there was a uh a grain of barley that was would release itself to be usable for bread. Spices release their smell and their taste. But that's not the case with the fool. It's like having a hardened pebble inside there, and no matter how much you grind, it just stays the same. It never transforms, it never gives itself. That people could enjoy a good meal. He doesn't respond to pressure. It could be life circumstances, it could be discipline, it could be the rod that we hear about in Proverbs. The fool goes through all of the storms of life and comes out the same It could be discipline. We have nicknames in the book of Proverbs for someone who's like this, and we have nicknames in our own culture for someone who's like this. We'd see someone like this and we'd say, yeah, they're pretty hard-headed If we read the scriptures we'd say we'd find that these people would sometimes be called stiff-necked. And at other times in a very serious way, we would hear that their heart their hearts themselves are made of stone. It's all the same kind of person And here we have the Holy Spirit giving us these likenesses and these patterns that we could understand one by the other. You really could summarize the lesson that he's trying to teach us here by saying: no matter what hardships and trials God gives to the fool, they never transform. They never learn the lesson. They remain obstinate and unteachable. You could even put it this way, you cannot separate fools from their foolishness. In the same way that you could separate the husk or the outer crispy edges of a peppercorn and the inner delight. Even though you grind them like grain with a mortar and pestle, they do not change. Now, can you begin to see why this would be an important lesson for you to hear? Why this would be meaningful? I imagine if I were puritanical enough, I could say, and now I present to you 66 points of application. But I'm not going to do that, though there's just so many applications here from this proverb I do want to bring out a few meaningful ways that we should be taking this proverb. And here's the first meaningful way that you should use what you're learning about the fool. This is important. Understanding this picture of the fool and what they're like is important first because we really need to keep an eye on our own hearts to make sure that we're not becoming foolish. This is a lesson that's taught throughout the New Testament, and I'll just give you a couple different examples. I wonder if you've already made the connection in your own minds. With the passage here in Proverbs 27, 22 and Hebrews 12. Hebrews 12, 7 through 11. If you endure chastening, I want you to picture this right here. This is all I want you to do. Picture this Okay? And now listen to the passage that I read to you. This is a mortar and a pestle. You know what I'm doing, right? Everybody's with me? Okay. Some of you looked at it like he's starting a motorcycle? I don't know what he's saying. Now listen to Hebrews 12, 7 through 11, and see if you can see the pattern. If you endure chastening, God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom a father does not chasten? But if you were without chastening, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons. Furthermore We have had human fathers who corrected us and we paid them respect. Shall we not much more readily be in subjection to the Father of spirits and live? For they indeed for a few days chastened us as they seemed best as seemed best to them, but he for our profit, that we may be partakers of his holiness. Now no chastening seems joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterwards it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness. to those who have been trained by it. It would be very dangerous if you were in a situation where the Lord was disciplining you with various afflictions or whatever it is, the clouds of a difficult providence. And you began to harden, not not willing, not seeing that you're being shaped toward that end right there, that you would be cracked in a sense, and there would be things that would be released and you transformed so that afterward you would yield the peaceable fruit of righteousness, having been trained by God Himself. If you're see this picture of the fool, you could you could caution yourself and you could say, now be careful. Don't become hard-hearted towards God's discipline. Don't become like a fool that no matter how much grinding and discipline he gives you, you never soften. Or in James 1, 2 through 4, here's another example, and then the patterns here also. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into various trials. Knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience, but let patience have its perfect work, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. Now, if you're the fool, you're not going to approach life like this. You're not going to count it a blessing. You're not going to see that anything would be produced. You just remain harden and closed and isolated with your head down, not looking up to God and Him doing any goodness. And so as you're going through your life, one of the first things that's um that's so important about seeing this proverb is that you wouldn't develop a foolish heart as you go through affliction and you go through trials. When God puts you in his permits that grinding to happen in your life. May you remember these verses instead and be soft towards him. Asking him, shape, telling him, shape me as you will, Lord. I am your clay, and you are the potter. The fool wouldn't praise such a thing. And so we can learn by this picture of the fool not to become foolish. Well, that's the first way I think that it's meaningful. Another way in which this proverb is meaningful is that it's important to know who is foolish so that we can wisely relate to them. Figuring out how to relate to different people in the world is quite challenging. And here you have a picture of how to recognize when someone is in fact foolish and a fool. And then if you know the kind of thing that they are, what they are in their nature, then you can begin to figure out how you're supposed to relate to them. We know that we're going to have keep company with some fools, right? I mean, think of what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 6 when he is writing to the Corinthians. He says, I wrote to you in my epistle not to keep company with sexually immoral people. Yet I certainly did not mean with the sexually immoral people of this world, or with the covetous or extortioners, or idolaters. Because if I told you not to keep company with them, you'd have to leave the world. But you can't leave the world, so you will keep company with them. You'll keep company with fools. But then at the same time we see Paul in 2 Corinthians saying, don't be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what fellowship has righteousness with lawlessness, and what communion has light with darkness If you know someone, and you if you can see just in the way that they're responding to their afflictions and their trials and the discipline, even of a civil government under the hand of God You can look at them and you can say, wait, this is a fool. You can know that you can keep company with them, but you can't be unequally yoked and have fellowship. You can relate well because you know what they are and you know what limits are important. And then there's a third thing I'd like to bring out tonight that is meaningful. This proverb is meaningful It is meaningful that this is given to us in order to see that by nature we're all fools. And we all need Jesus Christ. The truth is, as we even heard this morning, left to ourselves in the first Adam, we're all hardheads. Every one of your grandmothers was right. You remember when she called you a hardhead? She well maybe that was just me. And this gets at a really important point Is that without God's supervision over our lives, we don't transform. You know, that's a big fault of the modern age and probably every age. No pain, no gain. As if just going through the pain would do a transformative effect. That's not true Affliction, discipline, trials, tough circumstances, they in and of themselves do not change you. There's one commentator that wrote, I thought this was lovely, so I'll read it to you, just a little line. He says, the belief in the necessary working of affliction for our saving good is a fatal delusion. And he went on to teach that prisons were made into penitentiaries through the mistaken notion that confinement would bring repentance and make a cure. But what we have found out instead is that many prisoners become hardened criminals. Because the truth and the reality of life is that affliction in and of itself does nothing to humans. Affliction in and of itself must be in the hands of God to effect a transformation. It must become a tool. Under his sovereignty, where it does nothing for someone who's naturally foolish, which includes us all. Divine grace that regenerates the fool Is his only hope of being converted into a useful person. The kind of person that is able to be cracked under the discipline of the Lord. And to be transformed and to provide good aroma. Good aroma as a sacrifice to the Lord. The truth we see here on the pages, even though it's just one line, is profound. And it gives us great insight into an important pattern within reality. You cannot separate fools from their foolishness, even though you grind them like grain with mortar and pestle But we can follow up and we can say, you cannot, but God can. And we all count on that. We count on that for our foolish hearts, and we count on that for the foolish hearts of our families, and the foolish hearts of our friends Ezekiel thirty-six. Ezekiel says that says this I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh. And I will give take the heart of stone out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes, and you will keep my judgments and do them. You cannot separate fools from their foolishness, even though you grind them like grain with mortise and pestle, but according to Ezekiel In the promise, promises all found in Christ, God certainly will. He will take the hardest heart and make it soft. Let me just end by asking you this. Are you praying in line with these scriptures that we've read in Ezekiel for your foolish heart? For your foolish friends and for your foolish family? Do you want to know the greatest reality of all? The greatest wisdom ever given to man is that we must trust in the Lord and depend upon him for our hope and to do good, to change us from fools and into the wise. I encourage you to return to your knees, to stay on your knees and to pray according to the promises. He is your only hope. If God has transformed a fool like you, then he could transform anybody. And that's the promise. Amen. Let us pray.