This morning is Psalm 72. So if you please turn there, you can remain seated. And I'll be reading and then giving a prayer of illumination. I missed a song. Let me just make sure. Did I do it okay? Yeah. Okay, great. I'll be reading the first seven verses of Psalm 72. It's a Psalm 2 Solomon. Give the king your judgments, O God, and your righteousness to the king's son. He will judge your people with righteousness and your poor with justice. The mountains will bring peace to the people and the little hills by righteousness. He will bring justice to the poor of the people. He will save the children of the needy and will break in pieces the oppressor. They shall fear you. As long as the sun and moon endure, throughout all generations, he shall come down like rain upon the grass before mowing, like showers that water the earth. In his days the righteous shall flourish in abundance of peace until the moon is no more. Father, I imagine this being red at the coronation of your son, as he was seated at your right hand after accomplishing all of his earthly work. Lord Jesus Christ, you are our great King, and these words are for you And you are in fact accomplishing these things. We thank you that you are our King and no other. And we ask you as our King that you would send grace to us this morning. through your Holy Spirit, and that our minds would be illuminated, that we would raise up even more praises to you and honor and submission. And it's in your name that we pray. Amen. Every year the children ask me what do I want for Christmas? And every year I say the exact same thing. Are my my children here? They would know the answer. I always say I want peace and quiet. Now I know, you know, I'm being funny with them, but isn't that your desire also The word, not being funny, the word in the scriptures is shalom, peace. And it encompasses more than having a nice quiet dinner. And someone not throwing a carrot at someone at the dinner table, or whatever it is, whatever your dreams are. Shalom encompasses all of peace. It encompasses civil peace. across our land and encompasses inner peace, peace with God, peace with one another. I'm not going to recite the poem to you now, but it's kind of like the big rock candy mountain Where all the bulldogs have rubber teeth and the rivers flow with whiskey and all that kind of stuff. It's that kind of dream. It's a full-blown idea of peace. And what we find here in this psalm is we find That Jesus Christ is the one who is finally given, who is, who offers that kind of peace in part now and in fullness later. Now here's the big idea. Jesus has given all authority in order to bring peace to the earth. That's what this whole psalm is about. And we'll unpack this in the fact that he is the King of peace. That he's going to bring the peace of justice and then there's a surprise. And that is that he's going to bring the peace of obedience. And we often don't think of that. You can see that outline there in your bulletin. So, first, we see in the Psalm that there is a king of peace and that Jesus is given all authority as king. But I have to take you through a couple steps because this is technically written before Jesus is born. And so, the psalm really ends up having two meanings as we see many psalms doing This is a royal psalm. This psalm is in fact a prayer. If any of you have an ESV translation, and I think the N-A-S-V, it doesn't capture it in the NKJV, and I don't mean this to be overly academic, but the the tense of the words throughout the prayer is in the Joseph. It's a Hebrew tense. You can just write that down. It was interesting. And really, they have it partly correct. Take a look at the verses. Notice after verse 1, he moves into the future. He will judge. And the mountains will bring peace, and he will bring justice. You see the future there. But the Joseph has a not only a future sense, but a sense of request or desire. And you'll see that in some of your translations. And it's a prayer. You don't pray like this. The way that it really should be coming across is, may he judge your people with righteousness, O God. May he bring justice to the poor of the people, O God. You can you see it? Can you see someone raising up hands to heaven and offering this coronation prayer is what it is for the king. That's the way that it should be read. The Psalm is a coronation prayer from David for his son Solomon. The title in some of your Bibles will say of Solomon or to Solomon. And that's what's going on here. Solomon is the recipient of this, the initial recipient. In fact, you can't say this really of anyone but Solomon. uh that you would give your judgments to the king and to the son of the king. David could say that, with Solomon taking over And uh you can also witness this in verse 20 if you scan down a little bit. Notice here that this is in fact a prayer of David, and it is for his son Solomon, as we saw in the title. Verse 20, the prayers of David to the son of Jesse are ended. And then you see in verse 1, it states that the ol that what is what I had just mentioned that is only true of Solomon, who is both king and the son of a king. And then if you were to in your own time scan through the Psalm, you'd see some things that are obviously true of Solomon's life, for instance. The offerings from Sheba. The psalm is a coronation prayer, not just for Solomon, and not really, he's the shadow of who this prayer is for. The prayer is really for King Jesus. If you consider Peter's sermon in Acts 2, this will become apparent on how this could be, how the psalm or the prayer Could be for two people. In Acts 2, it says from Peter giving his sermon, For you will not leave my soul in Hades. He's quoting Psalm 16, nor will you allow your holy one to see corruption. You have made known to me the ways of life. You will make me full of joy in your presence. Men and brethren, Peter says Let me speak freely to you of the patriarch David, that he is both dead and buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. Therefore, being a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that of the fruit of his body, according to the flesh, he would raise up the Christ to sit on his throne. He, for seeing this, spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ, that his soul was not left in Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption The point that Peter is making is that the psalm penned by David was not about David, but about Jesus Christ. A psalm written before Jesus is born is really about Jesus. The coronation prayer of David is not just for Solomon, but for the office of a king. That's how you make this is how you're going to bridge the gap here. This is a prayer for the king. The office of king is perpetual and several persons may hold the office. Someone held the office before Solomon. Someone held the office before David. And I imagine that a coronation prayer was given at each of the office holdings. The passing down of the crown from one generation to the other. In fact, if you think of this within our own time in the 1950s, Prince Philip chaired the coronation ceremony for his wife, Queen Elizabeth II. And did you know that he wanted to modernize the ceremony? The only thing, of course, that was allowed him was that he was allowed to televise it. You can find it on YouTube actually in my brand new Technicolor. You can see the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II. It's actually very interesting to watch the whole thing. Uh it it's actually uh filmed very well. Uh and the only thing that but the only thing that they would allow him to modernize was that. Everything that had been said from queen after queen or king Before her was the same, the liturgy, the prayers, the benediction, the coronation oath. It all remained the same. And it's the same thing that you see here. This is a coronation prayer to be passed down from royalty to royalty. And so likewise the coronation for psalm is used for other future kings of Israel, except when you land upon a king who could never be removed from the crown from death or disobedience. Saul's crown is removed off his head because of disobedience. And David and Solomon die. But then when you have a king step in like Jesus, who is neither disobedient nor subject to death, Then the crown cannot be removed. And so the coronation psalm has been said once for all to Jesus Himself. Jesus is Israel's everlasting king, and the crown cannot be removed by his head. And knowing that the psalm is realized in Jesus of Nazareth, you can begin to see through, although this was In an elementary or shadowy form, you can begin to see the New Testament reality in the pages. In verse 1, for instance, take a look at verse 1. Jesus is given all authority as king. Now we know the importance of those kind of words. When we say that somebody's given something, we're automatically going to start talking about the Trinity. Notice here that David is asking for God the Father to give judgments or justice to the Son, and in the same way, authority is given to the Son, Jesus, from the Father. Jesus, in fact, announces this in Matthew 28, picking up with the same kind of language. And Jesus came and spake to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. The prayer has been completed. Or in Peter's sermon that we were just reading, he continues and he says, Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly That God has made this Jesus whom you crucified both Lord and King. And now you can see why they were cut to the heart. The very king that they longed for, they put to death, and he says This is what you have done. The one that you long for has in fact been put to death. But notice that the Father has given the kingdom to the Son. Now the question for the rest of the psalm, until you get to the latter portion, is what should the king be doing with his authority? Whether it was King David or Saul or Solomon, but really What is it that Jesus intends? What's his design? What's the Father's design for the authority of the Son as King? And in a word, the King is to bring peace. The passage is about peace, and it's about two kinds of peace, at least within these seven verses. And that's why you see in your outline the second point has to do with the peace of justice. We see that this is fulfilled in Jesus, that he's the king where the crown cannot be removed, and so the prayer is for him. That he would bring a peace of justice. The king is to bring peace by bringing justice. Now look at the four verses again, right there in the first set. And notice the mention of justice throughout it all. David prays that God the Father would give the ability to judge or rule justly to the king. Isaiah develops that in great depth. This is especially true in relationship to the poor in verse 2. He will judge your people with righteousness and your poor with justice. And of course, this includes their children also in verse 4. He will bring justice to the poor of the people, and he will save the children of the needy. And in doing so, he will get rid of the oppressor. The picture is of a king that protects the voiceless Justice for the people from the king is likened then in this same set of verses to refreshing streams flowing from the mountain to the valley in verse 3. The mountains will bring peace to the people, and the little hills will bring righteousness, is how I read that. How do mountains bring peace? That's the idea here. If you were to think of some psalms and their use of mountains is where you have a spring that bubbles out of the top of the mountain and then flows down into the valley. to water everything and to give them life. So too the king, exalted, standing on the mountain, peace will flow through him to all of his people. He is a protector of those who have no voice, to those who could be abused, he stands up for them with his muscles and his might And he destroys those who are against them. That's the picture that is given to us. In this metaphor, the whole metaphor, the whole thing is summarized in verse 3. The whole thing is summarized in a metaphor, and notice how he says: not that it brings justice, but that it brings peace to the people. That's the idea. The idea is that this is a peace of justice or justice of peace. We see this, the see the same meaning of peace within our culture. Justice of the peace keeps civil order at a local level. Clint Eastwood's gun, the peacemaker, keeps order in small western towns. And Solomon in 1 Kings 4 is in a sense granted this prayer. He brought immediately peace through his judgment of the rightful mother of a child. And he established justice through the entire reorganization of the government. And even starts to work in such things as botany. And he becomes a naturalist organizing insects. for the sake of the kingdom. Yet we know that Solomon's reign did not end in the peace of justice. We know that justice does not reign today. Just as his reign ended in actual great tragedy and turmoil for many years, splitting the kingdom, so too we still look around and we see that justice is wanting. Jesus will be granted this prayer fully only upon his return, and we're only given to it part in part now. Right now, Jesus is not fully establishing his kingdom throughout the world. Upon his return, he will bring perfect justice throughout the kingdom of the world. However, he does in fact start to bring justice now. He can do that partially through the civil government, keeping a cap on sin with those who exact justice. And he will also do so, not just through civil government, but through church government He can bring a great deal of justice. Now, I want you to keep all the language of justice in your mind that you see in the passage and take it to the New Testament. And where do you find the same kind of language But in what is offered through the officers of the church. For example, the diacon is to give special attention and justice to the poor, to the widows, and the sick. to see that they are not neglected. In fact, the very office that is created there in that moment in Acts 6 is because of an injustice that is going on with the distribution of food amongst the widows. They are to ensure their biblical rites. The elders are to declare and uphold the practical outworking of the covenant of grace. To admit members to the church justly, to rule on disputes justly, to protect the church from corruption of morals and heresy justly. If you want to see a church collapse, elect wicked rulers. You want to see injustice? Elect wicked rulers. Christ from on high sends streams of justice through his officers to the church body. Now this should be sobering as we come up on a time of election of officers, or at any time of nomination of officers. Who will bring justice in the name of Jesus Christ to the congregation? What deacon will minister to the poor and the needy and the widow from a sympathetic heart? Officers and officer candidates, do you realize that this is the purpose of the office? This is something that we lose in America. This is why officers are held to such a high standard, is that the streams of justice are to flow through you as a representation of the great justice that has been granted to the Son from the Father, as you see in the Coronation Psalm. When I thought of this, I thought of a man who took his office seriously, although not perfectly, and that's Winston Churchill. In 1954, Graham Sutherland was commissioned to paint Winston Churchill. Does anybody know this story? Mr. Sutherland wanted to capture the truth of Prime Minister Churchill. Thus, the painting was to be done in a full realism of who Churchill actually was, to actually see the older decaying man and to paint him as decaying Is the brilliance of modern art. Churchill hated he hated the painting. Have you ever gone to see the painting? You can't, because he burned it Actually his wife did, I believe. But seriously. Put it on a bonfire. Why did he hate the painting? There's something we can learn from the man. He hated the painting because the realism of him as a person degraded the power and the vitality of the office of prime minister. That's what he said. Do you think of your office that way, officer? Congregation, do you think of officers that way when you nominate or you elect? You hold an office. Do you adorn the office with grace? Do you bring justice, especially to the sick, the friendless, and the widow of this congregation Or are you a piece of modern art? That is the first kind of peace. The second is the peace of obedience, and this is again one of those times of surprisal in my office. Expositing the Psalm, you see the establishment of our King of Peace. You end up seeing him establishing justice now, especially through his church, and he'll consummate that in his return. And now you see A peace of obedience. The king is to bring peace by bringing obedience and submission to himself. And this kind of justice is summarized in verse 7. In his days the righteous shall flourish. and abundance of peace until the moon is no more. The flourishing is described as fearing God and being righteous in verse 5. They shall fear you. This is a prayer. May they fear you as long as the sun and moon endure throughout all generations. How is it that these this congregation, there's a shift in the subject It moves from what could be done for the king in order for the people to what will the king do in order for the people to re-give returns unto the king. Unto God the Father, and they shall fear you. May they fear you. May the congregation come to fear you, God, through the work of the King. The justice of obedience is then in verse 6, just like the mountain bringing refreshing streams to the valley, verse 6 now goes from the clouds to the valley. Verse 6, he shall come down like rain upon the grass before mowing. The point is timeless, particularly in the suburbs where we care about our grass. If you're in a drought and you cut your grass short, it will die unless watered. And it's the same picture here. The king will be like fresh rains upon a newly mown meadow. These are the fresh rains that cause the people of God to flourish in obedience to God. It's not the same kind of justice that we saw on the first set. It's a different kind of justice. It's the justice of flourishing obedience. That we see here, that they shall fear him. Jesus Christ will pour out rain upon his church. He will be like the dew upon a freshly mown meadow, allowing the grass to not wither and fade, but to grow up, and to be the strongest amongst all the garden, to mix metaphors Now are you beginning to see some of the image? Where do you hear about Jesus doing this? You can begin to see the shadows start to take real-life forms. When we consider the New Testament, Jesus pours out his Spirit upon us so that we may flourish in our love for God and our neighbor. What other rain but the reign of the Holy Spirit causes obedience? And that's present here in this coronation psalm. Solomon could reread the laws and build an external temple. But Jesus writes the law upon our hearts through the Spirit and makes you a temple of the living God, the only king able to do so. It is the king of peace. It's the king of justice. And he brings the peace of justice and the peace of obedience, which is surprising. I think this is a difficult passage. It's difficult because it is on peace through his kingship. And we look around and there's so much non-peace. That we're longing for, and we begin to wonder if he's forgotten about the prayer here in the coronation psalm. We're waiting for his peace to be established. But I don't think we're waiting as much as we actually think we are. I briefly touched on how the justice of peace can begin to happen now in our church. I mentioned the officers, but I want to focus on the second point in this closing. And that's the justice of obedience. The justice of obedience. We're always waiting for Jesus to bring justice. We're always waiting for his return. But I want you to just think, I understand, that it's not realized now. I want you to think about how much obedience, how much justice he has already brought in the obedience that he is creating within his people. If there truly is, and there is from this passage, an establishment by the king of the justice of obedience that has been his main tenor in his administration. What is your definition of success in your life? What is your purpose in your life? Does the purpose and the success in your life correspond to the coronation prayer? Because he is obviously being prayed for and being established by the Father. To create an obedience of justice, an obedience that is a Christian obedience, different than all other obedience in all the world. It's an obedience that can only be created by the Holy Spirit within the human heart Obedience that's not created by the Holy Spirit is not accepted by God. Obedience, therefore, that is out of a love for God and a love for neighbor. You know, I wonder, as we land upon peace, wouldn't it have been better if I lit the candle and I said, Jesus promises you that he'll give you your wildest dreams. You need money? Go to Jesus. Aren't you tired of driving that old car? Go to Jesus Or whatever it is. Don't you want a boyfriend? Don't you want to be prettier? Go to Jesus. Those are the desires that we end up having in our hearts, and then we read this. And we see that the king is going to be established. Yeah, it sounds good that he's going to, you know, stand up for the poor. I'm middle class, so that doesn't really stand for me. And then we find out the second thing is, is that he's going to establish obedience. Oh. And we find that this is actually quite disappointing. I was walking with the person the other day through the woods and I spotted a barred owl I can see some share my heart's wonder avowals. The person with I was with though was Then you take their head and you make them look down your arm and out the tip of your finger so that they can see it. It takes about five minutes for me to get this person to see it. I got my hand, my arm pointing, getting trying to get them to follow the line of sight, and finally they see it. And they see the bar down, they say, Oh, that's interesting. Interesting. As I stand there in amazement. I think sometimes we can fall into that same thing where we're longing to see. We hear people, we see people fall on their knees talking about the glory of Jesus Christ. And then they say, I want to see that glory too. And then we put our fingers over arms, we give them a line of sight, and we point, and at the end of it is, you're going to be obedient. And they go, Oh, man. That's about as interesting as a Bardell. It's a struggle within my own heart. And I wonder if I'm speaking to you this morning also. Is this sermon for you? You know how that can happen. Where what is the king is offering to us is actually not the first or foremost desire that has been a part of our hearts As we've entered into Christianity, it's a good time for self-reflection as to whether or not we want the peace of Christianity. I understand that there's another piece of that justice. It's very social justice is very attractive to us. But it's almost in hold in some sense, as he's working primarily on a peace of obedience within you. To have your own inner government between your mind, your will, and your emotions worked out and submitting to the word of God and his authority. If you are experiencing some kind of conviction this morning over this, then I would ask you to celebrate, because this is a happy time. It's a happy time because the Spirit is using His word within your heart to realize that the Christian life is about becoming submissive to your husband who is Jesus Christ. That is wherein you will find your happiness. And I would ask that you, as you remember our sermons in the past, that you don't quench his flame of peace of obedience this morning. I'd ask that you would not in your imagination come up here and blow out this candle. Let's pray, and then let's consider this piece more as we go to the Lord's Supper Heavenly Father, there our our hearts are a war zone of desires. And as we do some self-examination this morning in considering you as our great king during your coronation We are found wanting, and that our foremost desire has not been submission or obedience or love towards you and our neighbor. We've been caught with our hand in the cookie jar. Father, I pray that this would be a time of celebration. Father, we have not been caught by someone that hates us, but a loving and disciplining Father. So I pray, Holy Spirit, that you would work within us and that you would give us an appreciation For your law and for growing in our obedience for you. Lord God, I pray for this entire congregation that no matter what vocation they're in, that they would not be seeking money or power, but just to be submissive to you. To you, even in the most humblest of vocations. And I pray that you would bring this home to our hearts as we consider your word made visible in your sacrament, the supper. Amen.