In those days, the multitude being very great, and having nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples to him and said to them, I have compassion on the multitude, because they have now continued with me three days and have nothing to eat. And if I send them away hungry to their own houses, they will faint on the way, for some of them have come from afar. Then his disciples answered him, How can one satisfy these people with bread here in the wilderness? And he asked them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, Seven. So he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground, and he took the seven loaves and gave thanks, broke them, and gave them to his disciples to set before them, and they set them before the multitude They also had a few small fish, and having blessed them, he said to them oh sorry, and having blessed them, he said to them He said to set them also before them. So they ate and were filled, and they took up seven large baskets of leftover fragments. Now those who had eaten were about four thousand, and he sent them away, immediately got into the boat with his disciples, and came to the region of Dalmanutha. Then the Pharisees came out and began to dispute with him, seeking from him a sign from heaven, testing him. But he sighed deeply in his spirit, and said, Why does this generation seek a sign? Assuredly I say to you, no sign shall be given to this generation. Please pray with me. Oh, precious Savior, gracious God, thank you for your word. Thank you for preserving it, for giving it to us. But we thank you most for giving us a spirit, your spirit, that knows this word is true. Though it challenges us, we trust that it is real and that you have given it to us for our blessing. Oh God, would you fill us with your Spirit that He would lead us into the truth? Lead us into the truth of your word and by it change us and make us more like Jesus Christ. And Lord, I pray that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. It's in Christ's name that we have all prayed. Amen. Please be seated. Had a lot of conversations this week about a very real struggle that most of us have. In fact, I would venture to guess that every single one of you struggles with this very same problem. It's called FOMO. Have you ever heard of FOMO? The fear of missing out If we're honest with ourselves, most of us have this nagging thought that everyone is somewhere having great fun without us. Everyone's gathering together and playing games and breaking bread, and the reason we're lonely and sad is because they just haven't invited us. FOMO is a very real problem, and I think you'll see that there were some Pharisees who struggled from FOMO. And we'll get to that a little later. But the question that we have to ask ourselves when we are really fearing that we are missing out, when we are afraid that The best is not where we are. We need to ask ourselves, is this really what God thinks is best for us? Could it not be God's blessed provision for you that you are missing out on something that He has given to others? Well, I want to remind you that in the Gospel of Mark we have been seeing these snapshots, these photographs, images of the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ, and it's all to prove to us one very simple truth. One very real truth, that Jesus is the Christ. He is the Son of the Living God. He does what only God can do. Think through with me. What are some of the things that Jesus has done that we've seen him do? He has cleansed lepers. He's driven out unclean spirits. He has restored those whose lives are destroyed by sin and misery, like that demoniac in Ghidara. He's restored him to his right mind, where he can receive the words of the Savior, have communion with the Savior. Jesus has been doing a lot of things, and he's been doing them so very, very well. If you remember our last time together in Mark, we saw that that is exactly what God does. He does all things well. He plans our lives well. He understands us very, very well. He understands your life very well, even better than you do. And we saw that he commands all things well. What he has commanded you and I to do and to be is for our benefit. He does it all so very well. Well, tonight, we're going to see what happened to those people who were astonished beyond measure. If you remember, he had commanded them not to proclaim what they had seen, and yet they just couldn't keep it in. They just couldn't keep their joy silent. And they went out and they proclaimed it. And we see what happened. There was a great multitude there. And in this passage tonight, I hope that we'll see together another picture of our great Savior. Our Savior provides all that we need to live by faith. Brothers and sisters, your Savior provides all that you need to live by faith And we're going to look at our Savior in three different ways tonight. We are going to look at verses 1 through 4, in which we see our compassionate Savior. We'll look at verses 5 through the beginning of verse 9, where we see our providing Savior. And then we will look at the rest of this section, the rest of verse 9 through verse 12, and we will see the indisputable Savior, the compassionate Savior, the providing Savior, and the indisputable Savior. Look here at verses one and two with me. It says, In those days the multitude being very great and having nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples to him, and he said to them, I have compassion on the multitude, because they have now continued with me three days, and have nothing to eat. Do you know what compassion is? Compassion is defined as a deep awareness of others' suffering. And most of us maybe we've only thought of compassion in that way. A deep awareness. We're compassionate. We're aware of others' sufferings. But if you look at the English definition, there's another little bit to it that I realize I often forget. We have a deep awareness of others suffering with the desire to relieve it. It's not enough just to be aware that someone is suffering. To be truly compassionate, as our Savior is compassionate, we need a desire to relieve it. And so we see that Jesus Christ is our compassionate Savior. He's your compassionate Savior. And the first thing we see in verse 1 is that he knows your great need. Look at how he saw the great need of the multitudes that were there. He knew that they had nothing to eat. And he plans to do something about it. He desires to do something about it. You see that in verse 1? He calls his disciples to him, because there's something that needs to happen. And so he says to them, I have compassion on the multitude, the crowd. I want to remind you, this multitude, this crowd, is primarily Gentile. This is in still the region of the Decapolis. That's what we can understand from it saying in those days. This is that time while he's journeying through these Gentile cities. And we see in verse 2 that he knows the condition of those who have a desperate need. He's aware of the desperate need. He wants to relieve it, and he knows exactly what their condition is. Do you see that there? They have now continued with me three days, and they have nothing to eat. Jesus knows that following him and being with him and learning from him and being changed by him is hard business. It's difficult work. Seriously following Jesus is a seriously challenging life. Pastor Jesse helped us see that this morning. The great sacrifice that's called of those who would serve Jesus Christ. He knows it will take a great sacrifice And this crowd had sacrificed their own well-being to be near Jesus, to be astonished continually by him and by the work that he was doing. And so in verse 3 Your Savior, your compassionate Savior, shows that he knows exactly what challenges you will face specifically. Look at verse 3 with me. Jesus talking. He says, and if I send them away hungry to their own houses, they will faint on the way, for some of them have come from afar. This is not just a faceless crowd to Jesus. He knows. He knows their struggle, how far they've come. He knows what will happen if they do not have exactly what they need. They will faint. And he knows the same thing about you, dear brother and sister. He knows how far he's brought you. He knows what you are struggling through. He knows what will happen to you if you don't receive exactly what you need from him. He knows exactly what will happen to you if you try to live your life in your own strength, based on what you can provide for yourself. And so we see this compassionate Savior, don't we? He knows us, he knows our needs. But he also knows something else. Look at verse 4. Then his disciples answered him, because remember, he called his disciples to him to do this great work. His disciples answered him, How can one satisfy these people with bread here in the wilderness? And so we learn that the Savior, in his compassion, also knows your limitations, as one who does serve him, as one who is following him. The disciples, again, like they did in Mark chapter 6 in the first feeding of the multitudes, they cannot imagine the solution to this problem. The Greek makes it very clear for us, because the word is literally from where? From where will we get this bread? They're in the wilderness. It's not like there were a bunch of traveling breadstands coming along with the multitudes. They didn't have MREs or meals ready to eat that the government had provided them. They needed a lot. And remember, great multitude. This is a great multitude. We'll see at the end of this section that there's 4,000 gathered following Jesus for three days. And have you ever felt this way? Have you ever felt like there is nothing, nothing at all, that you could imagine that would solve the problem you face? Have you ever been in a situation where when you're looking at it, from your perspective, you say to yourself, there is no way. That this can be better. There's no way that this can be resolved. Have you ever felt like your need is too great? For anyone to solve it. Well, that's why I think Marcus, by the grace of the Holy Spirit, included the rest of this for us. Because if he left it right there, it's just a bunch of disciples going What do you want us to do? But instead he keeps going. Mark records for us what happens. Look at verse 5. Jesus, he asked them, How many loaves do you have? And they said, seven. So he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground, and he took the seven loaves, and he gave thanks, broke them. Gave them to his disciples to set before them, and they set them before the multitude. They also had a few small fish, and having blessed them, he said to set them also before them. Your Savior is not only a compassionate Savior, but He's a providing Savior. And I hope you noticed in verse 5 how it is that God provides for your need. The need he knows about. Do you see that? He provides for your need Through his people. The disciples couldn't have imagined that the seven loaves of bread they brought along were actually to feed thousands and thousands of people. And so maybe like the disciples, you don't see how what God has given you could ever be used to solve someone else's problem. And yet that's exactly what God does. He provides to his people. He provides exactly what he knows you need. But did you get this? He provides to you what he knows others need. What he's given you is not just for you. And it's not just for you to do with it as you please. He's given it to you that you could be used by him, like the disciples were, to answer a desperate and a great need, even a great need that doesn't seem like it could be met. But he also provides through himself, doesn't he? Look at the example of Jesus to us in these verses. In verse 6, we see That he commands the multitude to sit down on the ground. This reminded me a lot of the other feeding of the multitudes, where we see that Jesus understands God's order. There's a great order to God's plan for you, even though in your perspective it may seem like chaos. And Jesus shows us that we must trust God's order. God knows what he's doing, and remember, he does all things well. Look at the other example of Jesus. He took the seven loaves. What's the first thing that he does? He gives thanks. He gives thanks. He doesn't say, uh, Father, I think you might have made a mistake here. No, he thanks God, even for what appears to be a meager amount of provision. And the example of the Savior is that he takes what appears meager and small, and he shares it. He shares it. Most of us have this gut reaction when things appear to be too little. In fact, um, just as an example, so Uh a couple weeks ago we were talking about the puppy and the pizza crust. Have you ever been starving and there's a whole bunch of people and there's only one piece of pizza left? Everybody's gotten their fill, and you haven't gotten yours, and you're looking. This happens to me a lot because I go to myself and I go. I could eat that piece of pizza in three seconds and no one would even know it was there. But sometimes we have to ask and say. Does anybody need another slice? And sometimes there's a thousand voices that clamor, or the sound of a thousand voices. Oh yeah, I want another slice, and we we've got to share what God's given us. And that's the example of our Savior. He takes what seems like not enough, and yet he manages to be willing to share it. Our Savior shows us something else. Look at what happens in verse 7. They also had a few small fish. Now in some of the commentaries I was looking at, they gave a lot of thought. to these small fish. It's different than the fish that were present in the other miracle. Okay? In fact, if you've ever been somebody who goes fishing, anybody ever gone fishing? This is the kind of fish that you would use to catch a real fish. This isn't enough to share. And they also pointed out that this they in the Greek is not necessarily the disciples Someone in the crowd said, well, if you're giving these this bread and God's breaking the bread and sharing the bread, I've got a couple of these fish. Here's some anchovies, or I guess a can of what are they called? Sardines. Jesus blesses what was given to be added to this. And this is exactly what we know our God to do, doesn't he? He blesses what we can give and what we give back to him when we understand that this is what he's given it to us for. This is why he's given it to us. There's um there's a phrase that's been running through my head and I wish that I was better at taking notes and writing notes down or I'd remember who said it. But I know it's I know it isn't just me who's made it up because it's too good for that. Though it cannot be enough if we give God our all, yet He's pleased to use our gifts, no matter how small. He wants you to give your whole self to him. And yet most of the time we don't feel like we can, because we We sometimes feel like if we give all of us, then we're going to be like Moses saying, Lord, if you found favor with me, please just kill me. And yet he'll take what we can give. And what we do give in joy and gratitude, and he will bless them and use it. And so, brothers and sisters, do you think you don't have enough of anything to be used by God? Another condition I think is common for all of us, none of you have enough time. To do all the things that you would want to do. And yet you still would have a meager offering of two small fishes worth of time. That you could give. Give it to God. Give it to Jesus, that He can bless it and feed many through it. Do you think you don't have enough attention to give someone? Did you know that sometimes all it takes is giving any attention to someone? Just enough attention. Is there someone in your school that you've noticed no one ever speaks to? Is there a sibling in your household that you notice no one ever speaks to? Some households are big enough for that. Is there a parent in your household who you notice no one ever speaks to? Kids, even you, can be a blessing to your parents by giving a little bit of attention. To them and to their needs. I know that's hard for us to think about, but sometimes you have been given what you have, not just for you. but also for you to use it for the blessing of others. You may have time to help your mama fold some towels or laundry or whatever it is. No matter how small it is, you have been given something that you can give back to God that He would bless it and use it Well, I want you to notice here at the end of this section, verses eight through the beginning of nine, that the providing Savior, the compassionate Savior, He provides completely. Look at verse 8. So they ate and were filled. And they took up seven large baskets of leftover fragments. Now those who had eaten were about four thousand. It's a fun Greek word. Tetrakiskilioi. That's also been going through my head, just because it's fun to say. 4,000. Have you ever been around a thousand people? I was thinking about this. At the last GA, there was probably close to four thousand people in that room. singing together. That's a whole lot of people. It took fifteen minutes just to distribute the bread of the Lord's Supper to all those people. We had to sing songs Do you notice that he says they ate and were filled? The literal word here is they were satisfied satisfied with that meager amount of food that was presented. And there are some people who would like to think that, oh, this must be a mistake. Mark just added a second feeding of multitudes in there. Not the case. Not the case at all. If you remember in Mark chapter 6, it was small baskets. A very different kind of basket was used. In this one, it's large baskets with leftover fragments. And Jesus even refers to this. He refers to this specifically as how many large baskets did you have filled? And we'll see this in just a few weeks when we look at verse 20 of this chapter. And so Jesus, the compassionate Savior, shows that He knows us, He knows what we need. He is the providing Savior who fully satisfies your needs. And so we, all of us here, thousands of years later, don't miss the point of these miracles. Mark includes the last bit for us. This last few verses showing that Jesus is the indisputable Savior. Picking up at the rest of verse 9, and he sent them away. Immediately he got into the boat with his disciples and came to the region of Dalmanuta. He sends the Gentile crowd away. Literally, he released them. This is not a mean thing that Jesus does. He doesn't say, get out of here, you got what I have to give you. He says, you've been following me three days. Devoted to me, you can go now. You can go home. I've given you what you need, and I know that you won't fail in returning home. You won't faint on the way. And then immediately, do you see what he does? He returns to a primarily Jewish place. You might have notes in your Bible that say Dalmanusa is not really a place. You might have notes in there that say actually in other manuscripts it says this other place. What we have to take from this is he's now crossed again over the Sea of Galilee to a place where the people should be able to recognize him because he's been doing lots and lots of miracles all Most all of the previous miracles have been done in these regions. And what happens? What happens as soon as he returns to those who should recognize him? There's a bunch of Pharisees that come, and they come with a purpose. Do you see what their purpose is? To dispute with Jesus. To dispute is to argue or to question. They're testing him. And you see what it is that they're testing him with? What is it that they're looking for? They're seeking a sign from heaven. These men have some serious FOMO. Maybe they've heard what has happened. Maybe they heard other people saying, Oh he's just come from this area over in the Decapolis and he's done all these marvelous things. And they say, Yeah, well he hasn't done it for me. I need to see a sign. I need somebody I need him to prove himself to me that he's the savior. And I don't have time to read it tonight. But if you were to go to John chapter 6, and I'll turn there just to just to read a little bit. If you read verses 26 through 40. You'd see something really interesting. Jesus answered them and said, Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me, not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. The signs being the signs that Isaiah had said, the signs of the prophets, the signs of all the Old Testament scriptures. Jesus says, Do not labor for the food which perishes. But for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of Man will give you, because God the Father has set his seal on him. Jesus is the bread of heaven. He is the one who comes down. And whoever believes in Jesus shall never hunger and never thirst. That's the true sign. Jesus is the true sign. And yet these men are coming to him and saying, Show us a sign from heaven. Prove to us that you're the Son of God. And so we see that the Lord Jesus Christ is indisputably the Savior. Do you know what indisputable means? It means Beyond doubt, it means undeniable. When you encounter Jesus Christ, it is undeniable that He is the Savior undeniable his compassion and his provision. And we see again our Lord, he sighs deeply in his spirit. Do you see that in verse 12? And he says, why does this generation seek a sign? Assuredly, I say to you, no sign shall be given to this generation. Jesus is indisputably the Savior, undeniably the Savior, and even in that He proves himself. Even in what he does not provide, God proves himself to be the Savior. Do you see that? He does not provide a sign to those who seek it. Why? Because Jesus knows absolutely what it is his people need. And he will provide what his people need that they can live the life of faith. He knew that a sign, any sign given to these men, would do nothing. Because they were not seeking a sign of Jesus genuinely, were they? They were testing him. They didn't come like those who came in faith. Looking for salvation, looking for healing from their twelve-year-long flow of blood. No, they were looking to disprove Jesus. And so we learn some very important lessons here for us even in looking at our compassionate Savior. Do you want to be like Jesus? Is this really a desire of your heart? Do you want to have that kind of compassion that he has where you're aware of the needs of others? And we go further. Do you have a desire to alleviate those needs and those cares? Do you doubt that what God has given you is enough to do any any part of that? Do you dispute with the Savior at what it is he's given you? What he has planned for you? About the future? Are you constantly waiting for him to give you some sign? Some sign to know that you're you're actually Following the right God. I also couldn't help but think about this And maybe for you it's the same. Perhaps what breeds doubt in you and in your heart and in your soul is that God, in his awesome, And perfect provision has chosen not to reveal himself to someone Is there someone you love that God has chosen not to reveal Himself to? Boy, that can be a challenge If it's someone you love and care for deeply, you need to trust that he knows exactly what that person needs. And does that person need a sign from heaven? I've got one person in my mind right now. Who has no more chances. Does that make me doubt God? Does that change his compassion? that he knew that that one would never see a sign and never understand who he is. Many of you have family members like this. Friends. It's hard. But I encourage you, brothers and sisters. Remember, your God is compassionate. He knows what people need, and he wants to alleviate their needs. He is the provider and knows exactly what must be provided. And if he has chosen not to provide what someone demands he give them. You must trust God, and you must trust the Savior who knows what he's doing. Please pray with me.