Thirteen through eighteen. She seeks wool and flax and willingly works with her hands. She is like the merchant ships. She brings her food from afar. She also rises while it is yet night, and provides food for her household, and a portion for her maidservants She considers a field and buys it. From her prophets she plants a vineyard. She girds herself with strength and strengthens her arms She perceives that her merchandise is good and her lamp does not go out by night. Let us pray. O Heavenly Father, we ask that as your children, you would bless us. Help us to understand your word here, and not just to be hearers of your word, but doers. We pray, Lord, that you'd help us to fall in love with this vision you've given to us. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Well, a few weeks ago, Bradley preached on Revelation twenty-one. And then last week in this the sermon from the evening service I mentioned Revelation 21. And then this morning I mentioned Revelation 21. And now I bring up to you again. Revelation 21. And the reason why I do so, I think we all know what that is by now. There shall be no more tears, for all things shall be made new, is a par you know very uh kind of a summary of it. Uh and I want to bring that up here because I had mentioned as I had mentioned to you last Sunday evening, sometimes When I mention Proverbs 31, I see folks roll their eyes like, oh brother, now I have to look at this thing again. Well last week you'll remember I was um encouraging you to look at the passage as you would look at Revelation twenty-one that is a passage of hope. That Jesus Christ has taken us his bride to himself, and with certainty he calls us to the hope where we as a People and as individuals will be wise as we see the wisdom that is displayed here. That we have a glory in front of us to look forward to. And I do hope that is hopeful I wanted to add that not just hope is involved with this passage that is in front of us. As we're looking at what is often called the Proverbs 31 woman, I also believe that God gives us this passage to help us with our love. God wants you to fall in love with the vision that is given in Revelation 21. He wants you to love it so much that you would work to have a world like that, that you would long for him to bring that world to be. And similarly, I believe that God wants us to love the picture here. The picture of what wisdom looks like. You'll note that it's not a wisdom that shows up in any kind of selfishness. It's not a wisdom that shows up in just being able to do math problems by yourself or something like that. Math is great, but the wisdom that is shown here is a wisdom that is bringing life into the world. And I I'll begin by just saying it has been my prayer, and I'll continue to pray that Myself and you will fall in love with this vision of what wisdom can look like. I really think this picture that we a we have here of Proverbs 31 Woman is a picture of what it means for the church to be salt and light in the world. Now, that may surprise you that I'm all of a sudden applying Proverbs 31 and the Proverbs 31 woman to the church, but as I told you last week, I think there's three main audiences here. It could be speaking to the young son and giving him an idea of the kind of godly woman he should be looking for. It could be uh also speaking to the daughter and the aspirations she should have in becoming a godly woman. And I think thirdly, as I just mentioned, it also speaks to Christ's bride, which is the church. Now with this with this week, we're moving on into the passage that I just read to you, verses 13 through 18. And it's really a continuation of those prior prior verses. If you remember, the Proverbist has really set us up with an earlier verse that speaks about the wife doing good all the days of her life for her husband. That's verse number 12, if you want to take a look at it. She does him good and not evil all the days of her life. And now what we're going to get into are the specifics of, well, what good are you talking about? What is good? What is the good of wisdom? What's the good fruit of wisdom? And that's what we're getting into here with 13 through 18. Now to take a look at all of the good, I want to break this down into just a couple parts so we can follow along more easily. We're going to look at the vocation of the woman. We're going to look at the pictures of the woman, and we're going to look at the glory of the woman. So we have the vocation of the woman, the pictures of the woman, and the glory of The woman The vocation of the woman begins in verse number 13, and pay attention to what I'm getting ready to say here. 16. 13 and 16. Take a look at the scriptures with me here. Before I go on, I just want to show you a pattern. I don't want to get too fancy with you. But I just I do want to point out to you that 13, she seeks wool and flax and willingly works with her hands. Uh goes with verse number sixteen. She considers a field and buys it from her prophet, she plants a vineyard. The closer you look at this and study it, you'll see that there's a There's words that are matching up in the Hebrew, and the theme is present also. You'll notice, obviously, here in the English, it says she seeks, and in verse 16, there's a very similar word, she considers. Alright, now that is true all the way down the line. So when I'm looking at these points with you, I'm going to be looking at, for example, on our first point, we're going to look at verses 13 and 16. Then we're going to move into verses 14 and 17 and so on and so forth because they match up. Remember this is the um this is an artistic display of wisdom. So there's lots of uh literary devices that are being used. Alright, I don't want to keep dwelling on that, but I thought I would point out to you that our first point with the vocation of woman is seen in verses 13 and in verse 16 Let's just start with verse thirteen, though. It says, She seeks wool and flax and willingly works with her hands. In verse number 13, this idea of her seeking wool and flax speaks to a kind of diligence that goes into the work that she is going to do. The same thing happens with in verse number 16. She doesn't just spontaneously see a field and buy it. She considers a field and buys it. Again, it's the there are virtues that are present within her to where these endeavors that she's becoming a part of They are more likely to be successful because she has been very careful and thoughtful in how she is going about this. You'll notice in verse 13 through 16 that there is a kind of building and a crescendo that's happening through this whole movement. She seeks wool and flax and willingly works with her hands. Okay. Now what does she do once she's sold all of the wool and she's sold all the flax with the the skill that she's learned with her sewing? And you could think there's a lot that actually goes into that in the ancient world. What does she do with her profits? She buys a field. Do you see how it's starting to escalate? It escalates in the sense of she started with this thing here. She was able through wisdom, the wisdom and the skill of sewing and everything that is involved with that, and starting from raw materials. And then after selling those things, she's then taking her profits and she's buying a field to where then she's going to turn it into a vineyard so she has more raw materials to then be able to do more with what she has. So it's like a flower that doesn't just open a little bit here in her wisdom and her endeavors. It opens up wide and it builds on itself. That's the the wisdom, that's part of the wisdom that is displayed here. Now Let me just ask you, there's that there's the vocation of the woman. You can you can see very quickly what she's doing and the wisdom that would be involved with that and how she uses her profits, that she's financially savvy. But you know it would be kinda fun it's still kinda funny that I said the vocation of woman. Like women only can work with wool and flax And they can start vineyards and that's it. I really was very general with this. And I but I did that on purpose because there is a pattern that is going across the scriptures that shows up within these verses specifically. And you can get at it if you just ask the question, where is the man? So I just heard someone whisper, he's sitting in the gate. Which is always a little bit hilarious, not really, because here she is doing she's starting with raw materials. And doing everything that you would need to. And then when you buy a field and you have to clear out all the stones and you gotta get all of the original you gotta get all of the trees planted and that's a lot of work and he's Sitting in the gate. Actually, that is true that it does mention the man sitting in the gate in the middle of this poem. But let me just point out Where is she getting the wool from and the flax? I think if you were to go ahead and you look through the rest of the scriptures, you're going to find the man is present there. So for example, this may you may not know this, but depending on the version of the Bible that you have, the books can be arranged a little bit differently in their order. And the if you were to look at the version that would be called the Tanakh, right after the book of Proverbs is located the book of Ruth. Right. Okay. And they're they're they're seeing a an intimate connection between woman wisdom and Proverbs 31, and you would turn the page literally, and there would be the book of Ruth. being wed to a Davidic it within Davidic heritage, which ultimately leads to Jesus Christ What you end up seeing there is in that story of Ruth, you see a woman who is given things from a man and is able to do things with them. And I you could see that throughout the rest of the scriptures also. But I think that's in part what's going on here. You'll see men at work tending sheep or taking care of agricultural products, and then the woman takes what the man has made and turns it into a living Or brings life from it. Now, let me back up even further. This is why I'm saying it's the vocation of the woman. The vocation takes the raw materials from the man. and turns it into a living being. Think now, think about woman. Think about what separates woman from man and her reproductive abilities That she, I'm not speaking uh crashly here, but she takes this just the raw material of the seed from the man, and then just from that seed grows up within her a whole new life and a whole new world within her womb. So I really think that this is meant to follow the pattern of what woman does as woman that she takes raw materials and she turns it into life. Children, for example. And you'll you'll see that t continue here So she receives the wool and the flax from the man. uh of her home if you want to think about it that way, continuing the analogy, willingly working with her hands, she then considers a field and she buys it and from her profits She's able to plant the vineyard and start with the raw materials all over again that her husband will bring her the grapes and whatever else it is for her to then make wine and to bring life again That's the picture that we have here beginning with what her wisdom looks like, taking the raw materials and turning them into life. Now, that's the vocation of the woman, and I wanted you to see that pattern there, that it corresponds to the actual work of her reproductive body. Number two, are the pictures of the woman. So now uh in verse number fourteen and in verse number seventeen. The pictures of the woman, the proverbis is going to give us some similes or analogies of what the woman is like so that we can better understand her wisdom. It says in verse number 13 or in verse number 14 that she is like the merchant ships. She will bring her food from afar. She girds herself with strength verse 17 and strengthens her arms. Those are both similes The first simile is really obvious because it says that she's like a ship. She's not a real ship. We all know that. She's like a merchant ship. The second simile is not as obvious because it just says she girds herself with strength. But there is a that actually is a figure of speech, and I'll go over that in just a moment. She is a merchant ship and not just a ship. She's not out there floating aimlessly and accomplishing nothing. She's not on a joyride. She is a merchant ship, which means, as we had pointed out in the first point, that she is deliberate, she is prudent. And she is timely, and you'll notice that based upon those specific virtues, she brings her food from afar, just like a ship. A ship will bring in ancient delicacies or um foreign delicacies, and the same thing would take place with her She brings in foreign delicacies and just the way that she trades. Her children and her husband's husband does not just eat potatoes every single night because of the kind of work that she's doing. This is a just an example. There's nothing wrong with potatoes. But she's doing all of that work like a merchant ship would do. In verse number 17 it says that she girds her strength and strengthens her arms. Now this is a this is a figure of speech. It literally says She binds her loins. So this is the figure of speech. The image is that she's uh she's um girding herself up. Now that's not literal, that's a figure of speech. And what it means in multiple different places is that she is getting ready for some kind of heroic or difficult action. In 1 Kings 18, 46, it refers to getting ready to run hard. In 2 Kings 4. 29, it's the same, running a difficult course. In Exodus 12, verse 11, it refers to escaping from Egypt, girding yourself up. And it can refer to physical labor. This should remind us, of course, of different pictures of women, which I think are important for us to gather up as we go through this because the world is giving us pictures of femininity. which often looks more like um not what we see within the scriptures. So just consider this for a moment in Exodus 2. 16 in terms of the strong arm of the woman. Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters, and they came and drew water, and they filled the troughs to water their father's flock. They were not just sitting there in bright white dresses doing nothing. They were not just quilting. They were also taking care of the flock, able to lift heavy pails of water. Pull them up from the well and take them to the troughs to contribute also. So that gives you a little bit of a different picture than than sometimes what you would hear from the world, but here it is. They exist in strength So you can see how we could start to put all of that together. She's like a merchant ship. She brings her food from afar. And she's doing so as we jump down then into the Corresponding verse with seventeen, she's doing so by girding herself with strength, running the race, and really putting all of her efforts into it. And what she ends up with Is a kind of provision for her family and for her community that is similar to a banquet that you would see at King Solomon's table. King Solomon is brought up in 1 Kings 4, 22 through 23. Now Solomon's provision for one day was 30 cores of fine flour. A cor is like five equal to five bushels. So five bushels of flour, sixty bushels of meal, ten fatted oxen, twenty oxen from the pastures, and one hundred sheep, besides deer, gazelles, roebux And fatted fowl. This is meant to show the kind of luxury that he was able to have for many different foreign lands lands at his table And that same picture is evoked for us when it says that she brings food from foreign lands like a merchant ship. All of this from the strong work of her hands and girding herself up for that kind of race, like the priest of Midian's seven daughters. So we have here so far within this passage the vocation of the woman that she ends up acting In such a way that is analogous to the very body that God has given to her. Then number two, we see these pictures of her where she is like a merchant ship. And she is like one who girds herself up for a strong race and a battle. She is again a kind of heroine. Finally, we see within these verses thirteen through eighteen the glory of the woman, or the glory of woman. I'll read uh verses uh the rest of the verses fifteen and then eighteen. She also rises while it is yet night. and provides food for her household, and a portion for her maidservants. She perceives that her merchandise is good, and her lamp does not go out by night Now it says here that she also rises while it is at night. That's the first part of the poetic uh connection. And that is referring to getting up early in the morning. That's pretty clear among commentators. She also rises while it is yet night. The picture is not of a woman who never stops working. The picture is of a woman who gets up early to get to work. The second part of it could be a little bit confusing, but commentators agree when it says, and her lamp does not go out by night. That is not referring to, well, I ran out of sunlight. I guess I'll light a lamp so that I can keep working through the night. That's not what's happening. Actually working at night in the book of Proverbs especially usually refers to evil deeds. So that's not what's going on with her When it says that her lamp does not go out by night, it means it's at the end of the poem of this section of verses If you look at verse 18 there again, she perceives that her merchandise is good and her lamp does not go out by night. What it's referring to is that there is prosperity within her household. There is no lack or want. Her lamp does not go out. That's the whole point. Is that she has now enough oil or whatever it is to where people are not uh longing for something she is in fact providing. And that makes a lot of sense uh too if you see there in verse number 15 where it says that she provides food for her household. She also rises while it is yet night, and she provides food for her household. And then did you notice that it goes on? And says that she even has a portion for her employees. That's how well things are going. That's how well things are going. She provides food for her household and a portion for her maidservant. And that really fills out for us that idea of the lamp doesn't go out by night in this household. The last thing I'll just mention here is that she perceives that her merchandise is good. Now what do what a what does she have so far? Just within verses 13 through 18, she has taken raw materials and she has figured out a way to to make those raw materials into something that is valuable. And that day a good garment made out of wool, when she would sell it, it would cost two months worth of wages. And in an inexpensive linen, it would be one and a half of a month wage. So she has a lucrative business at this point. Remember, she thought carefully about what actually would do well in the market. in her little cottage industry that she has started to develop. So she's looking at that. She perceives that her merchandise is good. She sees that that's good in and of itself, but you know it's provided profit to where now they actually own more land. We not only have land to where we can have sheep and we can have other agricultural products, we now own land to where we can have a vineyard and have even more raw materials and make things from them. And so she's able to look out at all of those things and see that her merchandise is good. But she's not just looking at the merchandise and how much profit it could bring to her. She's also seeing that these things lead to something else, and that is the good of my family and the good of my community. We already see that She her lamp does not go out at night. She's able to provide food even from afar for her household. She's able to even offer a portion for her maidservants And so you could imagine her just kind of sitting back, seeing the work that she's been able to do from the raw materials that her and the seeds that her husband has provided for her She sits back and she sees children playing in the household, people with full bellies. And even glasses of wine enjoying conversation about what John Calvin had to say. Or whatever it is. Anyway, you kind of get the picture here where she's able to look and to see the kind of blessing that the Lord has given to her through the wisdom that the Lord has given to her. and the glory of the woman. That is her glory. She is able to take the raw materials from the man and create what was just a house, she has turned into a home. Now, we know that in application, wise men should seek to marry such a one as this. We know also in application that you um you younger women in here as uh daughters you should aspire to be like her And I want to say finally, an application to all of us, young or old or man or woman, that we as the congregation of God aim to incarnate the wisdom that she embodies. And this goes a little bit further than maybe you realized. If you take a look at the New Testament, you'll see that this pattern continues. About the bride taking the seed of the man and turning it into life. The church as a woman with Christ as the husband. I just would ask you to consider a few other places where this pattern shows up. John 1, verses 12 through 13. But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God. To those who believe in his name, who were born not of blood Nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. There is a kind of spiritual birth that takes place. Well, how is it that that takes place? 1 Peter 1, 23. having been born again, not of corruptible seed, but incorruptible, through the word of God, which lives and abides forever. The word itself has gone out like a kind of seed and has landed on us and soil and being the right kind of soil we were able, the soil being a kind of womb, we're able to give up and bring life to what Jesus Christ has sown within us. And so it connects again to the parable of sower. I'm just asking you to consider this pattern where the church as woman is considered like the field that is fruitful or the or is uh like the one who has received the incorruptible seed which is the word of God planted within us and that it is growing up under the influence of our husband who is Jesus Christ. This vision that is given to us isn't just aspirational, something that we should hope to be able to accomplish on our own power. It's actually the plan of your husband. And you are his bride. One of the other things that we see within scriptures is that God has graciously taken a bride like us. But he has not just left us where he has found us. He has clothed us in his righteousness. Now he is working that we would become wisdom and That wisdom will show up in the world salt and light as a wiz as a witness to his glory. And the kind of work that he's doing in making us a new creation. Part of that work is that he is making us as a congregation and as individuals fruitful. Through the seed of the Word, under the power of the Holy Spirit, grows up in us as if we were like a a woman, growing a child within us. It grows up in us and we end up being fruitful and producing many good works for the name of our God. Same thing is happening and continues to happen as He makes us wise, in other words. It is my prayer, as I mentioned to you in the beginning, that we would fall in love with bringing life into the world. That we would be like Tabbitha. That we would be like the Proverbs 31 woman, that we would in fact embrace and be excited about being the bride of Jesus Christ. What that will require, as you can see here within this passage. Is that you cannot just sit there and then everything happens. We must gird ourselves up with the strength of the Lord. And be willing to do what is necessary to bring that vision to birth. Let us pray.