Is at his son's wedding uh this weekend. Uh so that's a a great blessing for him. Um and I'm just stepping in uh for this final week of the of the Sunday school what do you call it uh session or or uh season. We have a couple weeks uh for a break and then Darren will be back and he'll pick up with his teaching on spiritual disciplines. He had kind of thrown out that I would cover the reform doctrine of sanctification That's actually changed a bit. I'm picking up on a question that was posed last Sunday. I think it was Christina posed the question based on one of the one of the passages and I thought it might be good to kind of delve into this idea of reward. So the title of and there's handouts in the back if you want one. The handout is very too long. I always do that. Too long of a handout. So we probably won't hit every passage or every point. But the title for this Sunday is The Rewards of Godliness. Let me start with a word of prayer. Father, we are thankful for your grace and your mercy. That you are loving and slow to anger. And that though we are sinners, and though we were enemies, You loved us and you sent your own son to die for us, to accomplish redemption on our behalf. We thank you for all the benefits of that redemption applied to us, our right standing with you because of his righteousness. the ongoing work of sanctification through the power of the Holy Spirit. And Lord, the hope of a future glory, entering into full possession. Of the salvation we have in Christ. Lord, give me wisdom as we navigate some difficult and somewhat tricky aspects of um scripture. And being able to do justice to what your word teaches on the topic of reward, but also keeping in view how this works with salvation being wholly of grace and solely because of the righteousness of Christ. So I pray that you would give me wisdom, give all of us wisdom as we discuss And uh we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Uh so partly review and introduction I'm uh Chase Vaughn, I'm an elder here at Severn Run. Most of you know me. Um my I thought since Darren did this, I could give a little background on myself. I was raised in Southern Baptist Church. The church was out in the middle of a cornfield that was very rural in farmland. My mentors were were farmers, mechanics, a lot of blue-collar guys, but they loved the Lord and they taught me a love of his word. And while I'm no longer a Southern Baptist, I look back with great gratitude for where God placed me in his providence. and all that I learned from them. I think in my early life, one of my biggest struggles was assurance. And I think Darren mentioned, you know, walking walking the aisle. That was something we did at my home church Um and I walk the aisle quite a few times, trying to deal with that assurance of salvation. Am I right with God. And then adding to that so many nights, you know, as you put your head on the pillow and you think about how awful you are and you pray again for the Lord to save you from your sins. As I my my grandfather also was a great uh influence on my faith, was a devout Sunday school teacher, taught through the Bible uh two or three times as a Sunday school teacher as well as being a farmer. Um and so I had many great conversations with him about theology, about the Christian life, and he bought me many books And he regretted some of the books that he gave me, which I don't know if you many of you have read or know of John MacArthur But he he bought me the commentaries, uh MacArthur's commentaries on uh scripture on the New Testament, I believe. Uh in a in a study Bible and various books and in reading those books I was in high school And I came across reformed ideas on election and things of that sort. And when I found those I I started discussing those with my grandfather and he was not very happy. regretted uh buying those books for me. So that that started a a kind of journey theologically of uh learning more of um certainly the doctrine of election. And there I think of my journey as kind of these points at which you you learn a new truth And it kind of takes hold. And it almost becomes the lens through which you start to see everything. And you see scripture in a new way. Many passages you had read before, you read them differently. Another doctrine that really made an impact on me is as I started reading Reformed Writers, I've learned about the doctrine of justification. I don't know that I ever heard that word growing up, justification. um maybe not even sanctification. I didn't really have the the categories for that. And so again, learning about justification learning that it's by faith alone and that we have a righteousness imputed to us to us The ungodly, right? That God counts the ungodly as righteous in his sight. That was pretty mind-blowing at the time and had a lot of effects on my um a lot of help with my assurance. So thinking about my own story, I thought of a concept that Pastor Jesse introduced when he was discussing the Sabbath. And that idea is a hermeneutical spiral. Do you remember if you were here for that? He talked about a hermeneutical spiral. Hermeneutical is a big word. Just means like science of interpretation Um and so does anybody remember what that refers to? A hermeneutical spiral? I'm conflicted over whether a spy spiral looks like a tornado, like a funnel. Something like that. What was this idea of a hermeneutical spiral? What was Jesse how was he using it? Remember the Sabbath. Well a hermeneutic is a way of interpreting scripture. So I think the spiral part is you you grow in your ability to interpret scripture as you study it more and more and you read you know the church fathers and the the academics and scholars who can help you And it is a process of growing and understanding how scripture is put together, the cohesive and coherent story of Scripture Um, you know, biblical theology, all of that, systematic theology. So I think you it's a lifetime pursuit. Yeah, so as I think of my own experience, I I my journey, and I think all of our journeys, is like that spiral. You know, I I discover at some point, uh we could say election. Right? And I'm on this on the spiral and I'm election is unconditional. If God elects us not looking at any good in us as the basis of his choice, but he chooses us unconditionally. Right and and it becomes this okay, but then how do I make sense of conditions in scripture? And you're wrestling with that, and so you have I mean in my own uh journey. Might be uh you know, justification by faith alone. Right, so I spent a lot of time. At some point, you know, it was just like Romans. Romans, that's all I want to read is Romans, and we're we're justified by faith, not by works of the law Right, so that becomes just this, all right, where uh if if I see anything of works, you know, I I'm I I want to exclude that from salvation And I don't know if you've heard this distinction, but a big one for me for a while was law and gospel. You'll hear theologians talk about distinction of law and gospel. Luther talked a lot about that. If you want to be a good theologian, Luther said you have to be able to distinguish the law and the gospel And so for a time, for me, that distinction was if I if I ever see an imperative, a command, is it gospel or is it law? It's law, because the law commands. And if I ever see a promise That's gospel. So I I for a while I was working with a very, I would say a really rigid distinction of anytime I see a command, that's not gospel And anytime I see a promise, that is gospel. God has done it for you. And so I had to, but then I'm wrestling with all the imperatives. Right? Imperative. What do I do with the imperatives? Are they just um threatening me, right, and and and intended to really send me looking to Christ? Or are they were they in in a way part of the gospel itself? And maybe the gospel is broader than just What Christ did in his life, death, and resurrection, the gospel more broadly includes all the benefits we receive, the justification that we have before God, the sanctification. The work of the Spirit in us, which involves our own obedience, our response to commands given. Right, so I uh working and then another layer, and this is what we'll get into today is like reward. We have all this language Of rewards, we could throw in as well. There are many passages that talk about a judgment according to works. And so we ha we have these different teachings in Scripture, but we're trying to By using all of these different um theological doctrines, we're trying to harmonize them, see how they work together and getting closer. I don't know if we ever fully arrived. I doubt we ever fully arrived, but hopefully we're getting closer to a full picture of God's teaching in Scripture. Okay, so to go back with what Darren was talking about last week in the review section, he camped out on passages like 1 Timothy 4. 7 train yourself. So there's clearly uh human activity involved here in our sanctification That we are to exercise, right? The graces that we have received. But in thinking about what to cover today, In particular, I was looking at the full context of that verse, and Christina had a question that kind of led me to go down the road that I'm on here. So 1 Timothy 4, 7 and 8. But reject profane and old wives' fables and exercise yourself toward godliness. So Darren was focused on that exercise toward godliness. For bodily exercise profits a little, but godliness is profitable for all things. having promise of the life that it that now is, and of that which is to come. So I'm interested here today in what what is the goal, or at least a goal, of godliness. I'm not saying that it's the only goal But when we look at these passages in Paul, one goal of godliness that we see is that it is profitable for life here But also profitable for the life that is to come. I think this taps into a very common theme in Paul, in the Gospels, of reward. But there is a reward for our pursuit of godliness. I had a maybe more trouble with the promise of the life that now is What if you know how does godliness profit us in the life that now is? So I just took looked at uh some examples from Proverbs. So we turn to Proverbs 10 and 11. We find throughout Proverbs many promises of reward in this life for wisdom and for godliness. A number of passages promised life, and a life free to some extent from suffering and misery. Proverbs 10, 27. For the fear of the Lord prolongs life. But the years of the wicked will be short. Proverbs, you know, you often hear people say proverbs are not promises. But I'm using the language of promise. So I do have to qualify it and say, are there exceptions? Yeah, you can find exceptions. Just because you're godly doesn't mean your your life is necessarily uh always for every person going to be longer. We can find exceptions to the rule But there still is a promise here held out for the godly. Proverbs eleven nineteen Whoever is steadfast in righteousness will live, but he who pursues evil will die. Again, this promise of prolonged life In this life, we're not talking about the life to come necessarily, but obeying God's commandments will lead to life. Disobedience will lead to death. 11. 6. The righteousness of the upright delivers them, but the treacherous are taken captive by their lust. So here not just life, but an abundant life, free from this kind of captivity to sinful desires. So a more flourishing life is promised. And then eleven eight, the righteous is delivered from trouble, and the wicked walks into it instead. So I I like to think of the law as uh it's these they're not restrictions on freedom. Right? They're guardrails, as it were, to keep us from walking off into a pit that would harm us and destroy us. I think that's what's uh in in view here. And then one more twelve thirteen. An evil man is ensnared by the transgression of his lips, but the righteous escapes from trouble. So following the law, the law is a gift to the Christian. The law is intended for our happiness, even in this life, because it keeps us from falling into trouble. I don't want to read all of these, but you have these other proverbs that promise joy, right? In obeying the commandments, there is joy for the righteous. And also many passages that talk about the promise of peace. So let's just stop for a moment. I mean, does this idea resonate with you? Do you find that in your own experience, obedience to God's law has led to greater life and happiness? Or or do you still kind of see it as keeping you away from having fun? Or do you have pr maybe particular examples that you can think of in your own life where by obeying the Lord, you've seen greater joy and happiness. Carol? Yeah, and I think I would put it in a term terms of blessedness, the idea that um it's not our life circumstances that we should hold on to and look to for happiness, um, but it's the blessedness of the Lord and And what he gives us in the midst of our trouble. And so I've been a widow for seventeen years. Um But it's a been a very much a blessing in many ways because I know Christ. Yeah, almost uh focusing on these Proverbs it leaves out so many other prophets of godliness, which are when difficulty does come. the the hope that we have that can give us peace even in difficult trials and circumstances. And wiz it's wisdom literature, so it's the pathway of wisdom. Christ is our wisdom. So it gives us a a fra like a framework for thinking about all of life. And, you know, that idea that, you know, we have a wholehearted devotion to the Lord. Our life is infinitely better in that shalom flourishing um honoring God and living our lives with Him at the center, regardless of what blessings we have, what material blessings or physical blessings we have in the center. life. And so that's why you can look at someone like Johnny Erickson Tata and look at how her life has the trajectory of her life And what this massive witness she is to the world about someone who's with paralyzed since seventeen And yet she has such a love for the Lord, she suffers s so much in her body. But spiritually, she is uh you know, such a wonderful woman to to admire and to to see and to model your life after. This hermeneutical spiral, I mean when I think about delighting in the law, I've been on that hermeneutical spiral as well. In my You know, as a teenager or in my twenties, I would read those passages and very I would struggle with what what am I delighting in? I don't feel a delight in the but then as you gain more experience and you you longer life and you and you start to see fruit Right? The ways that your life is flourishing in my relationships with others, and I can see the connection. to obeying what God has told me to do. If I had not walked in those commandments, those things, those good things, th that fruit would not would not be there. And then adding in as well, thinking of um Johnny Erickson Tata that Yeah, the the the spiritual um hope that we have even in suffering brings a kind of peace Or being reconciled with God, the joy of that, being at peace with God. These are blessings that we enjoy even now. Jesse? This has always been really concrete for me. When I was younger, I literally rebelled against the law as it was manifest in the laws of the state And I went to jail for it. Uh it was kid jail, so that was merciful. I don't ever want to be in adult jail. Um and then in that situation Christ redeemed me and I uh uh grew to s to see that The path that he was taking me on was very different than the path that I had been on, which was a rejection of the law. Some of my closer friends who stayed on that path, which was a rejection of the law, overdosed on heroin on the beach So it was really clear for me to see the difference between the two paths and the blessing of the law. So it I didn't need to and anyway you can see just within that story it's very practical. on how that would work and how how the proverbs worked out, at least in my head. Yeah. I don't want to compete for But I yes, I had my own um You were worse, of course. I had my own uh stage of rebellion, rebellion against my parents and against yeah, against the law and and friends that you could watch the trajectory who have died because of how they lived. Okay, we I also I do want to move on to the rewards for godliness in the light to come. That's also part of that 1 Timothy passage. Having promise of the life that now is and of that which is to come. And here it gets, I feel like I'm walking through a minefield a bit with some of these passages because we have in I think there's a right instinct that we kind of recoil sometimes at this language of rework, because it can lead to a faulty way of thinking About our relationship with God. And so we do need to be on guard, but at the same time, again this hermeneutical spiral, we can't just turn our eye from what Scripture says And we can't let some kind of systematic theological idea that we really love kind of control what the Word of God tells us. So we have to go back to the Word of God and see what it says. And let's start with Matthew 6. There's so many passages that very clearly teach That God will reward us for our godliness, for our obedience. We just had a sermon series through the Sermon on the Mount. If you look at Matthew 6, it's. . Fascinating just how frequently Jesus uses this language of reward. Matthew chapter 6 I took out some of these quotations just to try to shorten the handout a little bit. Matthew chapter 6, verse 2. Thus, when you give to the needy So already you should note this is referring to a good action. We're not, if we had to ask ourselves, are we in the area of justification or sanctification? I think we would have to say sanctification. We're not dealing here with how do we have a right standing before God. He's referring to a charitable action. When you get to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. So doing it for appearance's sake and for what others will say, that's They have received their reward. But for us, but when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing So that your giving may be in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. So there's not really a way that I see to get around a teaching of reward that God will look upon um a good charitable deed done with the right motivation, right, not for the praise of others But done in secret. And our Father in secret seeing it, he will reward. Again, verses 5 and 6 uses this language of reward. When you pray. So there's going to be reward for prayer. When you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. And when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in secret. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. So Jesus does provide a motivation for good work, for obedience. He provides a motivation to you for prayer. Reward. God will reward you if you pray in the right way, in secret, to God, and not for the sake of what others may see. Now, does that do do you th is m reward motivation a bad motivation? Do you recoil at that A little bit. Depends on how you define reward. Yeah. Which to me that the intimacy with Christ is is a reward. Um just gr growing in faith is a reward. Um the comfort that you receive is a reward. Right. All that But I think that's that's where sometimes it gets a little off the rails where you expect a worldly reward in when you pray for something specific. Sometimes it does happen, but um if you're praying with this idea that God will give me this then I think that's where we can miss what the true reward is. Right. So there are ways that this reward idea could go off the rails. I'm thinking of a couple ways that could go off the rails. One is he doesn't spell out here at least what that reward would be. And so we could have a wrong understanding of how God is gonna reward us. Uh material success, uh something of that sort could be a wrong a wrong idea Or reward could go off the path if you were if you had if you just thought I only want to do it for the reward, but I otherwise don't really want to do it. Um I I I don't want to do it because it glorifies God. I don't want to do it out of love for God. I'm just gonna do it to get something. Right. Which I so I I and I don't think um that that's a false understanding of reward, but it doesn't rule out A biblical doctrine that God motivates us to godliness by promising that He will reward us for what we do. Uh okay, Colossians. Let's look at some other passages. Colossians 3, I have this one in the hand in the handout. Um Paul writing, Whatever you do, work heartily So it's clear we're talking about obedience and good works and godliness. Whatever you do, work hardly as for the Lord and not for men. That's picking up on a theme we just saw Jesus talking about Not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. So a passage like this I think begins to broaden out this idea of reward as this future inheritance that we receive, even eternal life being granted as a reward. for our godliness. Ephesians 6. 8, kind of paralleling Colossians 3, knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord. whether he is a bondservant or is free. I'm going to keep reading some of these and then we could then we could discuss them. 1 Timothy 6 Let them here in context if you look at the verse he's talking about the rich, kind of exhorting the rich that they shouldn't focus on building up earthly fortune. But rather let them, the rich, do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to give, willing to share. Notice the language here, storing up. for themselves a good foundation for the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life So we have a kind of incentive of like financial planning, as it were. Don't invest, don't lay up treasures on earth. Of course you can hear Jesus spoke that way. Don't lay up treasures on earth that will be destroyed. Lay up treasures in heaven. So by doing our good works, again, in the way that God has commanded, out of faith By doing that, we are storing up a good foundation for the time to come. This passage Darren had in his handout, but I was just noticing that so many of the passages He was using, he was emphasizing the imperative, but it connects to a reward First Corinthians nine, do you not know that in a race all the runners run? But only one receives the prize. And Darren's emphasis was on so run that you may obtain it. The imperative. Every athlete exercises self-control in all things They do it to receive a perishable wreath, but we an imperishable. So we are to run. Why are we to run? There is this imperishable crown, this imperishable wreath held out for us I do not run aimlessly. I do not box as one beating the air, but I discipline my body and keep it under control, lest after preaching to others I mys myself should be disqualified. So Paul, who talks about justification by faith apart from works, the same Paul doesn't see any cons inconsistency in also saying that our holiness, our godliness, is this running of a race that is for a reward, for an inheritance Galatians 6. Again, Paul. And in Galatians, his theology of justification is stated very clearly. But in chapter 6 says, do not be deceived. God is not mocked. For whatever one sows, that will he also reap. So there's this connection. What you do now, which is sowing, whether sowing by disobedience Or sowing by way of holy obedience, right, there will be a connection to what happens in eternity. Paul goes on, for the one who sows to his own flesh Will from the flesh reap corruption. I think that's given what he's about to say, that corruption is eternal death. If you sow to the flesh, Paul is saying, you will reap eternal death, corruption, but the one who sows to the spirit Will from the Spirit reap eternal life. So we have to wrestle with what do we make of sowing and then reaping eternal life Right? Sowing is something we're we are to do, we're commanded to do. So to the Spirit. And the result, the fruition of that, will be reaping an eternal reward. Let us not grow weary of doing good. So clearly we're talking about obedience here, for in due season we will reap if we do not give up. And then the last passage, this was also quoted in Darren's handout, but I'm highlighting again that Paul is not just giving us the command, but is connecting it to a reward. For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue. So we're we're not This takes us beyond just faith, you know, justification by faith alone, that discussion, because we're supplementing faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to make your calling and election sure, for if you practice these qualities, you will never fall. For in this way, there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So I'm giving you these passages mostly to uh confront you, maybe make you uncomfortable, uh, and unsettle you just a little bit, but to show that we can't turn our eye away from and there are many other passages I just couldn't give you a 10-page handout right there are so many passages where Paul the same Paul that teaches clearly justification by faith alone Also does not shy away from saying that our godliness has a connection to entering into eternal life. That eternal life is going to be a reward given to those who have persevered in doing good. And that's a motivation. God is motivating you to a life of holiness by holding out that reward. Okay, so back again to the hermeneutical spiral. Justification. I think the spiral here, the main one here is we have justification by faith. Then we have all of these passages about reward. And a future judgment that s seems to involve good works as well. I don't provide those passages here, but you can go look those up as well, judgment according to works. How are we to bring these things together as it were? I did see a hand. Zach, did you have your Yeah, I was just gonna say to add to what you were talking about, I think One thing that's important to remember, I I think there's probably different ways that you can think about the rewards and what they actually are and what they look like. But one thing that may be helpful in consideration Is thinking about the the ontology of humanity, like what what the end, purpose, what people were created for And how that would factor into the reward. So like there's which where it is the executive, but there's a parable where There's uh servants that are faithful and it says you will be rewarded by I don't know if it says reward, but it says you will be you will rule over five cities or you will rule over ten cities And that's like, I think in that essence that's considered the reward for faithfulness, uh, for obedience. But ruling over cities is not like that's different from I mean if you just think about the rules like money or pleasure or vacation or something like that, that may not be the right way to think about what they actually have to look like. Whereas perhaps it would be better to think about them as something that's in line with the purpose for which mankind was created. Uh I I I don't know if that makes sense, but so w when you said the ontology of man, I immediately was kind of going back to creation And God's purposes for mankind when He created them. Is that part of what you are referring to? The intention to rule to work into rule. Yeah. Where perhaps I don't know what the the inhabitants and the universe are gonna look like, but perhaps we will be continue to work and continue to rule. And maybe those rewards it's maybe it's it's helping to think about them sort of like uh an employee at a company being rewarded with a promotion which involves added responsibility a difficulty Right, so you're getting into the nature of what that reward w could be in in terms of the ruling. Yes, I'm just saying it because I think it's interesting and Maybe helpful for the thing. Yeah, that passage and there there are others gets into the um in very interesting topic of degrees of reward and would are there some believers I mean I think of the thief on the cross for example he he's believing in Christ for a very short time and is immediately taken to glory, like what do his rewards look like compared to maybe the Apostle Paul, who is blessed to be chosen as an apostle and and to do certain particular tasks for the building up of the church Passages like that could indicate, I think they do, that there are these degrees of reward, but in heaven there's not going to be any envy. Right, so I'm not gonna envy Zach when he is promoted maybe ahead of me. Jesse? not having the same intellectual power as many people around me. Or uh to quote Winnie the Pooh, I guess I'm a bearable brain. And with like these abstract words like election or justification or these difficult sentences where we're reading Apauline theology I have found a way to start to get my head around this conversation is to is to not lose track of the story. So when I'm reading these, when you read those scriptures to me just now, I kept hearing echoes of the story. So for example, the word inheritance. We're not taking from English law when Paul writes that. We're taking it from the long-standing story of Israel. They were always promised an inheritance. And when we finally, in that beautiful revelation that is given to John, what we end up seeing in Revelation 21 is that the new Jerusalem doesn't stay up in the sky and we all are all raptured to it. Instead it comes down and it is joined with earth. And then there's the picture of the garden. So whatever these rewards are and whatever the inheritance is The analogy was of Israel having to remain faithful in holiness And we have plenty of examples of them not doing so and their carcasses being left in the desert, and we should learn from their example. Otherwise you will not receive your reward, which is the promise of the new land. That eventually we eventually see that the promise was never meant to be limited to the geographical area of Israel. It was always meant to be the entire earth. And Jesus picks up on that where he says, you will inherit the earth, the meek will. And then in Revelation 21 we see that really we're restored to paradise, where God and man dwell together again, walking in the pool of the garden. And now I think if you get that story straight, I haven't answered all of the details which are super important to answer. But I think you at least have the story construct to make sure you don't end up in some weird other story that Jesus never intended to talk about. Yeah. I agree. That's very helpful. Okay. And that's the only way I can really get my head around stuff like that. Yeah. Um Yeah. So is that yeah, what's the um what are you viewing as like in a weird place? Well there are lots of different stories that have been told throughout the history of the human race And Jesus is isn't really interested in in in telling all of them for you to understand what he's saying. He's telling one story that is given to us within the scriptures and everything is to be understood within those confines. So another story would be I don't know. Where are the uh here's another story? Your rewards are 10,000 versions. No it's not. Right. That's a great different story. Or your reward is You get your own planet. Right. What which one is that all from? Mormons? Yeah. That's not a story. Your reward is eternal glory because you get a monument set up in the town square. Now that's a Greek story. Or you become deified, be a Roman story. No, that's very helpful. Yeah. Well uh even within I mean closer to home and within the Christ more Christian tradition, there's the naming claim Where they take these promises and say within within a Christian context that we if we have faith and we name something we want, we we will get it. If we don't, it's because we don't have faith I think that's that's coming from a different story. Right. Christina. Um I think also it is such a gift to have a clear concept. And to put down the burden of your sin. And I don't know. That's just also what I think of often and even like that future reward of living continually with a free conscience. Um and what an like I just don't think we can fathom. Right. the blessing that that truly is. Um sorry. The um these are all great thoughts and kind of pointing out dangerous pathways that we should avoid, sticking to the story that Jesus intends to tell. in order to kind of give us the right, the God-ordained framework for understanding these passages on inheritance and reward. The false kind of path that I was most kind of fixated on as I was thinking through this was Roman Catholicism. That as a false and dangerous path to go down. And it's the issue of meriting. So that that's the last section of this handout. We have to, again it's sticking to the story. We can't take these passages in kind of abstraction from the rest of Scripture. and and what God is teaching us about eternal life and salvation. So I I just pose it as You know, we have this language of reward. There is a connection between our obedience and eternal life, but are we talking about merit? here that God is kind of paying us as it were something that we are owed. And if you look in our tradition, and if you look at our confession, the passage in Luke 17 is just a very recurring passage that is that is used to say no. There is no merit in anything that we do. Luke seventeen, the point being made here, any obedience that we give is simply our duty. We're not doing anything when we obey God's commands that is above and beyond what is simply required as His creatures. We are indebted to God, not God to us. Our good works cannot obligate God in any way. In terms of some intrinsic worth or value in what we're doing. I had to qualify it a little bit because God promises reward and so there is some some sense of God obligating himself as it were. Luke seventeen, when you have done all that you were commanded Say we are unworthy servants. We have only done what was our duty. So God can never be placed in this kind of that would be an alternative story, as it were. Kind of an I don't know, God is like in the marketplace, as it were, and we are um paying something and engaging in some kind of transaction And now God is obligated in return to give us what we want. And the what we want could be all sorts of things. But here, even eternal life, though we use, though Scripture uses the language of reward, this is not some kind of crass transaction between us and God. It's all of grace. The reward given is by grace. He does not owe us anything. That's the point I'm trying to make. Even the reward of eternal life is gracious on God's part. Christina. Well, I'm just thinking of the parable of the talents and how it goes through all of these things and um The keep the those who are given a variety of of gifts to use, those who do their duty with the gift And just use it well according to their work. They're not looking at each other to see who's doing what. They're just using what they do and there's no indication of any expectation of more than what they've done and they freely give it all to Master when he comes back. Um and and the wicked servant who does not even do his minimal duty because he is afraid that the master will even take that away from him and how wicked it is So anyway, just as you're talking about this and the idea of duty, I just see that played out in that parable parable all the way through. And part of that parable is his thoughts about this The master. Austere person. His wrong thoughts of God and who God is. Right. I th we have to get I I think the challenge with reward is we have to remember who God is. that he's a gracious father. Yeah. I don't know if you've I mean, kids, artwork Right. If you kind of take an objective point of view of it, it's usually pretty awful. Right. Um But if I just saw, you know, just this morning, Adelaide showed me a a drawing that she had done of a swing set and uh a playground And I'm not the best father because I pointed I pointed out that the swing set was missing legs. Like how how is this floating in the air? It wasn't a perfect picture. It was perfect too. Yes. Yes, from a father's point of view, I was very pleased with it Why? Not because there were no um imperfections in it there. Any good that we do for in this life before our father is going to have imperfection. But he is our father. And he looks upon what we do when we sincerely obey. And he favorably and delightfully receives it. Now, how could he do that It's not perfect. How can he receive it? We can't lose sight of Christ. Right. Christ and his righteousness covers even our good works. That we offer to the Father, so that in him, adopted as his children, he can look upon even our weak efforts with favor and delight. So we I that's we need to avoid um any notion of merit when we talk about uh good works. Our only merit, if we're going to use the language of merit, the only time I'm willing to use it is of Christ. Our only merit. that grants us access to a right standing before God is Christ himself and his righteousness. I do give you, well, way too much more on a handout. But I give you a um a quote from the Westminster Confession of Faith. It'd be good to look through that because this is showing you why none of our good works can merit from God. Um point three, that is from the chapter on good works. Eternal life is so far beyond anything our good works. any value that our good works have. The point of the confession is even our best works, it's God's grace. It's by God's grace that He grants us um a reward. And then the last thing, because we're running out of time, I mention a uh so point B and C. This could generate, if we had time, it would generate some discussion, I think. But I have found this distinction to be one of the one of those very helpful distinctions in our own tradition. Just to help me bring together justification by faith alone and a right standing before God and these other passages that connect our holiness Connect our holiness to this inheritance of eternal life. And that's the distinction of the right to eternal life and the possession of it. The right to eternal life and the possession of it. Our reformed Forefathers and I mean Westminster Divines, but other Reformed forefathers as well, you see this as a recurring distinction. The only right we have To heaven is on the basis of Christ and our faith alone in Him. Only that gives us a ground Upon which God allows us into heaven. But the possession of eternal life Right, so make that distinction. Being justified before God and having a right standing before Him by faith alone Is distinguished from entering into eternal life, that final entrance into glory. And scripture here indicates that holiness is the pathway by which God intends us. to enter into eternal life. I have found that distinction most helpful. The only right you have to enter is Christ. But God has ordained that the appointed way into the full possession of it will include our obedience and our holiness. I provide you just so you don't bring me up on charges of heresy. Westminster Larger Catechism 32 and I put in bold the very last line That our obedience is not just evidence of our faith, but it's also the way which He hath appointed them to salvation So we have to try harder to get me. All right. Um we're running out of time, so let me close us in prayer. We have a two-week break. And then uh Darren will be back to pick up the Sunday school hour. Let's pray. Father. I'm reminded of a passage I read that one of our problems is not that um We desire too much, but that we desire too little. And I'm convicted by how little I desire What you hold out for us in eternal uh in glory. I feel convicted at my neglect of prayer and the lack of faith that that shows in what you have promised. Lord, if I truly believed that you see in secret And you reward my prayers. Lord, I would pray so much more. And so Lord, I pray for A holy desire for good works, not for a reward here on earth, but for a reward in heaven And ultimately the reward of you yourself and communion with you. Lord, give us that desire we pray. In Christ's name. Amen.