In our series through Psalm 119, so I encourage you to open your copy of God's Word to Psalm 119. We're going to continue on looking at the second stanza tonight. And this is not nearly as long as the whole first chapter of 1 Peter, so I will ask if we can stand as I read God's Word to us. From Psalm one nineteen. How can a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed according to your word. With my whole heart I have sought you. Oh, let me not wander from your commandments Your word I have hidden in my heart, that I might not sin against you. Blessed are you, O Lord. Teach me your statutes. With my lips I have declared all the judgments of your mouth. I have rejoiced in the way of your testimonies, as much as in all riches. I will meditate on your precepts and contemplate your ways I will delight myself in your statutes. I will not forget your word. Let us pray. Father, this is your word. You have preserved it for your people. And we know that despite whatever we may think about it, it is what we need to hear tonight. In your sovereignty, you have decided this is what we should hear. We ask you and beg you that you would till up the soil of our hearts, that the seed of your word would be planted tonight. And take root. We praise you for your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. A character on one of my favorite television shows was told by his boss that he had to decide how some university grant money was going to be dispersed. Anxious and nervous, he asks his boss, How do I do that? And without missing a beat, his boss answers, the same way you decide anything. You think it in your head, then say it out loud with your mouth. And this is, in essence, what our lives are, isn't it? They are thoughts that we make real Now, this is our way. This is our path through life The way we walk, the path we tread, is a road from one decision to the next. We think about what we want, or we think about what we want to do, and then we do it. We act on it. So I ask: is it that easy for you? Is that how it goes? I'll be honest, it isn't always that easy for me. And for some people that I've spoken to, their thought-to-action process is anything but easy. If we are to stay on a certain path, a certain way of living, we must be able to know what decisions we should make and what actions we should take. So, how do Christians do this? How do we stay focused in all of life on God and on His way Well, last month we learned from the first stanza, the Alas stanza of Psalm 119, that our prayer life is important because it is how we demonstrate our understanding of how we relate to God. We pray recognizing that we must obey God and that such obedience is only possible if we are wholly dependent on Him. In the second stanza, this is the Bet stanza, the second letter of the Hebrew alphabet, we are given a wonderful example of how we should relate to our God in regard to our way. Or how we choose to live before our God. Now, brothers and sisters, we face problems in this And the biggest problem we face in this trying to follow God's way is the noise that clouds are thinking. The enemies that cloud our thinking. This is the world, the flesh, and the devil. And the only way to cut through that noise is to hold true to God's word. So let us examine this second stanza of Psalm 119 together, and we will see that to live God's way, we must hold true to God's word. To live God's way, we must hold true to God's word. And we're going to look at this in two sections. We're going to see first God's way in verses 9 and 10. And then in the rest of this stanza, verses 11 through 16, we'll see God's word. So we see first that the way we should live is God's way. And the psalmist helps us understand some important things, some important aspects of God's way. We see first that God's way is the pure way. How can a young man cleanse his way? A cleansed way is a pure way. The concern is not how can a man keep going in what he wants to do? That's not a concern at all, is it? That's what comes most naturally to all of us to do whatever it is we want. The difficulty is in walking the clean, the pure, the righteous way. God's way. And to do this, we must first know what God's way is. And so we see that God's way is found in God's Word. The psalmist tells us. How can a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed according to your word. We can't hope to know God's way if we are completely ignorant of his mind. We must know him. We must know what he wants and what he says about what he wants. Now, Pastor Jesse has pointed out in the past that when we're invited to a friend's house, we don't bring a ladder with us and try to break in through the attic window. Right? We go to the front door that they open for us. To follow God's pure and righteous way requires that we see His way and that we obey Him by following His way. And so the psalmist says, With my whole heart I have sought you. To know God's way, the Christian must wholeheartedly seek him. And where can we find him? In his word. In his statutes, in his testimonies, in his laws, in his commandments, in the history that he records for us. This is how we come to know God, to know what God is like Like, to know his attributes and his characteristics. And this is so clear to us, thanks to the sermons on the Ten Commandments that we've been having for the last few months. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your mind, with all your strength, and your neighbor as yourselves. This sums up the commandments of God. God. Which is why the psalmist continues by saying, Oh, let me not wander from your commandments. Again, we see the ever-present dependence we must have on God. The psalmist cries out in his prayer that God would not let him wander from God's way. Well, brothers and sisters, how often are you disappointed with your efforts to turn away from sin? Are you completely satisfied that you have avoided every single temptation that was brought into your life this past week? Or do you cry out to God, as the psalmist does here, begging God not to allow you to even step off of the path, to wander even a little bit from His way? Well, that is God's way. And the rest of this stanza is vitally important for any who wish to please the Lord by living lives according to his way, by walking in his pure and righteous path. Because to know God's way We must know God's Word, and we must hold true to His Word. So let's look at verse 11. We see from the Psalmist Prayer here That this is first done by purposefully ingesting God's word. He says, your word I have hidden in my heart. How can God's word Occupy such a secret, such a special place in our life, if we don't even know what it says. If you don't know the words to a song, could you claim that it's your favorite song? So we have to read it. We have to ingest it. We have to take it in and make it part of us. And we see that this is done with a purpose. That I might not sin against you. Have you ever noticed that before? That reading God's Word, memorizing it, hiding it in our hearts is not a vain exercise. It's not just for our personal growth. It's not just for our personal benefit. It's not just for our personal enjoyment, even. If you're struggling with sin, And you want to stop sinning against God, take the example from this psalmist. Increase the frequency, the duration, the intensity of your personal Bible study. Hide God's word in your heart. Beg Him to use it to keep you away from sin, or in other words, to keep you on His path, to keep you on His way. Now it isn't enough. Just sit and jest it. The psalmist shows by his example that we must learn from it. And we see this in verse 12. He says, Blessed are you, O Lord, teach me your statutes. There are two things we see in this verse about learning from God's Word. First, it's a blessing from God that we can learn about Him in His scripture. He has condescended to speak to us in a way that we can understand with language, with words. So when we're studying and learning, we must be doing it as an act of worship. Just as the psalmist here is doing, he cries out in the midst of his prayer: Blessed are you, O Lord. And the second thing we got to notice from verse 12: it is God who teaches you from his word. Make no mistake about it, brothers and sisters. If you learn about God from His Word, it does not give you license to boast about your intelligence or to boast about your learning or to take pride in your deep understanding. And this is the problem of uh of the Gnostics. The Gnostics had this secret knowledge. They thought that only certain people with extraordinary piety and extraordinary devotion could learn the true things, the secret. things about God. That's hogwash. That's nothing. God has given his word to all of his people It's accessible to all. There are perfectly adequate and helpful translations out there that put the Bible into plain English language so that anyone can understand it. But we must be aware that any understanding we have of God from the scriptures, even if it's from an easy-to-read version, is a gift from God, not from ourselves. There are loads of people who read the same words we do and get nothing from it. It is the Spirit of God dwelling in us that makes the word effectual unto our salvation. It is the blessed Lord who teaches us from His Word. We cannot force God to reveal Himself to us. So if we are to stay in God's way, to stay on God's path throughout our life, then we take the Word of God into us, reading it, ingesting it. It, maybe listening to it. And we do this for the purpose of pleasing God with our obedience, that we might not sin. And we depend upon His blessing us with understanding so that we will learn from His Word. Well, next the psalmist shows us that we must remind ourselves of all that we've ingested. We have to remind ourselves Of what it is that we've hidden in our hearts, what it is that we've read. We must remind ourselves what we have learned from the Word. And so we must rehearse it. And we see this in verse 13. He says, With my lips I have declared all the judgments of your mouth. Now this is talking about something other than just reading out loud, though we could probably have a fun conversation about the merits and benefits of reading Scripture out loud. We can do that over dinner if you want. What the psalmist is talking about here is the daily rehearsal of the truths of the gospel, which God Himself teaches us in His Word. And people can do this in all kinds of ways. Marcy, I was in her office this afternoon, and she's got some scripture up on the walls. And it's nice. When you take a look up there, you just see the scripture and you remind Pastor Jesse used this as an example of writing the laws and teachings and commandments of God on the doorposts of our homes. We rehearse what we have. learned. And we do this for a reason. We do this so that it's not easily forgotten. We do this so that it's fresh, so that it's ready to be used. We can understand this idea of rehearsal from the idea of musical rehearsals, right? If you've ever been part of a musical production or maybe a a Broadway show or something like that, you probably had rehearsal after rehearsal after rehearsal, always rehearsal, constantly reinforcing the way that the show should go, the way that the music should sound. And you do this so that it becomes second nature So that when you're out there on this stage in front of the lights and everything, you don't just you don't just play them up. You can do it without a thought Well, brothers and sisters, we are constantly rehearsing and reminding ourselves of what we learn in the Word. We do it with our lips. We do it with our mouths and with our voices. We do it by writing things down. We declare the judgments of God's voice. We declare the testimony of his word, and we do this so that his way will become even better than second nature, so that it becomes our only nature. So, that the only thing we want is what God wants us to do according to His Word. We ingest God's word with purpose. We are taught by God in His Word and learn about Him from it. We remind ourselves often of the things that God teaches us in His Word. And I know all of this can seem really academic. And I don't want you to be misled into thinking that God only cares about whether or not we do the acts of Bible study. But we see in verse 14 that it's not enough just to go through the motions with these things. We must rejoice in God's word. See what he says there. He says, I have rejoiced in the way of your testimonies as much as in all riches. Remember, our Lord doesn't want useless sacrifice That's what he said in the first chapter of Isaiah. And if you haven't read that in a while, it's a good chapter that you could read this week to remind yourself of what happens to those who wander from God's way. But listen to this, what it says in verses 11 through 13. This is from the first chapter of Isaiah. To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices to me, says the Lord? I've had enough of burnt offerings, of rams and the fat of fed cattle. I do not delight in the blood of bulls or of lambs or goats. When you come to appear before me, who has required this from your hand to trample my courts? Bring no more feudal sacrifices. Incense is an abomination to me. The new moons, the Sabbaths, and the calling of assemblies. I cannot endure iniquity and the sacred meeting Our obedience must come from the heart. And it must be precious to us. As precious as all the riches in all the world And this idea of rejoicing in God's Word as one would rejoice in great riches is very fascinating to me. I started to think, I started to wonder How many of us would rejoice in the Word of God more if all of these precious truths, these precious nuggets, were actually gold? Or diamonds or rubies or gift cards to iTunes. If after every chapter you read Another gold babaloon dropped out of your Bible, how often would you be reading your Bible? Don't you realize That the blessing of knowing God is far greater, far more important, far more beneficial than any diamond, than any jewel, than any bank account It is the treasure which moth and rust cannot destroy. It is eternal good, eternal treasure. And to stay on God's path, on God's way through life, we read God's word with purpose We are blessed to be taught by Him through it so that we can learn from it. We rehearse it and remind ourselves daily of what we've been taught. And all of this is a joy. Joy for us. Christians must rejoice in God's word even more than you would rejoice in winning the super mega uber bajillion dollar lottery. Even though you think every single one of your problems would be solved with that, it's not true. If all these things are true that the psalmist has said here, These things he's shared with us in his prayer that's been recorded, then is there anything else in this world which should occupy our time, or our minds, or our attention more than God's Word? No! Look at verse 15. He says, I will meditate on your precepts and contemplate your ways. Now, this is not the meditation of the pseudo-spiritual culture in which we live or the eastern mystical religions, right? This is not a trying to empty your mind of all thought This is Christian meditation, where the Word of God, being the focus of our mind and mental activity, forces all other thoughts into their proper place. When you are focused on the word, it will clear your mind of all those nonsense thoughts that the pseudo-spiritual meditation is trying to get you to do yourself. When the Word of God is in the place of honor in our minds, it pushes those thoughts with which we are bombarded out of the central place and into the fringes. It pushes it where they belong. And often you'll find this: when God's word is central in your mind and in your life, it will entirely eradicate. Some of those thoughts that you just shouldn't have at all. And lastly, brothers and sisters, we have to love God's word. This is the last thing the psalmist shows us here. Look at verse 16. I will delight myself in your statutes. I will not forget you. your word. We know all about delighting ourselves, don't we? Have you ever been delighted by a book? You know it's one of those books that as you're reading it, you just can't put it down. And when you're forced to put it down, you get angry. And every spare second of your life is just to go to that book so you can read a little bit more Maybe that one doesn't work for you. Maybe it's Netflix. Maybe it's a TV show. We call it binge watching, don't we? You start one episode and before you know it's seven seasons and three weeks of your life are gone. We know how to delight ourselves. And we know what it's like when we delight in something. Has God's word ever been such a delight to you? Have you ever longed for the time to read the Bible? When you're presented with a choice, Xbox or the Bible, what do you choose? Netflix or the Bible? What do you choose? Worrying about all the things that you can't fix in your life, or the Bible, what do you choose? And I know that sounds strange, but some of us really do delight in worrying about the things we can't change, don't we? We should delight more in reading God's Word. In learning about God from it, in rehearsing the things that He's taught us, in rejoicing in the precious treasure that is His Word. And so we should love it. And delight in it. We delight in the things we love, and if we love God, we will delight in His Word, and if we love God's word, it will be a delight to us. We will binge read the Bible. Now this last statement that he says, it takes some thinking on our part. He says, I will not forget your word. And another way of saying forget is to say that something passes from our mind. And the psalmist is saying here that he will never let God's word pass from his mind. Now, my mother, God bless her, she used to teach me that I should think about forgetting as a species of neglecting If we forget something, an appointment, a duty, a date, if we let it pass from our mind, it's because we've neglected it in our minds. And it must not have been very important to us. Now, we we've gotta you've gotta put some boundaries around that. There are lots of things that happen that can cause us to forget things. Children are the number one reason that we forget things. But there is a little bit of truth to this, and it should give us something to think about. If we forget God's word, was it ever important to us? If we neglect God's word, is it a delight to us? Do we love God? And as the psalmist here prays, so we should pray that we would never, ever neglect God's word, never, ever let it pass from our minds. And since we don't neglect the things we love, if we love God's word, we won't neglect it. Now life is difficult. To stay on the true and the pure and the righteous way of God, to have our way cleansed, we must hold true to God's word by purposefully ingesting it. Taking it into us that we might not sin, by learning from it as God's great blessing to us, by reminding ourselves of God's judgments and testimonies that are contained in His Word. And rejoicing in it more than we rejoice in anything else in this entire world. By meditating and contemplating it, so that it fills our minds and expels all those false thoughts that we shouldn't have. And by loving it, so that God's word is a delight to us that we would never, ever dare neglect Well, brothers and sisters, this is the only way to navigate through life. To stay on God's way, the cleansed way. We have to hold true to His word Don't get caught up in treating your life the way we treat some illnesses. Right? The Bible is not cold medicine. It's not dayquil. Do you understand what I mean by that? You ever get sick, get a cold, you feel uh the you got the ooginess and the goopiness And all you want is to get back to regular life. So you take some pills that say they're gonna clean all that up, and all it does is treat the symptoms. And sometimes you do this and you end up with a cold for four or five weeks. Because you haven't actually done anything. You've just dulled the responses that your body's having so that you can get back to busyness and work and everything else. Well, brothers and sisters, we have to treat the cause of the illness if we want to actually kill it and recover from it. Too often in life, we're knocked out of sorts by a life cold. It comes out of nowhere, everything's all of a sudden harder. Everything's just impossible to focus on anything. It feels like everything's just dreary and gross And you don't want to do anything or go anywhere or be around people or say anything. It hits us. And I beg you, don't reach for cold medicine when that happens. Don't look to drugs or alcohol or relationships or sports or Netflix or Xbox. Don't look to anything. To dull those symptoms go only to the cure, to the balm. Go only to Jesus Christ. Go only to God's Word. So that the true problem can be addressed. Not just the symptoms. Have you ever tried to drive in a downpour and you didn't have working windshield wipers? It's impossible. All the rain, all the water on the windshield, it's just so cloudy. It's just so you can't see anything clearly. You have to go really, really slow, or maybe even just stop. You stop altogether. You just can't see the way to go. Well, in life, that's what the noise of the world, the noise of our flesh, and the noise of the devil are trying to do. To cloud the way so that we can't see it. The enemy is trying to hinder your view, blocking your ability to see God's way. Don't allow this to cripple you Don't allow the enemy to attack you. God has given you his holy word. And it wipes away all that. It clarifies the way. It gives you a clear path that you can follow. Let us take the example of the psalmist. And endeavor to pray to our Lord, begging Him to keep us on His pure and cleansed way, His righteous way, by making us lovers of His Word. That we hold true to his word. Now we're at that time of our worship service for our congregational prayer. And I think it's perfect that we've started to put these at the end of the