Well, we have just sung it, but Allah, please allow me to read Psalm 130 and I'll ask for a prayer of illumination, which we desperately need. Here's Psalm 130. It is a song of ascent or of pilgrimage. Out of the depths I have cried to you, O Lord. Out of the depths I have cried to you, O Lord. Lord, hear my voice Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications. If you, Lord, should mark iniquities. O Lord, who could stand? But there is forgiveness with you. That you may be feared I wait for the Lord. My soul waits. And in His word I do hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than those who watch for the morning. Yes, more than those who watch for the morning. Oh Israel. Oh Israel, hope in the Lord For with the Lord there is mercy, and with him is abundant redemption, and he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities. Please pray with me. Father, this is a psalm by our covenant representative here compiled for us, the church. Lord, let this be a blessing unto us. Use it as a means to refresh our spirits, to create sober-mindedness, and above all, to give us the ability to wait for you. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen. Where were you last Saturday? Around 3 p. m. I was in a little peninsula of woods right off of a cornfield. And what happened to me sounds like it happened to you also. All of a sudden there was a mighty rushing wind upon your house, and the cold front had hit. I thought we were going to die in the woods. It was bad. I was on the top of a fifteen foot deer stand trying to strap it in when the wind happened. That was not fun. Those winds are often used in the stories of our culture and of cultures past, of other things that suddenly come upon us, particularly circumstances. You can see even within the literature that has been put out by the by one churchman, John Bunyan, that In Pilgrim's Progress, there is one wind, one cold wind upon his face and another, and you really see Pilgrim walking into the wind the whole time he's on his way to the celestial city. It's a really beautiful picture of what it means to walk in the wilderness here. It's a picture of our lives. If you notice in the Psalm, it's a song or a psalm of ascent. It is a psalm of pilgrimage, is another translation. It's a psalm that is used in moving up to the temple and taking a pilgrimage, the people of God taking it a pilgrimage, and someone would recite these things as they go. There'd be different stops perhaps. You could even think of it as taking different steps up toward the temple, and in each step there'd be a different choir. And we see in this psalm, in this psalm, of the sense that they are also walking into the wind. This whole thing is about a wind that has come upon all of the people of God, and He is teaching them how to take each step of the cold front that blows upon our lives. Now, when you think of that, what do you think the Psalm is going to be about? When I say the cold front of your life, you usually think Of circumstances that are beyond your control, that enter in some diagnosis, something accidental that happens to you. And now you have to bear it because God in his providence has thought fit to lay that on your lap. And those are true. God does providentially place those on our lap. But surprisingly, this pilgrimage The wind in his face are not circumstances that are accidental. The wind on his face here and on ours is a wind of sin. It is a cold front of sin. that he will wrestle with in his entire pilgrimage to the celestial city, which is exactly what we see in the Pilgrim's Progress also. Now if you take a look at the big idea, it captures this. In your bulletin, you can see an outline there. The big idea of this Psalm, Psalm 130, may be very surprising to you. Although the news was in some sense Difficult to hear, I also found it refreshing. And that's this: experienced believers may become entangled in sin But will rise from that trouble through hope in the forgiveness of God. That's the main idea, and I'm breaking this down into three parts. Our storm, our calm, and then our duty will be the application portion. So let's just break apart that big idea and by doing that look at the psalm as a whole as we seek to learn how to take this pilgrimage with this psalmist. The first thing we see is the storm that is present. In verses 1 and 2, believers may in fact be entangled with a deep sense of their sin Now to be entangled, you usually think of fishing line, it's a little broader than that. I've been entangled in fishing line. It's a little broader than that though. To be entangled is to be in a situation which is just basically difficult to escape. That's the idea. The entanglement is painted in verses 1 and 2 as a raging sea. So let's take a look at verses 1 and 2 here. Out of the depths I have cried to you, O Lord. And then he continues. Out of the depths, if you were to look at Psalm 69, verse 2, or Psalm 69, 14, I'll just give you those two examples. Out of the depths is speaking about water. I sink in the deep mire where there is no standing. I have come into deep waters where the floods overwhelm me. Now I want you to stop because I get some sense that you're just hearing me read words. This is a human experience. The flood is overwhelming this gentleman, and he is a representative for his church. I know that you have felt this. Listen to 69. 14. Deliver me out of the mire and let me not sink. Let me be delivered from those who hate me and out of the deep waters. When you begin to look at it that way you can see this deep, the depths here are the water, then the second verse, when he is Lord, hear my voice. This is clearly a picture of someone crying out with the lay the waves lapping upon their head. It is a person who needs help because they are about to drown. But the drowning is from what? I understand that we can drown in circumstances. We can feel like we are going to. We never do because of the goodness of God. But we can feel like it's up to here. And we're barely doggy paddling. But what are the waves? The waves, you continue on in verse 3 If you, Lord, should mark iniquities, he is what is on his mind is his sinfulness. Now, is that surprising to you? Here we have a believer Who is not crying out because of his circumstances, although that would be entirely possible. He is crying out because of the waves of his sin that are lapping against his face. The psalmist is entangled or drowning in a deep sense of his sin. The psalmist is drowning in guilt from sin and fear of God's wrath and of God's displeasure. Listen to this other psalm, Psalm 88. This is verses 6 and 7. You have laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, in the depths. Now listen to this. Your wrath lies heavy upon me. And you have afflicted me with all your waves. Do you see that sense that he has of God's deep displeasure with the sin that is a part of his life? Now, this sin entanglement that we see within the believer is the part of the believer's life. You don't hear that oftentimes in modern-day Christianity about the believer struggling with sin, and yet every one of us do it every day. Here, what a refreshing honesty we have here in this psalm. This is definitely a believer. He's a scribe of the community. He's writing a psalm that will be compiled in inspired scripture. He's definitely a believer because he's the leader of the community. In verse 7, you can see that he is going to call upon the entire congregation to do what he is doing, to confess their sin. He is flailing in waves of sin and guilt, and this is entirely consistent for the believer to be doing. Do you believe that? That as a believer, you can still flail in waves of sin and of guilt, that it is entirely consistent with the covenant of grace into which you have been brought. Under the covenant of works, if you sinned, everything would have been lost. Everything. You just would have drowned. You just would have won under. There'd have been no crying out. But here in the covenant of grace, if you sin, all is not lost, because the continuance of the covenant, you entering into the covenant is not based upon your merit whatsoever, but upon the merit of Jesus Christ, and so it allows you, so to speak. to have sinned. We resemble, if you will, ancient Israel inheriting the promised land. Think of your Bible stories. They enter the promised land under Joshua, and Israel seeks to possess the land. And what is the one constant besides the faithfulness of God? The other constant is that they can't get the other pagans out of the land. The Canaanites just keep showing up. They're like mold on a bathroom ceiling. You know what I mean? Yeah. You can find you know, whatever infomercial says is going to be gone, it's gonna be back. That's what they're like. And similarly, although Christ has conquered and in giving us his spirit has given us a new self-center and core, a new nature. Yet the mold of sin still blooms in our own souls as believers. Hence the time of confession and worship And these sins, under the fatherly hand and discipline of God, they entangle us. That's what he's saying here. I'm entangled in sin. They feel like waves that are lapping against my face. And I can feel the grief. I can feel the wrath of God. I'm reminded that He hates this. It's fallen deeply upon my soul, and I feel entangled. I feel like I can't escape from this. There's a class of sins that especially do this, and you can find them in the lists of sins usually in the New Testament. Particular like Romans 1, homosexuality. These are called special sins by some. We fall into the sin of homosexuality Or we choose to be greedy, or we choose to covet, or we choose to be envious, or we create division. Or we become backbiters. Or we are gossips. Or we will refuse to forgive people. Or we are untrustworthy. These are all from Romans 1. Or we are deceitful. These special sins, particularly after God has just revealed some special Gifts that he has given to you. Like if you just heard an entire series on all the gifts that he gives, and then you walk out the door and you immediately enter into one of these. Then what can befall you, what can fall upon you, is a deep sense, an ever-deepening sense, an ever-deepening sea, a raging sea of God's wrath and displeasure can accompany those kinds of sins. And in addition, besides just the sins themselves, these special sins, you could also enter into this kind of state where you would feel like you're in the depths. When you fear exposure of your sin. I know you know that feeling too. Will you be found out? Will someone find out that you drink too much or that you take too many prescription pills? What if you were exposed? There are certain moments where the exposure could happen, and dread falls upon your soul. And God can bring the dread Himself. And there are many other things besides drinking or pills. And in addition to that God, mostly because of our hard-hearted responses, will exacerbate or stir up the grief that we feel. in our hearts. You could say, oh, this isn't too deep. It's only, you know, I have to tread because it's 15 feet, and then God will say, I'm going to make it deeper. You're going to tread in a hundred feet of water. And the waves will pick up. You don't believe me. Consider Psalm 38, verses 2 through 4. Listen to this psalmist. For your arrows pierce me deeply. And your hand presses me down. There is no soundness in my flesh because of your anger, nor any health in my bones because of my sin. For my iniquities have gone over my head, you hear the water? Like a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me There's the water imagery again of God in some sense putting you're you're barely keeping your your tread in the water, and God puts his hand on your head. And God may even withdraw a sense of his presence. Now, this is interesting. We have in Psalm 51 a hymn or song that we often sing, Create in Me a Clean Heart. Now, this is written by a believer. We know that the Holy Spirit is given to believers to sanctify them, to give them new natures, and to continue to work with them in sanctification. And yet here he says, Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me Do not cast me away from your presence, as if that's possible, and restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me by your generous spirit. There is a way in which, never, of course, entirely. But there is a way in which the joy of your salvation can be removed because God will remove the life of His countenance from your life because of the sin that is going on within your life, to increase the sense of displeasure, to increase the grief over the sin. And if you were to just flip through the Psalms and think of this theme, you would find more than you could imagine Of waves going over your head and God putting his hand on your head, pushing you down even further. Can you feel the waves lapping and the threatening? Can you feel the threat that is that is actually present here in Psalm 130? You see why I started the reading over? Because I was caught off guard when I first started reading. Out of the depths I have cried to you, O Lord. Hear my voice. Please. You hear it? That's the human spirit. That's the spirit of the church, more particularly. You can feel the threat. Now here's a beautiful scene for you as we transition to the second second point. I didn't allow us to flail in the water long enough. But we get the point. Now listen to this. In thinking about this, think about this in the New Testament. So Jesus said, come. And when Peter had come down out of the boat, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. But when he saw that the wind was boisterous, he was afraid. And beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, Lord, save me. You hear the psalmist? Lord save me. And immediately Jesus stretched out his hand and caught him. And that's the picture that we have with this second point here is we see a hand not pushing us down. But the same hand, the same disciplining hand giving us a hand to pull us up out of the depths, out of the water. But there are certain steps that the psalmist takes us through because we're on a pilgrimage And a pilgrimage consists of steps. Consider verses three and four. Believers find relief in the forgiveness of God from their calamity. From their sinful storm, we move into our calm from the storm through the forgiveness of God. Verses 3 and 4, they present two steps. And again, you can think of this as like walking up to the temple, if you will. There's two steps here. There is a step of preparation and there is a step of relief. The first step Here in verses 3 and 4, is that the sin-distressed believer must fully acknowledge his guilt You would think in the first two verses that he had dwelt on his sin long enough, but in the third verse, it is the continuing theme. It is pervasive. He says, if you, Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? The intonation here is one of almost despair. He is crying out from the waves because of his sin. This shows a deep acknowledgement within the person. He recognizes the situation he's in. But he also expands out and he sees that this is something that is across the human race. Consider Psalm 38 with a similar expression, for I am ready to fall, and my sorrow is continually before me. For I will declare my iniquity, I will be in anguish over my sin. Can you say that? Have you ever been to the point where you can say, I am in anguish over my sin? You may answer no because you've never allowed it to go this far, because you've never completed the first step. The first step is to let yourself be in anguish over your sin. That's what he's pointing out here. He's in anguish personally, and he looks around and he sees there's no one better. He says, Across the land, if you were to consider, if you were to stare at anyone on upon the whole face of the earth Especially the church, no one would be able to stand the judgment. We struggle with being tempted, and we have barely anguish. We can buy into today's Christian culture and we don't believe that the law is important, so we're not really sure what's sinful anyway. Or we kind of get a sense that these things are sinful because of our conscience, and then we still don't know the law, so we let the we define the words that express the law in a way that would let us off the hook. That's called not knowing God's word, not meditating upon it. Or you can steer your conscience in order to never do this first step. Now, uh this term can only be so long. It's already too long. And there are so many different ways to sear the conscience. Would you just listen to a couple so that you can hear, or several so that you can hear ways in which you can't you'll keep yourself from completing this first step. Here's something you could say. This sin is not as bad as the sin of other people. What's the implication? The inference then is not logical, but it's I don't need to consider this sin. I don't need to acknowledge the guilt of it. You get out from under it. It's a way to clothe yourself in something that God doesn't clothe you in. This sin is only temporary. There's no need to address it. And you keep saying that to yourself Because you only do it once every week, and then the other times of the week you don't do it, so it's only temporary. That's insanity. Of course I'm sinning. My life is difficult. If the other person would treat me better, then I would not have to sin. What's the use? What's the use? Well, I think we all know that one. Here's one. I hate you, God. You only make me look at my sin because you're cruel. And now I can just keep sinning. Because he's the one that's put me in this situation. What's the big deal? This one's from the eighties. Everyone sins What's the big deal everyone sins? Each one of those statements that you will say say inside your own mind, and I guarantee you'll say one of those statements today. I know you've already said it. Every one of those statements is a way for you to get off the hook. Now picture the hook. Picture me taking Jack and putting him up on a hook, and then he figures out a way to get off the hook. The point here of this and the first step is you've got to remain on the hook. You've got to be on the hook, and you say, I'm on the hook. You've got to stop wiggling around as if you could get off. You have to acknowledge I'm stuck. And when you and the way that we do that is we say, I am a sinner. And we would do it with a depth. We would do it to where we are grieved or in anguish over our sin. That's the first step that he gives here. And when you do, you may move on to the second step and not before. When you do, you are ripened for the second step, and that leads you to the acknowledgement of the only cure that is possible for your condition. The only cure is presented here in verse 4, but there is forgiveness with you. What a beautiful statement. That's what all the scriptures are about. There's forgiveness with our God. And it is based upon his nature. With you is not something that just walks along with him, it's his very self. He's revealing who he is in his in his being, that he is gracious and that he is merciful The cure is based on God's nature. In the words of the Psalm, forgiveness is not with God accidentally, but it is with who He is. God, you are by nature merciful. And now this becomes public knowledge, which is the reason for all of the decorations in our sanctuary. It is the reason for every worship service. The public knowledge of God's mercifulness is called the gospel. The gospel is the good news that God is graciously fulfilling his promises to his people. Did you hear, Mary? In the reading from this morning. Did you hear Elizabeth? They were reciting promises that were being fulfilled. That was the good news. That what God had said that was a part of His Word is now coming to light. And that is what we are celebrating now, is that there is in fact Forgiveness, the ultimate forgiveness will be given. The mercy of the Father will be seen in the advent uh the advent of the Savior. The mercy of the Father is seen in the advent of the Savior. When you see Jesus, when you behold his face by faith, you should see God the forgiver. His body manifests that. He's here. He's incarnate that he might be human to take upon our nature. That he might be a perfect sacrifice in his perfect obedience, all to forgiveness, all for mercy. The entire Advent season, the entire Christian life, is us with ways lapped against our face and the hand of Jesus incarnate reaching down and pulling us out of the waves. That is the great good news. You can hear my voice is good. I pray that it's good to you When you see Jesus, you see God the forgiver, God the Father sending, Jesus accomplishing, the Spirit applying. There is forgiveness with God. Now there's a third point which is really surprising here. I, when I It was studying and meditating upon the psalm. When I got to this third point, in the very last sentence of verse 4, I literally had to push my office chair back. And just close my eyes and pray at what was being said. This next point is that out of all of this, there arises a duty. Believers must attend and assist. Those are the two duties. Four through eight. I know on yours it says five through eight. Change that to four through eight. This is where things get really interesting. Look at verse 4. And it says it begins with that. This is a statement of purpose. The purpose, then That we would know God's forgiveness. The purpose of knowing His forgiveness is, according to this Psalm, that God may be feared. Now follow the steps here. The purpose of you knowing God's forgiveness is in order for you to fear him, to fear God, and I can't go in a long proof of this. We can talk later if you want. It's it's all over the scriptures. It's really easy to prove. The fear of God is to serve Him from the heart. Hear what I'm saying? The purpose of knowing God's forgiv forgiveness is for you to fear him and fear is serving being obedient to God from the heart. Now connect the two ends. The purpose of you being forgiven is so that you can keep on serving. Do you see what the psalmist is doing here? Part of the depths for him His identity is as a servant of God, and yet his service is threatened, because if he can't be forgiven, then why continue serving? Why continue to lay one condemnation upon his head after another? If he fails in serving God and there is no forgiveness, then why bother continue continuing to serve? But what he is saying here is that there's hope, and that the hope leads us to greater service If there is, and there is, forgiveness in Christ every time you sin, then we may keep working as forgiven people. Even when we sin in our service to God, we may be forgiven and then continue serving Him. Our hearts are brought down in the depths because of our sin. But then we see a hand reach and pull us out, and he says, You're forgiven in Jesus Christ, and we say, Well, I'm feeling even more thankful, and now I'm going to serve even more. Nothing could stop me from serving The only reason why he would be displeased is to straighten me out that I might be a better server. There is therefore now no condemnation in Jesus Christ, as the Apostle Paul says. For the sake of you continually serving, not just to have fluffy feelings, that feeling you get When you have a warm drink that you live for and then a book is just a feeling Here, he's giving you these things. He's giving you these emotions and these convictions so that you would continue serving him So here, quite naturally, is the next step in the Psalm. Now that you see that purpose clause, it moves into two duties. One, you have a duty to yourself. Two, you have a duty to other people. That's the couplets in the Psalms. Take a look. I wait for the Lord, verses 5 and 6, that's you. I. And then 7 and 8 is a communal call. Oh Israel. I have a duty to you to call you to the same thing I just went through. And so, again, you might be surprised. What is the duty? What is the duty that He gives to us? You have a duty to believe in God's forgiveness. As Rob was saying earlier, you have a duty to re believe in God's forgiveness. You must wait for it, he says. Because sometimes we don't feel forgiven. And when you don't, you must wait for it. Here's the problem. The original picture here for them is this is a very important psalm for them that they know that they're forgiven because they're in exile right now, literally in political exile. And they need to know that God is going to restore them. But you know, after they sing this for many years, there's still no restoration. They have to wait. They have to rest upon what God has said, and they must wait, believing that God will take them out of exile. And we have the exact same situation for us, but it is a kind of spiritual Partial exile, if you will, for our discipline, our discipline. We are to know, it says in the New Testament, we are to know the things that are freely given to us through Jesus Christ But what happens in his discipline of us, those privileges that are ours through Jesus Christ, they may be diminished at certain times in our lives where we don't really realize the privileges, or they may be intermittent. And so you may feel not loved, not forgiven. The Holy Spirit, as I'd already shown, may be removed in certain ways to where you would want to cry out. Restore on to me the joy of my salvation because it feels a little dreary right now. I feel down in the dumps. And here your duty is to wait. If your service can only really happen if you believe that you've forgiven, but you're struggling with believing that you are forgiven. If you're struggling to believe the privileges that are yours in Jesus Christ, he says here that you have the discipline, you have the duty to wait until you do And of course that's an act of waiting through meditation. In verse 6, he shows us how to wait. He says In verse 5, I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and he shows us how to wait. My soul waits for the Lord more than those who watch for the morning. Those who watch for the morning were soldiers on the night watch. The night is very dangerous. They're on edge because of attacks, and thieves break in at night, and a sense of relief happens in the morning. They therefore wait with a joyful anticipation for the morning. I can't wait For me to realize in actuality the privileges that I have in Jesus Christ. I can't wait for the hand to reach down and pull me out of the waves And here's the second one. They therefore wait with confidence because they know the sun will rise. Can you imagine sitting next to a watchman? A soldier, and you say, I can't wait for the morning, he says, Well, you know, maybe there'll be a morning, maybe there won't be. I don't know. I mean we know people that like that that, you know, do the whole question landing on the moon thing. Is that who we are spiritually? Are you spiritually a person that questions whether we landed on the moon? Will the morning rise or not? And which is more sure? The one who makes the morning or the morning herself? If you are his, see this is where we start to already break down the spiritual problem because if you have little doubts inside of yourself saying it may not rise, I know my God, sometimes he just doesn't show up, then you don't know him very well. He said to wait for him. He is always faithful and he always does the right thing, and he will reveal his forgiveness to you through Jesus Christ and all of the blessings of the new covenant. But we have to wait, and as Americans especially, we don't wait well. You have to imagine yourself being lost at sea. In some sense. Here's another tip. He says, if you want to be able to wait, because you're waiting and there's not instant gratification, American, you must wait in my word. And what he's saying here is that you have to imagine yourself being lost at sea, and the storm is out at sea, but you can see the land. You know it's there, but you got to get through the storm. But we know that the land is there by faith and not by sight, and that's what makes it so difficult. We know that the joy of our salvation shall return to us through the Holy Spirit. We know from Romans 8:16 that this is true, because the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit. What does he bear witness to? That we are in fact children of God, one privilege among many of the gifts that are given to us in Jesus Christ. But sometimes we may lose that sense of assurance. And then we have to wait. It is our duty. We have to wait with patience, especially against temptations. In verse 6, he's emphatic. My soul waits for the Lord. I almost want to write in, but I can't do it. My soul waits only for the Lord, because that's the sense. I don't want anybody else. I don't want anything else. My soul only waits for the Lord when I have removed from me the countenance of God or the joy of my salvation. The temptation which each of us fall into, this is the great American sin. We never get through step one of acknowledging our sin. We have an inability to wait Because we always give in to some other comfort that the world offers us, and it has got to stop. If there's going to be spiritual growth, if there's going to be a development of intimacy with our God, the temptation To comfort ourselves in our sin by other means must leave. Here are some temptations. If I'm not doing well with God, well then I'll just love the acceptance of another person more than I love God. God doesn't matter to me. What matters to me is that I have a girlfriend. She's who I think about night and day. I lay upon my couch, pondering her. Those are scriptures that are meant for God. And yet that's what we see on social media. A preoccupation with the love and acceptance of another person, and this can happen in other areas also. We are entertaining ourselves to death. So that we don't have any time to consider what is happening between us and God. I don't really need to wait because I'm just going to completely forget what's happening to me spiritually, because I'm going to entertain myself to death. Or adventures, which is a kind of entertainment, but you go on another adventure so that you're totally consumed by it, and now you don't have to think about your situation and wait upon God. This can also happen in eating This can also happen in drinking. Many people drown their sorrows. That's why we have that proverb. And this can also take place, I have seen, even within myself. An inability to wait is resolved through shopping on Amazon. I know it sounds silly, but examine your heart. If God's not going to show up, I'm going to get some pleasure and forget about all this sin by just shopping. Now that sounds stupid, but it's so true. That's what happened. I'm gonna get excited that I got something in the mail coming to me. And then as soon as I get it, I'm gonna care less. And these are the things that you are to go through with the psalmist. But you have a second duty, and that is that you are to call others to wait. Now you can't do that if you don't know how to wait yourself. But imagine what it would be like to be near someone that knows how to wait. And now it's your turn to wait. You could go to that person, you could say, tell me about waiting. You could call them in the middle of the night and you say, I'm having trouble waiting. What do I do now? And that person could actually tell you. Because they know what it means to wait for the comfort of God through the Holy Spirit and to not short circuit the process. This is what it says in 2 Corinthians 1:3. You will receive comfort You will receive comfort from God, and that comfort that you receive is meant to then be turned, and you are to teach other people how God comforted you, that they also might be comforted by God. And now we have a communal effort To wait upon the Lord during our times of drowning in sin. Experienced believers may become entangled in sin But will rise from that trouble through hope in the forgiveness of God. That's really what this is all about. Today is about hope. And I'm telling you that this psalmist is telling us it is our duty to hope. It's not something that just falls upon you at Christmas season, it is your active duty to hope. Please hear this last quote from John Flable. The delay of your mercies is really for your advantage. The foolish child would pluck the apple while it's green. But when it is ripe, it drops of its own accord and is more pleasant and wholesome. Please pray with me.