Four thirty two through thirty seven. Now the multitude multitude of those who believed were of one heart and one soul. Neither did any one say that any of the things he possessed was his own, but they had all things in common And with great power the apostles gave witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. Nor was there any one among them who lacked, for all were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the proceeds of the things. And Joseph, who was also named Barnabas by the Apostles, which is trans Translated son of encouragement, a Levite of the country of Cyprus, having land, sold it, and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. Pray with me. Heavenly Father, we pray for illumination by your Holy Spirit that these uh words uh preached would be sealed to our hearts. In the name of Christ. Amen. Please be seated. We all have different pet peeves. Let me know if this is one of yours. When someone at the dinner table uses a steak knife to pick meat out of their teeth. Anyone ever have that experience? As it you know, as if that were okay because it was a steak knife. I mean w would you floss your teeth at the dinner table? Why the stake thing? Right. I I don't want to say any more about that. Uh because I'm getting angry. Obviously, the principle that this rests upon for my argument against doing this at the dinner table Is that it does not follow the prescribed intention and purpose of the knife. In fact, uh it so unfollows the intention or purpose of the knife that you could actually hurt yourself by putting the knife in your mouth. You could cut your gums. It just wasn't made for that. It could be used for that. Just like you could use a flathead screwdriver to pick your teeth if you wanted. But there are other things that are there for you to be able to do that in the bathroom. You can use some floss. Uh spoke to you about these kind of things before. This is just another one of those arguments saying that we should use use things according to their intended purpose. The knife to get meat out of teeth is not that Now, in all serious though, just you know that was just to get you thinking about purpose and intention. Let's talk about something more serious. What would you say the function or the purpose of the church is? And already we might be dealing with different definitions of the word church. You could have answered that by saying to hold youth events. Is that what I mean by church? The building? Or do we mean a community? These are different questions that arise as you try to answer that, but what would you say? Just right off the bat, how would you answer it? What would you say the function of the church is what is it that you believe and then what is it that you see in our society and and what do they believe about the function of the church? That it used to have a function and now it's kind of irrelevant and doesn't have much of a function Function. It's been taken over by different governmental programs. And then secondly, do you live in accordance with this purpose? Or do you use it in a way that it's not purpose, like a safe knife with your teeth? Is it a social club in order for you to have stability and friends? Uh is it a place for you like um a Bob Bob's big boy? I don't even think that exists any longer. Is it like a Bob's big boy where you would go and consume but not give anything back? Is that what the church is like? Well, that's what we're going to be considering today. We're asking about the identity of the church, and this is really the fifth foundation stone that we see in Acts. As we consider the larger purpose of witness, we know that our purpose is witness. We're trying to get to the bottom of that. We're trying to gain comfort and security on what does it mean to be witnesses? We're carrying this forward from the idea of witness or testimony from the Holy Week, where the very first thing that we saw is that Jesus ascends on high and sits at the right hand of the Father. Both in his human nature and as the Son of God, and He has a heart for sinners. Jesus' heart in heaven is expressed here on earth by the second foundation stone. He immediately sends his spirit We saw that in the second sermon. The third sermon, which was last week, is that not only do we have the Son, not only do we do we have the Spirit involved in witness, but we also have the Father. We saw as the church turned to prayer, which is also a foundation stone, that they turned to the Father, to whom they now have access through the Son, as the Spirit teaches them to pray. You remember the quote from Psalm 2? And they called upon the great creator Elohim, specifically referring to the Father who had sent the Son. And so we have this Trinitarian foundation, if you will, for witness in the church. We have the Son, we have the Spirit, we have the Father, and we also have prayer. We are to pray the promises to the Father, and the Father hears us through the Son, and the Spirit teaches us to pray those promises. And the Spirit is present with us even sometimes in church history through an earthquake, as we saw in last week's passage. And this foundation this week is the church. Which is a creation of the spirit. In fact, if you were to take the idea of creation and take the idea of function and thinking of witness, what we're supposed to be doing in our identity What you end up seeing in this passage is that the church is created to function as the dwelling place of God. That's our core identity. how you would determine if you're using it correctly or not. The church is created to function as the dwelling place of God. I want to look in this passage at the creation of the church. The function of the church, and then a foreshadow of what the church will become in 70 AD. So we start with the creation of the church, and you can see this right in the beginning. In verse 32. Now it's implied what I'm getting ready to say, and I'll point out exactly what I'm going to say here. Now the multitude of those who believed were of one heart and soul and then it goes on and it gives a different it gives a list of ways in which they were one heart and one soul So you could take those two main that category, they were unified, and then you could ask the question, well, how were they unified? And then you could begin to answer that by talking about shared possessions. You could turn to Acts chapter 2, where there's a almost a word-for-word restatement of or original statement of this passage, and you can see that they not only shared possessions. But the the apostles uh teaching and they broke bread with one another. In other words, they're unified. But the thing that I want to point out here before we go into those details is a continuation of the narrative thread that's going on here with I don't want you to miss something, because the author is definitely trying to point this out. And the thing that I don't want you to miss is that the formation of the Christian Church, both then and now, Is a creation of Jesus Christ through the power of the Holy Spirit. The formation of the Christian Church is a creat is a creation or a new creation of Christ through the Holy Spirit. Now you can begin to see this just by considering the context. Remember, we're looking at the narrative thread and how this whole jewel of a passage is set within the ring of this context. This is the second time that Luke has summarily described Christian community. You can see the first time in Acts. Chapter 2, right around verse 44, Luke decides to describe the unity that's happening within the Christian community. And both of those summaries follow the pouring out of the Holy Spirit as he accompanies the preaching of the Word. The very first time that follows, you see, Pentecost. You see Peter's sermon, and then immediately there's a some there's a summary of Christian unity. Here you see the people go to the Father in prayer. Then they immediately have an earthquake. They ask for the filling of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is given to them. And then you see this here. You see another summary of Christian unity. The unity that they have is that they are of one heart and one soul, it says in this passage. It also says that they are unified in the disciples' teaching in two forty four. It says uh or is implied based upon what happened after Peter Peter's sermon. Actually, it's said explicitly that they're unified in the sacrament of baptism, and they are also unified in possessions. This entire context should bring out in high relief Seeing all of the different items being present, that this is really an emphasis upon the great work of the Spirit that Jesus Christ has sent to his church. to begin creating the new creation now that he will fulfill later. If you want that in just real quick summary fashion, look at Ephesians chapter 4 In Ephesians chapter 4, it says that you should endeavor to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. And now listen to this list. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called and one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. One God and Father of all, who is above all and through all and in you all. As the Apostle Paul reflects on the work of the Holy Spirit, he brings up almost all of and more of the elements that we see see here in the picture of the early church. It wouldn't surprise me if we were to speak to the Apostle Paul that he were reflecting upon what took place within the early church. and within early church plants as the Holy Spirit began to form and create this new community. Don't miss the point. Before we start getting into the details, don't miss the narrative thread that's running all the way through. Jesus ascends The Father gives Jesus the Spirit because Jesus was perfectly obedient. Christ sends the Spirit. The Spirit accompanies the preached word, and he gives rebirth, and the Spirit unites these people as a family. And that's exactly what you see here. It is a creation of Jesus Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit. A really excellent image for this. To get your brain around this and to see not only just this context of what's going on here, but to see the entire biblical context is to think about Jesus Christ as fulfilling the creation mandate. Now think about that. Think about what's going on here. In the book of Acts, we have seen over and over again quotes from prophets saying that which was anticipated has finally come to be. We've seen Isaiah, we've seen Joel, and we've seen others, Ezekiel, Amos. Now, if that's the case, then we should expect to look back uh through history of biblical revelation and find that this is fulfilling a very an even larger narrative thread than just the new creation created by the Holy Spirit This is in fact the fulfillment of something before. And the way in which we can talk about this, I think that keeps our feet firmly planted is Christ fulfilling the creation mandate. Now what is the creation mandate? Be fruitful and multiply. Take care of the garden, right? Form godly human society. It was what was given to Adam and Eve, this picture, both the creation that was created, then placed within the creation in Genesis chapter two. But what we end up seeing there is instead of Adam being fruitful and multiplying and creating godly culture. It is through his sin that now the nature of sin enters into human beings, and instead of creating a godly culture, there is a godless culture. In fact The first two boys can't agree. One becomes envious upon the other, and he murders his brother, leaving him in the field. For his blood to drain out, and then when confronted by God, he says, Huh, am I my brother's keeper? This is the kind of family that the first Adam ends up creating, and now The human beings have become a virus and a contagion upon the face of the earth, misusing God's resources, misusing one another, and misusing themselves. But God was not satisfied with leaving man in a state of sin and misery, but instead acts through a Redeemer to put them in a state of salvation. And so what we end up seeing is the new Adam, Jesus Christ, taking over the creation mandate that the first Adam failed in, and being fruitful and multiplying and having nothing but godly culture in a way that we never anticipated. No, Jesus did not have biological sons or daughters. But through his spirit, he has more children than anyone has ever had upon the face of the earth. This through the Spirit He is giving birth to one child after another that is then being taken in by the Father and have their new family. And that is exactly the picture that we end up seeing here. Don't miss it. Luke is saying that that which we've been waiting for all the way since Genesis is arriving right here. The new Adam is finally filling the earth. He's being fruitful and he is multiplying, and now the garden can begin being taken care of under the leadership of the new Adam, Jesus Christ. Now that's a lot. But that's all here in this passage. That's the background that we need to be able to see. That's what's going on. Now the multitude of those who believed were of one heart And they were of one soul. And now we can get into the function of this church that had been anticipated for all time. That can that can be And so we turn to our second point. There's not only the formation or the creation by Jesus Christ through the Holy Spirit of this this community uh where he is being fruitful and multiplying, but there's also a function that they are to perform. And this gets at our identity. You can see if you stay along the thread of the Spirit, if the Spirit is the creat if Christ is the creator through the Spirit of this church, then it's only right to talk about what you see here listed in this passage as the fruits of the Spirit. Spirit that then serve a function. Take a look at the passage again. It starts to list the fruits. They are of one heart and they are of one soul. Neither did anyone say that any of the things he possessed was his own. But they had all things in common, and with great power the apostles gave witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. Nor was there any one among them who lacked, for all were possessors of lands or houses, sold them, and brought the proceeds of the things that were sold. You can see the fruits they are bearing here. If you were to flip back to chapter two I've already mentioned some of the things, but they also were sharing doctrine with one another. They had fellowship with one another. They had prayers with one another. Verse 42. They had breaking of bread or the sacraments with one another. They had hope with one another. This was the ultimate community, and all of these things were given to particularly function in order for the development of the kingdom of God In fact, what you could say here is that these things have been given to the church not just so that they would look like a some kind of loving community, but so that they would begin fulfilling The function or identity that they have here on earth. And that function or identity is in fact witness. You can see that it's at the very core of their being, our being, that the church is to witness. Take a look at that. See if you can find the word. It says it right there in verse 33. The word is there, and with great power the apostles gave witness. And notice again that it's to the resurrection of Christ. Now if you wanted to, you could divide the different gifts that have been given here according to function in two different ways. You could have an outward face function, or you can have an inward nurture function. I just pointed out the outward face is public proclamation concerning the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And the way that we talked about this before, notice again that the apostles are sharing about the person of Jesus and his work within redemption. So once again, we are confirmed of the content of our witness. But there's also an inward nurture that's taking place here. The church doesn't just face outside. The church also faces toward the inside in nurture. You can see this in the apostles' teaching is not just those for the outside, but those for the inside. That would be consistent through all the epistles that we end up seeing. They are loving one another in the fact that there's no poor among them. This is not a socialist club. They still own property. But they were generous with it. There's no poor among them fulfilling the Deuteronomic the Deuteronomy in terms of the people of God. If it wasn't prop just the property, then it would of course have been of their time and their talents You see the whole gamut being shared there as a Christian church is not only facing outward but facing inward with nurture. But I still want you to be able to see That nurture, the facing in, is still a witness to those who are without. And so you not only have the proclamation of the word. But you would have the nurture of the community end up being a witness. Now this is why do I say that? Look at the passage again And with great uh and great grace was upon them all, nor was there any one of them who lacked. What does it mean to say grace was upon them all? To say great grace was upon them all, certainly you know you could definitely say that it's God's grace upon them with with all of this the spiritual gifts that you end up seeing. But there's no reason why we couldn't also say, when you look at this same construction, the same sentence elsewhere, it means that they were in favor with those in society around them. In other words, think of the effect in Jerusalem when there were so many poor, so many crippled that had, because of their crippling, had been removed from the synagogue. And now you have a group of people arising within society that are not selfish but they take care of their own. They would be seen not as a blight upon the face of society. But that they would be seen as a benefit to society. People that take care of their own, and that ends up becoming a witness also And so you see that all of the gifts end up functioning here in this passage for the sake of witness, whether you have the gift of being able to speak Or whether you have the gift of being able to encourage one another or provide for one another, it all ends up being a witness, a proclamation to the world that the kingdom of God has come. And that Jesus Christ is that King. Now when you think about you fitting into this passage, let me just quickly say this and then I'll move on to the next point. When you think about you being pictured here, you may look at this and you may say, well, I doubt very much that I'm going to, with great power, give witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. I have a difficult time talking about those things. Others of you may say, Yeah, I actually I could do that. I understand that argument pretty well, and I could go ahead and keep testifying and witnessing, even under threat to the resurrection of the Lord. But again, notice that that's not the only way in which witness happens. There's also a community life that is going on. In fact, if you were to just think about this generally, what they are doing is they are serving one another. Now, there are over a hundred verses in just the New Testament alone that have the word one another. These are called the one another passages. And all it's pointing out are the different ways in which we can begin serving one another as a witness Now this doesn't end up having to be this is not complicated. So if you have ever have been uh lacked comfort in being able to witness, then here is your opportunity. For instance, in James 5. 9, it says, do not grumble against one another. Now, you all are actually really good at that, not grumbling against one another. But here's the problem. It's like when we look at the Ten Commandments. When the Ten Commandments say you shall not murder, we all go, shoot, no big deal. Not really Not tempted to murder, not murdering anybody today. You know, Jesus steps in and talks about the heart, but we don't bring that verse up. We just talk about physical murder. But when you when you take a look at those commandments and how they were understood within the scriptures Our confession does a really good job to point out that it's not just the negative of it that is the point, it's the positive And so the confession ends up saying something like this: not just that you're not to murder someone, but you are to look out for their every benefit that they would flourish in their life. And so when we look at James 5. 9, where there's one another passages, do not grumble against one another, that's not good enough that you just keep your mouth shut. And you grumble inside your own mind or when you're alone, it's the positive too. We have to encourage one another. We have to say nice things about each other because we get to. We get to affirm one another's gifts. So you can begin to see the picture of what if we were a group of people like that? What if instead of just keeping the words to you, you instead said it to someone? You know, I I notice that whenever there's a need around here, you're always right in the center of fixing that need. And I really wanted to let you know that you're a role model for me and my family. When's the last time you said something like that? To somebody. But there's people around here doing things all the time. Just being able to say an encouraging word is contributing now to a culture that this passage says is a culture that will witness to outside communities. That the spirit will come alongside so that we can have grace or favor with our society instead of being known as backbiters. So you not only have this formation, which is by the Spirit, you would expect therefore that there would be a the fruit of the Spirit that's functioning for the sake of witness, given that this is a book of Acts of the Apostles. We now move also into this foreshadow. Now I say foreshadow because it's only uh implicitly present within the passage, but I want to bring it out. I want to bring it out, and I think it's really been building, it's going to climax in Stephen's speech. And so I want you to see the foreshadow that's going on here. There's in this passage, there is the foreshadowing of a cataclysmic event. It's the destruction of the temple in seventy AD. significance of that. And this is why I say that. The temple leaders, think of the context that's going on here before we get back to this passage. The temple leaders, and the passage that we just preached on last week, how were they seen? They were not seen as Israel's shepherds any longer. The New Testament community began incorporating the leaders of the temple into Psalm 2 as the enemies of God's anointed one. Now they're viewing the temple leaders, those who are supposed to be Israel's shepherds, as if they're God's enemies instead. Speaking of them in the same category that he they would have spoken of the Greeks or the Babylonians. Instead of and then and then I want you to also consider, besides just that context of those leaders, now look at this particular passage. Look what's happening. Where are the proceeds going? Where is the almsgiving? Where is the tithe? Is it going to the temple? No, it's being laid at the apostles' feet here. You can see that in several verses. It's actually repeated within the next couple verses. For all who were possessors of lands, verse thirty-four, or houses, sold them and brought the proceeds of the things that were sold, and laid them at the apostles' feet. They laid them at the apostles' feet. Then you see, and here's the next argument. Look at this: one who is in the temple as an official position, a Levite. Takes his property, and he in verse 37 or verse 36 lays it at the apostles' feet. Later we'll see in Stephen's speech that Stephen, the first martyr, the deacon, is stoned because he speaks against the continuance of the temple of God. So here what you end up seeing taking all of these different pieces is that this is a foreshadow that the temple's system and her leaders were to be removed and replaced with the New Testament. Let me ask you, if Jesus the High Priest has already entered into the Holy of Holies and has given a sacrifice once for all, then what in the world is the high priest going to do any longer in the temple? Answer that. The whole thing is being replaced, and you can begin to see the seeds or the foreshadow of it here with the apostolic authority, with the proceeds being laid at their feet. Now God is not changing his mind. He didn't say, oh, I really wish the temple thing would have worked out. But since they messed the whole thing up, I'm going to go ahead and change my mind here. He's not changing his mind. The temple was always just a stepping stepping stone in his the further manifestation of his plan. He has always said, even in the Old Testament, That he would not dwell in temples made by human hands. That is not where the God of heaven and earth can dwell. And so what we end up seeing here is now being filled fulfilled are those things which have been spoken of in the old that are now coming to fruition and thus making the new All those who are fulfilled and indwelt by God the Holy Spirit, you see in this picture, are becoming the new temple of God, under the authority of the new temple leaders, if you will, the apostles. With Jesus Christ fixed as the cornerstone and the apostles as the foundation. Now I want you to understand the significance of what's going on here. If you were Jewish and you were in this context, you would not have missed it. You would not have missed it. You would have lost your life for it. In a few chapters, there's going to be a dispersion that goes out from Jerusalem because of how furious the temple leaders become. In fact, the very next next passage, there becomes Beginning to be flogged for the kind of teaching that's going on among them. I want you to think of the significance of this, and in order to, we've got to back up a moment. A lot of you didn't attend last Sunday's evening service And I mentioned some of these things then, so I feel free to mention them again since you weren't in attendance. I felt bad that you missed them. So I'm going to say them again now because it fits perfectly. What you end up seeing here is that there is a new dwelling place for God, and it is amongst his New Testament community who is united to Jesus Christ. The very fact that they are indwelt with the Holy Spirit is something that had only been accomplished in a tabernacle or a temple when God would descend upon it in the Holy of Holies. But now God, through his Spirit, is descending upon the church, and they have become the new temple. You should be able to see this throughout the history of biblical revelation. For instance, in Exodus chapter 40, Moses had finally completed all of the construction of the tabernacle. Do you know what happened to Moses at that point? He went through all the rigor of making sure that everything was specified according to the blueprints that God had given to him. And then what happened? Moses was not allowed to even enter into the house He was not allowed to enter into the tabernacle. And so you immediately move from there into the book of Leviticus, and there is what is called a drama of approach. Stick with me here, because this is really important. It's building up to an ultimate conclusion, and you're going to find yourself in a A corner, an epical corner in just a moment. So pay attention. There's this drama of approach then. How could Moses or anyone else move toward God when we're not even allowed into the residence That's the whole question of the first eight chapters of Leviticus. And finally, by chapter 8, Aaron and Moses are allowed in. And if you remember, Aaron's sons rush forward thinking that they could go farther than Aaron the father. They try to enter into the Holy of Holies, and immediately they are consumed with the fire. They are consumed by their own their own fire. It wasn't just that they weren't following the regulative principle. It was that they thought as common and unholy and unclean people, they could have just approached the holy God Which they found out was not true. And Aaron kept his mouth shut because he saw the mistake that they had made. Now that approach That approach has been throughout all of history the question for humanity: how may we enter back into the presence of a holy God? How could that take place? For the Israelites, they could do that through washing, but they could still only go so far. It was the high priest who could go once a year into his presence. But what about the rest of the community? Why couldn't the high priest bring the community with him? Well, it's because of our uncleanness. And what we end up seeing in Jesus Christ is Jesus Christ, the images that we see within the scripture is that That Jesus is our great high priest, and he enters into the Holy of Holies, and he does not leave us behind, but like captives in a war train, he pulls us with him. It is as if you were on his back and he tugs you or drags you to heaven into the presence of the Father and acts as your intercessor and your representative pure and holy, that you could stand in the presence of the Father. The question, how could we have intimacy with the Father, is not through new buildings, It is through being attached to Jesus Christ, the blameless Lamb, the one who is completely obedient to the Father. And now what we end up finding is since this has taken place, God is now dwelling with that group of people that are attached to the Son. The sun is the sun is uh you are attached to the sun, as you read earlier from John, like a branch is attached to a tree, and you receive everything vital from him. Without him, you can do nothing. including entering into the presence of the Father. And it is his Spirit that He sends to us where now the apostles are the foundation. Jesus Christ is And if we understand what I'm saying, then we're saying you are the dwelling of God on earth. Every true branch and local congregation is the place where God dwells. It's ultimately what's being taught here. It's the formation here of this temple which will increase throughout all around the Mediterranean Sea. And then through all tongues and tribes and nations. The church ends up being the replanting of the Garden of Eden Where we can now, through Jesus Christ, walk with God in the cool of the garden. And as the Old Testament had prophesied, all of the nations that used to be enemies will stream to her and receive life. It's the formation of the Church by the Holy Spirit. It's Christ's new creation You can see the function that we have and that he gives us gifts, but now consider the function relative to the foreshadowing. You are not just another huggy lovey community that would would would mimic something like, you know, once we had a great community, they went to Woodstock and they proclaimed love and everybody loved one another. And now we've got the church, and they're kind of like, until we can have another Woodstock, that's what we're going to have for this society. That's not what this ends up saying. It says ends up this passage ends up preaching to us something profound. That we are formed by the Holy Spirit and given gifts to function as the new temple of God amongst the nations The church is created to function as the dwelling place of God. And I want to bring out a couple implications of that in closing. Number one, if what I'm saying is true and it is absolutely true, Then we must have a high view for the purity of the church. It ends up being one of our vows that we make here. And on all PCA churches, that we would protect the purity and the peace of the church. And I'm focusing on the purity, that she would not be blemished by sin. Do you see what is at stake here? Do you see what's at stake? I think we we do in some sense. Remember I asked you in the beginning when I say the word church, what do you mean? Or what do I mean? Do I mean the building or do I mean the people? Obviously I mean the people here I want you to think about it this way, whether or not you consider the purity of the church important. I hear people a lot of the time, and I don't really see anything wrong with this, but I will hear people say, this is just an example. It's not a pet peeve or anything like that. The children shouldn't be running in the sanctuary because it's God's house. We need to be careful with this because it's God's house. We need to be careful with that because it's God's house. I agree that this is God's property that He has given to us the steward and that we need to take care of it. So don't get angry with me. But if you were to take the same mentality and the same concern and place it upon the community and not the building, think of the question that you would have to begin asking. Should we have these things in our midst? And if I see them, they're not light and trivial. They are very serious and they need to be weeded out immediately because this is the temple of God. If people want to know God, they have to go to us. We're the ones with His words. We're the ones with His presence. Do you understand the gravity of that? The gravity of recognizing that we're the dwelling place of God. And so if we ha as His dwelling, we begin to stop looking at the building as just our sole focus, but instead look at the community and what is present. Are we greedy with our time and with our space? Here they give up everything in generosity, and this could be another passage I could bring. on tithing. But instead of focusing on tithing, what about tithing of time and tithing of your space? It may be news to you that people at Severn Run feel lonely and overlooked. That is a problem in the Temple of God. What can you do? This is not a guilt trip, I'm asking you. What can you do to begin sharing your time and your spaces in order for people not to be overlooked or lone-looked? You know, this lovely example, when I first became a Christian, I was invited after church to people's homes to eat lunch. What an excellent practice. practice. My mother-in-law would always get a chicken the day before and she'd make some kind of chicken salad with cranberries and almonds, or she'd make an Indian dish of buttered chicken or something in the crock pot, and as soon as we would get home from church, the They get home, she would immediately set the table, she'd have a nice tablecloth, and then she'd invite people over from church. She'd always have four or five people over, missionaries over, and we'd talk about the sermon. What about that? Could we buy, could we go to BJ's and get a rotisserie chicken and be prepared for Sunday to invite people over to our homes? Who have you invited into your home? Who's who have you had given your time or your space? Let me remind you that when we were uh uh initially grilling me before I became the pastor, just to find out what all my views were and all I stood here and I told you that one of the experiences of one of the covenant children here was not how much money you gave her or anything like that, not the music, not even the preaching. Her greatest experience here in being at Severn One was and I've already mentioned this so I don't feel like I'm embarrassing anybody, is that Rachel Cooley was invited over Nancy Johnson's house for fellowship That was her number one experience in all of her years here as a covenant child, is what she has ended up saying. Think about the impact that we could have. Think of all think of the ways just you ladies could invite people into your homes, the younger ladies, and teach them what it means to be a lady. Just by having lunch with them. Or whatever it might be. Now let me close with this. That's one conclusion from this. The church is created to function as God's dwelling place, and so we need to have a high view of the purity of the church It should not be corrupt or look like a prostitute. Two is a warning. Notice that this foreshadowing is a foreshadowing of 70 AD. If God is not afraid to remove the temple, then he is not afraid to remove Severn Run EP Church. From his midst. If we do not want to live for God as a dwelling place, he is not afraid to remove us. Think very quickly of the history of the Ephesian church And this is a warning for you, in Puritan fashion. Be warned. Do not think yourself so arrogant that he won't remove you. Do not think that you are not, that you are impenetrable to the attacks of Satan, and that he's not planting seeds in you in bitterness right now. The Ephesian church was planted by the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul spent the most time with that church than he spent with any church, three years. If any church is going to make it, it's going to be the Ephesian church. Those elders were taught the entire council of God, it says at the end of Acts, and then Timothy was sent there. So if any church is going to make it, it's going to be that one. And yet what we find in Revelation chapter 2 is Christ walking amongst his lampstands and saying, Remember, therefore, from where you have fallen, Ephesus. Repent and do the first works, or else I will come to you quickly and remove your lampstand from its place unless you repent. He takes his temple exceptionally seriously.