But once again I ask gonna have to ask you to bear with me as I say I found out just um two hours before the service started that I would be up here doing this. And it's the perfect storm. Our brother Archer sick? Uh the pastoral assistant who ordinarily would step in and do a marvelous job, Jesse, is actually a preaching at another church. So you're stuck with me today. Sorry? A blessed. That's what I meant to say. You're blessed with me today. And I'm still getting you over a cold, so I'm a bit horse and dry, so you're just gonna have to bear with me. You know what? As I said to the folks as we prayed this morning, God's got a great sense of humor and uh everything is as he wants it to be at this moment, so Let's just enjoy the slam together and make the best of it. Our scripture reading this morning comes from Hebrews. I'll be reading chapter from chapter 1, verses 1 through 9. And here now the word of God. God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets. has in these last days spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the worlds. who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he by himself purged our sins, sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. having become so much better than the angels, as he has by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they For to which of the angels did he ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you. And again I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son But when he again brings the firstborn into the world, he says, Let all the angels of God worship him. And of the angels, he says, Who makes his angels' spirits and his ministers a flame of fire? But to the Son, he says, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness. Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness more than your companions. And again, may God bless this reading of His Holy Word. You know, we celebrate the incarnation of God at this time of year. And uh the more I study Scripture, the more I think about the incarnation, the more profoundly I'm affected by it. And I'm astonished by it. And that word incarnation is a big word. It's a big word we use to describe God taking on flesh and becoming a man. The word carnal means flesh. And so to be incarnate is to be a to become a real and living thing. Now think about it. The God who dwells in glorious light, who's surrounded by the pristine beauty and lesions of angels. Submitted himself in the second person of the Trinity, the Christ, to be conceived in the womb of a young woman, to have himself enclosed in a human body. to go through all the stages of pregnancy, and then on the night that we celebrate as Christmas, which, by the way, almost surely was not December the 25th. But on the night that we celebrate as Christmas was delivered by that young woman in the same way that all babies are born throughout the history of mankind. And with all the messiness and indignities that accompany uh being born in a stable without medical care and all those other things Think about that. The God, the great God of the universe, submitted himself to being born as a human baby in very common circumstances. That is an astonishing thing. And it's small wonder that the pagans of that time laughed at that idea. You know, the pagans had their own gods. They had this concept of gods taking on human form. But the idea that Zeus or Jupiter or Neptune or any of those other so-called gods would degrade themselves to being born as a baby like this And then living a life as a normal man among earth, facing the indignities and the hardships that all men have to face, that was ludicrous to them. It was laughable. For brothers and sisters, that's exactly what happened. That is what God did, and that's what we are celebrating at this time of year. Isn't that astonishing? And as we stop to think about it, one of the things that we should be astonished at during this season, as we celebrate this incarnation, is what it says about God, about God the Father. You know, it seems to me that at this season of the year, the um God the Father, the the person of the Trinity God the Father is sort of forgotten during this time of the season. We very much focus on the Christ, on Jesus the baby. Christ who came in uh came to earth in the form of man. But uh the father sort of takes a back seat during this time of the year. Now, it's not quite the same thing, but as an analogy, I want you to as an analogy I want you to think about um a child's birthday party. And you parents out there who have children who've given your kids birthday parties, you know, during these parties everybody has a good time. You have the kids there, they're playing their various games, your child is opening the present, they're having a great time. But who made it happen? Usually it's the mother, right? Um who's running around like a chicken with her head cut off, making sure that uh the children aren't running off to the street, that everybody's, you know, sort of herded in the right place That the food's all prepared, that uh the toys are out there, that uh you know the the moon bounce that you ordered for the occasion is properly inflated and Um probably finding herself not not able to wait until those kids go home so she can just collapse in a heap and and uh uh crash after it all happens. But everything that happened at that party happened because of the mom or the parents, whoever was involved in putting it together. She honored her child by throwing a party. But during the party, she was kind of just there in the background. And when the kids leave, each one of them wishes the the the object, the center of that party, a happy birthday. But they generally have to be nudged by the other parents to remind or to be reminded by the other parents to thank the mom who really made it all happen, don't they? Well Another thing about that birthday party, it was a demonstration of her love for that child. It was for his and her delight. And so it is with Christmas. It's all about the Father's love and joy in his son. And as this passage clearly teaches I think in a very similar way we sinful creatures need to be reminded to thank God the Father for Christmas. And to be reminded that the incarnation of Jesus Christ is first and foremost a work of God the Father, and was wholly determined by his will and into his purposes And that we should make certain that as we celebrate this season, that the work of the entire Trinity is celebrated by us. In a sense, we should, as Jesus Himself did, give first place in our worship to God the Father So, looking at the title of the sermon, which is The Glorious Work of God, the Glorious Son, perhaps a better title for the sermon would be The Glorious Work of the Glorious Father through the Glorious Son. So, as I think you can see very readily from our passage today, that it starts and ends with God the Father. Read verses one through three again. God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets, has in these last days spoken to us by his son. whom he has appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the worlds, who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, And upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. And then again in verse 9 in the last part. Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness more than your companions. Now, as we read through these verses, it's very easy to get lost in the personal pronouns. The writer shifts from talking about God the Father to God the Son, and he refers to both by He. But I think God the Father is very much in view through all of those verses of one through three. And then again in verse nine. So when you see he there, it's referring to God the Father. Excuse me. And so I think what we see here is that it what we see here is that an incarnation is the God the Father who is speaking to us. It's God the Father who, in his sovereign authority, has appointed Jesus the heir of all things. And it's God the Father who, through Christ, the second person of the Trinity, made all things. And it's God the Father's word of power that Christ uses to uphold all things And it's God the Father who in verse 9 has appointed Jesus with gladness. It's all the work of God the Father Those other verses, the other if if you will, those revolving verses that that revolve around this uh center. Um It's in these verses that we see that Christ is the incarnation, in his incarnation is the glory of God the Father, and it's this revolving universe of glory that it's in this revolving universe of glory that God the Father finds his focus. Its distillation, its brightest manner in Christ Himself, as He is incarnated into Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of God and the Son of Man. Therefore, it's clear that we lose something very important, and in fact, we're in danger of losing the gospel itself if we see Jesus only in terms of being good news for mankind. If we only see Jesus in terms of what He has done for us, and we don't see it or take into account the most glorious aspect of Christmas is what it reveals about God the Father. Again, the most glorious aspect of Christmas is watery feels about God the Father. First and foremost, above all things, We need to praise God for being the God that speaks to us, and especially for speaking to us through his son. Now, brothers and sisters, I don't know about you. But sometimes I really only shake my head in sorrow and really amazement at people who can live without God in their lives, or who think they can live without God in their lives. Whether they're actually professing atheists, or they're simply professing Christians who actually live by atheists, whatever the reason the reality of their life is, is that they have no hope. There is nothing to give them comfort. All they have is their own resources, their own strengths, their own capabilities. And what they find out all too soon and all too often is that the world is bigger than they are. They're totally at risk. They can't control other people, they can't control themselves. They can't control the economy. They can't control the weather. When you get right down to it, as human beings We are nothing, we can really do nothing. And when we think we're doing something, it's simply an illusion. They can't guarantee that if they make money, that they're going to live long enough to spend it all. They can't guarantee that if they spend money, that it's going to add happiness to their lives. They are totally at risk because they do not know that there is a God in heaven and that he is the one who has control of their lives. And that if they turn to him and seek him, that they will find hope in the face of the blackness that is all about them. They don't know that there is a God in this world because God is hidden. He cannot be found through human resources God can't be discovered by any man who undertakes to find him just by using his own resources. He can't be found through exploring nature or looking deep within the human soul God is incomprehensible beyond our imagining and beyond our senses. He cannot be found, but he can be heard, and that is the amazing thing. This God who cannot be found has spoken to us, and in a sense is still speaking today. He has taken it upon himself to reveal himself to us through what we call special revelation. He's spoken to us in special revelation so that in the light of special revelation, we can look around and see what natural revelation speaks of him, see that natural revelation speaks of him also. Scripture says that what may be mode of God can be found in nature, but it's only understood in nature if we understand special revelation I mean you can look at nature and know that God exists, but you can really understand nothing about his character other than the fact that there had to be a creator. But it's because God spoke to us in special revelation that we were able to understand so much more in a way that That changes our lives and gives gives meaning to our lives. As this passage says, God spoke to us in the past through prophets. Individual prophets like Isaiah or Jeremiah or Ezekiel, but also through an entire class of prophets who, like Moses, were there to guide God's people God spoke, for instance, to the entire nation of Israel as they gathered at the foot of Mount Sinai. And when he spoke, that entire nation of Israel turned to jelly, crying out to Moses to make it stop, as if he was able to do that. God spoke again on the top of another mountain when Jesus was there with his three disciples. And when he spoke, all three of the disciples were thrown down on their face. When God speaks, the entire world shudders. All nature trembles before him. God has spoken directly and in a special manner in all kinds of places and in many kinds of men in times past. And it was always to this end. It was to declare to those of us who have forgotten that He is there, that we are not alone. There is more to this world than we can see or we can touch. There is a God in heaven, and there is God here with us. And if he did not speak, we would not know him. We would never be able to know him. We would not know him as he is. But the great blessing that God gives us creation is that he speaks and that he has spoken And he has said, You are not alone. I am here, and I have grace and healing to all who will hear my voice, turn and repent of their sins and come to me. But for all who deny my voice and stop up their ears and refuse to believe, I am here and I will repay, vengeance is mine, says the Lord. So God has spoken at many times and in many ways, but the message is always the same. And now, brothers and sisters, we know that the time of God speaking in many ways and in many manners to men has ceased. Because God in the last of those days, in the last episode of Him speaking as He has spoken in the past, God has spoken to us in His Son. And here, brothers and sisters, is the overwhelming reality of the incarnation. So it's not only the deepest mystery, but the greatest imaginable comfort For here we have the very voice of God, the very word of God itself, entering into the world of the senses. God who is here and has always been here and will always be here. but who exists beyond our ability to see, to touch, or feel, has entered the world of seeing, touching, and feeling. God has made himself known to us in the flesh so that we can see him, touch him, and hear his actual voice. This Son of God is God Himself and is God's word itself And in him, as we see in the passage, in this passage, we see God's glory in the expressed image of his person. We see Jesus as God's Son. as the same Christ, the second person of the Trinity, through whom God the Father made the world. And we see Jesus as God's Son, as the same Christ, still exercising God the Father's power in upholding all things. It's in Him that we live and move and have our being. The God will uphold you and gives you each breath you draw and each beat of your heart. Does so through the immediate execution of the authority given to this Jesus born in a manger, the Christ of God. So he's not just the reason for your life, the purpose for your being, he's the reason that you exist at all. And this is how God the Father has designed it. Now, the last thing I want us to notice from the passage, from this passage, is how God's word, spoken to us in Jesus Christ, is the whole of Jesus' earthly life His death, his death, his resurrection, and his ascension into glory. This, brothers and sisters, is an event. It's a happening. It's like that birthday party I mentioned earlier. It's like God appearing on a mountain in glorious fire, so scary that people cannot stand. The whole event is God's word given to us so that we may know who God the Father is and how He stands in relation to us. Like I said, the passage is constructed as a constellation revolving around a center. And the center is the whole life and work of Christ. The sun came in the very last days of the prophets. Arch has written here, says it's a bit technical, but where we read in the in this New King James Version in these last days, we should read it instead in the last of these days. So where the these refers to the time past when God was speaking to the prophets. What the writer of Hebrews is saying is that the old days are past. They have been fulfilled. They have fulfilled their mission. They are done. They have passed away. The time when God guided his people by prophets who came and said, Thus saith the Lord, those days are over. Those were days of expectation. We are now living in the time of fulfillment. And God has signaled that by speaking in the last of those days, has signaled that by speaking in the last of those days by speaking through a son. And what greater prophet can come and guide God's people Than the Son of God. Then the second person of the Trinity. Could there be anybody who surpasses Jesus? Will there be anyone through whom God speaks that will do greater things than Jesus And the answer is absolutely no. The apostles didn't come with a new word. The apostles came and they explained Jesus to the people. I know of no writer in the New Testament who can claim the distinction of saying, Thus saith the Lord, who takes upon himself the mantle of giving, if you will, a new revelation. They are there to explain Jesus, because he is the last word given by God until the end of the age. And so we must see that God was not only speaking through Jesus, that God was speaking in Jesus. Jesus is the Word of God. He is the Logos. He is the birthday party that God has thrown for His people to show us how much He loves us. It is Jesus who is the brightness of God's glory in the image of his person. It is Jesus who upholds all things by the word of God's power. And it is Jesus who purged our sin. And it is the same Jesus who has been raised to heaven, who now sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. It is Jesus who has been given the name greater than any other name in heaven on earth. It is Jesus who was adored by the angels. And it is Jesus who has been given the kingdom where he will rule forever. Brothers and sisters, do you see this? If you do see it, does it fill you with joy, delight, anticipation? Jesus is God's word speaking to you. Look upon Jesus and all that He has done, and all that God has done for him, and realize that this is God speaking to your heart and your mind and your soul, and saying, Here is my love for you. This proves that I exist, that I am who I say I am, and that you are not alone in this world. This is God speaking to your heart and saying, repent of your sins. Believe in Jesus and believe in the one who sent him and you will be saved. Merry Christmas, brothers and sisters. Please join me now on a word of prayer.