Let us all turn together now to Proverbs chapter four. Our reading tonight is verses twenty through twenty-seven Before I do the reading, I just want to give a caveat that um there is both a strength And a weakness in having Joseph Pipa as your president in seminary. One of the strengths is that he shows you how to rightly divide the Word of God. I remember sitting under a sermon on this very passage from Joseph Pipa. The downfall is that once you hear his sermon outline, there is no other one that it could possibly be, because it's just perfect. So if you go on and you listen to Joseph Piper's sermon on the same message, you'll hear the same points, same outline points, and a couple of the same illustrations. wanted to be up front about that. And I said, Do you mind if I do that sometimes? I just don't know what else to do. You got to the heart of the passage. And he said, feel free to use my outlines and illustrations. So there you go. Now for the reading of Proverbs 4, 20 through 27. My son, give attention to my words. Incline your ear to my sayings. Do not let them depart from your eyes. Keep them in the midst of your heart, for they are life to those who find them, and health to all their flesh. And this is a very Famous verse, is it not? The next one, verse 23. Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it spring the issues of life. Put away from you a deceitful mouth, And put perverse lips far from you. Let your eyes look straight ahead, and your eyelids look right before you. Ponder the path of your feet. And let all your ways be established. Do not turn to the right or the left. Remove your foot from evil. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for you, and we thank you that you have given us your word, but not only that, but that you have preserved it in its inscription. Form, that we might have a light to our path in each era as we await for you to send our Lord at just the right time. Christ, we ask that you would teach us here Teach us how to tend to our hearts. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Well, we have made it through our first week of school. I remember pondering the day before school was going to start for us, which is good, which was a Tuesday, because Monday was Labor Day. I remember thinking to myself, Should I just rest? Because we're getting ready to have a very difficult time until May. And that's what we decided to do. But in my rest, I walked to the backyard And uh I noticed that my garden, uh, from all of the just being busy, is in disarray Now it was not always like that. When we first started in the garden season, I was very excited to have the fruits and the vegetables. that as a family we wanted to plant, that we fed them the fertilizer that was going to make them successful from being saplings to growing up. That we would protect them, we would squish all the little squash bugs that showed themselves on the vines, and that we would even train the tomatoes in those uh tomato cage trellises to make sure That was the beginning though. By the end of the summer, if you were to go out in the garden, you'd see some productivity, but you'd see largely neglect. It all just kind of grew together. And my elderberry plant has totally taken over my side yard. Well cultivation of a garden is a good analogy for what the father Solomon by way of the Spirit is concerned with in the book of Proverbs. He wants us to cultivate a life of wisdom. The problem is he knows that we often neglect that. There's a lot of lack, and he wants to fill that lack up. The way that he has been doing that for the first four chapters, we're in chapter four, and all the way till chapter ten is he is really just trying to convince you that you should hold on to his words. It's been one lecture after another that's basically But we haven't actually gotten to what we would traditionally think of as Proverbs. That'll happen in chapter ten when we see all these Aphoristic statements. Well, upon the theme of cultivation continuing under the spirit and particularly with Solomon, underneath that general theme, we have visited the cultivation of good communities, the cultivation of various virtues, and we've done so through exhortations Tonight, right there in the center of our passage, verse 23, shows you that the main focus is the cultivation of the heart. And that raises a question immediately before we even go anywhere else in this introduction. How is your heart? How are you doing with taking care of your heart? Did you start off well like I did with my garden? But now there's signs of neglect. Those are the kinds of questions he wants us to ask. And the doctrine that we can see that summarizes this whole passage has to do It's this. To cultivate your heart, you must feed your heart, you must guard your heart, and you must train your heart like God I'm gonna say it one more time, especially children, for taking notes. We take notes even in the evening. Or you could just memorize, really. That would be better. To cultivate your heart, you must feed, guard, and train it by God's word. And our applications tonight or the divisions of this text will be Feed and guard and train. Quite simple to memorize there. To cultivate your heart, you must feed, guard, and train it by God's Word. And we'll look at this under feeding the heart, guarding the heart and training the heart. The very first thing we see within this passage, I want to draw your attention to verses 20 and 21. Let's go ahead and I'll read these for you. So you can see the feeding of the heart, and that's the first way in which we want to cultivate the heart. My son, give attention to my words, incline your ear to my sayings. Do not let them depart from your eyes. Keep them in the midst of your heart. You see the positive and the negative way in which he's Exhorting us here, give attention to my words, incline your ear. And then he puts it in the negative with 21. Don't let them depart. Don't let them escape from you. Keep them in the treasure box or in the midst or the center of your heart. That's the same word that we had in Aiken's passage there, in the midst of his tent, in the midst of your heart, in the center of the center, keep these things. And then in verse 22, we can see where we get the idea of feeding For they are life to those who find them, and health to all their flesh. This is the kind of language that you would use for finding water when you're wandering in a desert, or bread when you haven't eaten for a while. The Father is saying, this is good food that I'm giving to you so that you can feed your soul or your heart, which we'll get to in verse 23. But there is a problem. When we look at the rest of the canon of Scripture, we can see that we have an eating problem. And James summarizes it basically like this. God the Father through Christ and the Spirit and even Solomon here as an instrument, he feeds us his word, and then we place it in our mouth and we chew and And then we never swallow and gain any of the nutrients for our body. Now do you remember an illustration that James uses to communicate basically that same idea? That we can hear it, but then it never gets to Says this in James 1, 22 through 25. But be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving yourself For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he's like a man observing his natural face in a mirror, for he observes himself, goes away, and immediately forgets what kind of man he was But he who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it, and is not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this one will be blessed in what he does. He'll be full. He'll have feasted, but not if he's only a hearer. He only feasts if he's also a doer. He has to let the the word go all the way and do its work. James has given to us. I have an illustration where I've experienced this in different ways throughout my life. And if you go into my office, you'll find that there is an electric shaver on my desk and let me tell you the story behind that. I sometimes look in the mirror and I see that I need to shave. That is what is communicated to me and I must do it. in order to look respectable. And then I get distracted and I leave the house and halfway to work I go, oops, I forgot to shave and that's why I have an electric razor. But the James is trying to communicate the exact same thing here is that we look in the he says the perfect law of liberty and we see who Christ is intends for us to be in that particular passage. We see what God requires of us and then we get distracted and then we hear it, but we didn't do any work in bringing it out into a fulfillment. Within our lives. And it's the same thing here. We are fed the word and we see what God requires of us, but then we go off and we do not fulfill it in action. And that's not to truly be fed, according to the scriptures. To be fed is not only to chew, but to digest. I would encourage you when you get the opportunity to look up all of the scripture references that go along with larger catechism question number one. 160. The question is stated like this, and this is just in the case of hearing the word preached. There's also a section just before on reading the word and what But here's one with reading the word or hearing the word preached or being fed the word by way of preaching. And here's It is required of those that hear the word preached, that they attend upon it with diligence, preparation, and prayer. Examine what they hear by the scriptures. Receive the truth with faith, love, meekness, and readiness of mind as the word of God. Meditate and confer of it. That means have discussion with other people, hide it in your heart. They must be thinking of this passage. And here's James. And bring forth the fruit of it in their life. lives. If you start to think about hearing the word preached as that's what it means to be fed, that's what it would mean to be fed by the word preached, we really would have to look limit how many podcasts we listen to listen to because we just wouldn't have time to do anything else except morning and evening sermons for the whole week. The question that ends up being raised for us under this point is, are you feeding your heart? And the way that the scriptures talk about it. Are you really feeding your heart? And what do you think about what James has said, true feeding or eating? is. According to James, are you eating, are you feeding your heart? Well that's the first thing that is necessary for the cultivation of The second thing is the guarding of the heart, and we can see this in verse 23. It's as if the passage takes you into an inner chamber from the top and an inner chamber from the bottom, and right Right there in the center is the heart. It's as if you've walked into the Holy of Holies and it's the Ark of the Covenant, in a sense, or a treasure box That's what we see in verse 23, and that's actually how the stanzas work, all flowing towards that center. It says in verse 23. Keep your heart with all diligence. In the Hebrew, it's with watching watch. With watching watch. Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it springs the issue of life. With watching, watch. And did you notice the motive that he gives to us? When he says, keep your heart with all diligence, okay, but why should I do that? Well then he says, Because for out of it spring the issues of life. I want you to think of all of the activities in your life. And the heart is in the center. That's why it's So important just speaking biologically for us to keep our hearts healthy. Because if your heart is not healthy and it's not pumping the blood right, Hebrews knew those who authored This under the inspiration of the Spirit knew about the role of the heart. And they knew that it was a center that pumped blood to where you could do activities. Have you seen someone who has a bad heart or whose heart stopped? Are they able to do any activity Remember the example that we had several weeks ago where Nabal lost his heart and he was paralyzed. And that's the same picture that we should be keeping in mind here is that if the heart is not healthy, then everything downstream, if you want to Controls and governs all other things. And that's the heart. The heart is the center, and we must protect it because it affects everything downstream. We must protect it as if it's treasure. I have a somewhat related picture to this that just happened to us at our home. I don't know why I did this because it uh well it just did not occur to me but I bought a bunch of sunflower seeds, a big bag of them. I think it was like a fifty pound bag of sunflower seeds in order to feed wildlife. And I stored it in the shed, and I just discovered that I'm not feeding wildlife. I'm just feeding one wildlife, and it's a squirrel. He has broken into my shed and he has pulled all of the sunflower seed out and he stores it up on the window sills just to laugh at me And I was thinking how much this is like what the proverbist is teaching us, that our heart is like a shed, and inside is like a seed that has been planted, and that's The word of God. But that there are things that can come along and they can steal the seed. Do you remember that teaching from Christ Himself? That when He preaches the Word, it's like seed going out on the path, and then the devil can come along. Who are like the little birds, and they steal the seed so it can't take root and grow and bring forth fruit? Aren't you aware that in the scriptures we have at least three enemies, the flesh? and the world and the devil. And don't you think they want you to not protect your heart? Why? Because at this point, as we see within the passage, if you've been feeding and the food has been going down into your inner self, you have treasured in the center, in the midst of you, God's word, and Satan wants to steal that from you. He does not want you to have the truth. He doesn't want you to have hope. He doesn't want you to have faith Faith or love. And all of that comes by God's word. And that's why we must guard it. We have to make sure that God's word remains precious to us. We must realize that we're protecting a precious treasure. When you hear or you read God's word, are you making it. . . One of the habits I've noticed that we can have among ourselves, the glorious reformed, is that not only can we read and not do, we can read as an act of going through the motions. This is a big time when we start school where folks are headed off on a favorite Bible reading. You know, planning is an act of prudence. It's supposed to be an act that helps you accomplish the main goal. The main goal would be to read your Bibles. That you could store God's word in your heart, and the way that I can prudentially make sure that happens is to have a Bible reading plan. But one of the most dangerous things we can see on that plan is the little checkbox where you check it off and you never stopped to realize this one thing. God is speaking to you. Do you know how profound that is? That God in his word, he is speaking to you As the persons of the Trinity Trinity. Then He wants you to listen and to treasure what He says. And He wants you to talk Back to him in prayer. That would be that way of conducting yourself with the word would be a picture of someone who recognizes the treasure that is within them that God has given and one who is protecting it because it would be worth protecting. Is that how you think of your scripture reading as you start on your new Bible reading plan? If not, now's the time. God is speaking to you. And then finally, we have the training of the heart. This one is really surprising to folks when we look at verses 24 through 27 and how to cultivate the heart. That there is a training that must be done. And this is the surprising part. Look with me at 24 through 27. What do you see? You see a bunch of external behavior. And we have gotten this wrong sometimes. Sometimes we're so scared of becoming moralists or behaviorists that we forget how influential our practices are on our hearts. That's the whole point. This passage is about the cultivation of the heart. And he is saying Here, that what you do makes a difference as to the shape and the form of your heart. That there's a kind of backflow that can happen in your practices There are actions that we perform that shape the heart under the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Here he s uh summarized them under three main body parts, the mouth, the eyes, these are all very popular images throughout the You know, a great example of seeing the actions that you would take, even though I'm going to be able to do that. from when you're a small child to the backflow that it would have onto the shaping and forming of the heart by way of the Spirit is worship. It is so important that we teach the rhythm and postures of worship to our children from the earliest ages because it is those postures that can actually speak and start to shape and inform the heart. What does it say to a child when we pray to God and we do so on our knees or on our face? How will that shape the heart? I sometimes think, what will I do when Jesus Christ returns? I think I will fall on my face. By God's grace, I will just fall on my faith in prostration. I think that is appropriate posture and it is a good time to begin now. We raise our hands. That's supposed to shake We bow our heads. We kneel. If I could ever get kneelers in this church, we can pray. And the other thing that I would like to say that we we want to consider when we're thinking about training the heart through our practices, that it would backflow in, our actions would backflow into the shaping and forming of our hearts. It's something that I I've already mentioned this to you, that this outline is largely from Joseph Pipe. And I remember him teaching and how helpful it was about the three P's. Have you ever heard about the three Ps when it comes to heart transformation and trans? training the three P's. It's uh it's a structure that's found all over the scriptures. And I'm just gonna announce those to you and give you a couple of examples. But I would encourage you to start using this right away It's a real practical way to begin through your actions shaping the heart. The first P is that you would purpose to do. That you would purpose to do. The second is that you would present yourself. to God. And the third is that you would practice these things. That you would purpose, that you would present, and that you would you would practice. Let me give you an example of watching a um someone in the scriptures purposing towards what we see here within the This is from Psalm 17, and I want to read to you the first three verses. Hear a just cause, O Lord, attend to my cry. Give ear to my prayer which is not from deceitful lips. Let my vindication come from your presence. Let your eyes look on the things that are upright You have tested my heart, you have visited me in the night, you have tried me and found me nothing. I have purposed that my mouth shall not transgress. Do you purpose, like we see as an example within the psalmist, with regard to your mouth, or regard to your eyes, as we see with Aiken? Or with regard to your feet, the outward behaviors and paths of your life? Are you purposing? You know what the Puritans used to call this, especially on New Year's? Resolutions. Do you resolve and promise upon the grace of the Holy Spirit to endeavor to live as becomes the followers of Jesus Christ? Of course we do, because we talk And this is a reminder that we should purpose. That's the first P that we would become concerned about our mouths, that we would become concerned about our path and all our outward behavior. that it will have an effect even on our hearts by the grace of the Holy Spirit. The second is to present. This one is a bit odd for folks, but it's all over the scriptures. To present yourself I'll give you an example from Psalm 141, verses 3 through 4. Set a guard, O Lord, over my mouth. Keep watch over the doors of my lips. You see how he's presenting himself to God and saying, I know that I cannot do this on my own. It must be by the sanctifying work of your Holy Spirit. So I come to you in prayer and I present myself, Lord, and my mouth. Do not incline my heart to an evil thing, to practice wicked works with men who work iniquity, and do not let me eat of their delicacies. This is a specific one in which we would fulfill the Lord's Prayer and praying to be delivered from temptations. We would present ourselves to God. as his sanctifying work and cry aloud for help. And then this the last one is especially fitting for our proverb this evening, and that's the third P, which is practice. Purpose. present ourselves to God and practice. And I'd encourage you just to read Ephesians chapter 4. This is largely popular from the distinction that we see within Paul where he tells us That we are to take off and repl it's called the replacement principle. That's how I learned it in seminary. And we are to put on. see within Ephesians 4 the kind of practice. It says things like this in verses chapter 4, verses 25 through 29. Therefore putting away lying, think of the mouth. Let each of you speak truth with his neighbor. You see the taking off, put away the lying, and put this on. We're gonna read Replace it. We're not going to leave the house empty so that the wrong things can take over. Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your wrath, nor give place to the devil. Let him who stole steal no longer. That has to do especially with the eye coveting on something that they must have and then they steal it But rather let him labor, working with his hands, what is good, that he may have something to give him who has need. Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth. There it is again But what is good for necessary edification, that it may impart grace to the hearers. And I gave you that example this morning about when you become angry, you know you don't Don't need to go all the way. You can stop right there in the center and you could say, you know what, I'm gonna replace this with a confession to you that I've been treating you in the wrong way, and I'm gonna move this in a different direction now. And then you watch under the inspiration or the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit, you watch how your inner life and heart Changes. Because he will work through your actions. That's the whole point. There's a backflow from our practices. Brothers and sisters, how are you doing with feeling? Brothers and sisters, how are you doing with guarding the treasure of God's word? your heart. How are you doing with practicing so that your behavior will backflow and shape your heart To cultivate your heart, you must feed, you must guard it, and you must train it by God's word Let us pray. Father, we thank you for your preachers and teachers I thank you that myself and others who have been under good teaching of men who know how to rightly divide the word. We pray that you bring blessing to Dr. Pipa, and that he'd be able to continue his teaching ministry, and that you'd work also with Dr. Masters and others at Greenville Presbyterian Theological Seminary. Lord, our goal is not that seminary. Our goal is that your word would be heard and that help would be ready received on earth as it is in heaven. Lord, the heart today is neglected. Personal holiness is in ruins. Communal holiness is in ruins. And yet that is the concern you have for us here in Proverbs. O Lord Christ, we pray that you would give us true wisdom, wisdom of the heart. We pray, Lord, that it would pump out our inner life Being formed and shaped by your word, that it would pump out into all areas, bringing glory to yourself. We pray, Lord, for our little ones, that the word that is given to them and The home and school and from the pulpit, that it would find good soil, that the roots would go down, that it would not be destroyed by the sun, but nurtured by it, that it would be watered regularly and produce fruit a hundredfold. Pray that you would do this work among us through your word. In the name of Christ, Amen.