Turn with me now to Colossians chapter two. And I'll begin reading. In verse four, but our focus tonight will be eighteen and nineteen. Colossians chapter two, beginning in verse four, and I'll take us to twenty-three, which is the end of the chapter. Now, this I say, lest anyone should deceive you with persuasive words. For though I am absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving Beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit according to the tradition of men, according to the basic principles of the world and not according to Christ. For in him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and you are complete in him, who is the head of all principality and power. In him you were also circumcised with a circumcision made without hands By putting off the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, buried with him in baptism, in which you also were raised with him through faith in the working of God, who raised him from the dead. And you being dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he has made alive together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses, having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us. And he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross, having disarmed principalities and powers, he made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it. So let no one judge you in food or in drink or regarding a festival or a new moon or sabbaths, which are a shadow of things to come, but the substance is of Christ. Christ. Let no one cheat you of your reward, taking delight in false humility and worship of angels, intruding into those things which he has not seen, vainly puffed up in his fleshly mind. mind, and not holding fast to the head, from whom the whole body, nourished and knit together by joints and ligaments, grows with the increase that is from God. Therefore, if you died with Christ from the basic principles of the world, why, as though living in the world, do you subject yourself to regulations do not touch, do not taste, do not handle? Which all concern things which perish with the using, according to the commandments and doctrines of men? These things indeed have an appearance of wisdom and self-imposed religion, false humility and neglect of the body, but are of no value against the indulgence of the flesh. Please pray with me. Lord, we thank you for these words. We thank you that you, in your ascension, have ministered to us through your apostles. And that through your Holy Spirit, in working in them, you have inscriptuated your word for all generations. We thank you for this. It is a great strengthening grace to us. As we await for your return, we ask that you would teach us now, that we would hear your voice, and any voice that contradicts yours would be drowned out. In the name of Christ Amen. Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock, and the rain descended The floods came and the winds blew and beat on that house, and it did not fall, because it was founded on the rock. But everyone who hears these sayings of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house, and it fell, and great was its fall. You know, if you were to turn to this section in Matthew chapter 7, verses 24 through 29, and you were to look, and you can look now, or just keep listening. There's an interesting editorial comment that is made directly after Jesus says this. And so it was when Jesus had ended these sayings. That's the editorial comment. comment, that the people were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. What's interesting then is that as we move into chapter 8 of Matthew, it says this Jesus was revealing himself to be, well, in in 8. 1, it says that he comes down from the Moses, or down from the mountain, and then he immediately begins speaking about Moses. We collect this data and we come up with this conclusion. Jesus was revealing himself in this moment to these people to be the new authoritative teacher, the new Moses. And this would prove difficult for some in that crowd. It would prove difficult for them to accept an authority above Moses. He was ultimate for them. Some would want to continue making the scribes and Pharisees and their interpretation of Moses their authority. And that really ends up being a problem for all of human life, not just for them that were listening to the Sermon on the Mount. Who has authority in your life? To whom do you listen? On what do you build your life? Jesus says you have basically two choices. You can build your life on him, is what he's saying in Matthew 7, the new Moses, the rock. You can build your life not on him. Sand. In Colossians, Paul is working within the same framework. Chapter 1 in the first part of 2 basically tells us that Paul is praying for the Colossians. Now, why is he doing that? Why is he wrestling, he says he's conflicted or struggling in prayer for this church plant? He's doing it mainly because he wants that church to keep building on the wise foundation of Christ and not on foolish sand. They were tempted to build on a different foundation. Last week we observed that some were teaching that Jewish diets and Jewish days, the Jewish calendar, must still be followed. Paul corrects them. In verse uh 18. No, actually, it's right before that, in sixteen. So let no one judge you in food or drink, or regarding a festival, or new moons or sabbaths. He tells them that new moons and sabbaths Speaking of festivals, not referring to the Fourth Commandment. The Fourth Commandment is just fine. But the festivals and the diets are no longer necessary because Jesus has fulfilled their intention. Moses in fact did teach food laws. Moses did in fact he did teach festivals, but one greater than Moses has arrived. And that is Jesus. Jesus does not contradict Moses. Moses would have loved what he heard Jesus say. There was the intention all along. He finishes what Moses began. The foolish builder, however, will misunderstand Moses' intention, because they have not listened to the intention as it is exposited. by Jesus Christ. The wise builder will build on the new Moses. And that's Paul's point. You can be a wise or you can be a foolish builder. Just that As Jesus said in Matthew 7. And he's unfolding that for the Colossian Church. And so I'd like to do the same thing as we look at 18 and 19 and just look under these two verses, under the two headings, foolish builder and wise builder. Builder. That's what he's seeking for us, for us to be wise builders. Verse 18 under foolish builder starts with a command: let no one cheat you. Take a look there in your scriptures. And verse 18, let no one cheat you of your reward. And then it will go in and we'll talk about that in just a moment. Some of your translations probably say, let no one disqualify you. The idea, whether it's disqualify or cheat, is the same as in verse 16. Verse 16 is the second warning. We're now in the third warning. Verse 16 says, let no one judge you. Here it says, let no one judge you. Chichu. I consider them to be synonyms. Either way, the picture is of an m an umpire or a referee. We'll go with referee, because I if I watched a sport, it would be football. But in football, referees determine if they're if someone fouls someone else or if someone scores a touchdown or doesn't A wide receiver, perhaps you've seen this in a football game, where a wide receiver would catch a ball, but then the referee you'd see them say, incomplete, and it would be debated. That's what referees do, they make those kinds of judgments. Apparently, some people at Colossae were looking at the life of the Colossian church and acting as a kind of referee and saying, you think that you are God's children or are following Christ, but You are incomplete. That's partially what's going on here. And Paul is saying with this new warning in verse 18 that they are bad referees And that we should not listen to their calls on the play, so to speak. Nowadays you don't have to just pay attention to the referee. You can have playbacks. You can have video playbacks, and I guess Paul would be calling for a video playback of the play to see exactly what's going on, and Paul would have been found right, the referees would have been found wrong Now what are these bad calls or the foolishness which they were teaching? It's difficult to know exactly, but verse 18 and 19 do reveal three main things that they were falsely holding these Christians against these Colossians. So this starts in the comma, after that first line in verse 18, let no one cheat you of reward. And then we're going to see three main First notice that they delighted in false humility. The word false in your scriptures should be in italics because and the reason why it's in italics is because it's not present in the original language. They're trying to get out the sense of what Paul meant. I'm wondering though if it's actually worse off to include it because I think there's a kind of an ironic statement that's going on here. I mean, what do we say about people that delight in their humility? We say that they're not humble. People that are truly humble don't think about their humility. You bring it up to them and it's a surprise. But that's not here. They delight in their humility, and I just wonder if he's being ironic But whether it's ironic or not, the picture may in fact be of fasting. When you do some word studies, especially during this era, you can see that humility was a kind of extreme Jewish fasting that led to a state of ecstatic visions, which is kind of what we see within this passage. So that's the first thing. They're holding up this ideal of asceticism or of this false humility or of fasting before this Christian congregation and saying, if you're not like us, then you're not as spiritually mature as you should. But there's a second thing. This fasting was a part of a bigger spiritual experience. Take a look at what he says next. That they not only take delight in false humility, but they take delight in the worship of angels. This could mean the worship of angels, which would be difficult to establish for a Jewish congregation to do such a thing, or it could also be taken a little bit differently as in worshiping like an angel. Thinking that you have more of a direct connection if you do things in an angelic way. Well, either way Uh they're holding up this ideal, which, as you begin to speak about it, you can see that this spiritual experience is just ridiculous to Paul But then third, this fasting and this angelic worship, or the worshiping of angels, were accompanied by religious visions. One translation says they go on in detail about visions. Mind says intruding into those. Either way, what the ch what the translation is trying to get at, what the what the scriptures are seeking to communicate, is the idea that they are building their lives, this this These folks that are moving into a religious ecstasy, they are building their lives on some supposed religious experience that accompanies their fasting. Now, this situation at Colossae may sound unfamiliar to you. Does it sound unfamiliar to you? Because actually, if you were to do a survey of religions, you would find that there are There are a number of people that whether through fasting or not gave themselves over to religious visions and then gained followers, leading some of the Sometimes thousands of people astray, maybe even tens of thousands. It's actually not unfamiliar at all. The history of religion bears out that many false religious leaders did the same. Islam, the story. Is receiving a vision from an angel. Mormonism, receiving the vision from an angel, and we could go on. But I suspect that you're not, perhaps you are tempted by the Islamic faith Perhaps you are tempted by Mormonism. I don't know. I suspect that you aren't. I suspect that you are not tempted, as the Colossians may have been, by fasting that leads to ecstatic visions of angels. In our culture, such ecstatic visions, we actually try to stay away from those people. They concern us, and we don't want them near our children. I wonder, though, what temptations do you have? What temptations do you have? What authorities, and this is the heart of the matter for them, what authorities in your culture are persuasive to you that actually contradict Christ? They may include him as a part of their system, but ultimately contradict him. What voices do you listen to? They were tempted to listen to these voices. It sounds strange. Strange to us, but we're tempted to listen to voices that aren't the voice of Christ. Which voices tell you? Which voices do you rate yourself or what standards do you hold yourself up against as to whether you're qualified Or disqualified in this life. In our culture, we don't listen to people that have religious visions. We're scared of those people, but we listen to people that are misled or corrupt nonetheless. We listen to people who have PhDs. And we listen to people that are beautiful. And we listen to people who are popular, especially if they have A certain amount of followers. For some reason, authority comes along with it. Sometimes professors and movie stars and social media personalities tell us to live our lives contrary to what Jesus said. You can make an argument that the majority of the time they do so within our secular culture. They tell us that if we do not live for ourselves or or if we are not a certain shape Or a certain weight, or if our eyebrows don't look a certain way, then we are disqualified. That's actually present, maybe not spoken, but it undergirds our culture. If you are a woman, you know what shape our culture accepts and what shapes of body our culture does. not accept. If you have a disability, you know what this culture thinks about such people. Or if you're older, the the undercurrent of voices I'm just saying that there are voices out there that are persuasive and authoritative and that you listen to about what you should eat or what you should What you should weigh or the shape of your body. And they're persuasive. That's the miracle in some sense, that we actually listen to them. The danger that we can have is looking at this Colossian church and seeing and separating ourselves from them where they might have been tempted to give themselves over to people who are fasting. And having ecstatic visions of angels, we can think, how silly, how would you ever fall into such a thing? We in fact are not separate from them because we fall into listening to voices we should never listen to Either. We can spend all day long primming and primping ourselves just to to assuage those voices inside of our heads. We are honestly tempted to build our lives on the sand of And it's no wonder that we see our culture collapsing around us in unique ways. Depression, anxiety, suicides all through the roof. This is truly foolish building. Whether we're talking about our culture and the problems that we have, or we're talking about the Colossian culture, a fact of human existence is that we build on the sand And we have to watch out for that temptation, which is why Paul is writing this. Do not be persuaded. Do not be tempted. When life hits, the whole life collapses if you build on the sand. And that's why, as we move into our next point, Paul is going to continue. He's going to give us a warning against this. Because it's very serious what would take place if you don't listen to him. You listen to the wrong voices. And our next point, of course, is dealing with the wise builder. We see the foolish builder and the things that they were facing and the things that we faced. Let's take this look at this warning under Wise Builder beginning in verse 19. And not holding fast to the head, from whom all the body nourished and knit together by joints and Ligaments grows with the increase that is from God. Verse 19 is a serious image. If the image is physical, it is grotesque A slow decapitation. The point, however, I believe, is the same as in Mark chapter 7. Verse 8, which says, For laying aside the commandment of God, you hold fast to the tradition of men. You can hold fast, Paul is saying, to Jesus, or you can hold fast to the contradictory religious experiences or philosophies or teachings or cultural opinions of and media. But be warned if you do. It will be like a decapitation. There'll be no growth at all. The warning is present in the image that he gives, is it? Is it not? What happens when you lose connection with your head? Head. Perhaps you can remember one time when you had too much alcohol and how much of a regret that was. That would be an example of losing connection with your head. You don't uh any of no one here has experience with decapitation. so I can't talk about that. You can use the image of roots if you want from verse 7. Take a look at 2 verse 7. As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith. This is another image that he gives of being connected to Jesus and receiving nutrients from him. If you pull up the roots of your life from the soil of Christ, Paul is warning us that you can expect to wither and die. That's the point. Now I don't know if you know this. Has anyone planted beets before? I tried that this year? Very good. Well we we need to talk. You need to give me some tips. When you plant beets, maybe you don't, never mind. Dave's waving me off. When you plant beets, you sow all of the seeds together. Once they sprout, the pl uh once the the you take a look at the strongest plants And then you begin to thin them out by clipping off the unwanted beats. So you'll have a whole string of beats. They're far too close together. You start thinning them out. By clipping them off at the level of the soil. I, however, pulled up all the beets, and then I threw away the ones I didn't want, and I kept the ones that I wanted, and then I replanted the healthiest ones. Well into their growth. And here's the thing. Even though they were removed from the soil for five minutes and then re-planted. Planted, they never recovered. We likewise should seek diligently to never lose connection with the soil of Christ. That is his point here. Do not be tempted to disconnect from him. The rest of verse 19 develops this more fully The complete picture of verse 19 is actually given in Ephesians 4:16. The joints and ligaments which supply the body are the prophets and teachers. That take the nourishing and living words of Christ and feed them to his people. Anyone who contradicts Christ and His authority is tithing. They feed you poison. It is only through this legit apostolic legitimate ministry and the power of God that you would grow being nourished and knit together. This is more fully pulled out in Ephesians chapter 4. You're welcome to look at that. And that's what Paul is relaying to us in verses 18 and 19: the foolish builder and the wise builder. The Colossian Church, just like us, had two voices in their heads, their surrounding Jewish and Greek culture, and Jesus. And you have at least two voices in your head: secular American culture and Jesus. The question for the Colossians and you is to which voice you will listen. You've heard the warnings. On which voice will you build your life? Whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, and it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock. But everyone who hears these sayings of mine and does not do them Will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, and it fell, and great was it. fall. Please pray with me. Father, we thank you for this apostolic testimony of warning. That we would be aware of the temptations which can arise within our lives. Whether it's temptations to wrongly understand your intentions Tension through Moses, whether it's temptations to wrongly put credentials and authority on certain religious experiences But rather the things that we struggle with, with the professors and social media personalities within our culture. They are all temptations to pull us away from your authoritative teaching and your word. We pray, Lord, that you would protect us and that we would build our lives in accordance with your voice. That we would be teaching That our house would be built on the rock, who is you, our Christ. Amen