Let's pray. Lord, we desire to look into these things also. We have, in fact seen these things because you have revealed them to us. But we do pray that you would take these things and that you would add to our faith, that there would be an increase. And that there would therefore be an increase in strength, of hope, of joy, of peace, of love, of a longing to glorify you. In the name of Christ. Amen. Maybe shoot him. The letter of 1 Peter acknowledges that we are between two gardens. The first garden with the fall we were removed from, and then through the work of God the Father, through Jesus Christ and His Spirit, there has been a second garden that we are moving toward by His Spirits as He pushes us towards that final place of paradise. We used the image last week of Christian's of Pilgrim's Progress because it has a similar image It was moving away from the city of destruction towards the celestial city. And we said these kind of things because, as you can see in verse 1 of the first epistle of Peter, that this is to the pilgrims. That we are pilgrims. It's nice to know who you are. It helps you to set your expectations for where you are and the time in which you are in. The other thing that we noticed from verse 1 is that this letter from Peter to the pilgrims is a letter working out the basic Christian reality for the church. And we derived that conclusion because we saw that the pilgrims, that the letter was written to Pontus, Galatia, Capitolic, Asia, Panthania, all of these different kinds of people Peter was addressing. Not specifically a single person, but all different kinds of Christians. And so this ends up being like a kind of creed or confession But written in such a way to benefit and nurture the church while the church is in her wilderness. And that's what we should expect for ourselves also: to be nurtured by 1 Peter while we are in the wilderness. Last week we covered questions from Peter's catechism. Questions like, why is faith more precious than gold? Why don't you test yourself and see if you can you can still answer these from last week? I just heard someone tell me Two days ago that if you preach in the morning, people don't remember by the evening. I thought, I hope that's not true. But uh we'll so we're we're gonna test a week. We'll see from Sunday to Sunday. Uh why is faith more precious than gold? Gold can get you a lot of stuff, can't it? What makes faith even more precious than that gold that can get you all of those things? Well, it's verse 9 in 1 Peter 1. It's because faith is the end of our salvation, the end of our faith is salvation. And that is why faith is more precious than gold. Gold can get you something from the earth. But faith will buy you all of the new heavens and the new earth. Question number two, how do you get faith? God gives faith as a mercy, in case you get ahead of yourself there. God gives faith as a mercy. We are naturally unbelievers and unfaithful, but in His mercy, God gives us a second birth As reborn, we believe in God the Father's work through Jesus Christ and the Spirit, and we begin to express faithfulness to our God. That's all his work, though. And question number three, how do you keep this faith if you need it in order to enter into the end? Number five, verse five, God keeps your faith through his power. And this has been throughout history referred to as the preservation or the perseverance of the saints. And then there was a question four: Do you have room for joy in your life even though your life is full of trials? And the answer was yes. Because God uses the trials in your life to make your faith stronger so that you will persevere until the end and obtain the inheritance promised to the faithful. And we should rehearse those kind of catechism questions. It really is uh uh summarizing our faith here. It's really actually quite beautiful when you start to think about it. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who in mercy gives and sustains our faith unto salvation. That would be a summary. Well, you keep hearing this word salvation, onto salvation, faith onto salvation Well, in our passage this week, we're picking up with Peter and continuing with his catechism, and we're focusing on that salvation. He actually has a kind of spit stop in the next two verses and in 10 through 12, and he wants to look at what is this salvation? And that's the question that we're asking tonight. Well, what is the salvation? This glorious future that awaits us? And that's what we need to consider. I believe that he wants us to do this by learning from the past and the information we can gather about salvation from that past, and then also learning from the present. Now it's not our present exactly, it's his present. So so when he was talking. Uh but it does continue into our time, but to be most proper, it's his present. So that's what we're gonna do. The past and then the present should be easy to follow And at the end, we should understand a little bit more about what this salvation is. And then I have some more catechism questions for you. From Peter's catechism. So let's learn from the past. Let's begin in verse 10 then. It says that I just want to point out to you that Peter really is focused on what is salvation. This is not just an abstract philosophical question that Jesse wanted to ask. This is what Peter himself is doing. Notice in verse 10 the first three words. Of this salvation, that really should be a heading, like a book chapter, or the title of a book, for everything that's going to follow in all of the chapters. um or at least in the next two verses here. Well, of this salvation. See, he wants to talk about the salvation, and then he's gonna go he's gonna go in and describe this in the past, then he's gonna describe this in the in the present. So what about this salvation? Notice that Peter focuses on the prophets of the past to teach us about this salvation. He starts off by saying Of the salvation, the prophets have inquired and searched carefully. They inquired and they were searching out What the salvation is, when the salvation would take place, where it would take place, how it would take place, why it would take place. Perhaps it were all of those questions that they were asking. And they searched and they inquired, if you keep reading here in First Peter, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ who was in them was indicating when he testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow. Now that's a mouthful. But what he's saying is that they searched and they inquired into the time And the place and the way in which the Christ would arrive, and how the Christ would suffer, and whether he would do so, and what would be the glories that he would bring in the manifestation of the That's what it says right here in Peter. Let's try to flesh that out a little bit because he's talking about some prophets from the past that searched out who the Christ is and what he's going to To accomplish, right? Well, who were those prophets? Well, I'm sure you have some in your mind, just knowing some of the prophets. Let me just name one, Isaiah Isaiah was one of the prophets, and then we can think about, did Isaiah do these kind of things? Did he search and inquire? Was it revealed to him who the Christ was and that the Christ would suffer and that there would be glories to follow? Well, yeah, actually we do find that in Isaiah. We find that Isaiah spoke of the suffering Christ and the glories that would in fact follow. And as I say that, what chapter in Isaiah would you guess that he does so? It's one that's read often during this time, or Good Friday. Isaiah 53, did you say that? Isaiah 53 is right. And so in Isaiah 53, it's structured poetically to where it starts with the sufferings of the Christ Let me just read a portion to you and you'll know immediately this chapter. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement for our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. All we, like sheep, have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. That's Isaiah 53, verses 5 and 6. That's the suffering of the Christ, the suffering that he must go through. Now they didn't know exactly how that was going to take place under Pontius Pilate. It, but you can see the poetic outlines of it. But then there's the glories that follow right after that, Isaiah 53, verse 12. Therefore I will divide him a portion with the great. And he shall divide the spoil with the strong. This is speaking about the victory of the Christ, because he poured out a soul unto death. And he was numbered with the transgressors, and he bore the sin of many, and he made intercession for the transgressors. So there's the suffering Christ, and there are the glories that follow. Just a piece of it. And you could go through the other prophets also You could actually go all the way back to Genesis and see the prophecies that were given there with the bruising of the heel and crushing of the serpent's head. That's something about the Christ And even in that prophecy of the bruising of the heel is a kind of suffering of the Christ, and yet the crushing of the serpent's head is a kind of victory of the Christ We're definitely on the right track here, though. And you could go through all of these different prophets, but let me just summarize the whole thing by what Jesus said in Luke chapter 24. Then he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow to heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken, ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his group? You see the two set up again? This is what Peter is referring to. It's the same thing that Christ is referring to, and Christ continues by saying Luke continues by narrating, and beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded, he, Jesus, expounded to them all in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. It's exactly what Peter is talking about, the prophets that searched and inquired as to the suffering and the glories of the Christ. And so by considering the past, therefore, Peter tells us that salvation, this is what we can glean from this. That the salvation that Peter is talking about is that thing which the prophets have been searching out from the beginning, whether it was with Adam and Eve. Or, as Jesus said, with Moses and going through all of the prophets, what is the salvation that they are talking about? Let me just say this, because of where we are within our church culture, not necessarily here at Severn Run, but larger. Salvation is not just being born again. That's a part of it, and we've heard of that part of the salvation in the last week's sermon. Salvation is much bigger than that. Salvation, if we're to take all that the prophets have said about the Christ and his suffering and his glory, Salvation is all that God has promised to accomplish by the suffering but glorified Christ. And now think of all the things that Jesus Christ is accomplishing. That's more than just you being reborn. And thus, if you were to just say things off the top of your head from your Christian upbringing and knowledge, we could say that salvation is freedom from oppression. Freedom from sin and guilt of sin and punishment of sin. Salvation is freedom from bodies that die, and thus freedom from disease and sickness. Praise God. Freedom from disinterest in God, freedom to love God, freedom to love our neighbor and have no self-ambition or conceit blinding us from love. Freedom from natural disasters like wildfires and droughts and tsunamis. Do you see how big the salvation is? In essence, it's freedom from the curse, and we sang about this this morning, our salvation. No more let sin and sorrow grow Nor thir thorns infest the ground. He comes to make the blessings flow far as the curse is found. If you find how far the curse is, so too will you find how broad our salvation is. That's what the prophets talk about. Going for Moses and all the prophets speaking of Christ. That's what he will do. It is no small matter what the Christ will accomplish, and that is salvation. So Peter then is using the past to explain salvation, but he also explains salvation through the present. So let's now learn from the present. And that takes us to verse 12. To them it was revealed that, speaking of those prophets, not to themselves, but to us. You see, there's a transition that's happening right there. Do you feel it? Where he's moving from the past and he's then moved now going into their present. Peter points out that although the prophets foresaw and they were eager to begin their salvation and to see the day of the Christ, They realized that Christ would arrive after their generation, and Peter is saying, He's arrived in my generation. That's what's going on in verse 12. Not to themselves, but to us. They were ministering the things which now have been reported to you. Through those who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things which angels desire to look. And that's the point of the verse: that now it's what is happening to them in the present. All that the prophets were waiting for arrived in Peter's day. Or as Jesus says from Matthew 13:16 through 17: but blessed are your eyes because they can see. And your ears, because they hear. For assuredly I say to you that many prophets and righteous men desired to see what you are seeing, And they did not see it. And to hear what you are hearing, but they did not hear it. Do you see what he's saying? He's saying, Jesus is saying, the time has arrived. And that's what Peter is saying. Well, let's ask this question. What did Peter and his generation hear and see? Well, that would be a really big answer. That'd be a long answer to a cat for a catechism. question. But what did Peter and his generation hear and see? It says, you can see the broad outlines of it in verse 12, the things. Do you see that? In verse 12? Not to themselves, but to us they were ministering the things. Well, what things? It was the things which now have been reported. Well, who reported them? Those who have preached the gospel. And how did they have the power to do that? Well, it was by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. Do you recognize what Peter is referring to there? Do you know the Bible story that he's talking about? Let me go through that one more time. Let's see if a story pops into your mind. What did Peter and his generation hear and see, the things? And who reported them? Who reported those things? Those who have preached the gospel. And how did they have the power to do that? By the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. Where would you turn in your Bible to find that story? He's referring obviously to Pentecost and all the apostolic preaching which followed. So that would turn you to Acts chapter 2. Remember, they waited as Jesus instructed in the upper room. Do you remember this story? The Spirit descended upon them. They went and they preached in all different languages to the people, and some thought that the people, that the disciples were drunk. But then Peter clarifies and he says, For these are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day. But this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel. Do you see what's happening right there Peter, in his sermon in Acts 2, 15 through 16, is saying, All that we have heard from the prophets, what you have been waiting for, that is what you are seeing right now with the preaching. And that's what he's bringing up here. He wants them to be reminded. They would have known about this story. Maybe some of them were in attendance when it took place. Do you see what's happening? What was searched out and inquired, that day of salvation, as Joel foretold, was upon them. And in fact, Peter would continue by teaching the crowds the truth about Jesus: that Jesus from Nazareth is the Christ that the prophets inquired and searched for. And just keep that outline in your mind as you studied the sermons of Peter. It's that Jesus from Nazareth is the Christ who had to suffer but was raised again to glory. Those two parts That we see here in this passage. So what do we learn about salvation then? Not from the past this time, but from Peter's present. Perhaps the most glorious thing is that that salvation of God has begun. Exclamation point. They existed and we exist in the days which all of those people before longed for were in those days. We know the suffering Christ and are beginning to experience all the glories that follow. You want to refer to the revelation passage from the This morning, those seals were broken and things which no one had known before. You know. You actually know what is written on that scroll because you have seen the risen Christ work out his glory in history. We have a deposit now, but it is true to say that our day of glory is now actually at this very moment, no, this moment. Closer than ever. So what is salvation? That's the thing that Peter wants us to consider. He's not a philosopher. So he's drawing upon his own experience, knowledge, and discipleship with Jesus Christ. And that's how he answers it. Our lesson from the past tells us that it is all of the benefits gained from God's redemptive work through Christ in him. his spirit. It's not just being born again. Don't be tricked. It's much bigger than that. It's the whole redemptive plan. Our lesson from the present tells us that this salvation has begun. Christ's advent has passed He has suffered, and he was raised again to the glories that would follow. He is now in his ascension glory. So I do want to go into a time of prayer. I prayed last week, and we didn't have a time together as a congregation, and I want us to have that tonight. But before we move into that, let me ask you a couple of Peter's catechism questions. to see how well you have been listening to this section of his letter. Question number one. Are you ready for this, by the way? Okay, here we go. Do you need to stand up for a second? No? We're okay. Question one. What do we learn from the past about salvation? Just answer it in your own head. Don't scream out. What do we learn from the past about what salvation is? Salvation was promised to many prophets of the past, wherein the Christ would suffer to usher in a glorious future. That's what we learn from Peter about salvation from the past. And now the second one is: what do we learn from the present, Peter's present about salvation? We learn from those given the Holy Spirit to preach that day that the salvation has begun, that Jesus is the suffering Christ who was raised on the third day to ascension glory. And actually if you were to turn to Apostles' Creed, I think you could answer. With the article on Christ, you could answer that question. Suffered under Pontius Pilate. Okay, so those are the first those are the two main ones and that those are were just the two main uh points of the sermon. Now I have a bonus question three and I have a bonus question four. So you can get extra credit, which I'll let it go towards the catechism questions from last week. Because I know that maybe some of you only got one right last week, which the answer was yes. Okay, so bonus question number three What are the glories which Christ Jesus has for you at his second coming, his second advent? What are the glories which Christ Jesus has for you at his second advent? That needs to be thought about, doesn't it? It's a bonus question, so I haven't answered that directly yet. You should have been able to get the gleanings from what I've said, but Okay, you ready? This one's a long one. You, the righteous, will be caught up to Christ in the clouds. You will be set on his right hand, and there you will openly be acknowledged and acquitted. You will join with him in the judging of angels and of men. And then you will be received into heaven Where you will fully and forever be freed from all sin and all misery. You will be filled with inconceivable joys You will be made perfectly holy and happy in both body and soul. And you will be in the company of innumerable saints and holy angels. But most importantly, you will be in the immediate vision and the fruition of God the Father, of our Lord Jesus Christ, and of the Holy Spirit for all eternity. Eternity. Now that's a salvation. Bonus question number four. I don't even want to move past that because that's a good one to end on. But bonus question number four. Will your future glory make all of your present sufferings worth it? You can at least get this one right. The answer is yes. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for relaying to us this nurture from Peter Where you give us the milk that we need, and even the meat that we need as we contemplate on these things. But Lord, these are not just things. This is the salvation that you are accomplishing. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, blessed be your holy name in the accomplishment of salvation. We thank you that you are accomplishing salvation through the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, for suffering for us. That's what you did. You suffered for us. And the Spirit raised you to glory. And the prizes that you won in your victory, all the spoil of the enemy. You have dispersed to your church in gifts, and it's just begun. We thank you that you are working through your spirit, and there will come a day when we will meet you in the clouds. And we will exist with you, God the Father, and Son and Holy Spirit, in eternal felicity. We thank you for such a vision and for such a salvation. Name of Christ, Amen