Everyone? Good to see you all. Let's open our service with prayer. Please join me. O God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for the joy of being your sons and your daughters, and for the life that you have given to us. We come here, Lord, to worship you. This is your service, and we are here in service to you, to serve you with our praise. It is our great delight. We pray, Lord, that we would also gain strength from our time with you, that we could serve could serve you not just here, but through all the week to come, until we gather again to serve you. again in the next Lord's Day. Pray, Lord, that you'd give us ears to hear and hearts that are attentive to you. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship tonight. You are called to worship from Psalm 136. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endures forever. Oh, give thanks to the God of gods, for his mercy endures forever. Oh, give thanks to the Lord of Lords, for his mercy endures forever. To him who alone does great wonders, for his mercy endures forever. To him who by wisdom made the heavens. Let's sing together immortal invisible. Most blessed, most glory, ancient today. Almighty great glory, my great name we praise. God resting, not hasty, yes, silence as life, nor wanting, nor wasting, God rules in mind. By justice, thy mountains, thy story of law, thy bounties or mountains of goodness and love. To know my province, to go free and small, in all my provinces, not to my We thought so and for his leaves on the tree, and with the grandparents for danger. Bring God of Glory to Father of High. I need the all daily sight. All praise we would render all of us to see. Spirit only cross spenders of me. Amen. Let us now hear Romans eleven as we enter into a time of confession. O the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has become his counselor, or who has first given to him, and it shall be repaid to him? For of him and through him and to him are all things To whom be glory forever. Amen. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. Holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. and perfect will of God. Amen. You may be seated. Please join me in a time of confession. Oh Lord, we thank you for this great doxology that you have given to us, where your your glory and is for proclaimed and wherein Paul marvels at the great work that you have done throughout all history. Bringing all things together in Christ. Lord, we thank you for that great spirit, your great spirit whom you have sent to us. We thank you, Christ. We thank you for the great reminder here of our lives being transformed and our minds being renewed. Lord, this past week and even today We have continued to indulge the old man. And Lord, we need to come before you and to confess that. Lord, in in one sense, it is still a delight to us to engage that old man. There's still something about certain sins in our life that we find enjoyable or unsafe if we're not performing them But on the other hand, Lord, you have given us newness of life, and we look at that that part of ourselves, that old part, and we don't want that any longer. Lord, we ask, therefore, during this time, you would hear our confessions that we'll give in the quiet of our hearts. Pray that you'd help us to be more attracted to truth and to life. And to beauty, really to you, and to your way. Lord, before you our father was the devil. But that is no longer the case. We are no longer enslaved or under sin and its dominion. We are your sons and daughters. We pray therefore, Lord, that you would use this time of confession as a part of our overall repentance, that we'd walk on new paths, that we would hear you calling as our wisdom and that we would run to you and we would find life instead of loving death. Ask, Lord, that you hear your saints now as they come to you in confession. Lord, we thank you for freeing us uh from the same thing. Snares of the devil. Thank you for taking us off those old paths and the old ditches we used to fall into. Pray, Lord, that you'd continue to give us liberty by your Spirit, mortifying our sin and giving us new life. In the name of Christ. Amen. Here now your assurance of pardon, one of my favorite uh assurances from the pastoral epistles at least, and this is from Titus 2, 11 through 14. For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts We should live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age, looking for the blessed hope and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us that he might redeem us from every lawless deed, and purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. Amen. Let's respond to this salvation by standing and singing, Abide with me. It fully sounds Study students go Lord let me not Changes not all I mean, I try not to live God Oh the right cross of me for my closing Points me to the strike Every great birthday God was me Amen. Let's open our scriptures together to Proverbs chapter eight. And I'll read the entirety of that chapter this evening. Proverbs chapter eight Does not wisdom cry out, and understanding lift up her voice? She takes her stand on the top of the high hill, beside the way where the paths meet. She cries out by the gates at the entry of the city, at the entrance of the doors. To you, O men, I call, and my voice is to the sons of men. O you simple ones, understand prudence, and you fools, be of an understanding heart. Listen, for I will speak of excellent things, and from the opening of my lips will come right things, for my mouth will speak of Speak truth. Wickedness is an abomination to my lips. All the words of my mouth are with righteousness. Nothing crooked or perverse is in them. Receive my instruction, not silver, knowledge rather than choice gold, for wisdom is better than rubies, and all the things one may desire cannot be compared with her I, wisdom, dwell with prudence and find out knowledge and discretion. The fear of the Lord is to hate evil, pride and arrogance in the evil way, and the perverse mouth I hate. Counsel is mine. and sound wisdom. I am understanding. I have strength. By me kings reign and rulers decree justice. By me princes rule and nobles and all the judges of the earth. I love those who love me, and those who seek me diligently will find me. Riches and honor are with me, enduring riches and righteousness. My fruit is better than gold Yes, then fine gold, and my revenue, then choice silver. I traverse the way of righteousness in the midst of the paths of justice. That I may cause those who love me to inherit wealth, that I may fill their treasuries. The Lord possessed me at the beginning of his way, before his works of old. I have been established from everlasting, from the beginning, before there was ever an earth. When there were no depths, I was brought forth, when there were no fountains abounding with water. Before the mountains were settled, before the hills I was brought forth. While as yet he had not made the earth or the fields or the primal dust of the world When he prepared prepared the heavens, I was there. When he drew a circle on the face of the deep, when he established the clouds above, when he strengthened the fountains of the deep, when he assigned to the sea its limits. So that the waters would not transgress his command when he marked out the foundation of the earth. Then I was beside him as a master craftsman. And I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him, rejoicing in his inhabited world, and my delight was with the sons of men. Now therefore, listen to me, my children, for blessed are those who keep my ways. Hear instruction and be wise, and do not disdain it. Blessed is the man who listens to me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors. Whoever finds me finds life And obtains a favor from the Lord. But he who sins against me wrongs his own soul. All those who hate me love death. Let us pray. Oh Christ, pray that you would be glorified this evening, that we would all turn and raise our faces to you, be attentive to your words. And to find life. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Last week, I hope you notice the The lesson was quite different than the lesson we just heard in the reading. Last week we learned that Christ teaches us that growing in moral wisdom is primarily being convinced of how he morally views all things. He looks through his window with the authorized view on all things And we must learn how to view things as Christ sees them. In fact, our prayer last week was, may Christ give us maturity that we might At the window of his house, look through the lattice like him. Our observations tonight are definitely contrasting with the main voice that was in Proverbs chapter seven, which was the voice of the strange woman, and now you have the voice of woman wisdom. So I'll make a few observations in this contrast and then There's a few application points, and we'll go into our time of prayer. The first thing I'd like you to notice is verses 1 through 14 of Proverbs 18. You can see this goes really without me having to say it, but there is a personification of wisdom here as a woman crying out. She offers her wisdom from a place all could hear her. You can see this in verse 2 when she's on the high hill. And she also goes down into the places where she is needed in the daily and mundane life of the city. You can see this in voice through verse 3, the gates and the entry of the city, the entry of the door. She's there to give wisdom to all those who will go in and engage in the life of the city, whatever that part of life is. She is to bring wisdom to all of life. She is especially, you can see in verse 5, as she has done throughout all of these introductory lessons in the book of Proverbs, appealing to the simple youth. The simple youth are those who have heard her wisdom. They have been a part of the holy community of God, but they remain uncommitted to her ways. They should give her attention, but not just attention, they should give her loyalty. The reason being, you can see in verses 6 through 8. Why would I want to listen to her? Why would I want to be l loyal to her? Well, because all of her ways are true. Everything she says, all of her instructions are good through and through. all the way down. You could bring a thousand lawsuits against her, and she would be found innocent every time. Well that's the first thing I'd like you to notice in 1 through 14. Now the second thing is that she continues her appeal and she wants now, again, this is a really a a piece of persuasive writing to uncommitted youth. She shows the fruits of her work through history in verses 15 through 21. If you've ever seen a king or a president reign well, she was behind it. She is the reason why they had such skill. We have a saying actually in our culture, I think, behind every successful man is a good woman. along those lines here. Here we see something similar. Behind all good princes, behind every excellent nobleman, behind all just judges, woman wisdom is at work. She shows also the fruit of her work even before and at the beginning of history in verses 22 through 31. 22 through 31 are the main, the real main focus of this proverb. And the key is verse 30, really. She was there as a master craftsman. That master craftsman is a good way to look at wisdom. She's giving chaos form, making the world a place of fruitful blessing, especially in the life of mankind, as you can see in verse 31, where she takes great delight in the sons of men. Now, the other thing I'd like you to notice for our third observation is that there is a final lesson that is strung together in verses 34 through 36. And uh I actually find the lesson quite catchy, especially the last line. It's something really hard to forget, to tell you the truth. And here it is. There it's put in the form of a a beatitude. Blessed is the man who listens. to me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors. This is an obvious reference to Deuteronomy 6 6. For whoever finds me finds life and obtains favor from the Lord. And this is the one that I think is just so hard to forget It's a lovely saying. But he who sins against me wrongs his own soul. All those who hate me love death. And then another thing I would like you to notice, this is the final observation, is that this proverb has done a lot of work. Just as a general observation here, this proverb has done a lot of work In fact, if you were to do some research on the kind of theological and exegetical work or the reading of the scriptures that those um were that end up being formulated in the Nicene Creed, for example. there are going to be major appeals to Proverbs chapter 8 in the development of who Christ is. And you can see why, can't you? These same things, themes used for woman wisdom, are used to describe the eternal Son of God in John chapter 1, for example. And elsewhere, Solomon certainly had several things on his mind. He wanted the youth to be attentive to Christian wisdom. That's one reason why this is written this way. He wanted also, though, based upon the end of this book in chapter 31, he wanted to give a good picture of a wife. You'll notice, for example, the similarities between this proverb and he who finds a wife finds a good thing or favor with the uh and obtains favor from the Lord. It's all there's almost a uh an exact replica of that in Proverbs eight with reference to woman wisdom. And the work that woman wisdom does is very much like the w the the work that the the wife does in Proverbs 31. Solomon also wanted to give a picture of the church, the fruitful bride But we have to remember when we look at a proverb like this, and really all proverbs, however, that we don't find the ultimate purposes of any scripture through only the human author. even Solomon, but by the unifying work of the Spirit through the total scriptural collection. In other words, this is what I want you to ask. Ask the question: what is the ultimate reality to which the Spirit leads you in this proverb? You look at all the descriptions and you look at all the descriptions inside Proverbs 8. And then you search throughout the total collection what is the ultimate reality to which you are led? And it is this. This is the answer. The Son of God, even incarnate as Jesus, he is our wisdom. And therefore, the observation, this final observation has to be things along these lines. Be attentive to Christ. By him, kings and princes rule. He formed the chaos into order. And we can take that catchy phrase and we can put Christ there. If you hate Christ, then you love death. And that really is our doctrine this evening. The Son of God, even incarnate as Jesus, is our wisdom. If you hate Christ, then you love death. Well, we could really just spend some time meditating. I'd like to bring out a few things about this. Let's just spend some time on that. If you hate Christ, then you love death. Well, just a few applications before our prayer time. As you can tell, Proverbs 8 is meant to be set in contrast with Proverbs 7. And then you're going to find in Proverbs 9 that the contrast happens all in the same chapter. You're going to see a fight between two women over the youth. The Spirit intends to contrast woman wisdom and the strange adulterous woman from the last chapter. His purpose is to persuade and appeal to the youth to choose life instead of death. It's the point really of all of Proverbs. What does life look like? That answer, did you notice if you read through all of Proverbs 8? Ask the question, well, what does life look like? It's not really present there in Proverbs 8. It's setting something up for life where we could talk about life a little bit later. The answer is not given to us there except with utmost generality. And the reason is, as I've mentioned to you before, is that these are introductory lectures. Now when we hear as contemporary people, and this is an introduction to the lecture it's like well I can use the bathroom now or I could go get a cup of water. I don't need to be here for this. I'll wait till they get to the meat of this of the talk. And that's not the way Solomon wants you to look at his introductory lectures. which are Proverbs chapter 1 all the way through till the main Proverbs start in 10. And then 10 through 31 are the Proverbs. The point of the introductory lectures are this, and this is why you can't miss them. You're not supposed to go to the bathroom during the introduction. The point of the introductory lectures is for our souls to be softened, to where we would be receptive to the words that God has to say. It would mean that we're not too busy to listen to him. It would mean that we're not too distracted to listen to him him. It would mean that we're not so arrogant that we think we already know everything and so we don't need to listen to him. The word that comes to mind is that we would enter into a kind of docility, ready to receive. Ready to be attentive. That is what's going on here with these introductory lectures and chapters 1 through 10. Now that makes sense, doesn't it? I mean anybody that's been around for even Just a f uh a decade or so realizes how difficult it is to make the human soul attentive to the things of God. To make the human soul attentive to wisdom. That's the ultimate task. Only God can do that, actually. The question that we should be asking over and over again as we're going through these introductions is this Is my soul softened toward the Lord? Or is it hardened? Am I ready to receive wisdom? We saw a good picture of that this morning with Mary. She was ready to receive. Am I receptive to the Lord? That makes sense too. There's a lot of teachers always present in our services. because everybody tends to be a teacher in one way or another. And you could think of this like a teacher. What is the prerequisite for any learning or moral formation to take place? Attention! Attention. Receptivity. If everyone's going nuts in your classroom, what's the first thing you need to do? You need to get them to not be going nuts so they can pay attention Chastity, you're laughing uh because you have that experience. Very good. Yes, as as do I. Well that's the that's the purpose of these introductory lectures, and I hope that you're using them that way. I hope that you don't waste what the Lord is giving to you. These are gifts, and they're meant to soften the soul that you would be ready for the proverbs proper when they begin. in the upcoming chapters, but really that you would be ready to receive his word at any time. That you would be attentive. Now what I'd like to do next is I'd like to give you a Good picture to keep in mind as you're thinking about Proverbs 8. And I want to give you this other picture besides what we have here in Proverbs 8 that is a picture of Jesus Christ. And that picture comes from Matthew 23, verses 37 through 38. Now these are really familiar words, but I want you to think of these words relative to what we hear in Proverbs. Verse eight. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her, how often I wanted to gather your children together as a hen gathers her chicks under the her wings. But you were not willing. See, your house is left to you desolate. Here, if we pay close enough attention, we see the same central message as we see in Proverbs chapter 8. Christ likens himself to a female hen, or that's a redundancy, a hen longing to gather her chicks under her wing. Christ called aloud through the prophets, like woman wisdom called from the highest hill. But in this case, there was no receptivity of what the prophets had to say. say, instead, motivated from stony hearts, they stoned the prophets. And as a result, the house will be left desolate. Now we know that's true as a historical fact. Truly, the proverb was fulfilled in the fires of burning Jerusalem in 70 A. D. You could have seen Jerusalem burning and with grief in your heart. You could have stood there and you could have said, those who hate Christ. Love death. And that picture would have captured it all. And it is the picture that captures any time we go down the same road that those leaders Went with regard to Christ. The great plea from Christ, therefore, is something like this: O little chicks of God Wherein is Christ calling you to gather under the wisdom of his wings? Actually, there's an ancient church prayer, and it says, Oh little chickens. I like that better. Oh little chickens, where is Christ calling you to gather under the wisdom of his wings? Wherein does he want real life for you? In which areas are you hardened to him? How much longer will you run about in danger like a defenseless little chick? I saw that when we first got chickens from the farm store off a jumpershole road, I think it was. No, that's not right. It was a farm store, different road. I remember seeing that when they were little chicks, they were unaware, kind of brainless, running around, easily defenseless. And we don't want to be like that. As those chickens grew, I remember watching on one summer afternoon, a hawk came swooping in, sat on the branch of a maple tree. in the neighbor's yard. And I saw one chicken spot the hawk, started to make the chicken started to make a noise, and all of the other chickens jumped into the coop for safety. And that is the same message that we receive here, is that we would be as wise as those little chickens. That we would run to Jesus Christ, who is our coop. We would run to him and his wisdom, whether unto salvation, as we read in Timothy. Or in any other area of life and faith. The conclusion is this: the Son of God, even incarnate as Jesus, is our wisdom We are called, and even these introductory chapters, are calling us to be attentive to him by kings and princes. By him, kings and princes rule. He is the one who formed chaos into order. If you hate Christ, then you love him. Death. But whoever finds Christ finds life and favor from the Lord. Let us pray. Oh Lord, we know this is true. We think especially of the part of Proverbs 8 that says that all of your words are true through and through, all the way down. That there is no perversity in your heart or in your ways. And yet we turn to others as if they have the truth. Lord, we are not only uh little chicks, we can be silly doves. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that we would I pray for for all of us here that That we would grow in our trust of you. That we would turn to you as a young child turns to a good mother. Ask these things in your name Amen. Amen. All right, let's respond to the goodness of Christ by singing together. We'll stand and we'll sing the perfect wisdom of our God. The perfect wisdom God revealed all will. All be created by his hand and fell together and Israel. He guys got that on their way, and church here. This word open unto my peace, His spirit seeking and guiding me. And dog on this we are cross, and God was suffered for the law. So that goes to my signal wise, and all the glory might go to R. For grant me wisdom from above to pray for me and place to love. Thy seems be combled to receive the fine reign of your sovereignty. Each breath of sorrow has a place within this tapestry of praise, so through the God of Jesus. Stay your perfect will in your perfect way. Each kind of sorrow has a place within this service. So through the process, stay your perfect way, your perfect way. Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you, and may he give you peace.