I'll begin at verse one and I'll read through six just to regain the context. Since this is two parts. Masters, give your bondservants what is just and fair, knowing that you also have a master in heaven. And now we break into a new section. Continue earnestly in prayer, being vigilant in it with thanksgiving. Meanwhile, praying also for us that God would open to us a door for the Word To speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in chains, that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may now may know how you ought to answer each one. Amen. Let's pray Father, it is not enough for us to hear these words. We long to be the picture of these words, and that is your work. So I ask that you'd work in your people today. desperate times and we need to walk wisely and we need our lives full of prayer. I pray that you would grant each of those into our lives in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. You may be suited. This is part two from last week, where we are looking how Christ at how Christians are To relate to those outside of the church. A very important topic that everyone is wondering about. But we're finding that the conversations are becoming fewer and fewer because the doors are shut. Seems to be our experience. I was thinking about shut doors this past week, and I was thinking about Jesus the Christ. I was thinking about him and his teaching. and how by the end of his uh earthly ministry, almost all the doors were shut, which was certainly evidenced in his crucifixion that they did no longer want to hear from him It's exactly what that stood for. And we are familiar with that experience, that the Christian message is becoming more and more unpopular, and so we are finding that doors are shut for us too But in the ascension of Christ, all the doors were opened. And we should expect, through the same means of prayer, for doors to be opened to us. also. And we should expect it from the character of our God, who is merciful, who will even send a prophet to the Ninevehes. We should remember that as we think of the story of Jonah. Last week we looked at how important it was for us to engage in prayer if there are going to be any open doors for us to be able to share the gospel with those who are outside of the doors of the church. I mentioned that the passage speaks to us, and you can look in verse 2 if you just want to see a summary of it, that we are to continue earnestly in prayer, that is to say, that we are persevering. That we are to be vigilant in it, that we are to be watchful, in other words, and sober, that we are to be motivated to continue to pray by the thankfulness of what the Lord has already done and what we anticipate Him doing. Now there is a second part with a prayer for open doors, is one way to relate to outsiders. The second part is that we are to witness. And so last week we learned that the takeaway for you to leave in the evening was to say, Christians should relate to outsiders with prayer. Well, this week there's a second part. Christians should relate to outsiders with prayer and with witness. That's what the second part of this passage teaches when it begins to focus on verse 5: walk in wisdom towards those who are outside. Notice the connection between prayer for Paul's ministry and his proclamation. That it's to outsiders, and that that theme continues in verse 5. That we also, whether you're not an apostle, but even though you're not an apostle, you still have a ministry to outsiders. Now you had a ministry to outsiders in terms of prayer before, with Paul giving the proclamation, but we also have quite an active ministry to outsiders, and that is through witness. This is what the passage teaches, and you can break it down into that we are to relate and witness through the following ways. You need to walk wisely. Amongst your neighbors. You need to use your time wisely amongst your neighbors. And you need to choose your words wisely amongst your neighbors, those who are in your influence and in your conversation. So let's begin by looking at witness in terms of walking wisely. You can see this in verse 5. It says, walk in wisdom towards those who are outside. It's the first command given us to the apostle in relating to outsiders. To understand what he means, we need to contextualize this. Whenever Paul talks about or I can't say whenever because I can't be confident that I've seen every single verse, but most of the time, or all of my observations Have led to stating that Paul talks about walking wisely in the context of calling. This shouldn't be surprising to you because I've talked to you about Paul's sense of calling before. Paul was murdering the church. You know his story. He was dragging people before the synagogue. He had received warrants to break into people's homes who were professing Christ. He was such a terror amongst the church that even after he had converted to Christianity, Christians still would not let him into their company. They were frightened of what might be up his sleeve, what kind of tricks he would be performing. But then A bolt out of the blue, Saul was turned to Paul because Jesus Christ irresistibly called him into his service. Let me just make clear that this was not on Paul's calendar. He did not put this on his Google Calendar saying, on this day, on the way to Damascus, I'll become a follower of Jesus Christ Jesus Christ irresistibly and effectually said, You are mine, why are you kicking against me? It is futile to resist kissing the sun. And he saw that. He was blinded, and Christ, through his grace, gave him the gift of faith, and he became from Saul to Paul. This is recorded in Acts 9:15 through 17. sixteen. But the Lord said to him, Go, he's speaking, go, he says, Go for he is a chosen vessel of mine, speaking of Paul, to bear my name before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel For I will show him how many things he must suffer for my name's sake. Isn't that lovely to hear the foreordination of whatsoever shall come to pass of our Lord Jesus Christ? for the single life of Paul and to know that that's true for you also. He already has it all planned out. He had his planned uh everything planned out for Paul and his calling. And Paul took this calling seriously. He took it as seriously as a professional athlete. I don't I don't mean a lazy professional athlete. I mean the kind of person that's always practicing as a professional athlete professional athlete, the best of the best. He says in 2 Timothy 4, 6 through 7, for I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure is at hand I have fought the good fight, referencing himself as a kind of boxer. I have finished the race, referencing himself to a kind of marathon runner. I have kept the faith Now he has something very particular in mind when he says, I have kept the faith. He's still thinking about his calling But none of these things move me, he says, nor do I count my life dear to myself, so that I may finish my race with joy, and the ministry which I receive from the Lord Jesus to testify to the gospel of the grace of God. You see, he's still talking about his calling, that he, after being stoned, always got up and kept going with what the Lord told him that he And indeed now I know that you all, among whom I have gone, preaching the kingdom of God, will see my face no more. Of God. He's still talking about his calling, that he did what the Lord told him to do. There's not one person in Ephesus that did not hear the counsel of God as the Lord instructed him. to share with them. Now he takes this context of calling and he typically couples it with walking wisely. It is in fact walking wisely in a particular calling. So I'm trying to provide this context for you. So that you can understand what he's saying here when it says walk in wisdom, so that you're not just hanging on a couple words. I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord beseech you. Now here it is. It's all going to come together in this next phrase. I, therefore, a prisoner of the Lord beseech you. To walk worthy of your calling. And we're going to find that walking worthy is synonymous with walking wisely according to your calling. With which you were called, with all lowliness and gentleness, with long suffering, bearing with one another in love. It's talking about your life within the church. And this has been, when you start to look Look at it this way. When you take calling language and you take walking language and you bring the two together and allow them to marry, you find that that is what Colossians has been talking about. about all along. And so this conversation that we're seeing here on how to relate to outsiders in chapter four is not a surprise. Paul is just continuing the discussion that he's had with the Colossians all along. For example, in chapter 1 of Colossians, starting in verse 9, you're welcome to flip there. For this reason, we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. Why? For what purpose? That you may walk worthy of the Lord. So we have the walking language there in Colossians And here's the call. He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through his blood. And everyone who has studied Colossians has seen this exact same theme theme in the center of the book in Colossians 2. 6. Take a look at that book. Verse. I don't know a scholar that doesn't agree that this is the center of the book and the main purpose. As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. Rooted and built up in him and established in the faith as you have been taught, abounding in it with thanksgiving. The idea of receiving Christ Jesus, the Lord, is the idea of calling. Therefore act in accordance with your calling, walk in him. Now when we begin to see that, this walking, therefore, when we get to chapter 3, the end of chapter 2 is telling you how not to walk, and then chapter 3 is telling you how to walk. 3-1 is the calling. If you then were raised with Christ, that's the calling. Dead people cannot raise themselves. Christ effectually raises you through his Spirit by giving you faith and repentance. And then we see that we are to set our minds on things above, and this is worked out. And I've already said this To you, so I won't go into this in detail. This is worked out in how we will walk wisely in the church with each other. This is worked out in how we will walk wisely with each other in our families. This is worked out in how we will walk wisely with our co-workers and as employees and as employers. And that's where we start to come to chapter four, where we have the application of how to walk wisely With those who are outside. Now I'm not just trying to give you a bunch of information. I'm trying to give you as much context as possible because you are going to have to work out the specifics of what it means to walk wisely to outsiders in your specific Now there are some specifics in other letters of Paul and throughout the scriptures in terms of what does it look like to relate to those or to walk wisely Let me give you a couple examples from some other letters, and then I'll give you his specific examples. Here they are In 1 Thessalonians 4, 9 through 12, this is directed to everyone. This is how you should relate, to those who are outside the church. But concerning brotherly love, you have no need that I should write to you, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another. And indeed, you do so toward all the brethren who are in all Macedonia. But we urge you, brethren, that you increase more and more, that you also aspire to lead a quiet life. To mind your own business and to work with your hands as we commanded you, that you may walk properly towards those who are outside, and that you may lack nothing. So there's just one point I'll raise. It says that you would work with your own hands. If you're familiar with the First Thessalonians, he's essentially encouraging them to As Christians, according to their calling, that you wouldn't mooch off of your neighbor while you sat on the front porch drinking whatever and not doing any work that day He encourages us out of that and not to relate to those who are outside in the same way. Look at your bulletin for a moment. Here's another passage. In Titus 2, 1 through 10, I brought this up in my prayer. But notice the repeated phrase and the concern that Paul gives to Titus here. He lists all of these ways in which we're supposed to relate, and then he has the outsider in mind He says that the young women are to love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste, homemakers, good, obedient to their own husbands. Why? That the word of God may not be blasphemed And then he goes on and he says, likewise exhort the young men. Why? And then he goes on, and at the end he's still thinking of the outsider because he says, For what reason should we show all good fidelity? That they may adorn the doctrine of God and say our Savior in all things. It really is the taste test, isn't it? We're the taste tester. We're going to watch these people that are starting to follow Jesus Christ and see what happens to them. And Paul is aware of that. Are they a menace to society or are they a help to society? It says a lot. Those are the commands to everyone on how we should relate to outside. There are specific commands to officers within the church in 1 T. Timothy three seven. Moreover, the officer must have a good testimony among those who are outside, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil There's also those who are persecuted, that they should relate to those who are persecuting in a particular way, those outside the church. Therefore, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether to the king as supreme, or to governors, as to those who are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of those who do good. For this is the will of God, that by doing good you may put to silence the ignorance foolishness of men, as free, yet not using your liberty as a cloak for vice, but as bondservants of God Honor all people, love the Brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. Your calling requires of you that even if you are being treated wrongfully, that you would relate to those people who are treating you that way in a specific way. Those outside of the church. And so if we were to pull all of those examples together, just looking at the broader context of what Paul teaches about outsiders, this is what we would say You, Christian, are called into the service of King Jesus. And therefore, you must conduct or adorn yourself in ways that are worthy Of your calling, even towards outsiders, and in every situation with them. Let me say that again. You were called into the service of the king And therefore you must conduct or adorn yourself in ways that are worthy, even toward outsiders and in every situation. Now that's what Paul says across the board to all of these different churches. But he lists two specific ways in which we should be walking worthy in this particular context. Context. And the first is that you're to use your time wisely. He states this by saying you should redeem the time. So redeem the time. Redeeming the time in this context means to make the most of every single opportunity. And since this context is connected to the verse just above it, to open doors, we should say that Paul encourages you, all Christians, to make the most of every open door. Every open door that is within your life, you should make the most of those opportunities. Pray for open doors. Pray for courage to speak. Last week we I heard I was listening to multiple people pray. I was listening to you pray last week, and you were there were multiple prayers that said, please give me the courage. To share your gospel. Do you know the Apostle Paul had people pray that same thing for him? He said, Please give, please pray for me that I would have boldness of speech That would be a good use of your time, praying for boldness of speech and praying for others to have boldness of speech. That we would walk wisely so as to avoid cultural disgust. And that we would take advantage of every open door. What did it look like for the Apostle Paul to take advantage of every open door within his life? Let's get practical and clear. I've given you a bunch of general principles. What did it actually look like within his life to do this? Did Paul redeem the time? He certainly did. You do know that Paul was not haphazard and spontaneous, that he had a strategy for how he was going to proclaim the gospel. He had decided that he would go across the Mediterranean world from hopping from one synagogue to the next because he knew that there were Gentile God-fearers there. And as a rabbi, he would be given a teacher's seat. To freely proclaim the gospel of the Messiah. And he would preach in that synagogue the Old Testament and that Jesus Christ is the fulfillment of it all. He had a strategy. If they didn't have a synagogue, he would go to a public hall, like you see within Greece. Paul had a timely plan. If you take the opportunity to stun the h study the history alongside of the New Testament, you will find that Paul used Roman shipping schedules and Roman road routes in order to accomplish his His strategy in proclamation of the gospel, which was his calling. He worked the whole thing out. When will there be a ship in the harbor and when will it take me there? He had the whole thing planned out That's how he used his time wisely, some of it. What did he do when he was locked behind bars? He shared gos he shared the gospel with the palace guard or he Wrote letters to churches. He's even while in prison, he did not waste one moment, but redeemed the time. Because he had a true sense of calling. A true sense of calling to his king. Now, how will you use your time to make the most of your open doors? You know, there's a real question I think that you have in your head. Do I have open doors? I believe that you do. You may just be overlooking the open doors that God has providentially given to you because you have in your imagination what an open door has to look like. That it has to look like a Billy Graham youth rally, perhaps Or some other imagination that you have. I would encourage you to think of whether or not open doors exist and making the most of your opportunities in the same way that the Israelites were encouraged to think about. How God works through the manna principle. Do you know what the manna principle is? The manna principle is that uh is worked out in Exodus, the ultimate thing for them to learn is that they are to trust every word that proceeds from the mouth of God and to not trust in what they can say. see. That what they can see is not as certain as if God that as if God had said it. And so what he did with the manna is he said You will have manna, but you may not store it for the following day. If you try, except for the Lord's, except for the Sabbath On the days that were not the Sabbath, if they tried to store it so that they could trust in that that they had bread the following day, it would just fill with maggots and they would not be able to eat it the following day. Which means that they had every single night, you mothers, would have gone to bed having no food for your family. You would have to wake up trusting that God would do what He said He would do. Every day you just had what you needed. You never had before your face what you needed for tomorrow. And you can use the manna principle here. What has God placed in front of your face this very moment in your life that is an open door for you to be able to proclaim his gospel? And to act as a witness. What relationship has he given you where you can at least have a civil conversation? That is an open door. Take advantage of though of those. Make the most of those opportunities. Are you having lunch with them as much as you possibly could? Are you uh engaging with them as much as you possibly could? Are you encouraging them as much as you could possibly could? Are you investing in them as much as you possibly could? What resources and opportunities do you have today right now? Let's begin there. And then tomorrow God will give you whatever He had planned to give you. He's got this all worked out. How will you use what has already been given to you? The calling is to walk wisely, even to outsiders. And the first thing, the the application that we see here within this passage, one way to do that is to redeem the time to make the most out of the opportunities that he has given to us now. Not the ones that we wish for, but the ones that we have to do, that we have now. The other one that he lists here is that we would choose our words wisely. Can I get an amen on that? Particularly on social media. I tell you what, y'all are the nicest people in person. But online, I don't know. No, you are. You're nice online But we are to choose our words wisely, perhaps more now than ever. He says here As he works out the particulars of this, of what does it look like to choose our words wisely, he says two concepts that are interrelated. I believe that one is an analogy for With grace seasoned with salt. Both are referring to the attractiveness of your speech. Seasoned with salt is uh, I think, the same thing as speaking graciously to a person. When I look throughout all the literature, the two I get try I have trouble starting to separate the concepts. Because they're so close. And therefore, the image and the communication is obvious. Do not be You know, I love this passage from Job chapter six, verse six. Can flavorless food be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg? You know, I had a hard-boiled egg today. And you better believe I put salt on it. I would sprinkle salt and I would eat it, and then I'd sprinkle salt again, and then I would eat it, and then I would sprinkle salt again. There was not one part of the egg that did not have salt on it when I ate it And that's Job, that is Job's point, that you would not be a hard-boiled egg without salt. The white of an egg without salt. Now that's a that's a metaphor, and you have to work out what does that look like within you Your particular cultural context that you wouldn't just be a hard boiled egg with no salt. One gentleman from the third century, Tamon, he says, the intellectuals and the academics are unsulted and insipid. Have you ever been a part of an uh academic conversation that was like an egg without salt? Well then you get the idea The picture is not of Christians hiding away in a monastery. It is a picture in this passage of Christians engaging with their Neighbors in a lively and an interesting conversation. And my prayer is that your progress in these things would be evident to all. He says, furthermore, that you should know how to answer Each one. Have you ever read J. B. Phillips' translation of the New Testament? It's interesting as a comparison. J. B. Phillips translates this verse this way: He says, Be sensitive to the kind of answer each Each person in your life requires. That's a nice way of putting it. It adds some color and flavor. Be sensitive to the kind of answer each one requires. Answer to what? In this context, as in other contexts, the answer is in questions about your faith in God and his Salvation through Jesus Christ. Are you able to explain and to engage in lively civic discourse with your neighbor about the salvation in Jesus Christ that you have, about the faith that you have, about the hope that you have, about the love that you have. Peter makes this same point in 1 Peter 3 three fifteen he says always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. But he says this. Do this with gentleness and do this with respect. One commentator, in thinking of this same passage, says: Paul envisages a church expected to hold its own in the social setting of the marketplace and the meal table. And to be able to win the at win attention by the attractiveness of its life and of its speech. faith and our hope and our love. I tell you, when I look out on the social setting, I'm not seeing many people that know how to talk with our culture yet. It would be an excellent thing to do tonight, to spend time in prayer, that the Lord would give us words, to know how to speak to the people around us today, with every major movement of the Spirit and reformation. Jesus Christ, through his spirit, gave his people the words to say. Words of gentleness, words of respect, words that are like an egg covered with just And this is the point of this passage as we've not only learned how to relate to each other in the church or in family or in work, but here to the outside. Paul's main message to you is this. Christian, you should relate to outsiders with prayer that there would be open doors, and you should relate to them with witness in the specific Ways that I have mentioned. Now I want you to take away three focus points. We're still early in the new year. In fact, somebody told me today they were going to start their new year in the beginning of February. And maybe you could do that. But no matter when you start it, we're still kind of in the beginning, and perhaps you could make this your goal this year. Three things you have to do this year. That's it. Know your calling and walk wisely according to that calling Use the opportunities that you have, not the ones that you wish you had. Use the ones that are right in front of your face. And lastly, learn how to have civil discourse. As an unapologetic Christian, fly your freak flag, but still be gentle and respectful, knowing how to Let's go now into a time of prayer. Um we still need to pray for open doors. We need to pray for We need to pray that hearts would be open to the message. You know, one of the things that can happen is no matter how hard you work on your your witness, the more you And we need to pray that that wouldn't happen. That the God of this world, lowercase G, would not blind everyone and Darkness. We need to pray for Christian witness across the globe, especially within America, the silly things that you see with on Facebook that are not gentle and respectful. Let's pray for all of these things and more.