With me there as we pick up in verse nine and we uh read down through verse thirteen. As Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax office, and he said to him, Follow me. So he arose and followed him. Now it happened as Jesus sat at the table of the house, the whole tax many tax collectors and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples And when the Pharisees saw it, they said to his disciples, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? When Jesus heard that, he said to them, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. But go and learn what this means. I desire mercy and not sacrifice. For I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repent. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Many years ago, Steve McQueen starred in a movie called The Sand Pebbles. You may have heard of it. Some of you who are as old as I am probably saw it. But it's a pretty good movie. The San Pebble stands for is a nickname for a Navy ship, a gunboat actually, uh called the San Pablo. It was stationed on the Yangtze River between World War II and World War I during the 1920s, and in the opening scene, Steve McQueen comes and reports aboard this small vessel, this small gunboat. He's being introduced by some other he plays an enlisted man, I can't remember what uh rank, but he was playing it, and as he comes aboard he's being uh introduced to the others And he's a tough guy, you know. That's the only thing Steve McQueen ever played was tough guys. And he is introduced to the barber And the barber is a Chinese coolie, because the ship is on the Yangtze River. It's stationed there at the dock, kind of permanent station at the moment, and they use coulies to come aboard and to perform various things on the ship. Well, this Cooley's barber, this Cooley Barber's name, they've given him his clip clip, interestingly enough. And the man who introduces him says He does the shaving around here. And Steve McQueen says, I do my own shaving. And that kind of takes the guy back and he says, Well don't break his rice bowl. That tone, that word, sets the tone for the whole rest of the movie, and if you watch the movie closely, you'll see that it's all about breaking rice bowls. It's all about that which that which comes about when people upset the apple cart, when when they step out of line with the way things have been done No matter even if it means that you're trying to do something better than it has been done. But to break someone's rice bowl is to threaten their ordinary life to even threaten their country because it threatens their security. Now the rest of the movie is, like I said, about people's rights bowl getting threatened or broken From the captain of the ship to the crew itself down to the lowest coolie that is working aboard and extending even out into the neighborhood. It has a violent ending The crisis comes at because of that very thing. The idea of breaking someone's rice bowl also lies at the heart of this particular passage. In the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew shows us a definite progression of Jesus' life in this most literary of all of the Gospels. In his presentation, we follow Jesus as he goes through chapters 5 through 7 with Jesus teaching in the Sermon on the Mount. And we see here Jesus is presented to us as the great teacher of Israel. who astonishes his audience because of the authority with which he preaches. They say this man teaches not as the scribes and Pharisees, but as one who has great authority. In himself. Now, after presenting us with Jesus as the great teacher, down in chapter 8 that we finished just a few weeks back. Jesus demonstrates further his authority. The central theme of all of the miracles is Jesus' authority. And Matthew portrays them in quick, rapid succession, just like hammer blows falling on a nail. Jesus heals a leper. Jesus heals the centurion servant. Jesus casts out legions of demons. Jesus calms the storm. And the central underlying premise in all of these is Jesus' authority is being further and further demonstrated. It is celebrated most in the healing of the centurion servant, where the centurion is depending upon Jesus' authority to heal, even at a distance And Jesus commends that by saying, never have I seen such great faith, even in Israel Now, if we had been there and if we had been a good Israelite watching all of that, if we had been growing up in the expectation and the longing, the deep longing for the restoration of Israel. Having heard his teachings on the Sermon on the Mount, as Matthew presents it, and then having seen all of these miracles coming in quick succession as Matthew presents it, then we would have been, if as a good Jew, like Mary, or Simeon or Zacharias, then our hearts would have been gripped with great emotion, and we would have We hope responded with joy, even to singing, as Mary sang, and to Zacharias. We would have been rising in our hope. The question that would have been beating around in our head is, can it really be happening? Is God really about to do what he said he was going to do? Is our time of waiting over? Is God actually restoring his favor to Israel like he did in the days of old? The prophets, Hosea, who is quoted here in the passage that Mark just read to you. Isaiah, Jeremiah. They have all told us that one day God was going to do this. In this particular chapter of Hosea, chapter 6, if you read carefully there, he says that on the third day, he is going to raise us up. Hmm. Well the way that they would have been expecting that is that the third day represents some period of time and that at the end of that time while they were in the equivalent of a dead state, separated from God by his wrath because they were still in spiritual exile, he was going to raise them up They had been told that God would send a prophet. As a matter of fact, God would send the greatest prophet of all, a prophet greater than Moses. And this prophet, when he came, would give us his law The passage in the Old Testament says, this is my servant. Hear him. Something we also hear on the Mount of Transfiguration. But they were expecting this new Moses to come and to be like the old Moses and give his law. And that's what Jesus did on the Sermon on the Mount. They would expect this prophet to do great wonders, proving that he was the man of God that God had established for them. Moses did great wonders before he brought about the children of Israel out of Egypt in the Exodus. He had to do special uh demonstrations of his power before the elders themselves before they would accept him as a man sent from God. And here Jesus has done all of those in spades in chapter 8. So the people, those who had a heart for God, they would have been saying, is it true? Is it coming? Is he here? Is this guy, this carpenter from Nazareth, is he really the one that was promised? He's doing all things well. Is he our new Joshua? Is he going to lead us in battle? Are we going to take back our land from the heathens as the first Joshua did? As the day come when Israel will at last dwell in peace with every man under his own fig tree, and all the nations of the earth are going to stream to Zion to hear of his law And to say what a great people God has established on the earth and what a great law He has given them. Is it time for Israel to finally become a nation of priests, as God has established for them to do? Now Matthew has deliberately crafted his gospel so that that conclusion, by now, as we start chapter 9, should be self-evident to anybody who was, quote, a good Jew, a good Israelite. Beyond a shadow of a doubt, by this time they should have realized Jesus of Nazareth is in fact the Messiah, the Christ of God. Therefore, since he is the Christ, it is time for the people to rally around him, to reject their old way of thinking, and to move towards him, to embrace him. to learn from him, to be led by him, to devote their lives to him, because that is what it means to believe in him. To swear allegiance to Him as our teacher, as our Lord, as our Savior And in doing so, to repent, to reject all other ways of thinking about the world. If it was that clear, now we understand why in chapter 9 we see the rising of opposition. It hasn't shown up yet. Nobody in the Sermon on the Mount said, wait a minute, what do you mean? You have heard it said, thou shalt not murder, but I tell you. I'm a Pharisee, I'm a scribe, I know as much about the law as you. How dare you teach that? We didn't hear that there. Well, he's doing all of these fantastic uh uh miracles You don't hear opposition. But now here in chapter nine, we see it coming up. The first seven verses of chapter nine that we looked at last week We saw that Jesus demonstrates the greatest authority any man could ever possibly hope to have. He demonstrated the authority by his own self to declare sins forgiven. Now compared to that authority, casting out a few thousand demons is nothing. Common the wind or the waves, mere child's play. But to pronounce a person's sin forgiven? Wow. That's incredible. What does that mean? It means he didn't go through a priest. He did it all by himself. That's a problem for religious professionals. For the scribes, for the priests, for the Pharisees. He was directly threatening their rice bowl. If Jesus could forgive sins directly, there's no need for a temple. There's no need for priests in that temple. If Jesus taught with authority and forgave sins, then there's no need for teachers of the law. Like the Pharisees. People could just flock to this man Jesus and get the word straight from God's mouth. They didn't need anyone else. And so as we saw last week, in the presence of his authority to declare sins forgiven, it was the Pharisees who said, This man blasphemes. This man is threatening to turn my world upside down, to do away with my position in the kingdom of God. that of course God established, and my only thought is of God, of course. Therefore this man must be wrong, he must be blaspheming. What we see in chapter 9 is the kind of opposition that is raised whenever anyone threatens organized religion. Now before you take up stones to stone me, what I mean by that is religion that has as its focus man. Religion, which is more about men and what they do than it is about God. When that religion is more about maintaining the status quo than it is about advancing the kingdom of God. That's the challenge that Jesus posed to the people of his day. And it's the same one, brothers and sisters, he is posing to us here right now. Jesus confronted the religious people of his day, and he made it clear that their religion was really more about themselves than it was about God. And that is exactly what Jesus is doing here today as we hear these words, and that's what our will is to think about very clearly. Let's look at this passage, and what I hope to demonstrate to you is that it gives me the authority to say what I just said. First, I want you to look at how emphatically Matthew here interprets Jesus' actions in terms of Hosea 6. Look down at verse 13 if your Bibles are open, and I hope they are. Jesus looks at the Pharisees who see him sitting at the table eating with all of these tax collectors. We know how much we love those. He's eating with tax collectors and he's eating with, oh Lord help us, sinners And the Pharisees say, what's this all about? Religious people aren't supposed to do that. Religious leaders aren't supposed to associate with the hoi poloy, you know, the common people, they might get themselves dirty. And so Jesus' first word to them is, go. Go. You don't belong here. Go. Go back to your study. Go back to your synagogue. Go back to where you keep all of your scrolls. Jesus dismisses them from his presence. He doesn't allow them to sit at or continue to sit at the table. Rather, he tells them, after you've gone, you know, wherever it is you are, do what you are supposed to be doing. You call yourself teachers? Well go study the scripture so that you understand it. Focus on Hosea 6. Go read Hosea 6. You know where it is. You know what scroll it's in. Read what it says there. Read all of what it says there. And when you do, try to learn what it means when God says there. I desire mercy and not sacrifice. Now, brothers and sisters, this statement is not found in any of the other gospel accounts of this episode Only Matthew speaks of Hosea 6 in all of the New Testament. And Matthew uses this very verse twice. Once here and once in Matthew 12. Matthew, under the Holy Spirit's leading, is Communicating to us is giving us a special insight into a depth of meaning associated with this particular passage. Jesus, who he is, who he was, what he is doing, should be understood in terms of Hosea 6. And who do we see, if you read the entire chapter of Hosea 6, who do we see God's anger focused out there? Yeah, he tells Israel, he tells Judah, he tells Ephraim that they need to repent. But when he gets really specific, when he car starts calling out people, it's not the ordinary sinners that he's calling out God's anger is directed at the priesthood. His anger is directed at the teachers of the law who kept the people in darkness rather than leading them into light. In the very next verse, after the one that Jesus quotes, Hosea says, or God says in Hosea 6, It says that these religious leaders have transgressed the covenant and they have dealt treacherously with God Himself. In this passage, Jesus is directly or is indirectly, but very powerfully, confronting and indicting these Pharisees. He's confirming their worst fears. They are worried that he's come to break their rice bowl. And what he tells them is, yep, that's exactly right. They're worried he has come down come to tear down the temple. Because one who is greater than the temple is here. And he says, yep. That's who I am. He's come to destroy the idea that religious leaders are somehow more holy than others. And therefore warrant a special place of privilege among God's people. And he says, yep, that's what I've come to do. He has come to make it possible for mankind to learn directly from God Himself through the lips of God Himself, Jesus, the incarnate Son of God. Now notice how Jesus speaks to these Pharisees. He doesn't jump up because they're religious leaders and therefore very influential and after all they're pillars of the church and if the pillars of the church leave, what will the rest of us do? He doesn't do that. He doesn't say, now now, don't worry. It's okay. There's always going to be a need for religious teachers. He doesn't do that. He doesn't speak calming words. He does not try to soothe their fears Just the opposite. He says, you know, you're worried that I came to break your rice bowl? Well, that's exactly what I've come to do. Because you see, God deserves mercy. God desires mercy rather than sacrifice. And if God is showing mercy to sinners, if God is showing mercy to sinners directly, then it is true there is no need for a temple. They don't have to go to a temple to find forgiveness of their sins. They don't have need of a priest to stand in between them and God, nor any other intermediary. And if you understand this, and you're one of those that have profited by that and have built up your life around the fact that that's where you are, then you need to get a new rice bowl. That means you will have to repent. That is, if you want to eat at my table and enjoy my presence with you. Like these other guys are doing. Brothers and sisters, that is the essential foundation that we must see here in Matthew's account of this circumstance. There's much to be taught here. But today we're just focusing on this. This particular event was was important to Matthew. And I think it was important to him specifically from the way that he has given this immediately after we see this guy, Matthew, a tax collector. being called by Jesus and said, You come follow me. And the next thing we hear about tax collects tax collectors sitting around a table with him. I think Matthew was right there. It might have been his house. And he's saying, oh yeah. I like what this Jesus is saying. Here I was, not considered to be worthy. To even be in the same room with a Pharisee. And the Lord of all the earth has asked me to sit at his table. Is that amazing or what? The second thing I think Matthew wants to see is wants us to see. Is that the essential problem facing the Pharisees in this regard was that they were blind to their own sin. And I want us to realize that that is the greatest threat that any of us any of us have when it comes to Jesus. What these Pharisees did not see, what they would not accept, even if they could see it, was that Jesus was here implicitly teaching that fellowship with God, and especially eschatological eternal fellowship with God, Sitting at a banquet table with God, which is what He has promised to do in communion with His people forever, was not only open to dirty, rotten sinners. It was not only open to dirty button sinners to sit at that table like these people, but in fact it was only open to people like them. What the Pharisees could not see was that they were being excluded from this symbol of eschatological fellowship. Here Jesus is pronouncing condemnation upon them unless they too repent. When Jesus told them to go, To go back and learn what it means that God deserves mercy and not sacrifice, to learn what is first and foremost, that it is first and foremost what is in your heart that determines whether your worship is in fact true worship. When he told them to do that, he is essentially telling them to leave his table because they are the true sinners. They are the ones who stand under God's condemnation and unless they repent, on his approaching wrath. It's not these blatant sinners who are now sitting at Jesus' table, who are now in a condition of being accepted to God and acceptable to God through Jesus Christ Which is another way of saying they are justified. No, it is those that who they are their sin is is just as great, even more great. than those sitting at the table. Those at the table had now given their lives to Christ and were seeking to learn from him what it means to serve the living God. Jesus here says to them, he says to the Pharisees, a very important statement, he says, I didn't come to call righteous people. It is a mistake, in my opinion, in your translations of the Bible, that you will say it will say there, I did not come to call the righteous. The actual word the, the definite article, is not there. And I think that what it should be said is this. I did not come to call righteous people. I came to call sinners. If there were any people who were righteous, they wouldn't have any need for me. There aren't any people who are righteous. At all. So my whole purpose in coming into this world is this. I came to save sinners. Why? Because that's what the earth has plenty of. If there were any people who are righteous, they wouldn't need to repent. But as God told Abraham when he was on his way to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah, That if there are even ten righteous people in the city, he would not bring his wrath down on it. And we all know what happened to Sodom and Gomorrah. Jesus is here saying that there are two categories of people in this world. There are those who are righteous according to the law and those who are sinners according to the law. And he is saying that the only reason was the Messiah would come is because there were no actual people in that first category. There are no people who are righteous according to the law. There are only people who are unrighteous. There are only people who are sinners. And his purpose in coming was to call them to repentance. Brothers and sisters, we have all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. You have heard that over and over throughout your life. Throughout your walk, throughout your growing up in the church, you have heard the famous statement, there is none righteous. No, not one. Jesus came because all of us are in that category in this passage. All of us are as guilty as the tax collectors. All of us have committed sins that would put us in a position that if there were any righteous people in the world, they would be so different from us that we would be incredibly impressed. But it is not those people who are actually righteous in and of themselves, in accordance with the law, who are sitting at that table. The Pharisees simply could not see this. They could not see that they were as guilty as the tax collectors. And that's the only difference between them. Jesus is saying that that's what this table is all about. That's why I came, to call sinners to repentance. And that's the doorway, brothers and sisters, by which any man comes to the table where Jesus Christ has set The entrance to that table is through repentance. Without repentance, there is no forgiveness of sins. Shall I say that again? Without repentance, brothers and sisters, there is no forgiveness of sins. That's what the Pharisees learned that day. There was no forgiveness of sins for them until they repented, for Jesus' entire mission was to call sinners to repentance. And that is the doorway through which we enter into the feast that God has set before us. In conclusion, although there is much to meditate on in this passage, I would like us. To tie this all together if we can in this way. The greatest difficulty that the Pharisees faced when confronting Jesus was this. It's exactly the same difficulty that any person in the world today has when it comes to accepting Christ. It may be the great difficulty that some of us in this room today are having when we are confronted with Jesus also. It is a true statement, brothers and sisters, that Jesus threatens to break our worldly rice bowl. He not only threatens to do it, he demands it. You cannot sit in the table with Jesus until such is the case. Serving Jesus means giving our allegiance to Him. And following him, rejecting or at least re-evaluating everything the world has ever presented to us as the foundation of our security. The more comfortable we are in this world, the more the threat to our peace and the threat to our security Jesus poses to us. Jesus himself said that he did not come to bring peace. He came to bring a sword. And the sword of spiritual conflict is not directed against worldly flows. foes. The sword of spiritual conflict is directed against spiritual woes foes. It is waged against those who are dominated by Satan and dominated by the powers of the air, as the Pharisees were. And this blindness infects and dominates anyone who is caught up in the world's agenda and who value above all else that which the world supplies. The Pharisees exemplify and embody this mindset. They exemplify and embody what I will call a comfortable religion. A comfortable religion is the world's most difficult to overcome. It is when we give our worldly lives a spiritual gloss And we take comfort from the spiritual things that we do as we live that worldly life. And the blindness it brings is that we think we're religious. And when really what we're doing is serving mammon rather than God. The Pharisees simply couldn't see it. Their blinds weren't, their eyes weren't open to it. And many Christians today don't see it either. To sit down at the table with Jesus, you have to recognize, you have to face up, you have to finally look at our sin And you must recognize that the world has blinded us to what is truly eternally important. We must see that it is because our religion is first and foremost about ourselves and not about God. Not about God as He is revealed through Christ. And we must see that our only hope in that situation, because we have been so blind and so ignorant, is to turn our eyes to Christ. To put our hope in him, which means from henceforth, it's all going to be about him And when that happens, Jesus opens the door to the dining room, and we find a place at his table. We reject all other things. We give up our old rice bowl, our old way of thinking, our old sources of security. And we take up a new rice bowl, one that Jesus Himself gives us. Brothers and sisters, that's what it means to repent. We could go into 16 subpoints as to what that means and how we make it happen. But today I just want you to remember this. The essence of repentance is to give up our old rice bowl and take up a new one. A new one where our life is dedicated to Christ and we find our security in Him and Him alone. And we have the promise that in so doing, we will have a seat at his table in company with all the others who have had their rice bowl broken also. Let's pray.