Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ, just as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world. That we should be holy and without blame before him in love, having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will To the praise of the glory of His grace, by which He made us accept it in the Beloved In Him we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of His grace, which He made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence, having made known to us the mystery of His will, according to His good pleasure, which He purposed in Himself. That in the dispensation of the fullness of times he might gather into in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth in him In him also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purposes of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. That we who first trusted in Christ should be To the praise of his glory. In him you also trusted, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also having believed You were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession. To the praise of his glory. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. A few weeks ago I had to purchase a new set of eyeglasses, and at a local store here, a young woman said to help me. She had a lot of basic questions I was to ask. And they were things like, you know, your address and your telephone number, eye doctor, etc. And as I answered each question, she would look at me and she would say, perfect. Well, I live at 109 Sherburn Road. Perfect. My telephone number is. Perfect. About the tenth question, I couldn't stand it anymore. I said, look, these questions I give you are factually correct, but they are not perfect To be perfect, they would have to be capable of being imperfect or flawed. Perfect is a relative term. It speaks to the highest degree of attainment of quality and goodness. I'm an old guy. Bear with me in this. I was very respectful to her. She looked at me like I had three heads. And I kid you not, she continued with her questionnaire, and after each question I answered it, she said, perfect My son Robert has a similar habit. I asked about a recent wedding celebration he attended and he said, Dad, it was awesome. He said the same about a recent trip to Japan, a business trip. It was awesome. Now, brothers and sisters, what happened to him at those events was not even close to what happened to Isaiah in the temple when he beheld God's glory. The wedding, the trip to Aust to uh Japan, they were certainly enjoyable. He certainly had a good time there. They were perhaps even outstanding, but they were not awesome. Now this shows us how we can strip words of their meaning. We can shoot ourselves in the foot, actually, when we do this. Because after we have done those things, we've left we're we're left with no word that we can use to express something that is perfect. Or something that is awesome. Words have meaning, and we should pay attention to them We Christians can fall into the same trap with another word, glory. We can treat the words to God be the glory almost as if it was a mantra. We sing, glory be to the Father. And we don't any more think about that than a man in the moon. We hear Handel's Messiah. The angels joyfully sing, glory to God in the highest. And then we go, in peace order. We like that last one. You know, because peace on earth, that's something we can get a hold of. That's what we can experience. Yeah, we like that. And the angels are up there singing about God's glory. Okay But peace on earth. That we can relate to. Brothers and sisters, the only way that God can make peace on earth is through his son. And the peace that he brings on the earth, that the only way that peace can be transpired between the races, between people, between nations. However, in this In the lives of individuals as it is manifested in the local church. The only way that that could be done is through the Holy Spirit, and it serves to reflect the glory of God His piece is truly awesome. It is the perfect solution. For that which otherwise would be impossible. Even God's peace is ultimately not about us It is not about our enjoyment of it. It's about God's glory and how he makes it known in the peace he brings. The glory of God though doesn't grab us, does it? Here, way down deep. We thrill to the idea that God is love, and especially to the idea that God loves us. But that is as far as we get in that whole thing. Because what grabs us is that he loves me. He loves me. Do you see how the shift is toward us The focus on God's love is that we're the object of it. We stop there. And as a result of that, we stop short of the understanding that knowing God's love is knowing God. And as Paul teaches here, his love is intended to bring forth the praise of the glory of his grace. The theme for this service is Solo Deo Gloria. To God alone be the glory. That is what I pray the sermon is about, and more importantly, I pray Hope to convince you that that's what this passage in Ephesians is about. These verses are divided into three sections. You can see See it. Paul closes each section by saying that all that went before it in some way is unto the end or for the purpose that God's praises be sung, that his glory be praised And in the first section there, he says that all that God did before the creation of the world, all that God did before there was time, before there was anything, was when he covenanted with his son, the second person of the Trinity, to create the world, and most importantly to create a tribe of human beings, a particular people to inhabit that earth. Specific people, chosen by name before time began, who would become his family. So they are loved by God, accepted by God, and will live with him forever as his holy offspring. And all of that was unto the end, as Paul mentions here that his glory is to be sung. Now next he says that all God did in Jesus Christ in fulfilling that eternal covenant by entering into this world, become in, and taking it upon himself to bear our sins, was unto the end that that glory of his grace would be praised. When God, through Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, redeemed us, when he undertook to reveal to us the mystery of God's will The substance of the eternal covenant of redemption, together all things, both on earth and in heaven, into a joint communion with him, to bond them together To this very man, Jesus, such that the result of salvation and redemption and preservation would produce a new distinct people on the earth In other words, he revealed to us that the whole gospel, the entire gospel of Jesus Christ Is unto the end, is unto the purpose, that God's glory be sown. Lastly, Paul shows us that the entire work of God's sanctification and purifying us, the work of the Holy Spirit, joining us to Christ and making us a part of his body Working faith in us, bending our wills to give allegiance to him and to his kingdom, creating a new heart in us, and enabling us to love him whom we cannot see. This is the sealing of the Holy Spirit in us, both individually and collectively, and it is unto the end, it is for the very purpose that God's glory be sung. But this last section also points towards something else. Paul points towards that which I will use, Revelation 21, 22, and following to speak of. Paul speaks here of the Spirit preserving us to an inheritance. And John has given us a vision of that inheritance. John sees the shining city, the new Jerusalem, the glorious assembly and dwelling of all the elect coming down from heaven. The walls are torn down that separate us from heaven. Heaven and earth are at last joined. And this shining city in its eternal perfection, in its eternal awesomeness, Is our inheritance. It's the inheritance that Paul mentions When God glorifies us and makes us fit to live in it. What is the distinct honor of this shining city that we see portrayed so beautifully in Revelation 21. It says there that it is filled with the glory of God. There was no need for a sun or a moon, because God's glory, manifested in the glorified reality of his church, is brighter than any star. Brothers and sisters, the creation of a glorified people is the whole purpose of history. It is the only reason that anything happens in history. It is the whole purpose. Of your history and mine, and all that has happened in it And all this together, as both John and Paul teach us, has one ultimate objective, that God's glory was to be sought. Is that not awesome? Can it be any more than perfect? Is it not glorious? It should drive us to shout and praise. That's what it's intended to do. So let's do it Shout out with me. Repeat after me. Blessing and honor and glory and power. Blessing and honor and glory and power. Be to him who sits on the throne. Be to him who sit upon the throne. And to the Lamb forever and ever. And to the Lamb forever and ever. Amen. Brothers and sisters, the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and end of all things, is to make known to men, to make known to us the glory of God. It is to teach us that celebrating His glory is our highest good. It is our highest privilege. For the remainder of this time that is allotted to me, I'd like to develop this further. And I'm not going to unpack this glorious passage. I simply don't have time to in Ephesians or that in Revelation But rather I'm going to use the divisions of the passage to talk about God's glory as a whole. And what I want us to think about are these things. What is this thing, the glory of God, and how should it affect us? Next, I'd like us to think of how is God's glory in the creation of all things there in order to affect us? Then let's survey our salvation and our redemption. And I'm going to ask you, from whatever church you're in, to think about your church in terms of God's glory being manifested in that. And how should that change the way we think about those things? And lastly, how God's glory, when we are finally glorified, should become the basis of our hope. and our deep desire and our longing. Each one of these deserves its own sermon, perhaps its own book. But at least we can take a cursory scan of them, and with God's will if God so wills, perhaps we can fill in a few blanks. What is the glory of God? How should it affect us A big reason why the glory of God doesn't occupy our minds as much as it should is that it's just so hard to get a handle on it. The dictionary doesn't help much. It says glory reflects such things as esteem, reputation, essential worth, prestige, fame, and honor. Yeah, okay. Pass the pretzels. It it just doesn't get us. It's like saying that a rain or a rainbow is yellow and blue and purple. It just doesn't communicate what's there. Brothers and sisters, biblically though, if we look at how the Bible talks about God's glory, it is something people experience. It's not just there to abstractly define God. It's a power that communicates itself to an audience. It cannot be ignored. It produces awe And it shines in perfection. In the Bible, God's glory exceeds the most glorious sunset you've ever seen. And just like a glorious sunset occupies our mind, and as we're gazing upon it, it affects us deeply, oftentimes listening praise from us. So, God's glory should affect us in a similar fashion. It should amaze us. It should move us And for sinners who know not the salvation of Christ, it should scare us to death. For believers, it's more exciting than any thrill ride at any amusement park We see it as something wonderful, as something that we cannot fully describe. And that's how God's glory should affect us. It should change us. We should react to it. It should bring forth a response in us At some level we should rejoice in it and we should see it as our highest good. I have been chosen to behold God's glory. Does it get any better than that? No. God's glory, objectively, is an attribute of his very being. God is glory. He doesn't just exist in glory with glory all around him somewhere. He radiates glory. And all the angels in heaven sing his praises as a result of beholding his glory. Right now we're cut off from beholding his glory by our sin. That's what makes it difficult for us. That's why we can't get a grip on it, why it doesn't move us as often as it should. Like Moses, we have to be shielded from his glory. But God doesn't leave us in the dark specifically about his glory. As born-again creatures, we can see his glory. We can behold his glory. How In the things he has done, the things he is doing, and the things he will do. So here's the point. God's glory is important to him, and it is important to him that it is important to us. And therefore, Christian life, our Christian life, our Christian witness, should have this as a firm foundation: that we look upon God As we would look upon a sunset and be amazed at his glory, and we are to do that by dwelling on the great things he has done. And those things are all around us And God has done these things just for that reason, that we are to elicit praise, that we are to respond to it. So let's look at the glory of God first, as it is made known in His eternal covenant, the first section of this Ephesians passage. Everything in verse in chapters, verses 3 through 6 of this chapter is about God's eternal purpose. It was his purpose in making a covenant with his son to create a people unto himself, to bless them above all imagining by rendering them holy and blameless in his sight before him. to establish them as his very own family through Christ, who is the means and end for achieving that. Now, brothers and sisters, if you're here tonight and faith has been worked in you, then know this. Before time began, God, the Christ, and the Holy Spirit knew your name. All things that have happened since time began have been ordered in such a way as to have you come into this world to become part of his family. All things. Now what does that leave out when I say all things? Nothing. Exactly. All things have been ordered to the end that you are to come into existence and be brought into his family. The sun, the moon, the earth, all the stars of heaven, the movements of men and nations throughout time. They were all ordered in part because God chose you to love you and to predestine you to the adoption. of sons and daughters. When you leave here tonight, if you could, I wish you would be able to look at the heavens. They're a little cloudy tonight. Look at them and think of them in terms of God's ordering them. When you think of your parents, your family, your heritage, your future. Brothers and sisters, let those things sink in. These things are all there for you. In part for you. We're all part, for they are all part of God's eternal covenant, elements of his triune purpose. Now, what does that reveal to us about God? Does it not reveal to us that he is not Awesome, that he is perfect, that he is glorious beyond all imagining. He did this just for us. Well speak it out sometimes. Grab somebody. Make them look at you like you had three heads. Say to them, look at what God has done. Give him the glory. That's why those things are there to show you the glory of God. Carry that same mindset into contemplating your salvation and the fellowship of your church. Look at what God has done. Let that sink deep into your soul. God's eternal purpose in this eternal covenant He made was to save you through a Redeemer. Now this is a concept that can only be embraced with awe. It is simply too high for us. It's astonishing what the Bible teaches And when we receive it, it brings us to our knees. God has ordained as part of his covenant that his people be saved from sin and judgment. God is glorified in the salvation of sinners and the condemnation of sinners. And how is God glorified in the salvation of sinners, as this passage teaches? He is glorified by doing for them what they cannot do for themselves. Our sin is bigger than we are. It is deeper than we can know. It controls everything about us. That's the power of sin, as it is present in an unregenerate person And that's what we all were at some point. We were dead in our sins. We were without hope in this world or the next, as far as we knew For all that we could observe from the world about us and in our own lives, we were objects of wrath, repulsive to God by our very nature. No, we didn't fully understand that. But it was true. And yet, in order to show forth the glory of his grace God sent his son into the world, as Paul says, to give us redemption, to give us forgiveness, to show forth the mystery of his will, of his eternal purpose. He sent him into the Son to unite us. To him, to the Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, in his incarnation, in his perfect life, in his atoning death, and in his glorious resurrection. God did this. He accomplished your salvation through a man he sent for that very purpose. Now think of what it was like to be dead in your sins. Think of what kind of God would do that for you? What kind of God could do that for you? And then look around you at all your brothers and sisters in Christ, join from several churches here, but we're all part of one church. Think about that. Think about all of the saved lives, not only here, but around the world, and see the magnificence of the work that our God has done. Amen. Think of it in terms of shining stars, like the stars in the sky, as Paul speaks of in philosophy. Philippians. Drink deeply of His grace as you ponder this thing. Look at the infinite value of His work. Let the glory of God in His work of salvation and redemption take hold of your mind. And see how it affects your very being. Brothers and sisters, this is the glory of God revealed to you. Respond to it the way he wants you to respond to it. Get excited about it. Let it show forth in your praise as you praise him for his glory. And see how it affects your emotions, your very being. The glory of God has been revealed to you. You should respond to it as He wants you to respond to it But don't stop there. I want you to think of the grip that sin had on your life before that we talked about just a few minutes ago Think of how you when it was like when you were dead in your sins. Be astonished at first at this absolutely irrefutable fact of Scripture. That as you were, you no longer are. Sin no longer has dominion over you. Think of John's glorious statement that's so hard for us to believe, that we can walk in Christ just as he walked. That we can keep his commandments, that we have been born of God, and if we abide in him, we will not sin. Indeed, if we abide in him, we cannot sin Those are deep words. They require meditation and embracing. But the undeniable evidence of Scripture is that God has so constituted us through Christ and the Holy Spirit as a new creature over whom Satan does not have authority. Amen. Satan can make us miserable, he can tempt us, but he cannot stop the process of sanctification and growth in holiness It is our right and our possibility, for it is God's purpose for our continued life to grow in sanctification and holiness. Just as God was glorified in the life of Job, so he is glorified in the witness of his power present in the lives of his children. And only a person who knows the power of sin can rejoice in the power of God over that sin. And this fact That God has constituted us as a new creation, different from all the unredeemed, should be an amazing thing to us. If we do sin, it has no hold over us because we have a high priest who is interceding for us. But that doesn't change the fact of what God has done in us And that for any redeemed sinner does not breed arrogance, self-righteousness. It breeds praise. Praise for his glorious grace. Praise for the glory of God manifested in the lives of his people. Satan hates it. The angels rejoice in it. But anyone who considers this simply has to be amazed. Rejoice, sinners, in what God has done Lift up your voices with strength. Lift it up. Be not afraid. Say to the cities of Jehovah, Jehovah, behold your God. Lift up your face, O people of God, and let the glory of God and sanctification be evident in your lives, your conversation, and your conduct. For this is why you have been saved. Lastly, I wish I had more time for it. Rejoice, O people of God, for the infallible hope He has given you. You have an inheritance. An inheritance that you will not fail to receive. Our glorious God has set a time and a day When you with your very own eyes will see your Redeemer, you will see him with glorified eyes. You will love him with glorified hearts. You will be even more glorious than the angels themselves. No angel will ever glorify God for his grace. Have you ever thought about that? No angel of God can know the grace of God personally No angel can praise him with lips that have been purified, as was Isaiah's, by God's glory. For God is glorified most. In a people who can bear witness to his grace. Someday in joyful assembly You will be part of the glorious Church of Jesus Christ. You will stand before God in the midst of a congregation with Jesus himself as our head. And you will sing the praises of the redeemed. You will be the only citizens of that eternal kingdom to know the power of grace and can praise him for it. That is your inheritance. And it is glorious beyond all comprehension. In summary, this is the ultimate purpose of God, to have you there, along with your fellows. And this is something that you can begin to think about and enter into even now. The eternal life that we shall have is intended to be lived now too. You can look at yourselves, you can look at your fellow believers, and you can see them in this light, and you can fall down and worship God And give him praise and honor and glory for what he has done. This is the outworking of the hope he has given you. This is your right This is your privilege. This is your duty. Let it sink deep into your heart. Embrace it. And let this hope show itself in praise. Give glory to God for the wonderful things He has done. Amen.