God's holy word for God's holy people. Starting with verse three, I'll read through verse fourteen Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. Having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will, to the praise of the glory of His grace, by which He made us accepted in the Beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace, which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence. Having made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in himself, that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth, in his In him also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. that we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of his glory. In him you also trusted After you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also having believed you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise Who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession to the praise of his glory? Please pray with me. Oh God. Lord, you are glorious in all that you do. Help us to see your glory this morning in this passage. Help us to recognize the truth of your word. And by your Holy Spirit, God, please seal it to us. Make it a true and ever-present part of our lives that we would be made more like the Lord Jesus Christ. And I pray, God, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord. My strength and my redeemer. It is in the name of Christ that we have prayed. Amen. Please be seated. A little over 500 years ago, the Lord did a mighty work in the world. I think most of you are aware of what that work is. Some of you may not be. If he didn't do it, it is very likely that nobody would be here in this room this morning. At the very least, this church would be very, very different. In fact, the whole world would be a lot different. You see, things happened in the church just as Jesus had taught his disciples that they would. After his ascension, false teachers and false teachings had infiltrated his church, and the marvelous truth of redemption in Christ had become obscured by corrupted doctrines and practices. In his great mercy, after more than a thousand years, that corruption became so obvious that it was impossible to continue pretending to be the gospel. The church was selling salvation. For the right price, anyone could be saved. Hop on down, come on down, it's like the price is right. Hey! Da-da-da-da-da-da-da! Come on down, buy some salvation. Here you go. Oh, don't forget your credit card. Yes, oh 10% off today. Hey, hey. Oh, you got one? Get two or three. Might get into some sinning later on. Can you see how insulting that is to Almighty God? They had reduced his awesome and miraculous redemption into a product. Worse, it was kind of like a drug, something to be consumed, something to be used. But God so loved his people that he would not allow that to continue. He moved a lot of faithful and godly men in different locations and at different times to recognize this heinous error and to cry out to God that He would save His church. Well, you know what happened? God heard and answered those prayers He began a restoration of the church which we now refer to as the Protestant Reformation. Essentially, God orders human history so that at just the right time when these faithful and godly men were crying out against the errors in the church. Copies of God's word in their original languages were being brought into the West by Christians who were fleeing invaders in the East. God made the study of the scriptures dominate the lives of these men. And though separated by time and space, by the gift of the Holy Spirit, they came to the same conclusion. Only God's word can determine what we should believe about God and what he requires of men. It is the only rule of faith and practice. No church tradition No Pope's decrees, no bishop's opinion. Mankind needs the word of God alone. And some men translated the word into common languages And the reading of the Bible took off. In his great providence, the Lord allowed a man named Gutenberg to invent a piece of technology, the movable type printing press. Bibles were printed and distributed at an astonishing rate. The Word of God was available to more people and in more languages than at any point in human history. It had a huge impact. The Bible contradicted the church's teaching. And with more people reading the Bible, it became very clear That the theology, the beliefs of the church needed to be rethought. They needed to be reshaped to match the Word of God. Theology and the Church needed reforming. A lot of theology has come out of this time period. Some of it is marvelous. But if I'm honest with you, quite a lot of it is really strange. And if we're being charitable, I'll just call it unhelpful to Christians. But over time, the principles of the Reformation or of Reformed theology they took hold. The PCA is a Reformed denomination. And that means that we hold here in the PCA to Reformed theology, which came out of the Reformation. Specifically, we're Westminsterian. Because we follow the Westminster Confession of Faith, the larger and shorter catechisms. Now, you may be aware of some of the teaching that's come out of the Reformation. A lot of you have probably heard of Tulip. Most of you maybe have heard of the five solas. And I want to point out to you that it wasn't taught in that way during the time of the Reformation, but The primary theological principles of salvation have come to be summarized and known far and wide as the five solas. Sola For you Latin students, you probably know what it means. For everybody else, sola means alone. And if you are a Latin student, you're going to recognize that there's actually only three solos, but we're going to let it slide. There are five alones, five alones which help us remember what God restored to the church through the Reformation. Five crucial truths relating to the gospel, the salvation of God. Salvation is by grace alone, sola gratia. Salvation is through faith alone, sola fide. Salvation is in Christ alone, solus Christus. All that we need to know about salvation and how we can be saved is found in the scriptures alone. Sola scriptura And all that exists has been ordered to bring about salvation unto the glory of God alone. Soli Deo Gloria Essentially, the Reformation recovered the truth of our passage this morning Because Ephesians 1, verses 3 through 14 shows us that the salvation of man displays the glory of God. The salvation of man displays the glory of God. Christian, your salvation displays the glory of God. We're going to examine this together this morning in three ways. We're going to first look at verses 3 through 6, and we will see the glory of God the Father. And we'll look at verses 7 through 12, in which we'll see the glory of God the Son. And then we'll look at verses 13 and 14 and see the glory of God the Holy Spirit. So let's look at this first section, and we will see in verses 3 through 6 the glory of God the Father. And the first thing we see is that the Father's glory is displayed because he chooses To save sinners. Look at verses three and four. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. God chooses to save sinners. He sent his only begotten son to deliver to his people every spiritual blessing. Something that's only possible through the redemption purchased by Christ. In him, the Father restores the rebellious sinner. He restores the rebellious and ungrateful son to his rightful place in the heavenly house of his father. Before anything was made, God knew what he would do. He knew that he would create this marvelous and splendid universe. He knew that he would order everything that happens in it. He ordered it so that in the end he would have a household, a family A family of perfectly holy and blameless human beings worshiping and loving him in complete and absolute freedom God's glory is displayed in that He chooses to save sinners. But the Father's glory is also displayed through His grace. Look at verses five and six. God is pleased to save sinners, verse 5, having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will. Predestine in English means to decide or determine or decree beforehand. There's a kind of archaic word that's used in the catechism that would mean the same thing, and that's forordain, as in what are the decrees of God. The decrees of God are his eternal purpose according to the counsel of his will, whereby for his own glory he hath foreordained whatsoever comes to pass. This verse tells us that there is nothing which influences God to save someone. There is nothing that person would do or could do to in any way Affects God's decision that was made before there even was a universe. God does as He pleases. He does what He wants And do you see his glory? He is pleased to save sinners. God wants to save sinners. Sinners like you and like me. Well, God is not only pleased by saving sinners, God is praised by saving sinners. Look at verse 6: to the praise of the glory of His grace by which He made us accepted in the blood. God surely does make sinners accepted in the beloved, in Christ. He adopts them to himself as sons in Jesus Christ. He freely bestows such amazing blessing on undeserving sinners. Can you see the glory of the Father in His grace? The Father's glory is displayed in that He chooses to save sinners based on nothing found in them, but solely on the good pleasure of His perfect and holy will. So we see the Father's glory displayed in salvation. And we come now to the glory of God the Son. And we'll be looking at verses 7 through 12. The Son's glory is displayed in the redemption. In the Son, God's people are redeemed. Look at verses 7 and 8. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace, which he made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence. Jesus perfectly kept all the law of God. He was completely and absolutely righteous. When he willingly submitted to the cross and died bearing all the guilt and sins of God's people Jesus was not crucified by accident. There was no mistake in God's plan We see the splendid riches of his grace because he did this for us in all wisdom and prudence. He was in his right mind. He knew what would happen. He was flogged and beaten on purpose. He was nailed to a cross and suffocated under his own body weight on purpose. He knew exactly what was needed for those that God had chosen to be saved. Jesus submitted it all. He submitted to it all in order to save sinners. To save you, Christian. In the Son all creation is redeemed. Look at verses 9 and 10. Having made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed. in himself, that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth in him In Christ, the mystery of God's will is revealed. God is not leaving the cosmos to be broken by man's sin forever. All of creation groans, awaiting the consummation, awaiting the fullness of the times. Because at that time everything will be redeemed Everything will be restored. It'll be made new. There will be a new heavens, a new earth. The old universe will be changed like a garment. Well, the Son's glory is also displayed in our adoption. Look at verses 11 and 12. We'll start with verse 11. He is our God. Jehovah is our God, and we are his people. Look at verse 11. In him also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. This is the covenant promise that has been made since the beginning. It is fulfilled in Jesus Christ. We who were afar off. We who were not of Abraham's line, not of the promised people, we have now been engrafted into that branch, into that vine. We who are not God's people, we are now God's people. We who were not shown mercy, now we have been shown mercy. We have an inheritance. We have a place in God's kingdom. Hallelujah. We see God's grace again. He chooses who are his based only on his perfect purpose and will. Nothing influences God's choice to adopt someone into his family. Nothing. And once he's made that choice, nothing can change it. We have become a family of faith. Look at verse 12. That we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of his glory. First trusted is a funny word here. It looks like one of those Paulisms, one of those words that Paul just kind of made up 'Cause he didn't couldn't find the right word for what he what he was trying to say. It's a combination of the word pra meaning before and the word el piso meaning hope. If you have the ESV, it translates it a little bit differently than the New King James. It says, translates this as the first to hope. But as I was looking, trying to figure out what this word really is trying to communicate to us, I found that there's uh one of the early church fathers, Gregory of Nyssa. who I believe spoke Greek probably better than a lot of people, that being his mother tongue, he discussed this term. And he thought it was better understood as putting hope in something before it's been confirmed. That sounds like something we're aware of, isn't it? Sounds like sounds like faith And so that gives this verse a little bit more significance than that Paul is just talking about those who believed first in sequence of the number of people who believed. It means that all people, everyone who is redeemed and adopted into the family of God, all of us who believe, not having seen with our own eyes Christ in the flesh. All of us have been given that faith to hope before it's been confirmed before us in the gospel of Jesus Christ, unto the praise of God's glory. It's not just the first disciples and apostles who are to the praise of God's glory. It's all of us. It's all of you The Father's glory is displayed in choosing to save us because it pleases Him, and not because of any other reason. Such marvelous grace is glorious and worthy of our praise. The Son's glory is displayed in our redemption and adoption. In Christ, God's people are saved, and all of creation is being redeemed, remade without sin and misery. In him, we are made into God's sons and daughters. We're transformed into a household, his family. We're his people. He is our God. And all of this is because of Christ alone. And so we see the Father's glory displayed. We see the Son's glory displayed. And lastly, we will see the glory of God, the Spirit. The glory of the Holy Spirit is displayed in the giving of saving faith. We'll look first at verse 13 and see. He gives us faith in the Word. Verse 13: In him you also trusted, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. In whom also, having believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit a promise. Romans 10:17 says, So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by what? The word of God. It is the Holy Spirit, the helper The Spirit of truth, spoken of in John chapter 16, who persuades and convinces us when we hear the Word of God that it is the Word of truth. He gives us faith to believe the good news, the gospel of our salvation. We are sealed by the Holy Spirit. What does that mean? What's going on there? Well, seals were used in Paul's day as assurety or an assurance of something. It was proof of something's legitimacy. We have a little bit of experience with this at the grocery store, right? You you get the can of the jar of pickles, right? And it's got a little button. And it's if it pops. This is not fresh. The seal is broken. It can't be trusted. Or think about those old timing letters with the big wax seals. That the king or the lord would take his insignia and put his mark on it. It would be sealed. If that seal was broken, the contents of the letter would be in question. They could be doubted. Because without that seal, there was no way to trust that it was truly the words of the one who had sent it. The Holy Spirit gives saving faith in Jesus Christ. And then he seals that person in Christ forever. The seal of the Holy Spirit cannot be broken. It is the proof that you are a legitimate son of the holy and awesome God. And so we see that the Holy Spirit dwells in us. Look at verse 14. Who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession to the praise of his glory? We're not raptured to heaven the moment we believe, are we? It pleases God to have a people here on earth until the fullness of the times when the Son of God returns to judge the living and the dead. But until the day we die and are called home to be with him, or until he returns and we're caught up with him in the sky, we have the Holy Spirit living in us. Guaranteeing to us that we are redeemed. Day by day he guides us. Day by day he convinces you. Of your desperate need for Christ. He convicts you of your sins, enables you to worship day by day. The Spirit is the one strengthening your faith and your trust and your hope in God before. It is confirmed to your eyes. He gives us hope in our eternal life. The promised possession that we just don't have quite yet. All of this, brothers and sisters. Is to the praise of God's glory. The salvation of man displays the glory of God. This is exactly what our passage teaches. And this is what the reformers were blessed to see when they studied God's Holy Word. Now I'm not trying to force you to see it, but do you see it? Do you see the five sowas, the five alones in this passage? Let's start with the glory of God alone. It's throughout the whole thing. It's in verse 6, it's in verse 12, it's in verse 14. They state it plainly. Salvation is through the praise of his glory. Do you see salvation by grace alone? In God's free choice to save sinners according to the good pleasure of His will? Do you see salvation in Christ alone? Redemption in the beloved, forgiveness of sins, adoption through his sacrifice In verse 13, I see the sola scriptura, the scriptures alone, in the hearing of the word of truth. In that same verse, I also see salvation by faith alone. In having believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. The reformers, I don't know what you've thought about them before, but I'm here to encourage you. They were not making things up. They didn't just teach what they wanted to teach. They were determined to find what the scriptures told us about salvation And they were determined to live by it. And brothers and sisters, you and I should be determined in the same way, to know what God teaches from His Word, and to live by it. Christian, your salvation displays the glory of God. You are saved by grace alone. And that means there is nothing that you can do to earn your salvation. And it means that there is nothing that you can do to lose your salvation. It's not based on you, it's not based on who you are. It's based on God. It's based on who God is. He chooses to save you. He's pleased to save you. He's praised. By saving you, as Jonathan Edwards said, you contribute nothing to your salvation except the sin which makes it necessary. Praise God in heaven You didn't earn it, you can't lose it. And so you must throw yourself at God's feet. An absolute dependence upon his good pleasure, his holy will, his infinite, eternal, and unchangeable being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. That perfect and awesome God is the one who saves you of his own good pleasure. Christian, you are saved by faith alone! Rather, you're saved through faith alone. In His sovereignty and goodness, God ordered your life so that you would hear the word of truth, the good news of your salvation. The Holy Spirit convinces you of your sin and misery, enlightens your mind in the knowledge of Christ, and renews your will, persuading. And enabling you to embrace Jesus Christ freely offered in the gospel. You are saved through faith, not works. Nothing you can do can make yourself saved The Holy Spirit must give you faith. There's no Bible reading program. There's no amount of podcasts or lectures you can listen to You can listen to every sermon on sermon audio. It won't guarantee that you're saved. Now, if you're not sure that you believe, if you don't know whether or not you've been given faith, Don't waste any more time. I expect to hear your call in the office, you making an appointment with Marcy to get on Pastor Jesse's calendar or to have a meeting with me. I expect to hear from your elders that you guys have gotten together for breakfast to discuss this. It is of ultimate importance. And until you have that meeting, pray. Pray with all your might, with all your strength, with all your heart and soul, that God would give you faith. It is a matter of eternal significance. It is a matter of everlasting life and death Christian, you are saved in Christ alone. There is no other name under heaven by which man can be saved. He is given the name above all names. It's at His name that every knee will bow. It is His name which every tongue will confess. Are you looking anywhere else for your salvation? Anywhere else at all. Your pastor can't save you The church officers can't save you. Your mom and your dad can't save you, no matter how much they might want to. Your education can't save you. Your job can't save you. Your savings account can't save you Your political party affiliation can't save you. Who wins the election can't save you. Nothing can save you except Christ Free to him. Fly to him. And if you've Gottenness by the grace of God and the Holy Spirit. Don't let a day go by that you don't cry out to Him in gratitude, thanking Him for choosing you Thanking him for giving you the belief and the faith which you need. Christian, are you trusting in the Word of God alone? The scriptures alone? Have you found some other source of wisdom with which you are able to navigate all the challenging situations that arise in your life? There's a lot of things out there that are very helpful. But we've got to always be judging them against the scriptures. What does God's word say? If we read a book that says human beings are such and such and so-and-so, and it's opposite to the Bible, What should we do with that book? Now there there could be some good things. I was going to say toss it in the in Gehenna, you know, in the waste place. But there might be some good things in there. There may be something in there. We need discernment. We need to trust that the Spirit of Truth in us will show us what is to be used. We can't just take it wholesale. Do you trust the Word of God over and above everything else? Now I'm not asking, do you understand everything that's in the Bible? You could live five lifetimes, and if that were possible, and all you did all day, every day was study the Bible, you could never plumb the depths. of the mystery and the wisdom and the knowledge. You might make a dent, but you'd never get all the way. But what you do understand, do you trust it? What you do understand in God's Word is it something that you build your life on? If you don't know how to read your Bible or to make sense of it, are you working hard to fix that? If the internet goes out in your house, are you are you okay just letting it be out? Is that is that providential? Oh that's time to read the Bible. How much effort do you put into fixing the internet when it goes out? If you're like me in my house You try everything. Unplug. Count to 35. Put plug it back in. Try a different plug. Try a different place in the room. Try a different place in the house. Internet's not working. And when you can't fix it on your own, when when you can't fix it after all the different resets, after after going online and finding as many details as you can. Are you content to say, well, I didn't go to technical school. I'm not a professionally trained cable technician. I'll never figure this out on my own. Oh well. No more internet. Pretty sure that's not how it goes. If you can't figure out what the Bible's saying, What are you doing? How are you trying to remedy that? Christian, everything that was and is and ever will be is all for the glory of God alone. That's it. It serves that purpose. That includes you, that includes me, it includes your best days. It includes your worst days. Even your worst day is for the glory of God. He, in his grace and his wisdom and providence, he can turn even your worst day into a day that glorifies him God will be glorified in your life, no matter what. Did you know that? He'll be glorified in every human's life, no matter what. He will either be glorified in his perfect justice, punishing no sin forever, or he will be glorified in his stupendous, marvelous grace and mercy, forgiving their sin in Christ. And living with them in perfect communion forever. I don't think it's difficult for you to decide which is more preferable to you. The salvation of man displays the glory of God. Your salvation displays the glory of God. May each of us be given the grace of the Holy Spirit to live out our salvation. To live out our calling as sons and daughters of the Most High God in a way that is to the praise of His glory. Let's pray.