Let us open our scriptures now to Deuteronomy chapter 26, and I'll be reading this morning. I've actually split the verse up a little bit into uh we're going to do the first 11 verses of 26 today. Let's stand for the reading of God's Word And I ask that you keep in mind as we hear the word and as you hear the preaching of the word that we are moving towards the Lord's Supper this morning. Deuteronomy 26, 1 through 11. And it shall be when you come into the land which the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance, and you possess it and dwell in it. That you shall take some of the first of all the produce of the ground which you shall bring from your land that the Lord your God is giving you, and put it in a basket, and go to the place where the Lord your God chooses to make his name abide. And ye shall go to the one who is priest in those days, and say to him, I declare today to the Lord your God that I have come to the country which the Lord swore to our fathers to give us. Then the priest shall take the basket out of your hand and set it down before the altar of the Lord your God. And you shall answer and say before the Lord your God: My father was a Syrian, about to perish And he went down to Egypt and dwelt there, few in number. And there he became a nation, great, mighty, and populous. But the Egyptians mistreated us, afflicted us, and laid hard bondage to us Then we cried out to the Lord God of our fathers, and the Lord heard our voice and looked on our affliction and our labor and our oppression So the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand, with an outstretched arm, with great terror and with signs and wonders. He has brought us to this place and has given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey. And now, behold, I have brought the first fruits of the land which you, O Lord, have given me Then you shall set it before the Lord your God and worship before the Lord your God. So you shall rejoice in every good thing which the Lord your God has given to you in your house, you and the Levite and the stranger who is among you. Let's pray Christ, we ask for nothing less that you would teach us through your Spirit. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen. You may be seated. I start off with a very serious example this morning. In Karate Kid Part 2, Daniel LaRusso travels to Okinawa, Japan with Mr. Miyagi. Daniel develops, if you remember, a relationship with a young girl named Kumiko. The height of their intimacy. Was expressed in a famous scene, and I wonder if this immediately comes to mind for you that have seen the movie, wherein Kumiko participated with Daniel in a Japanese tea ceremony. Not sure if you remember that. If you don't remember it for the movie, perhaps you're aware of tea ceremonies. Each cup was poured just so. There was a ceremony to accompany every action And to participate in the whole in the in the drinking of tea. Each cup was poured just so, and then turned just so. Each pour of the tea into the cup was poured at a particular angle, just so. And then the cup was grasped at just the right time And according to a long-standing tradition that had obviously been passed down from the grandparents and the parents to Kumiko, that she was now sharing with Daniel of Rousseau. It was a Japanese tea ceremony. Now I've heard that ceremonies are alive and well in Japan. I actually had heard one person tell me that you can't go anywhere or do anything without a ceremony in Japan. I'll have to ask the Diddyms about that if you remember. Leah and Josh Diddham's. The question I have is: are any of those things any type of decorum or ceremony, or as I've been saying throughout the service, liturgy? Is that alive in America? Is there any ceremony left? You have to tell me afterward. Do Americans have tolerance for ceremony? You know, there's a bit of a clue because I've had about a hundred people tell me, stop standing on ceremony. That gives a bit of an indication of where most Americans stand on things like that. Do you, I ask you, I'm looking at you, do you see any value in ceremonies? In other words, if you were Daniel LaRusso, or if they invited you to the Japanese tea ceremony, would you have just looked at Kumako in the eye and said, enough already? Serve the darn tea. You know, that's an important question. If we define ceremony as an act or series of acts performed according to a prescribed form, and I'll say that again, an act or series of acts performed according to a prescribed form, especially a divinely prescribed form, then this worship service, you could say, is a kind of ceremony. We call it a liturgy or an order of worship. But you can see the similarities. It's an important question, therefore, for us to ask: do we find liturgy or ceremony valuable? You know, we've been important we've been in considering all kinds of important questions from the Book of Deuteronomy. Who would have guessed? Most of the questions so far have been about ethical case studies, marriage, war, family Work. But today is about something different. Today is we're considering this idea of liturgy or ceremony And what the scriptures have to teach us about it. Is it right for us to say, stop standing on all ceremony? Or is there a place for liturgy within life? Well, I want to consider that question by looking at this passage under two main parts. The basic instructions of the liturgy that you see here. You you you saw the liturgy, I just read it to you. And then what is the basic s significance of that? And I pray that that will help you to appreciate what we do here on the Lord's Day. So let's begin with the basic instructions. Now this is a large block and I'm gonna just move through it pretty quickly It's verses one through eleven, and then I'm going to go back and look at the significance of one through eleven by looking at it in context. But let's begin with the basic instructions. in verses 1 through 11. Take a look at verse 2 with me because that's where the instructions begin, these basic instructions, on the offering. You'll notice that this section 26, 1 through 11 is about the offering. It's the first fruits offering. And then when we move on to 12 through 15, which will be next week, I've saved that. That's specifically for the tithe. And we can look Look at uh what's involved with that next week. But here we begin with the first fruits offering in verse 2. That you may take some of the fruit of all the produce of the ground Which you shall bring from the land that the Lord your God has given you, and put it in a basket, and go to the place where the Lord your God chooses. You can see there's a instructions that are being set out. You you could actually create a checklist if you wanted to with this liturgy that's being placed before us, these basic instructions. The Israelite was to take some of the first fruit of all the produce of the ground, and then number two, they were to put it in a basket throughout the harvest season. Can you picture this as a farmer? That there was a regular rhythm in your life as when a new crop came up, that the first fruits of that crop A token was to go into a basket? Well, that's what we have here. Well, we move on, and I began to read it from the passage. Once you have the food set aside And once it is in the basket, you are to take that basket and you are to go to the place where the Lord your God has chosen for his name to abide. So now we have a holy place entering into the picture. And you know we've encountered this before. I hope you remember statements like this from earlier in Deuteronomy. Number one, this is about the first fruits. We've actually already talked about the first fruits. And when we hear about going to a place that the Lord has chosen, this should remind you that we're once again talking about pilgrimage festivals. And if you remember, there are three times a year that they traveled for the Feast of Passover, the Feast of Weeks, and the Feast of Booths. And they're to bring this basket with them, each feast, first fruits of peas, of wheats, of figs, of wine, of sesame, of olives, of perhaps one from the litter of a litter of lambs. They were to be brought as an offering to the Lord. A first fruits offering. That's the beginning of the basics. That's really what we're to bring and where we're to bring it to. Well when we turn to three and four we see that the basic instructions continue to be a very good thing. To the priest, verse three, and then they are to repeat this. There is literally a responsive reading, so to speak, or or a uh a uh scripted speaking that they are to do. And everyone would have had to memorize this within the kingdom. And they are to say, as they place the basket there, I declare to the Lord your God that I have come to the country which the Lord spoke to our Father to give us Isn't that beautiful? How much connection we already see between us and them as we say things, the same things every week We make declarations. Well, Moses continues then with the these basic instructions moving us from what we are to bring and where we are to bring it, and the declaration that we're able to see. He now moves us into a confession of faith in verse 5. Notice that the liturgy continues Verse 4, then as you can see uh the the priest takes the basket and sets it down before the altar of the Lord, and then in verse 5 the confession starts. And that's the bulk of the passage. Did you notice that? The bulk of the passage Is a liturgy they would have memorized, a confession of faith that they would then state as they went to as they were a part of this ceremony as I've defined. And really, it's a confession of the historical election and the salvation of the Old Testament church. And it is fascinating to study. You learn so much from this. It begins with Assyrian. Did you notice that in verse 5? Well, if you know your scriptures, you know he's speaking about Jacob. You can see the same recounting that is going on within this confession, actually in the New Testament, in the book of Acts, chapter 7, verses 14 and 15 in the speech from Stephen the martyr. Stephen says, Then Joseph sent and called his father Jacob and all his relatives to him, seventy-five people. So Jacob went down to Egypt. That's exactly what's going on here within this confession of faith. And he died, he and our fathers. And then we see this confession continuing with this historical statement, very much like an apostle's or Nicene creature. With historical elements. Then through Jacob, Israel became a great nation. And then we see in the Confession of Faith, in verse 6. That they have to remember the conflict that happened. Although they grew into a great nation, and we can read this in the book of Exodus, the Egyptians mistreated them, they afflicted them, they laid hard bondage on them. Do you remember that story? This is the part of their confession and their worship. But then they cried out to the Lord, the Lord God of their fathers, and the Lord heard their voice. And then when we move to verse 8. We can see that the Lord brought them out of Egypt with a mighty hand and with an outstretched arm, with great terror and great signs and wonders. The whole redemptive account is given here in this confession of faith. It reminds me of the Apostles' Creed. Conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary. See the beginnings of redemption with this Sending of the Redeemer. Here they have this story, this historical interjection of God in their life. And then in verse 9, It lands exactly where they stand in the midst of that worship as they bring their basket forward and they see all of the first fruits that they got from the land. There's a statement here as to why they received it. Because of that historical memory that we have that began with our deliverance from the Egyptians. What to bring, where to bring it, what to declare, what to confess All of these are prescribed forms in an ancient liturgy before our faces this morning. They give basic instructions on the first fruits liturgy or ceremony. Now I wonder what you think the significance of a ceremony like this is. And that's how we really began the sermon asking, do you have any tolerance for this kind of thing? Or is this a waste of your time? Well, let's consider the basic significance of this now, as our second main point. The basic significance of this ceremony that we rapidly just went through, I mean I'm out of breath on this, the basic significance is found by paying very close attention to the context of this passage Passage. There is a contrast and a movement in the passage that reveals why God gives us liturgy. And the context really begins in chapter 25, verse seventeen and we looked at this last week so I'm not going to go into detail about it but you can glance look your let your eyes rise up and see in verse seventeen remember what amalek did to you on the way as you were coming out of Egypt. And then it talks about how they are respon how are we to respond because of what Amalek did Well, the point that we're to take from this, if you were to read through all of Deuteronomy and see the language associated with these kinds of things, is that God dispossessed the land from the Amelekites. And it was because of their sin. It wasn't a single act of sin. It was pervasive. They were saturated as a society. And in all of their breath, their heart was continually turned toward evil. And we see in chapter 25, verse 17, the following examples of how the evil manifested itself by picking off the tired and the weary and the elderly and the pregnant and the baby. The children. That's how the society's evil manifested itself. And so God banned all Amelikite culture in much the same way that there are certain cultures today where you are not allowed to sell, buy, or possess the book Mein Kampf, because they will never support a Nazi culture. Now there's a contrast that's going on here in this transition from chapter 25 and 26. The contrast is in that last verse of 25, and then it continues. God gives the land to Israel as an inheritance or Notice that in 26. 1. And it shall be when you come into the land which the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance, and you possess it and dwell in it. You see the contrast between possession and dispossession Between the Amalekite and the Israelite, God gives the land to Israel as an inheritance or possession, and he expects them not to be Amalekites in the land Hence all the laws, hence all of the case studies. He instead, as he gives them possession of it, to steward the inheritance, not as the Amelikites stewarded, but as he had instructed them within his scriptures. And this makes sense, and they would have understood this in the as an analog to their normal existence, just as any Middle Eastern father would pass the family estate and business over to the son. Expecting him to manage the property that has been in the family for a long time, so too did God pass the estate of the promised land to Israel. And God expects the Son to steward the inheritance well. That's the point. And this is the context that we need in order to understand. Understand the significance of the ceremony is that there is a dispossession and a possession. And right when we talk about the dispossession, it's because of the mistewardship There is a key term within the text of 25, they no longer feared the Lord God. And so it is passed over to those who by the Spirit are being taught to fear God. God. And you can read earlier in Deuteronomy to see this is why dispossession takes place amongst a number of people. And that's the context that we need to understand the significance. Here's the question that you have to ask at this point within this scripture. What will keep these Israelites from becoming like the Amelikites? How will God help them to stay focused as God-fearing good stewards of the gifts that He has given to them? What help will God give them that they may grow in the fear of the Lord? How will they remember? How will they remain humble enough to not become covetors of their neighbor's property and their neighbor's wife? That tenth commandment. How will they grow and stay away from covetousness, which can be the root of all the evil? The answer that we see in 26 verses 1 through 11 is liturgy. And let that think in. The answer to covetousness, the answer to not becoming evil, is in part through the work of the Holy Spirit liturgy. For example, I want you to notice the kind of formative work that the Spirit would do on a person as they go through this particular liturgy here in Deuteronomy back in that day. I spoke about it very impersonally, but notice once again the confession of faith that we see in 21. Look in verse 5, for example. My father, and you shall answer and say before the Lord your God, my father was a Syrian, about to perish. And he went down to Egypt and dwelt there, a few in number. Now, this is recorded not just for the initial generations that went through the Exodus. And so many generations later, you still have to go when you bring your basket and say, my father? We're now entering into something here that is quite different than we're used to. There's a collapse of all time into a single moment that happens in the midst of this worship. He says, My father, look at verse 6 and look how personal this is. He mistreated us, he afflicted us, hard bondage on us. And then verse 7, we cried out? Really? We cried out? He heard our voice. He looked on our affliction. Verse 8, he brought us out of Egypt. That is remarkable that that is happening here in this liturgy. It is remarkable that here because the generation and generations and generations that would be removed from the actual Exodus event had to repeat these words. As if they were at the Exodus As if they saw the strong arm of the Lord and saw the waves parted and the sea parted. They were prescribed the same words to enter into the same event in some kind of sacred imagination through liturgy. And true exercise of faith. And thus through the ceremony, no matter what the generation, all would be Using their sacred imagination to remember their salvation from Egypt by the Lord God. I mean, isn't that remarkable? If you've never seen the Red Sea saying, Do you remember when we went through the Red Sea? But through liturgy, you'll cross it. And through liturgy, you'll remember the song afterward of a great warrior who delivered. Because in a liturgical sense, you were present. But that's not all. That's just the confession of faith, and I think it's remarkable to see how personal, even generations that are removed from the actual event, how they personally would have taken it as their own experience. Take a look at the language in verse 10 also as to how this could be formative of us as a people, how liturgy forms. And make sure we do not become Amalekites. Of course, the Spirit needs to accompany. But notice verse 10 in chapter 26. And now, behold, I have brought the first fruits of the land which you, O Lord, have given me. And then it says, Then you shall set it before the Lord your God and worship before the Lord your God. The preparation of the basket The declaration and the confession, all of the liturgy and all of the ceremony were in part to remind them that everything that they have comes from God. Now imagine if you really understood what was happening when you put each item in the basket, that you truly remembered that everything comes from God. If the Spirit truly worked that in you, what kind of person would you be? You truly would be meek. You would truly understand your plan. You truly understand the significance and the contribution of your work. Everything will be brought together into a perfect whole With God at the center. Throughout the year, by filling a physical basket and by physically traveling to offer the basket in worship, the Israelite was encouraged to remember who God is. And to be grateful and to be satisfied. And the natural result of such things would be to worship. And so you see, even through this ceremony, the formation of God's people into his image. You see sanctification happening through a worship service. And there we have the significance of ceremony. Or the significance of liturgy. That's what the passage gives us. The basket and the first fruits, as well as what to declare and what to confess, they're all prescribed, they're all scripted. It's an ancient liturgy given to us, and it helps us to re-evaluate our values and what we have tolerance for and what we don't have tolerance for. I'll ask you again: do you have any tolerance? Tolerance for liturgy. I mean, you must, you've sat through this service. But you know what I mean. Do you know how uh uh service is looked at these days? We should. We should have tolerance. We actually should have more than tolerance for liturgy. We should be thankful. For the worship service that God continues to give us to this day. And we can begin to see that because of the significance of the service. It's formative. It may be the most important day of your life Every Lord's Day that you show up here. It is through liturgy that God helps his people to remember his love, his redemptive love. And this encouraged within those filled with the Spirit deep humility. And the natural action, the supernatural action then was to worship. And it was through this It was through these scripted forms that they were strengthened, even after they offered the basket, to remain good stewards, to always remember where everything that they have comes from. It sought and worked on them to keep pride at bay, to keep covetous desires from ruling. Now I think we know the answer to this, but does the church have any ceremonies or liturgy today that we should accept? Or do we just show up and there's no order and we just do whatever our hearts feel? You've been here long enough to know what God has prescribed for us. If you want to know, just look at all of the parts in the order of our worship. And you can see the liturgy that has been given to us. God has prescribed for us how to worship. And he has given us the same significance for our liturgy as they had for theirs. The argument this morning from this passage is certainly That this worship is formative, that it is necessary, that it is beautiful, that it is good, that it is true, that it is worth more of your time than any other thing. He gave us the sacred place to gather as a corporate body that is together. It could be in the backfield if this building burns, but when we are together it is the sacred place because the body of Christ is united. He has given us a sacred day. It is the Lord's Day, the day that the Lord was raised, and here we are on this day. It is through the elements of worship, including the sacraments of the Lord's Supper and baptism. And it is through these, it is through all of the things that He has given to us, all of these elements, that we remember the grace of God through Jesus Christ. And you can see that it is like a new Exodus story that we participate in. And what is the result? What should have been the result today when the ushers passed that plate across the aisles and we were collectoring offerings and tithes? Was for you to remember that God owns everything. And that anything that you have, he has blessed you with. And that should result in a humble gratitude and a worship. And that should result even from going from this place to be strengthened, to continue as a steward, not like an Amelekite, not one who turns to evil and covetous Not one who disregards all of the law of God, but one who is humbled and seeks in obedience to serve his God, to bring his God glory, his or her God glory in all of our endeavors, in all of our stewardships. Do you participate in our liturgy here at Severn Run as God shows you he intends from this passage this morning. Do you? The answer will be yes and no You know, I don't want you to think that I'm unrealistic. I know that it's entirely possible that even this ancient people with this scripted liturgy That there was somebody that attended with their basket, and they said, here's the basket. I declare today that the Lord our God gives the blah blah blah. And was upset that they couldn't be doing something else and they had to take this basket and they had to go through this ceremony and they had to be a part of worship when they rather would have done whatever they do. It's a part of every culture to despise the worship of God. But if they were filled with the Spirit, They would take advantage of their liturgy just as you should take advantage of your liturgy from this day forward. Make it a New Year's resolution for this worship service to always bring you to a place of thankfulness. Along for the day when you ask me to order kneelers because you need to be on your knees more in the worship of God. I've already begun researching. We're pricing them actually. If you're filled with the Spirit, you'll take advantage of the liturgy that is given to you here. You will not settle to say these are meaningful Forms. Stop standing on ceremony. Serve the darn tea already, Jesse. Why can't I walk in, you preach the sermon, and I leave? Pray for me on my way out That is an attitude that can become engendered amongst us, but we want to take advantage of the liturgy for us to become Christians on our knees. And thankfulness and in humility, and that it would ensure it would be another guardrail and barrier that our covetous hearts would not bring shame on the name of our Lord in our societies. But that instead we would be a good steward in every domain of our lives, every relationship that we have, that we would meet and live up to the responsibilities and duties that have been given to us. And that actually the worship service would contribute to that. Our duty to God, our duty to family, church, country. I pray that these worship services, for those of you from Fort Meade, I pray that these worship services would make you a better soldier. And the good news today is that even as I close this sermon, we will continue with our liturgy. In the Lord's Supper. And I pray that as you remember what the Lord Jesus Christ has done, what the God the Father has shown you in the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, that you'd begin to say, I remember When he was crucified for me. I remember when he finally released the Irish from their bondage to paganism. And he introduced Christ and sent his spirit to them. I remember when he introduced Christ to my people. I remember I've heard stories of when my father became a Christian. And now it's being passed down to me. I remember how Jesus Christ redeems people. I remember the muck and the slavery of drug addiction that my mother was pulled out of And now the same redemption is offered to me, because this is my God, just as it has been the God of my fathers and my mothers. May we see ourselves Beneath the cross, may we see ourselves in witnesses of the resurrection. May we see Christ rise in his ascension to the right hand of the Father As a member of the disciples. May we be present in the redemption of our God amongst our people, even our father, the Syrian Jacob. Because we are members of the church. Let us do this even now. Let us benefit and be humbled and thankful. Let us have our hearts reined in and not become amelekites by participating. Participating with him and his supper. Let's pray, and then I'd ask that we'd move into our invitational song and that the elders would prepare the table. Please pray with me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you. We thank you for this teaching. We desperately need your sight, your heart, your mind, your wisdom. Our culture conditions us to hate things like a Lord's Son. Supper or any kind of ceremony. But Lord, we're praying that you will show us that it is of an estimable value. That you would reveal yourself for us, that we would be humbled in your presence, that we would be thankful, that we'd be strengthened as stewards. And I pray that you do all of this as you placard before us Christ and Him crucified this morning. May we pray these things in your name. Amen.