Lord, I pray that you would continue the theme that we have already begun from the start of this service. Pray that you would help us to see who you have made us in Christ. Pray, Lord, that you would give us the power to repent even as we are attentive to your word today. Help us to not turn from the mirror of your word and to forget what you have shown us. In the name of Christ, Amen. May be seated. Last week we saw yet another symptom of the canonization of God's people in the book of Judges, which is the main thesis of the book. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is a thin veneer of devotion to the triune God. Underneath of the veneer, our hearts can be just like the world around us once we're canonized. And our prayer, of course, is that Christ, through his spirit, would soften our hearts and that he would reshape them, wherein we see God as he really is, and we love him, longing to obey him. But that's the kind of people we would be. Well, we've moved from the household of Micah now to the priest of Micah. And so I have a few observations for us this morning and then three uses of our text that's before us today. The first thing that I want you to notice as we work through this passage together is that there's a new question that's being raised by the narrator. Last week the question was, what does it look like when a household is canonized? So this week the question is, well, what about the priesthood? Are they being canonized? And what does that look like as an example that we might learn from throughout each generation? The narrator sets out to show us That the priests in this passage may look like priests or have the title of priests, but that again is just a thin veneer, just like we saw within the household with the mother and the son Micah. Underneath, their heart is far from the Lord, and it is far from their responsibilities. I want you to notice, for example, in our passage, the details which highlight the nature of the priest that is in front of us. In verses 7 through 8, and this is key, you're going to want to write this down and then look at this a little bit later and talk about it over lunch. But in verses 7 and 8, there is a veiled reference to Deuteronomy chapter 18, 6 through 8. The narrator expects that you are very familiar with Deuteronomy when he writes this account. He wants you to see that it looks like Deuteronomy, but not quite. There are some differences. As we, if you were to turn to the beginning of Judges, just to remind you of what happened in Deuteronomy and to take you there. If you look in the beginning of Judges, God distributes different cities to each of the tribes of Israel. Well, this was talked about way before Judges, but we see the actual distribution in the beginning of this book and in Joshua. But that was not true, however, of the tribe of Levi. In a section of Deuteronomy, the one I quoted to you, 18, 6 through 8, the Lord instructed the Levites to stay in a city that was allotted to another tribe. But the thing is that the Lord hand-selected which of those cities where that could be the case. It wasn't every city. The cities, however, being hand selected by God, who also gave them detailed instructions on how the priests should conduct themselves when they are in that city. And what we see here in this passage, if you go back and you read those Deuteronomy sections, is that the Levite is ignoring all of it. But he's acting in such a way as if he's listening to it. It's very much what you see in front of you, a counterfeit. It looks like a real dollar, but in closer inspection, it's not. And that's what you have to, that's the first observation you need to see here within our passage. So, for example, let me just give you some examples here to flesh this out. In verse number eight His intended destination is not the central worship center of Yahweh, but any place where he might find. Now those are words that would just slide by you. But if you study Deuteronomy, you'd see, well, it wasn't supposed to be any place where he might find And then if you were to compare in our passage verses 5 and 12, notice how in verse 5 Micah has the audacity to appoint his son as a priest. He's not supposed to be doing any of this, by the way. It would be like you going home today and then coming back and saying, well, uh we decided for uh we appointed a different pastor. Like, okay, we'll see how that's going to work. I hope you haven't done that. Don't do that. If you look, he appoints his own son as priest in verse five, and then look, he dislocates the son in verse twelve and then appoints this new Levite. And so the other thing we want to mention here is that he was supposed to, the Levite, to join other Levites. And he does not do that. Then we look in verse 13. He does not serve in the name of Yahweh. This is the point of him saying that he is now serving in the house of Micah. This is supposed to inflame the situation. This is provocative. He's serving in the house of Micah. Somehow Micah has become his father. Somehow Micah has become his God. And the whole thing is topsy-turvy. He does not serve at the place of Yahweh's choosing, but a place chosen by man. And then in verse 10, we see this negotiation that is based on opportunism between these two people And if you read the Deuteronomy sections, particularly chapter eighteen, verses one through five, you'll see that God had already determined what the priest was supposed to receive by way of an honorarium That practice is still around today. That we give honorariums to folks who will come as a substitute preacher, for example. Well it was already outlined for them, and instead they move into some kind of negotiation for room and board and garments and all this other stuff. Totally disregarding what Moses had written down, which was from the Lord. And of course, we cannot excuse this as just a and be sympathetic towards this As, well, maybe he just was a little immature and didn't have the education that he needed because this is a direct relative of Moses. It is his grandson. So then we move into observation number two. If you are familiar with the material in Deuteronomy and then compare it with this material. You will see that the narrator is showing us a travesty in the making. Now, I did not say tragedy, I said travesty. A travesty is a false, absurd, or distorted representation of something. And that is what you have before you. The Levite retains the title of priest, but has become a false, absurd, distorted representation of the actual office. And this will be the case in the next episode with the tribe. They will become false and distorted also. And it will go all the way to the end where we see the greatest distortion with the concubine. One scholar actually characterizes this scene so well that I have to just tell you what he says. Sometimes that happens. Somebody just says something so well, you just need to quote him. The Levites' acceptance of the position represents one more symptom of the pervasive canonization of Israelite society. In the words of Malachi, the heirs of the covenant of Levi have corrupted their high calling. Instead of serving as an agent of life and peace, revering Yahweh and standing in awe of His name, offering truthful and righteous instruction, walking with Yahweh in peace and uprightness Turning Micah back, Micah in our passage, turning Micah back from iniquity, preserving knowledge and serving as a messenger of Yahweh of hosts, this Levite has himself apostasized. He has lent his support to the perversion of his countrymen, failed to keep Yahweh's ways, and demonstrated partiality to this man with money. The religious establishment in Israel has been thoroughly infected with the Canaanite disease. That's how he sums up the passage, and we do the same here this morning as we see the incense of the narrator. We can state it uh far more succinctly, however, in the form of our doctrine this morning. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is the travesty, not tragedy, but the travesty of leadership Leaders who have the title of leader, but in reality are a false, absurd, and they are leaders who have the title of leader but progressively become false, absurd, and distorted representations of what God intends. And as Jeremiah has pointed out, this ends up hitting us all. Because we all end up being leaders one way or another, and our leaders are really meant to be exemplars of what we ourselves are to be in our lives. None of us escaped this doctrine this morning When we hear that another symptom of the canonization of the church is the travesty of the leadership So I'd like to look at this under three parts. The first point is really short, but you can write these down in order to keep track of what I'm saying. The first thing I'd like to look at is the mirror The second thing I'd like to look at is the reflection. And the third thing I'd like to look at is the resurrection. The mirror, the reflection, and the resurrection. And then, as per usual, I have a few questions for you. So the first thing is the mirror, and I just want to remind you on how you're supposed to orient yourself to this story this morning. Jesus Christ, out of his love for you, his church, once again, in this episode within Judges, gives you a mirror. He gives us the mirror so that we can look into it and we can see something about ourselves as individuals and as families. And as church members and even as citizens of the United States, or wherever you are a citizen And it is very important in a time like this to make sure that you don't ignore what you see in the mirror. So I'm going to show you some things in the mirror. That are a part of this passage. And you should already start to be seeing some of the things in the mirror that this passage shows you. And the great danger for you is to ignore it. Or to turn away and uh have a kind of hard heart to where you don't consider anything that you stall. Well, human beings are really good at that. We're really good at lying to ourselves as to what is in the mirror. But I encourage you to do not orient yourself toward the preaching in the Word this morning that way. Sometimes when I look in the mirror and I'm delusional, I still see a very physically fit 18-year-old And then when I really look, I think it that's not happening anymore. And the last time you did athletics you blew out your hamstring in the backfield And Hugh McMahon came up and said, There's a pasture in the pasture. Thank you so much for that sympathy. That was good for me. Kept me honest But we have trouble looking in the mirror, but I encourage you, I started off by saying Jesus Christ loves you. He's not trying to hurt you this morning. So please take a look. Take a look at what he has he has to say. I don't want you to use the excuse he's cruel to show such things. That's not his heart. That's not what he's doing today. It is instructive, in fact, to see Christ make his church reflect on their image. And so I want you to look at the reflection now, which is just the main next application. There is a picture that we already gained from Malachi. We looked in the mirror there. But did you know Malachi is organized with the way that we have the canon set up, and the book right after it is Matthew? And we want to Pay attention to what the incarnate son says in the Sermon on the Mount, and he's in the mode of what was said within Malachi when we think about Matthew chapter 5-7. The priests that Jesus Christ is confronting are meant to be teachers who bring life to his people. They were meant to keep a really beautiful order. Not a dry order, but a beautiful order where you see kids laughing and playing on the street and healthy marriages. Where you see people taking care of their parents like their parents took care of them. And when Jesus Christ meets with them, however, he already knew this because he's the eternal Son of God. But he confronts them that they have taken what he intended for life, his laws, and they have turned them into weapons of death. And so he says throughout the Sermon on the Mount, you have heard that it was said, but I tell you the truth. And the heart that is going on, that is behind Jesus' words there, is he wants the society to be healthy again. But they've been misled as to the actual intents of the commander. Laws are meant for life, and they distorted them into instruments of death. At the end of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus Christ plainly shows them the mirror. He summarizes the whole situation in a couple different ways, but especially in this way, and this is a longer passage. Let me just mention the first line from Matthew 7:15. Beware of false prophets. Who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. He'll then go on to talk about, you tell that a good tree is a good tree by its fruit. Those teachers were saying that they were real teachers. That was the whole point of the sermon. But Jesus has a way of cutting through all their knots. I bet you the common sense of the general population was thinking, man, these priests, they seem off. But there was a superstructure to support them in their folly, and the culture was able to go along with it. Kind of like that old fairy tale about the emperor with no clothes, until the little child finally says, he's not wearing anything. The king is naked. And that's Jesus. Jesus is letting everybody know what is actually in front of them. He acknowledged that on the outside they portray themselves as pretty good. I mean, they're sheep That's what he says that they look like on the outside, but then he cuts through everything and he shows them what's actually underneath and is the substance of them. I want you to imagine with me, if you will, just like a little thought experiment here. I want you to imagine, for example, that animals could talk. Some of you are strange and already imagine these kinds of things, but I want you to imagine it with me today. I'm going to join you. You are going to go to this place and it is called Travesty National Park. When you get there, you meet up with this animal, and it is uh known as a wolf But you say to the wolf, What kind of animal are you? And the wolf says, I am a gentle sheep who provides warmth with my wool. I want you to imagine that since you are ignorant of what real wolves and real sheep are, that you believe the wolf and you live with them like their sheep. You treat them that they're going to help you to stay warm in the winter, and they'll provide other things for you. And you look to them for that. You entrust yourselves to them like that. You let your children play with them Well one day you realize that there are several people missing from your family. I'm so sorry for this example. It seems like a good idea when I was doing this earlier. No, we're getting somewhere. One day you realize that you're missing a few kids and you see in the wolves' den some bones. Well isn't that odd for sheep to have bones and human remains around them You say to yourself. And then you see the wolf and you say to the wolf, are you sure that you're a sheep? Because in your den there's human remains Why are all these bones in your den? You ask the wolf. And the wolf says and you say, I thought that you were going to bring us warmth from your wool. But it seems like you make us die from your cold sharp teeth. But it just seems like that. I want to be winsome towards you. and understand who you really are. And the wolf says, Oh, you wouldn't understand these things. Don't be silly. Don't you know that I have a degree? You can see this on my office wall Go along now. Don't I in fact have the title of sheep? And this, of course, would go on until someone remembered what a real sheep was like. Someone would have to enter into Travesty National Park and say, What is going on here? These aren't sheep. And that's what Jesus does, and that is what we have here in the mirror with Jesus. He holds up the mirror and all of those leaders have to see the real nature of who they are based upon the fruits that they have borne within their society and how they have led everyone down into hell instead of up into heaven. And we are to bear to look at this reflection also. Jesus, in fact, knows the reality This is the good news, is that we're not just stuck in Travesty Park not knowing what real things are. There's someone who comes from reality, who has in fact made reality, who is reality himself And he shows up and he tells us what things really are. He shows us real pictures in the mirror. He knows what things really are and how they should be And when he reveals the reality in his mirror, and we have eyes to see, we can discover many different travesties that are going on among us. We discover that many of those esteemed vocations, offices, and roles are but a distorted misrepresentation of what our Creator intended. And I'm telling you right now that it is important for us to look in the mirror and to hear what Jesus has to say as the owner of reality and to compare what he says with every single vocation and office that we see on this earth. I do not mean for this to be unnecessarily contentious. I just want to start the ball rolling. Do we see real presidents? Do we see real senators? Do we see real people serving in local office? Do we see the real church Well, it's going to be yes and no, and sort of, based on the nature of reality, but those are the kind of questions that we have to answer, and you will not have the answer Because of the dimness of your own fallen mind, just like all of us have, we are going to need to hear the answer from Jesus as to what he intends for every one of those offices and rulers and positions. And we are going to ask him to send the Spirit that we might be real humans again. That is the importance of the mirror, especially when it is the mirror of Jesus Christ showing you your reflection. And this brings us to the resurrection. This is such an excellent opportunity for us to understand the significance of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. We need this now more than ever. Jesus Christ was not resurrected only as a spirit and then given all authority only over the spiritual world. That is not what we see with Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ was resurrected as a human, he is of course God, but as a human, and as human, he was given authority over all of creation. Now, when I say that to you, our tendency as modern Christians is to think only about it as a historical fact. That's fine. The resurrection is a historical fact. But I want you to ask a second question: What is the significance of the historical fact? What is the significance that Jesus is raised from the dead as a human? What is the significance that Jesus is installed with all authority in heaven and earth as a human being? What is the significance? What does it tell us in the conversation that we've been having in this sermon? It tells you that first That the first human, number one, which God gave authority, did not do his job, and things are broken. Adam was brought up, so to speak, from the dust. And the woman, his helpmate, taken from his rib, both made in the image of God, and they were given dominion over the earth. But he did not maintain order and bring life, but was himself part of the chaos after the fall. That's the first thing that it tells us. Why would we need a new man if the old one wasn't broken? If it's not broke, don't fix it. So that's the first thing that the resurrection tells us is that something is broken. It tells you second That even though the created order and humanity are a distorted and a twisted mess, that is to say, a travesty, number two, God has not given up on this world. And that is such good news to see that he did not leave us in a state of sin and misery, but he has raised Christ from the dead to bring us into a new state Of life and peace and joy. That's the second thing that it tells us. It tells us instead that the Godhead has decided to redeem his creation by way of a redeemer who is Jesus the Christ. We tend to focus on the atonement. That's fine. The atonement is beautiful. Christ atones for our sins, on twisting the enmity that we have with God. But what about the resurrection? What about the ascension? What about the sending of the Spirit? It's all towards the same end. There is a vindication happening of this creation. Christ sends us his Spirit progressively making us real again. And he will return to make all things as they should be Perfectly ordered. And as his bride, we now work under him, reordering that which has become disordered. You are restored in knowledge and righteousness And holiness even. Well, you can see how the resurrection fits right into the idea of there being a travesty. And how much hope we have that there is, in fact, a resurrection, specifically of a human, and that the human has been given all authority, though it is God-man. But it leads us to a series of questions that we have to ask in light of these realities. The first question that I would like you to consider is this. Where must the untwisting begin? For us? Where must the travesty first be exposed? Almost really in any era. As you can see from the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus starts, untwisting begins with the church And it begins with the leadership of the church because of their influence on all the others. You have to deal with the fly and the ointment. Now here's the second question. How will we be untwisted if we refuse to acknowledge what Christ shows us in the mirror? How will the travesty end that we see within judges, particularly within the Levites? How will the travesty end if you refuse to acknowledge what Christ is trying to show you? That is the work that we must do, knowing that the mirror is given in the mercy and the love of Christ. We must look at the reality which Christ shows us, and we must compare ourselves. We must ask questions like With the scriptures in front of us, and the knowledge and wisdom of the scriptures, from the train of saints going back in history? Am I what Christ intends for a man or woman to be? Am I a mom or dad as Christ defines? Am I what a teacher is supposed to be? There is Christ in his ascension, ordering all things in heaven and earth. Am I acting within his order? Am I what Christ intends for the citizen of a nation? And there is a major question that underlies all of this for you to be able to hear any of it, or for it to be of any use to you, and that is this, and I really need you to focus on this. Because I know that this is true. I have been spending time in deep prayer, and this question comes out of that prayer. What has Jesus Christ been seeking to show you in the mirror, and you have refused for a very long time to pay him any attention? He shows it to you over and over again and then When you're a little soft towards him, you acknowledge it. But then as you start to walk away and life starts to go on, you start to reframe the whole situation, and you're no longer willing to acknowledge that Jesus had anything really to say to you. I'm wondering what is it that he has been seeking to show you perhaps for months. That you keep suppressing in unrighteousness. I don't know what that is, but he does And he's given me these these words this morning as one other way for him to get your attention He shows us that we have some work to do, I admit it. And that's difficult when someone, when you're already feeling tired. When you already feel like you have enough going on in your life, and then someone shows something else to you and says, we really need to work on this, you think, I don't, I just can't do another thing. And we can begin to think that that person is cruel and does not really love us for him to show these kinds of things to us. What kind of person would point these kind of things out? How rude of Christ to do so. But this is where we're going to have to see another reflection within the mirror. Is that we've got something wrong in us when we think that Jesus Christ is cruel. I don't know where all these seeds are getting planted. But I am here to testify to you that Jesus Christ only has love to you as his children. It reminds me actually of how exciting it is when you start to look at the picture correctly. It's like, in a sense, we're all Pinocchio, and we get to be real boys and girls. That was exciting for Pinocchio. And you all keep looking in the mirror and saying, No, I want to be wooden and I want to hang out and smoke cigars with the donkey, if you remember the cartoon. And Jesus has so much more for you than that He wants you to be a real boy and a real girl. And he has demonstrated his love for you in what this publication of his love, especially on the cross. And he has published his love for you in the fact that though he's been given all authority in heaven and earth, he does not use his authority like other powerful men. He uses his authority thinking of you and your good at all times. That is the kind of leader that he is. He does not just have the title, he has the heart. If we could trust him, then maybe we could start to be attentive to what he's showing us and actually start moving towards that which is good for us. Well, we have acknowledged this by starting off with our doctrine. Which is that another symptom of the canonization of the church is the travesty of leadership. Really, there can be a travesty in every area of life, not just the leaders. But when we focus on them, like we have in the passage here, it is a Levite and he's a leader, leaders who have the title of leader But in reality, our false, absurd, and distorted representations of what God intends, they are a travesty. And so are we None of us want to be false, absurd, and distorted representations of what God intends. And Christ has been sent to make sure that you don't have to remain that way. Oh, the joy of the hope that the resurrected Christ is taking the false and making it true. that the Christ is taking the distorted and making it straight. And I remind you of 1 Corinthians 15, verse 58. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, be immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. And know this, that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. And that is labor towards good things. He is our underwriter and our backup. Amen. Amen. Let us pray