Our preaching will be on nineteen through twenty-one, but I'm going to start in sixteen. Moreover, when you fast, do not be like the hypocrites with a sad countenance, for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear to men to be fasting. Assuredly, I say to you, they have their reward. But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, so that you do not appear to men to be fasting. but to your father who is in the secret place, and your father who sees in secret will reward you openly. Do not lay up for yourself treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourself treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, with this preached word here and the upcoming sermons with this whole section, I pray, Lord, that you would help us in our devotion and love to you. And that you would do so through this preaching and through the table afterwards. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. You may be seated. I'm not sure if this is as popular as it used to be, but is there anyone here that still watches the Antique Roadshow or has heard of that? Am I dating myself a little bit? Is that still a thing? Is it live? I'm hearing a lot of chatter, but no one said yes. So the Antique Roadshow it I think one of the reasons why we end up watching that is Well let me just ask you, have you ever watched the Antique Roadshow and then started digging through your stuff wondering if you've been sitting on a million dollars? That's I think part of the the draw of that show is you see these things that you didn't know held any value and come to find out they were made by Charlemagne and You have the Magna Carta in your basement, or whatever it is, and uh and there you're sitting all kind all kinds of of money. You know, with the Antiques Roadshow, it it it uh points out that uh sometimes we just don't know what the value of things are. So you end up in that show, those of you who don't know this or if you're too young to even know what Antiques Roadshow is, I'll try to remember. You basically you have an item, let's say that you have an old sled that's made out of wood and iron, and you would take that sled to the antique roadshow or they would come by a booth and They would look at your sled and then and it would catch their eye and they would say, this was made in 11th century England and you didn't know. And and then you'd find out that you're sitting on a $200,000 sled and it should go to a museum And uh my point in bringing the whole thing up to you is like I mentioned already, is that we uh sometimes don't know the value of things And it takes somebody else to point it out for us. And I bring that up just because that's really what's happening here within this passage is that we as human beings can really struggle with e-valuation. evaluations. We can struggle to know what we should be putting our time into, what is What thing is more valuable than another thing, or what person is more valuable than another thing. Oftentimes we invest ourselves and our lives in things that don't really matter And Jesus is going to address that here this morning by way of this passage. He addresses that struggle that you have as a Christian. Or if you're here and you're not a Christian, you have that struggle. Also, all of us here have that struggle. Jesus has been addressing different things that we struggle with ever since the beginning of this sermon. You'll remember if you look back here within the Sermon on the Mount You'll remember that he began with the beatitudes. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Chapter 5, verse 3 Blessed are those who mourn, and blessed are those who are meek, and those continue of those who are blessed. Who are those that when God looks at them, he sees a life that is living according to the right values? It's those who have a contrite heart before him, for example. Those are the blessed ones. And that's a part of the Beatitudes. But there's a great contrast that Jesus gives to us Right after that within the Sermon on the Mount, where he starts speaking about the religious leaders of the day, known as the scribes and the Pharisees, and he says in chapter 5, verse 20 For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. There's this major contrast that Jesus is giving us in this sermon where he's showing this group of people in the Beatitudes, these are the ones who really are investing in the right things and relating to me in the right way. And by way of contrast, there are a group of people that you know, and they're actually the religious leaders of the day, which is surprising. They are living lives that I don't value. And they are putting evaluations on things that and valuing them in a way I don't value them. They're valuing things that are just superficial, and I'm after the heart. Those are some of the things that we've seen in the continued teaching there as Jesus has addressed murder and adultery divorce law, and as he has addressed giving, as he has addressed prayer, as he has addressed fasting, there are these Major contrasts on what God intends for those things and how they can be twisted. And Jesus is helping us to value the things that he knows that he and his father value as opposed to the wrong teaching that has been handed down. And that's going to continue here today within our passage specifically dealing with treasures in heaven and treasures on earth, you'll notice that in your Bibles that a lot of the times you're going to have a heading that says Jesus on wealth or something along those lines. And it's going to cover not just the paragraph that I just read to you, but multiple paragraphs of this section. It's all dealing with the same topic. So we have a little bit of time to talk about this. But today we're going to talk about heavenly treasures and earthly treasures. And I want to do so, I want to look at how Jesus values things and how works is supposed to evaluate things. I want to do that through two main points, a contrast. And a test. There is a contrast in our passage, and then he supplies us in his goodness, he gives us a test to really see where our hearts are. And I'll just start off now. Where is your heart this morning? I'd encourage you to ask yourself that question just between you and God. Where is your heart between you and God? Where is your heart? Where is your devotion? Okay, let's begin by looking at the passage together. We're just looking at 19 through 21. And I want you to see that there is a contrast here. It's really obvious. We don't need to spend a lot of time on this first part. Take a look at verse number 19. It says, Do not lay up for yourself treasures on earth. That's the beginning part of verse 19. And then the contrast is pointed out by the word but in verse number 20, but lay up for yourself treasures in heaven. Now there's the contrast, and that's why I say there's a contrast. But before I go on to talk about that contrast in particular and what it is and what Jesus is teaching us, I want to say a few words about what he's not teaching us. It's really important when we come to a passage like this. This passage is said starkly. It is a bold way to put things. It's kind of proverbial. It's catchy. This may be actually one of the most familiar verses in the world that people would know. I mean a lot of people know this verse. It really stands out. And when we have a verse that stands out like this, we can think that it provides all of the information that we would need in order to make ethical judgment or to know what is right or what is wrong But you know, we have an entire Bible to tell us that, not just this verse. So it's really important that we look at the total can of the scriptures when we're understanding something like this. So I want to go over first what is Jesus not saying when Jesus says that you are to lay up your treasures, not lay up your treasures on earth, but to lay them up in heaven, what is he not saying? What are some ways that we get this wrong? Well, Jesus is not saying, number one, that Christians should be poor and without property. Now you may be poor, and at times you may have no property, but that's different. That's in God's providence, different things can happen to us. But there's not a necessity of you being poor or you being without property. That's not God's will necessarily. And you can see this in all kinds of ways throughout the scriptures. For example, I'll just recall to you Abraham. Abraham is lifted up to us in different books as the father of faith. And Abraham was extremely prosperous. He had vast livestocks and silver and gold and servants. And he was never criticized for that. As far as I have been able to tell. In addition, you can look at stories like Job. He is described as the greatest man among all of the people of the East with immense wealth and livestock and servants. and property, and he was blameless and upright fearing God and shunning evil. And even after he has done the test, all of that property is restored. God would not give something that was evil to Job if that was the case, that he would prefer everyone to be poor and without property. We're not to be taking vows of poverty, in fact You have a New Testament example of Lydia. She is a successful businesswoman dealing in purple cloth, which was a luxury good. She was wealthy enough to host Paul and his companions in her home in Acts chapter 16, 14 through 15 and 40. And I'll also just mention from 1 Timothy 5. 8, just showing you what he doesn't mean, that we're he's not calling us to be poor, to strive to be poor and without property It says here in 1 Timothy 5. 8, but if anyone does not provide for his own and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. So that means you need to have stuff to be able to take care of your family. That would be finances and property, however that ends up working out within your particular society. There is nothing wrong here with owning things, with having possessions, with having property. In fact, they are gifts from God to be stewarded for his glory. So Jesus isn't teaching that. within this contrast. In addition, Jesus is not saying that our treasures are only in the future. That would be another way to say this is that Since heaven is in the future to where we would all go, he wants me to focus on what are the things that I'll be rewarded with in the next life. There are rewards in the next life There are more verses in the Bible about rewards in the next life than we care to admit. But Jesus is not teaching here that all rewards must be waited for until the next life. Let me just point out, and this is one of the reasons why I started with the fasting section, I'll point out to you for Matthew chapter 6 verse 18. And these other places, it says here, so that you do not appear to men to be fasting, but to your father who is in the secret place, and your father who sees and secret will reward you openly. And we already know in looking at fasting that that is a devoted time of prayer. It's intensified crying by way of depriving our bodies of food and drink. And it says here that those prayers, according to God's will and in his timing, are answered. It's not something that is future. It is something that we're rewarded with in the present So I don't want you to think that Jesus is only saying whatever you're doing now, the only thing that's valuable are the things that will be in the future life. That's not what Jesus is teaching Jesus is not teaching the absence of property or possessions. Jesus isn't teaching that your life now is worthless and everything that's valuable comes in the future. He's not teaching either one of those things, but what is he teaching? And now we can move into that. What Jesus is saying here, you can see the clear contrast that's coming across within this passage. What Jesus is doing, especially when you look at this in context, Jesus is warning us against loving and living for the wrong treasures. He's warning us That we must be very careful to not love or live for the wrong treasures. And you see how he does that. He says, if you live for earthly treasures, then guess what happens to treasures like that? Moths eat them, rust makes them decay, and steves break in and steal. These are three different ways that he's pointing out that these things don't last. Why would you invest your life in this when it's just going to go away? You know, it reminds me of a little bit l uh right there at the end of this Sermon on the Mount, we're going to see Jesus saying, make sure you build on a certain foundation. Otherwise the whole house will fall. Don't invest in sand foundations. Invest in rock foundations. And something's going sim on similar here where he's pointing out, if you're going to invest your life, And your heart and your devotion into something, may that not be something that will fall away, or that can be stolen, or rust, or be eaten away by moths. He says in contrast, he says instead that you would live for heavenly treasure, and he just gives you the opposite in verse number 20. He just says, they're not eaten by moths They're not rusted, and these don't break in and steal. Now, one of the hang-ups that I think we can have here is we don't really know exactly what he has in mind for the earthly treasure or the heavenly treasure. And I tried to cover some of that by saying what he's not teaching. But if you were to look across the scriptures as to, well, what was earthly treasure within these people's lives? that the moth ate and the thieves the thief stole and the rust rusted. And what was the heavenly treasure that where they didn't experience those same things? What would be some of the examples that you would give? Certainly, if you were to look at the life of believers within the scriptures, and you were to ask, what were the things that they devoted themselves to in heaping up heavenly treasures versus the earthly treasures? What would be some of the examples that you would give? Well, let me give you just a couple of examples. A couple examples is, number one, let's just stay right here within this section of Matthew to see what these heavenly versus these earthly treasures are. Take a look at Matthew chapter 6 verse 2 Here's an earthly treasure. Don't forget that when Jesus was talking about giving, prayer, and fasting The word that kept repeating through all of those examples was reward. And reward is connected to what your treasure is. It's the same kind of thing. That's the connection between what we're doing here today and the earlier teachings on fasting and giving and on prayer. You see in chapter 6, verse 2, an earthly treasure. Therefore, when you do a charitable deed, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory from men. An earthly treasure is to live for the praise of other human beings. An earthly treasure is that you have devoted yourself to your status among human society Not for the sake of God, but for the sake of your reputation. That, in the manner of speaking, will be eaten away. It will rust, and it will be stolen. And it's not worth your time or your investment as an ultimate devotion. Reputation's fine Proverbs talks about having a good reputation as a reward of the good works that you do among society. That's what a person should receive is a good reputation. It's a blessing, but it's not the ultimate That's not what we do all things for. So that would be an earthly treasure. Now if you see a heavenly treasure in Matthew 6, verse number 6. Here's the reward that Jesus commends, obviously. But when you pray, go into your room, and when you have shut your door, pray to your father who is in the secret place. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. You will receive treasures from him openly. And we know that that treasure has to do with praying to him that his kingdom would come and his will would be done. on earth as it is in heaven. If you were to go back to our main passage and you looked at the other paragraphs that we're getting ready to study in the following weeks You'll see that this is the main issue. You'll see, for example, in verse number 24 of chapter 6 of Matthew, no one can serve two masters. For either you will hate the one and love the other, or else you'll be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon, or if you have the ESV, it's a good translation, says you cannot serve God and money. It's the same thing going on there that is going on within our passage. Jesus is helping us to not invest or devote our lives into things that are moth will be moth-eaten, rusted, or stolen. And I have one example, and that is that you'd be turning and devoted to God and his kingdom. Another example could be seen of heavenly treasure in chapter 6, verse 10. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Anything that is done within that spirit and for those purposes will end up being a heavenly treasure as God allows you to build that kind of house. What we end up seeing here is that Jesus is warning us. In a word, if you haven't heard anything else in this point, which is just the main point, which is the contrast, if you haven't heard anything up to this point, this is what I'm saying. Do not invest your life in the wrong things. That's what Jesus is saying. Do not invest your life in the wrong things. If you invest in God's kingdom, then you've made a good investment. That's the point. Trying to take the treasure language and modernize it a bit. If you invest in God's kingdom, then you have made a good investment. Now that's the contrast that is given to us here within the passage, but there is also in his wisdom and in his goodness he also gives us a test. You know, it's one thing to receive information and it's another thing to look at our hearts. And boy, does this test make us look at our hearts. Take a look at the test in verse number 21 of chapter 6. This is really what Jesus' main focus is here. He leaves it for last so that we wouldn't miss it. He says, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. One person who I respect wrote this. He wrote, we must ask ourselves on a regular basis where our treasure is. And likewise, where our hearts? Where is that point of ultimate concern that grips your life? He continues and he says, that is the diagnostic question Jesus is asking. He is saying to you, where is your heart? Where is your ultimate concern? Is it to prestige or success or wealth or is it to my kingdom? He is asking whether he holds our hearts. Our treasure lies in what we cherish. That's the main point here. And you know, I don't need to go on long. I want to do a couple things under this point, but the first thing I want to do is I just want to ask you, where are your ultimate commitments? Where are your ultimate commitments? This is a gracious thing for Jesus Christ to do. He gives us this passage not so that we could come here on Sunday and only ask the question once. I believe he wants us to ask this question every day. In the same way that you would need to do things with your diet in order to stay healthy every day? This is one of those questions coming from a good God. Who gives us this question in his goodness so that we can keep staying connected with him every day. And we can ask What are we cherishing? Are we cherishing earthly treasures or are we cherishing our Lord and His kingdom? I know that you all know this. But Jesus is good in giving us this question because the human heart can slide and backslide so quickly. We need to keep questions like this in mind so that we can remain healthy with our Father who is in heaven and not get disconnected from him and our hearts hardened Because we have spent so much time investing in things that don't matter and have nothing to do with him. And then when he comes in and he wants the clean house, we're pretty upset about that. So not even walking down that path is the best thing. So may we use this diagnostic question that has been given to us in order to keep heart-checking ourselves and our families and just figuring out what is it that we are cherishing The second thing I wanted to do under this point is I just wanted to give you an example. I know a a young man in my life who is quite talented. And there are companies in this world who have recognized his talent. And one company is a pretty big company. I'm not going to give you any details because I don't want to embarrass anybody. Maybe they're here, maybe they're not. But it's a large company, and the large company offered this person a kind of job and financial package where they would not have to think about finances ever again. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine waking up and you don't one thing you can think about a lot of things, but one thing you don't need to think about is finances It was that kind of a situation. Well, you know what the trade-off would be? Hardly ever seeing your family. And so there was a choice. There was a crossroads. And you would have to figure out what do you really cherish? And this young man chose to uh find a job that allowed them to allow him to provide for his family, didn't take a vow of poverty, provide for his family but also be there for his family. And that is a that's a good, I think, practical example that needs to be applied in a thousand different ways on where you can begin to see where a person's heart is based upon the decisions that they make, based upon what they cherish or what they treasure. Do you know what finances get you? A nice car, a nice boat, membership at the yacht club. And then you can keep listing all of these different toys that are so cool. And do you know what those toys get you? Prestige Honor Reputation Status Power There are all of these different things that can be tempting for us to cherish above other things. But what I just gave you was an example where the person's heart was revealed. The Lord delivered them from that temptation, and they were able to choose something where they'll have a modest living, but he'll also keep his wife. And his children will know who he is and how he functions. What a great example that we have here of them choosing, in this case it really was, the choosing of a heavenly treasure and God's kingdom over the kingdom of men. That's really the main message that we have here and that Jesus is giving to us. There is this contrast that he's seeking to give in the original context, he's he's contrasting with these religious officials who had elevated and invested themselves in things that God said I don't want you investing in those things. I want you investing in me as your father. And I want you investing in my kingdom and what I value. And he brings that contrast to us here within this sermon and within this passage that we wouldn't go down the same path. So that we could be healthy to be able to disciple the nations. Do you think Jesus would love to send his disciples to Pharisees and Sadducees? In order to complete the Great Commission, Jesus took the kingdom away from Pharisees and Sadducees because they had this problem. And in his goodness and in his grace, he warns us today, let's not walk down this path. And so I've supplied this contrast for you, but I've also given you this test, this diagnostic question. Oh, brothers and sisters, we have to keep asking, what does our heart cherish? And the answer that we have to keep reaching for and striving for and asking for help for is that we would cherish our Father and His kingdom above all else. That's what Jesus is giving us here, and I'll leave you with a few questions, and that is, where is your heart? Where are your ultimate commitments? Is it to prestige or success or wealth or is it to God's kingdom? He is asking whether he holds your heart. Does he? Does he hold your heart? Our treasure lies in what we cherish. Let us not forget that. And may we cherish God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit in his kingdom above all. Amen. Amen. Let us pray