Fill us with your word and let it sink deep in our hearts. For we ask it in your name. Amen. Today's passage is Matthew 13. I'm going to pick up with verse forty-four and I'm going to read only through verse fifty-two, even though previously I'd go through the end of the chapter, but we'll just take it down through verse fifty-two today. Matthew thirteen verses forty-four through fifty-two. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field where a man which a man found and hid and Again the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant seeking beautiful pearls, who when he has found one pearl Pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it. And they sat down and gathered the good into the vessels and threw the bad away. So it will be at the end of the age the angels will come forth Separate the wicked from the just, and cast them into the furnace of fire, there will be wailing and gnashing of teeth. And Jesus said to them, Have you understood all these things? They said, Yes. Yes, Lord. Then he said to them, Therefore every scribe instructed concerning the kingdom of heaven is like a householder who brings out of his treasure things new and old We will not be addressing the parable of the dragnet today. I'm going to pick it up along with the final verses next week. We'll be looking at only the other three May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. What a hurt person holds to be precious In their life tells us a lot about them, doesn't it? Take a brand new grandmother, grandfather. It is the first time they hold that young life in their hands. You look at If you get a picture of that, it says it all. You see that smile on their face, you see their eyes lighting up, and they're looking down at God's faithfulness to them and to their family And there is a pride, a joy, a delight there, I think that perhaps even transcends when you have your first child of your own. They're proud of that baby. It's the delight of their lives, and at that moment it is by far and away. You see the same dynamic in other people. If you notice, uh you have an avid hunter and he has just managed to get a brand new shotgun of some sort Well okay. You go into his house and the first thing he's gonna say is, Hey, let me show you what I got. He goes in there, he opens up his case and they are among the fourteen hundred other guns is is this one. And it's his special delight. Ever notice a teenager when they get their first car? You know? Why, come on, let's go for a ride. You know, no matter what it is, it's my car. When we delight in something, when we're proud of it, we want to show it off Jesus in these parables teaches us that the kingdom of God should have that kind of effect upon us. All the parables, uh these three parables I'm focusing on today, are All of these focus upon the kingdom of God, but they are different from the f uh From the parables that have gone before. Because here in these parables the the important thing that is being addressed is the effect the kingdom. In the previous parables, the individual who was involved was actually there planting the field or Doing something in that order, and the parable was pointing towards that person as being Christ or later on as Christ through his church doing things. There the emphasis was on how Christ was building his kingdom. But here the important difference is that it is the discovery of the kingdom or of the magnificent person. Pearl, the treasure hidden in the field, how that effect generates or shows itself in people That's the main point. A person who has this thing becomes like a householder, then later on, who wants to bring those treasures out and short The point of these parables, therefore, shifts in its focus to cause us to have to face a particular question. Now, what is that question? In our own experience, yours and mine here today, can we bear witness? Can we bear witness? That what Jesus says here is absolutely true. Can we affirm what Jesus is saying about the kingdom of God? When we read these verses in the integrity of our own heart, can we say, yeah, that is absolutely right. The kingdom of God is just like that. When a person finds it, it's like coming across a treasure that is hidden in a field. Or it's like a merchant who has spent his entire life life looking for the perfect pearl and then he comes across it and it's in a stall somewhere and it's got a great big price on it but he says there it is Or like a proud housekeeper who can't wait to bring out their most treasured possessions to show them to visitors. Can we say That's the testimony of my life. That's the testimony of my faith. I know just what Jesus is talking about here because I'm like that. householder. And I love to show off the treasures that God has given me. That's the type of reflection that Jesus called calls upon us to make as he brings these parables to our attention today. And I want us to see how he does that. So I want us to look first at the first two parables. Jesus says that the value of the kingdom of God is so self-evidently overwhelming to us, to us, to we Who recognize it and appreciate it, that we can't see our lives as being worth living apart from it. It affects us just that much. Now, implicit in this is the fact, as Jesus here is making very clear, That the kingdom is not recognized and appreciated that way by everyone. In the first parable, a man is walking in the field. It's not his field. Probably hundreds, thousands of people have walked across that field before. They may have walked right across that treasure and never seen it. Reminds me of a story. Story that uh Linda Whiting once told me about her husband Sam, who once hid out in her her front yard wearing a ghillie suit. You know what a ghillie suit is? It's one of those c camouflage things she didn't know. She come walking up the uh uh the sidewalk to her house and all of a sudden he stood up. She said she thought she was gonna have a heart attack right there on the spot. But she could she could have walked right past And never seen him. That's the way this picture is. Men and women have been walking across this field, and there's this treasure in it, and they haven't seen it. But this man did And because it was not his field, he went out and sold everything he had in order to obtain it. The same could be said for the pearl of great price. Many may have walked past that stand and said, boy, you know, that's a good-looking pearl, but look at that price, man. That's not worth that. I'm not going to pay that much money for that pearl. But a man who knows pearls, who knows them well and can tell one pearl from another. Who recognizes quality? Who recognizes perfection in pearls? That man walks by, he looks at this pearl and says, I gotta have that. That pearl is beautiful. That pearl is beyond compare. These parables illustrate the kingdom of God and its effect upon those who have eyes to see it. that all of my taste is in my mouth. I appreciate fine things. I I like elegantly simple things, but quite frankly I can be fooled present pretty easily when it comes to substitutes. One diamond pretty much looks like another to me. I can tell the difference between a diamond Diamond and a piece of glass. But when a young lady comes up to me and shows off her diamond ring that she just got for an engagement, I can look at it and I I'm not about to say, oh, that's a princess cup. And look at all of the facets and look at how it reflects you know. That's a number one quality diamond. Well that's a really pretty ring. I'm so happy for you. That's about as But as far as I can go. Fine distinctions are lost on me when it comes to high quality materials. But that's the whole point of what Jesus is teaching here. The kingdom of God is like a treasure hidden in a field or a pearl of great price. Not everyone is going to Not everyone will be able to recognize it when they see it. But for those who do see it and appreciate it, it's not just one more kingdom among all of us the kingdoms in this world. The kingdom is the most glorious, the most beautiful, the most delightful The most valuable thing a person could ever possess. No matter what it takes, I must have it That leads us to ask the inevitable question then. What kind of person is it that recognizes the kingdom and embraces it with joy? It's easy to give a theological answer to this question. Only a person who has been reborn through the indwelling power of the Holy Spirit will be able to do so. A person must have a new heart, like the one described in Ezekiel 36. 36. Then I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean. I will cleanse you from all your filthiness and from all your idols. I will give you a new heart And I will put a new spirit within you. And I will take that heart of stone out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh. And I will put Put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes, and then you will keep my judgments and do them. That's the kind of person who will recognize the hidden treasure and who will appreciate the fine pearl. Only someone who has been born again through the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ can see the kingdom of God. But that leaves us pretty cold, doesn't it? Jesus is not setting up these parables so that we can build a big thing theological foundation uh fur uh castle on it. Yes, I love the Reformed faith, and yes, this is essential to our Reformed faith. But that is not a cold thing, a cold set of Propositions that is being put forward to us. Jesus means for these parables to touch something deep inside of us and move our hearts, and that's how we need to explore these parables To see if that happens. Here is the kind of person, not from a theological, but from an illustrious point of view who recognizes and embraces the kingdom of God. Consider a young man He's born into the worst, most drug-ridden, crime-infested street in Baltimore. His mother is a crack addict prostitute. He never knew who among the hundreds that visited his mother was his father. He grew up in a house in which druggies are passed out in the front in the The living room is how his mother augments her income. Mean, nasty, And women who live at the very edge of sanity are the only people he has ever really known. Violence is in the very air that he breathes. Think of this man walking the streets at night. He's always on guard, always looking around It's not safe out there. But it's not safe in the ruined house where his mother lives either. There's no one to trust there. There's no one to trust out here. So far He doesn't do drugs, nor has he been into any really bad crimes. He has despised what he has seen in that kind of life But in his heart of hearts he'll tell you that he has no real expectation of living past the age of 30. He doesn't know what it means to be so Secure. He doesn't know what it means to have a family. He doesn't know what it means to love or be loved. And in the last analysis, what he doesn't know No, is he's already dead. For him, life is misery, and all he is doing is waiting for his luck to run out. Imagine this young man walking down the street one day and passing a chain link fence. He looks inside that chain link fence, and there are young people, much like himself, in there shooting hoops, or else just hanging around, seemingly having a good time. Imagine one of those young people coming over to the chainland Fence and inviting him to come in, but uh he he maybe shakes it off and goes away. But then on another day he comes He sees the same thing. And he comes in. Now suppose this young man finds out over a period of visits. That this place is safe. He can actually sleep there. There are people there in various stages of coming from where he's come. But for the most part, these people aren't out to steal from him. The young people, on the whole, are pretty decent. The place is clean. The food is nice. And over a period of time it begins to dawn on him that just possibly he might have a Future. For the first time in his life, he begins to think of himself as something other than just a piece of meat. And he begins to ask the question: why is this house different? Why are these people different? And in pursuing that question, what he discovers is that they are different because of the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. They have been transformed into something else. And this house, this place where they live. Though it doesn't look like it, there's no steeple, there's no no place other than that. But in its essence, this place is a church. These people are a church. And the life that is discovered in this house is the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ. How do you think this young man would grow to feel about this place and these people. Would he not see it in terms of what it meant in his own life? Would he not see it in terms of the difference between this place and the life he had known outside that fence? Now do you think that finding it might very well be, in his own estimation? The most important thing that had ever happened to him in his life. Imagine him sitting under a tree in that yard Imagine him finding out what it meant to rest there under that tree. And think of him discovering in wonder as he meditates on it that it was Jesus that made this all possible. something new and the evidence was right there in front of him because all of these folks that were around him came from exactly the same streets he came from That is the kingdom of God. That is the power of God. And that is the grace of God. Would not at that moment this young man suddenly realize that this is like a treasure hidden in a field. It's like a pearl of infinite worth. And now I'm smiling. This is my treasure. This is my pearl. Would he not become like a householder who cannot wait to show off what he has attained? Brothers and sisters, I submit to you that this is the kingdom of God. This is what we, the Church of Jesus Christ, are saying supposed to be. And further, this experience that this young man has should be the testimony of every one of our lives. And we here at Millersville should be the same kind of church to Millersville as that church is to Baltimore. First consider how all of us are just like this young man. We may not have been raised in the extremes of his circumstances, we may not have had such a dramatic life, but his experience in essence is the same for everyone Everyone who truly discovers the kingdom of God. And wealthy we are. Our families are broken apart from Christ. We live in the midst of ravenous wolves who will seek to abuse us and use us if they can, even if they're driving nice shiny new cars and wearing the best of suits. Apart from Christ, friends will Desert us, family members may hurt us, and we will discover that few can really be trusted. And we can find In the midst of plenty, that we can be very, very much alone, even with a million Facebook friends. Sooner or later the parties, if that is where we are, sooner or later is the alcohol that we use to deaden the pain, the new job that is always out there in front of us, the next excitement Exciting thing to do sooner or later, those are going to turn sour, they're going to become meaningless, and we will learn the teachings of the preacher who said, Vanity of vanities, it is all vanity A person in whom God is working and preparing for His kingdom will see a parallel between the life they Man went through, even though his was much more graphic. Brothers and sisters, that's the whole point. For the kingdom to be a treasure, a pearl of great Price, it has to be different. It has to be unusual. It must be a joy and a delight to possess, and only those who know what it's like to be broken Or hurting can appreciate what it means to be healed. To find a world, a kingdom Where things are not broken? To find a world of beauty in the midst of ugliness, that, brothers and sisters, becomes so important and precious that this the most important thing in the world to us. And that is exactly what the kingdom of God is. Question number We face here today is this. Do we know this kingdom? Do we know it for ourselves? Do we know it like this young man would have known it? In terms of how valuable and different and beautiful It is in contrast to the world about us, the world of death from which we have been saved. Do we know it? That is the question that these parables are designed to bring raise in our mind? And that is the question that we have to ask. Second and lastly, in closing, we should notice that it is this kind of vision of the kingdom of God that always has been the content and proclamation of the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. It is the content And the substance of the message that we are to proclaim. If we look at that last teaching parable in the section, Jesus speaks of a householder who brings out his treasures, both new and old. Jesus is speaking of a man showing off the pictures of his grandkids at work. Or a hunter showing off his new gun or a young girl showing off offer engagement ring. He's showing he is painting a picture of a man who has something beautiful and he wants to show it off The kingdom of God is such a place that those who possess it know it as another way of living. Another way of loving, where you can find rest for your body, and where you can find peace for your soul And they love it so much that they can't wait to show it off. Brothers and sisters, we can only speak of that which we know. The gospel of Jesus Christ is not first and foremost about a set of doctrines. It is about something that has happened and is happening. The Gospel of Jesus Christ is about God doing something Something in this world now, today, bringing about a new creation every day, every moment. And he is opening up the kingdom to new sets of eyes and revealing it to new hearts. What the gospel is. And as they take their first steps into this kingdom, they discover a world that is so far removed from what they thought Possible that at first they cannot believe it. What is true for those who have never heard the gospel before is often true for those who are raised in the church When forgiveness of sins becomes something that is truly meaningful for them, when with a new heart they understand What the old hymn says, what a joy divine, what a fellowship divine that is open to us. So no matter where from whence a person comes, when they discover this kingdom, they become like the uh householder in this parable. They can't wait to share it off because it means that much to them. What we have in these parables, then, brothers and sisters, is a vision and a challenge to us here today, at this moment. First, individually, have we discovered the kingdom of God in the integrity of our own hearts? Can we say That we recognize in ourselves the truth of Jesus' words here. Is it our most precious possession? And if it is not, Why is that? What does that tell us about where our priorities are? And perhaps where we are with reference to our God and King And second, corporately, brothers and sisters, these parables challenge us to consider ourselves as a church Are we the kingdom of God in this place, in this time, in this area, such that when people discover us That is how they react to us. Are we showing forth to the broken people of this world that there is a place where they can Find rest for their souls, peace for their hearts, and a people who will love them and care for them in the name of Christ. with the expectation that being introduced into them it will become the treasure for them that it is for us. Let's pray.