Chapter 2 of Proverbs. My son, if you receive my words and treasure my commands within you, so that you incline your ear to wisdom and apply your heart to understand. Yes, if you cry out for discernment and lift up your voice for understanding, if you seek her as silver and search for her as for hidden treasures. Then you will understand the fear of the Lord, and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright. He is a shield to those who walk uprightly. He guards the paths of justice and preserves the way of his saints. Then you will understand righteousness and justice, equity in every good path When wisdom enters your heart and knowledge is pleasant to your soul, discretion will preserve you. Understanding will keep you. Let us pray. Father, I pray that you would strengthen your disciples through your word tonight. And that you'd prepare us to continue in this proverb the following week. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Please be seated. Last week we were encouraged to turn at the rebuke of wisdom. Repentance is perhaps the first act, first wise act. For if we don't, then wisdom will permit us to eat the fruit of our own way. and be filled to the full with our own fancies or vanities. However, to those who repent and listen, They shall dwell safely and will be secure without fear of evil. They will be like a builder who builds their house on a rock. We move now to Proverbs chapter 2, verses 1 through 11. And this is really a introductory for a kind of a two-parter here, because the meat and substance and situation really starts to unfold in 12 through 22. But I want to make a few observations and and uh actually I just have a few questions tonight. I want you to notice that the parents are now speaking again. We've moved from woman wisdom, speaking in areas of commerce and marketplaces, and at the public uh courts to now the parents speaking again. You can see this in verse 1, my son, if you receive my words. They paint the rest of the picture, the parents do. Whereas woman wisdom is shouting and pursuing people in many public areas. Here, I'm sure you've already heard this, the difference in emphasis, the parents reveal a very important truth, and it is this: to attain wisdom And to attain the rewards of wisdom, we must be committed and actively in pursuit of wisdom This is no there's no passive learning going on here where someone else is doing all the work for you. This is like trade school Notice the first commitment that is mentioned here. This is what the author means in verse 1 when he's talking about commitment. My son, if you receive my words and treasure my commands within you. That's what the parents say, and this ends up being filled out in a kind of poetic fashion in verse 4 where treasure is mentioned again. The life of wisdom is like a committed treasure hunt, according to verse 4. If you seek her as silver and search for her as for hidden treasures That's what it would mean to be committed. That your heart would be set on it, that you would be salivating for it, if you want to think about that kind of imagery. But notice second that in it is it is in that frame, even in the literature itself, it's framed with the outer verses of 1 through 4, and then the inside of those verses. The commitment frames the act of learning and developing. You can see this in verse 2, where you start to incline your ear to wisdom and you're to apply that wisdom. To the deepest part of you, which is called your heart, all your motivational structures This is quite different than what we're used to within our culture. In our culture, you read everything on the subject first, and then you do. And that is not what is presented to you here with Christian wisdom. And I actually think this is the experience of those who are owned by Christ. The parents don't encourage the son to do some research and then figure out if he really wants to be committed or if this is worth it. Which might sound strange to you, because we're called to commit to count the cost, but I'll explain that in a second. The commitment comes first. Then they are prepared to obtain the wisdom. They are not telling the son to be careless and not count the cost. That's not actually the situation. In this situation, in this book Written to Israel, the son or daughter has grown up in a covenant home. They know the faith. They've been around the church. Yet there's not a commitment still And the only way that the son or the daughter will make it in the world under the sun In the heat of the world, is if they first commit and in that commitment chase after wisdom. This is much more, honestly, if you think about it, like riding a bike than sitting in a classroom. I've never met anybody. And I'm maybe tonight is going to be the first night that I meet you, but I have never met anybody that reads about riding a bike, and then they ride the bike. I just know that myself and all my friends and everybody else I talked to, we got a bike and we just got on that thing. We fell down twice and then it started working out. And that's the kind of pedagogy that we see here within the Proverbs, how people really learn. There's a commitment. And then we may incline our ears to understanding So that's verses 1 through 4. Verses 1 through 4 are all about how to obtain wisdom. It begins with commitment, surprisingly to us in Western culture. Commitment, furthermore, is the prerequisite for the ear to really hear and the heart to really understand. And then we come to verses 5 through 11, and they are about the rewards or the treasures that we obtain in a life of wisdom, Christian wisdom. Interestingly, our pursuit of wisdom, even if you make that commitment and you inclined your heart, it's not just a cause and effect relationship like we would like to think. Our pursuit of wisdom does not cause us to become wise. Take a look at verse 6. God Himself still must get it. For the Lord gives wisdom, and from his mouth come knowledge and understanding. And yet, when we receive these gifts, you can see in the rest of the proverb the pronounced benefits. In this first half of the proverb. And here are two benefits. First, God protects those committed to wisdom He is a shield to those who walk uprightly. As they seek to walk on his paths, he guards those paths. He guards the paths of justice. And he preserves the way, which is just another word for paths, of his saints. That's the first benefit that we receive. The second is the character of wisdom which God forms in each of us. And that you can see in verses 10 and 11. It is actually the sh the shape of our character as we grow in his image that starts to become a protection itself. It says this: when wisdom enters your heart and knowledge is pleasant to your soul, notice what will preserve you: discretion. That's a character attribute. Understanding will keep you. Kind of wisdom and skill in navigating through life God works through the secondary means of the character that he shapes and forms in you, that you are like his son. God shapes your character as a person, and that character is in fact a protection. And so we end up something like this. After these observations for the first half of the proverb, if you commit and pursue wisdom as if precious treasure, applying it as deep as your heart, then God shall act as your shield and provide you with character. Which preserves you. And of course, we understand this in a general sense, because there are many mysteries in life where even if you were to follow the recipe exactly Like our Lord Himself, who always walked in wisdom, trouble can come your way. But nevertheless, it is true for us To see life as having these general contours. If you commit and pursue wisdom as if precious treasure, applying it as deep as your heart, then God shall act as your shield and provide you with the character which shall preserve you. Now this is all a bit general The proverb the proverbist seems to be speaking, to start to put some flesh on this, the proverbist seems to be speaking, at least, I think it can be generalized into many different areas of life. But the one most prominent in Proverbs all the way through seems to be speaking of a major transition point from being a child to being an adult. Now, I don't want to discourage you if you're not having that transition point. I think, like I said, you can generalize this out into other movements from one mode of existence to another mode of existence. But these first nine chapters are really focusing on that major transition and for good reason. It really is major. In our culture, this happens from middle school to high school, but depending on the situation, I've also seen this happen in high school to college. It can vary depending on the person, but that's a that's a general that's uh where it mostly happens. Middle school to high school or from high school to college, this transition that we see Where they must commit to wisdom. Here's the scenario that is behind the words of the parents here in chapter 2 and what's going on with woman wisdom in chapter 1. Our children are raised as covenant children. When younger, we have their attention and we can largely control their environment. When high school or college starts, that begins to change, as some of you know. The motivational structure of children's change, their chemistry literally changes. And new questions begin to arise. When they enter into this new world, will they have ears to hear? And if so, will they turn at wisdom's rebuke? There will need to be wisdom's rebuke. And will they pursue God's wisdom as a great treasure That becomes the ultimate question in those years of life, you have to admit. Will they see God as their treasure? Or will they fall in love with foolishness? That's really the way that the Proverbs frame this for us. And of course, as parents, we hope that our children consider Christ and His kingdom. as we read earlier as the pearl of great price. But it still is a question that is raised. As parents, we hope And pray that our children would be willing to sell everything for the treasure that Jesus Christ is. But it is still a question that remains in those years. And that's the whole point of these first nine chapters. And laying out the wisdom that he does. And so for tonight, I only want to ask a few questions really for those entering into those stages, or someone if you know someone entering into those stages. Perhaps you can use these questions to help you minister to them. And then we'll move into our song and a time of prayer. These aren't long questions, we're just about done Here's question number one. Before I ask the questions, those of you who are in this stage, I urge you to listen more closely than perhaps you ever have. Please listen to what I have to say to you. And please consider these questions. And I'm ready to talk to you about them. Do you know that moving from middle school to high school or from high school to college is like entering into another world If you do not have that assumption, you are already in trouble. It is like another world. I truly think that that is the best way to think of it. Imagine yourself, if you would like. In terms of thinking about worlds. We could do this in many ways, but let's just do this since we're familiar with this. Imagine yourself accompanying the brothers and sisters through the wardrobe into Narnia. Yes, the land is beautiful. It is full of promise. But you have got to be watchful. You can die there. There are many dangers. There are powerful forces that will threaten to take away your common sense, and you won't even know it's happening to you. Some people in high school, and I don't mean this literally, this is a metaphor, so don't get weird on me. Some people in high school seem to have the ability, or in college, to cast spells. They can cast spells with their words and with their presence. Just their very look about them can put you, without you knowing it, in a position where you long for them to approve of you. And that turns into a kind of spell and it overtakes your mind and you start to move slowly into darkness That's the first question. Do you know that moving from this one point in life to this other point in life is like moving from one world to another world? And are you watchful? Because that world can be dangerous. It can be beautiful, but it can be dangerous. Question number two: Do you know that certain teachers can help you through this? I think you do know that. But I want to add this, but that your parents are your primary mentors. And here's a follow-up question. Do you cringe at the idea of being mentored through personal things by your parents? That, my friends, is a trick of the devil. The very people that he has placed over you who actually know and love you the most, he wants to separate you from. And if so, then you need to start working through that with your parents right away so that you can go to that. They don't have to be the only ones, but they should be a part of the project. That is, in fact, not how you should feel about your parents. Question number three. If you already made the transition to high school, and I know that some of you have, This is a very important question for you, or if you've already made the transition to college. Are you ignoring the call of wisdom I want you to take that very seriously. Are you ignoring the call of wisdom? It comes, usually, from all of the people that you ignore, like your parents. Have you ignored the call of wisdom as we saw in verse 1 or in chapter 1? Has the spell already been cast over you? Are you stuck in the spider web? Whenever you have a moment of clarity, and you do, God gives them to you all the time. What you need to do in that moment of clarity is you need to tell someone that you need help and that you're stuck. One of the things in high school and in college that you're an expert at is not letting anybody know that anything is wrong And that you're still that precious and uh innocent little child you've always been. But your friend's no different. Whenever you have that moment of clarity, therefore, you need to let someone know that you need help And actually, that starts to get us into Proverbs chapter 2. You telling someone you need help will be the first step in turning at wisdom's rebuke and pursuing wisdom. And here's the last one, question number four. If your folly has already been exposed, and you have in fact turned to wisdom What is your plan to remain a committed follower of Jesus Christ in the wilds of high school and college society? And I'll state that again. What is your plan to remain a committed follower of Christ in the wilds of high school society? All of these questions assume chapter 1 and chapter 2 of Proverbs. They've been framed by that. Some of these questions are obviously leading to warnings. Some of these questions are giving you permission to cry for help. Some of these questions are telling you that it is very important that you are prudent, even if you have turned at the rebuke of wisdom. We need a plan. You need people surrounding you. But all of these questions are from Christ Himself working through me as His minister, letting you know that He is here, still calling for you to turn to Him. to seek him and to know him as the greatest treasure, that he might hold you in the palm of his hand and protect you forevermore. And I pray that you would hear these questions in that light, that they are a grace from him and a reflection of his love and diligence. Let us pray