Acts chapter 13 verses 42 through 52, although I'll be tying in all of Paul's speech from the preceding episode. So when the Jews went out of the synagogue, the Gentiles begged that these words might be preached to them the next Sabbath Now when the congregation had broken up, many of the Jews and devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who, speaking to them, persuaded them to continue in the great On the next Sabbath almost the whole city came together to hear the word of God. But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with envy, and contradicting and blaspheming, they opposed the things spoken by Paul. Then Paul and Barnabas grew bold and said, It was necessary that the word of God should be spoken to you first. But since you reject it and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles For so the Lord has commanded us. I have set you as a light to the Gentiles, that you should be for salvation to the ends of the earth. Now when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord. Lord, and as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. And the word of the Lord was being spread throughout all the region. But the Jews stirred up the devout and prominent women and the chief Chief men of the city raised up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them from their region. But they shook off the dust from their feet against them, and came to Iconium. And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. Heavenly Father, we ask that we would not only be hearers of this word, but doers. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Please be seated. We're coming to a close in the series. Not today. I have I believe two more sermons. We'll be moving uh for June into a a different summer sermon. series. And so far we have covered several different things. We have a Trinitarian basis for the foundation stones of our witness I think it's been highlighted most often the role of the ascended Lord, particularly with his Spirit. Last week, in fact, everything in the sermon was about since Jesus' working then we also must work. That was the and then I laid out a few specifics of how we should be working since Jesus is working. And the question that was posed to you is are you a mushroom or are you an oak tree? Meaning, do you really believe that Jesus is working? Are you rooted in that? Or could we kick you over in that truth as easily as a person could uproot us? That's a great question for us to be able to consider as we think about the ascended Lord working in our lives and the lives of those around us. And it's upon that basis when we connect ourselves to him and his mission where we can gr deal we can uh gain a great deal of confidence in our witness, which is why I'm laying it down as a foundation. In this passage, there is a bit of a different thesis, although it ends up depending still on the ascended Lord Jesus Christ. The main thing that I want you to see here is that our witness to the word of God induces two basic responses. And what I'm going to do in the conclusion, if I have one, I'm struggling with with conclusions, uh what difference those responses make here in this passage. And so you'll see the significance of the responses. Our witness to the word of God induces two basic responses. Is a primary truth here within this passage. I want to break this up into the word of God, the witness, and then the responses. Number one, I want you to see within this passage that there is an emphasis upon the word of God or the word of the Lord. If you were to do account of the explicit statements of the Word of God or the Word of the Lord or the pronouns that stand for it or when someone is talking about it or speaking it It accumulates to ten times in just verses 42 through 52. So it's obvious that within this passage The primary focus is the Word of God as Paul is preaching it to them. Now when they say the Word of God here, they're relying not only on what's happening in this passage, but But the the large speech that the Apostle Paul just gave in the preceding episode. Paul in his travels goes from synagogue to synagogue. That before Paul had even come onto the scene, the God God had set it up to where there was a synagogue in every major city around the Mediterranean Sea so that when his gospel There were obvious places to go in order for the preaching to take place and for the gospel to take root in every area uh throughout that throughout the lower Europe. Here we see Paul doing just that. He's speaking in another place called Antioch. It's not the one that's just north of Jerusalem. It's actually across the sea and close to Turkey. Turkey, uh in modern day Turkey, and he stands to give a speech. Now in the synagogue it would be a word of exhortation. If you want to just glance through the preceding episode You'll see some of these words. He stands to give a pre uh an exhortation to the congregation. He probably wore something that let those people know that he is a teacher or a rabbi amongst the Jewish people. And so he stands and he speaks. He speaks the word of God. He first shows that the word of God is about a dynasty. He begins in the early period of the Exodus. He moves very quickly past that with the Jewish people, and then spends a lot of time upon the Davidic Kingship. And when he does this, he's pointing out that the that the biblical message centers upon a promise to the Davidic king or to King David. David was to rule the nation. For the sake of the Jewish nation accomplishing her purposes for God. You remember Adam was supposed to raise up a godly family and to populate the earth so that all of these people would form a single That would bring glory to God in all of their productive accomplishments and their vocations. Children and wives and husbands. Bringing godly culture across the face of the earth. But because of the fall, there was a collapse. But God in his mercy pulled a people out of the earth and was gracious to them, gave them his Holy Spirit in limited measure. And yet they still fell short quite often. And so they brought themselves a king, seeking to be able to accomplish their task. Ask Saul. Saul fails in this, and so God chooses a man after his own heart who is David. And it it is Uh clear within this exhortation that Paul is giving is that David was never meant to be the one who would ultimately lead God's people to glorify God in the way that God had always always intended. Instead of being a nurturing reign for the earth, Israel, even under David, became a part of the problem. Which is why after you have the history of David and Solomon, you see the total collapse of the nation. And then God gives them up to exile as the boat Babylonians or various other nations overcome them. While Israel was in exile, God sent her prophets to let her know that one day she will in fact be restored in a condition where she can be called to do all that God has intended. Paul's point in the preceding episode to the Jews is that Jesus is that king, and that he is at present gathering his people out of exile. But his gathering people out of exile is way bigger than the Jews ever thought. They thought that he would take Jerusalem by storm in military force, and Jesus ends up coming with a very different kingdom agenda. Instead, the Jews uh in fact were in exile because of sin, which then becomes represented by their dispersion across the Middle East. The Gentiles were in a different kind of they were also in a physical exile. From God, being outside of Jerusalem. However, the exile was bigger than being under physical rule or a foreign nation. What Jesus ended up teaching Was that it is being under the rule of sin, death, and the devil, and even all of our creation, the entire world is groaning under the weight of the fall and the curse of God. Jesus Christ who comes to liberate the entire cosmos, beginning with his elected people. This is the exhortation that Paul gives within the synagogue, and it is first about a dynasty. So you should review that when you get the opportunity and talk to me about that. See if you agree with me. You should. Uh it's clearly about the dynasty. But I want you to see also that when he gives this speech prior in the synagogue, that what he's saying is pointed. It's pointed. Excuse me. Whoa. Wow. One second. It is point What I mean pointed is a rhetorical term. It means that all of the parts are being ushered together to make A single point. And so the message that Paul gives is pointed. You know, in ancient rhetoric, the image that they give is the trireme. Anyone know what the trireme is? It's an ancient battleship that has uh you build ribs onto it uh before you lay the planks on the exterior and all of those ribs are supporting a bracing system that eventually works its way to a main beak on the ship and that ship would then be rowed. The power of the rowing by hundreds of men would be supported by the ribs. The ribs are supported by the brace, the brace supports the beak, and the beak goes into the side of another person's ship. And it's how the Greeks won one of their wars. And here we see the exact same thing. In this story, it's rooted in Israel's history. It starts with Adam, his speech in the synagogue. It would move to Noah if you were to pick up his other speeches from the synagogue. synagogue, Abraham, David, the prophets, and then to Jesus. Everything is moving. All the parts are part of this Jewish story are kind of growing like a tree with a mane. shrunk and then are branching off into these different directions, but it's all centering upon Jesus Christ. And gee it's about God recapturing the world for his intended purposes through Jesus Christ. In the beginning creation story, God stood over all of his creation and he said, It is good. And when Jesus Christ rises from the dead, the very first And so the Word of God is not only a dynasty, but it is pointed. And the reason why I'm bringing up these two things in abstracting it out of the story is because with these two attributes of Scripture from that synagogue speech, we must also realize that the Scripture is predefined. It is not only a dynasty and pointed, but it is pre-defined. And what I mean is, this is a Jewish story. In becoming Christian, you have entered into a Jewish story, not an American story. Not an Italian story. This is from a little area over in Jerusalem in the Middle East. And a group of people that came from Egypt. And so this warns us in the fact that it is predefined that you may not overlay it or redefine this story in order to fit a narrative that makes more sense to you. For example, America is quite fond right now of taking the Word of God and kidnapping it, and kidnapping the story and turning it into into a very different kind of narrative. It's called a revisionist movement. You need to be aware of this to make sure that you don't do the exact same thing. You'll see how relevant this is in the next couple points. Let me give you an example very quickly. You can kidnap a story very easily. Little Red Riding Hood was given a task by her mother to take whatever's in the basket. to her grandmother. The wolf, in different there's different versions and they get really weird or someone's in somebody's stomach and that kind of stuff. But let's take the Walt Disney version where the wolf is waiting there for Little Red Riding Hood in the bed, dressed up as grandma. And in the German folktale, there's a lumberjack that comes with an axe and kills the wolf in order for the little girl to be able to complete her task. Now. Revisionist. Are you ready? Little Red Riding Hood is sent by her strong single mother to take the basket to her grandmother, who is a strong Italian woman, who basically raised her family on her own While her husband was at the bar. When she gets there, the wolf is attempting to eat her, she drops the basket and is in fear. The lumberjack springs to save her as the hero, but drops the axe and cuts it off his own foot. So she realizes that she must be empowered. She stands, she snaps the wolf's neck and And then she delivers the goods. Now that would be a feminist revision of the story. Do you see that? Right? Yeah, well we can do the exact same thing with the scriptures. And I don't want to spend any more time on this and look at I heard there's up to nineteen people going, and when you go to Belize, they have revised the gospel message to fit within a prosperity gospel where they believe that Jesus Christ is going to relieve them of their poor and give them riches now, or they have revised it according to a re a Rastafarian theology. You need to look both of those up so that you understand How they read the Bible when you go. Now that's the Word of God. There's a dynasty, it's pointed, and it's predefined. The other thing that we see here is there's this witness. There are witnesses, namely the apostles, who are going to take this. this story about the dynasty, about everything being pointed to Jesus Christ. And they're not gonna preach they're not gonna rework it to The very first thing that we end up seeing within this particular passage now is the context of their witness. Paul is preaching to them the speech ends. So when the Jews went out of the synagogue, the Gentiles begged that these words might be preached to them. They end up following him, and the apostles encourage that group of people to continue in the Word of God, or as it's said here, in the grace of God. He then arrives again for another Sabbath exhortation, and the entire city comes out, it says. Apostolites followed Paul, who speaking to them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God. On the next Sabbath, almost the whole city came together to hear the word of God. Now that's the context of the witness Now you'll notice that there's immediately a command to these witnesses, beginning in verse forty-seven. Take a look at that. For so the Lord has commanded us, I have set you as a light to the Gentiles that you should This explains why Paul is feeling compelled to once again speak, particularly in the face of the blasphemy and the opposition of those who were Jews. He decides to be bold, and his boldness is undergirded by a command. This command is from Isaiah 49, verse 6. And in that passage, God is restoring Gentiles and Jews from exile. Immediately, we're not redefining what the scriptures say. It's already been predefined by the context of the Isaiah. Isaiah passage. He is removing Jews and Gentiles from exile. You cannot contort the passage to just mean whatever you want. They are physically distant from him. His present, but it also mentions in the mentions in those contexts that the whole world is blind and confused and angry and lonely in the universe and they feel homeless. Do you feel homeless? Do you feel homeless? Then the Isaiah passage relates to you and you need to work on understanding that. But there's not only this command to witness that is a that is right there there in the center, there ends up being this foundation of witness in relationship to the command. It's first cited, this Isaiah 49, 6 is first cited by Simeon in Luke 2, 30 through 32, and it's only in relationship to Jesus Christ at this point. Which is kind of puzzling, because Paul is saying that this verse relates to him and Barnabas and the other apostles, but when Sinean pronounced this verse it related to Jesus. So we need to work our way through this tangle. Paul ends up applying this to himself Jesus first is commissioned by God to be the great light to the Gentiles. Jesus then commissions his apostles to end up being a primary witness, and so Paul ends up applying Do you see how the parts end up relating? Jesus is, if you were to read those Isaiah passages, the servant that comes to bring a light to all the nations and to gather in not only Jewish exiles, but those who have been exiled. from the first curse. Jesus is that great light. That now remember the ascension theology that we're learning. Jesus in his ascension The very first thing he do is he does is he establishes witnesses amongst the apostolic band to continue his ministry in a way that will accomplish things that he never accomplished on earth. He only had a hundred and twenty in his congregation when he And the very first sermon of Peter is 5,000 people. The Antiochian church, which is full of Hellenists, is greater than that And so we see here that Jesus in his ascended glory decides to work and be the light of the world, not only first in accomplishing his work, and the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is But establishing the apostles. And so Paul can say this of himself. We, just like Jesus, I'm going to take this little light of mine that Jesus gave me, and I'm going to give this to other people. Now, the interesting thing also about this is that there is a continuation of this witness. It starts with Jesus and his ascended glory. This passage is speaking primarily about the apostolic witness here. Do not miss the original context. And so the apostles do that, but then it passes on to people like you and me who are not apostles. We are called, for instance, in Matthew 5. 14 to be a light of the world, exactly what this is talking about. That's the language. Or in Philippians two fifteen, that we are to shine our light amongst the nations. And so we see here a command that even undergirds our relationship to the ascended Lord, that we are to be lights in the world, that is to say, to bring his salvation, to bring witness. Don't misunderstand what he's saying here. What does it mean to be a light in the world? People have taken this passage and revised it to mean what you're going to do is you're going to go out and you're going to feed the poor and you're going to transform society. Jesus Christ is bringing salvation, and salvation is liberation from oppression, such as industry, you know, industry or or uh um or whatever it might be, racism or something along those lines. That's your primary task and that's what you should be accomplishing. That's a revision of the gospel called the social gospel. However, we see this as spreading the particular message about Jesus Christ, who is taking the dynasty of David and showing that all of the scripture were about him. And he's bringing people back from exile to be reconciled to his father, not to gain Western prosperity. We shouldn't revise it, and we should remember also and be encouraged that we, just as the apostles are connected to the ascended Christ, so too you are connected to the ascended Christ. Christ. Just to have a nice sharp image in your mind, think of how Jesus Christ worked with his apostles in the feeding of the five thousand. But instead he brings all of his disciples into it, so that they can be the ones that distribute his food or the bread. And in the exact same way, he first gathered the apostles to himself to feed the 5,000, and now he gathers you to himself in order to feed the world around you with the gospel that has been predefined as we saw in that synagogue speak. And so you have not only the word of God, and you not only have the witness to that particular word, but here is where it ends up becoming very interesting. in two basic responses of our witness to this predefined word that he has given to us. The very first thing we see here are very interesting Causes to the responses. Things that make people shuffle in their seats. Take a look at verse 48. Now, when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord. Lord, and as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. Now it does not become more apparent here that God chooses those whom He will give repentance and faith. In other words, the cause here that we see, the very first response that is given from the Gentiles is to embrace the message of Jesus Christ. To believe that Jesus Christ really is who Paul is witnessing him to be. They understood the whole background of the Jewish story and they embraced the whole thing in understanding. And they say that the reason why they did so is because God appointed that they would in fact have the faith given to them as a gift in order for them to Now, what this ends up doing is that if you have friends or if you yourself do not feel worthy of the gospel, then you need to read this passage over and over again. again because it does not appe depend whether you are worthy or whether you are good enough for the gospel. The point is has God chosen to choose you? Has he appointed to give faith to you? And if he has, then who are you to This goes back to an old argument that I had given before that Jesus Christ has the right to pick whomever He wants. If he's choosing you, which you can tell by the fact that you're believing this story about Jesus Jesus Christ, that you're attracted to his church, then don't refuse it. Recognize that you're being given a very special gift. If you look at someone who doesn't seem like they're worthy, Someone who has lived a lifestyle that is despising to you. Someone who has hurt you very badly. Do not turn down the appointment of Jesus Christ if it looks like they're division. Speak the gospel to them, work with them, forgive them. That flows out of this divine appointment. But there's not only the response of the divine appointment, there's also a response of choosing not to enter into eternal life. And you see this amongst the Jews, particularly in verse 46, you see the cause of it. Then Paul and Barnabas grew bold and said, It was necessary that the Word of God should be spoken to you first, but since you reject it, and they rejected it out of envy. And judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, behold, return to the Gentiles. I want you to notice something: that Jesus Christ appoints who He will give faith that they might be saved. But Paul does not say that therefore God is evil or responsible for people not embracing Him. If you look at the verse, the full responsibility for rejecting Jesus Christ is on this group of people. You have judged yourself unworthy of eternal life, and therefore we turn to the Gentiles. Now, there's got to be a further study for you to be able to understand how God's sovereignty works within this, and we can have a conversation about it. But please see both parts there: that it is God who appoints It is God who passes over, and those who reject Jesus Christ are fully responsible for that. Then you end up seeing the results of the responses. The first result is in verse 48. Now when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord, and as many as have been appointed to eternal life. believed. Here, eternal life, what do you think of that? What is eternal life? Eternal life is not meant here as an eternal duration. Of endless life. Here it means a different quality of life, which is characterized as life in God's new creation, in his new age, which we are actually experiencing. Experiencing now. So when I ask you, do you have eternal life? Don't answer to me, I will one day. You can say the Holy Spirit has been given to me now, and I've got a peace I have eternal life now, and it's just a down payment or a foreshadowing of what will look like what it will look like when the entire cosmos is recreated. for the purposes of God. But there's also a judgment that takes place here. There are those who accept Jesus Christ, who move on to eternal life even now. But there are those who judge themselves not worthy of it and are now moving into judgment. Now I want you to notice verse 51. This is really important that we stay within the original Original context here. Otherwise you can do something foolish. In verse 51, it says that Paul and Barnabas shook off the dust from their feet against them. And came to Iconium. The shaking of dust off the feet in 51 means that there is imminent judgment upon these people. I'd encourage you to go through the Gospels and look at when sh dust is shaken off their feet. feet. It is when those towns, those Jews reject the gospel message that had been given to them. They leave the town shaking their feet. It is a sign that there will be imminent judgment. And I would draw your attention back to Paul's speech in 13 verse 41, which is a quote from Habakkuk 1. 5. Take a look at it very quickly with me. Behold, you despisers, he says in verse 40, beware therefore lest what has been spoken in the prophets come upon you. Behold, you despisers, marvel and perish. I work a work in your day, a work which you will by no means believe, though one were declare it to you. You'd think that Paul would end his speech by saying, Hey, the great work is that Jesus is saving everyone. But when you look up Habakkuk, the context of the passage is that the Babylonians will overcome the Jewish people in the way in which God will be judge his people for rejecting him. And so what we end up seeing here within this context in the shaking off of the feet is Paul saying to those who reject the gospel, there will be an imminent judgment that comes upon you. He is not primarily speaking of the final judgment here. He is speaking about the judgment that will happen to the Jewish people in 70 A. D. When Paul leaves this town and they have chosen to reject it, they will go down a path in not accepting Jesus Christ, where they will accept the false Messiah. It will be the straw that breaks the camel's back, and in 70 A. D. , the Romans will collapse upon them and destroy them and their children. Judgment is not a joke. A prefiguring of it for all the human race has already been seen upon the pages of history. And that is what we end up seeing here. Now when I take it in the original intent like that, I'm s I have to be you know I have to be Honest with you, then I'm still working through the issue. But right now, my conclusion is you have no right to shake the dust off your feet with anybody in your life. This was very specific to the apostles in relationship to the uh the judgment of the Jewish people that would happen in seventy A. D. This is not something where you can write off those who have been difficult in your life for like fifteen years. I'm still working on that. You can talk to me about it, but that's the conclusion that I've come to so far that we just do not have the right to do that. And so this is your passage that is before you. There's the Word of God with the attributes that I have shown to you, that there's this dynasty that it's pointed towards Jesus Christ and then it's predefined. And there also is this witness to the word. There's the context of the witness. There are the witnesses in their original context. That ends up sliding to us also in an equal responsibility and being lights to the world. And then there are these two basic responses. And so you can see in the passage that our witness to the Word of God induces these two basic responses, but what's the significance of that? I want to talk to you with the with just a couple minutes of the significance of the two basic responses. The first response, and the primary one that I will deal with, is that because of God's grace, some of us, some of you even Sitting here have embraced the message of Jesus Christ. And that being the case, since we know it is by divine appointment and not because you're smarter than the next guy We have to realize that there is a great assurance for our faith here. That which Jesus Christ has begun, he will finish. In other words, Jesus Christ is not a summer friend. I remember growing up and I'd have friends when I grew up in Magavista area in Arnold, I'd have a friend that would visit. His grandparents lived on the Magathe there, and he would come and visit his grandparents for the summer when everything was fun and there was no school and we could fish all day and light all firecrackers. And then he'd leave in the winter or as soon as September started for the fall. That's a summer friend. We have people like that in our lives that when things are great, they're near us and they think we're a lot of fun, but then when things get difficult and some of our ugly come out. Comes out, they depart. During our summer times, they're here for us, but in the winter they let us down. But Jesus Christ is not a summer friend. He appointed that you would believe while you are in the grossest of your ugliness, more than you even know. You're still discovering all that he saw from the very beginning. And so we have a great assurance of faith from this doctrine that's given to us in this passage. There's also a great comfort that comes from this Jesus Christ is appointing those. And it says that you know that you're appointed if you believe in the Son If you believe in the Son, you have everlasting life. And he who does not believe in the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. This is from John 3. 36. Do you believe in the Son? Do you have faith that is as small as a mustard seed? Then that's enough of a sign for you to believe that Jesus Christ is calling. And I want to speak first and foremost to the Covenant children. Covenant children in the past have thought that you need to be really complex and have this huge theological education in order to be able to profess yourself as a Christian. Or you feel scared to go before the elders because they're going to ask you confusing and difficult questions. Now there's two things that come out of that. Elders, you have to be very, very careful that you are not bruising someone. who has been given faith by Jesus Christ. And number two, if you have been given faith, if you are professing your faith as a covenant child, don't be frightened. This is a great gift that has been given Come and speak to me. Speak to your parents, and let's start, let's just let's begin this discussion. And you being able to publicly profess your faith. Faith and acknowledge the great gift that God has given to you. Don't hide your gift under a basket. And there's also a doxological point here that I want you to see. In Titus chapter 3 verses 2 through 7, this is what he says to the congregation of God. Don't speak evil of anybody. Be peaceable, please. Be gentle. Show humility to all people. Why? Because, Severn Run, you yourselves were once foolish You were disobedient. You were totally confused. You were serving various lusts and pleasures. You were living in malice and envy, and you were a hateful person, and you hated one another. Verse 4. But when the kindness and the love of God our Savior toward man appeared, not by your works of righteousness which you have done, but according to his mercy, he saved you through the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Ghost. Spirit, whom he poured out on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior, that having been justified by His grace, we should become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Now this should result in a tremendous amount of praise because what you have as that gift from Jesus Christ, you never deserved for one second. And I want to confront you in your arrogance and the way that you can look down on other people in this world for the choices that they make. You may judge them that they are wrong, but don't think that you're any better in yourself. It is only by the grace of Jesus Christ and the repentance of And the faith that He has given to you. And for that, any good thing that is within your life, you must give praise to God. And you must have an intense humility, a humility that can still stand up against things that are wrong. And then lastly, I want to direct your attention that these responses so far I've dealt with the response of being a Just as the Gentiles word, where I want to deal now with the response of refusing to listen to the gospel. And it's very short. Here's my reasoning. Throughout the epistles of Paul, we see people being excommunicated for things as serious as very intense sexual sins. With even an own family. And then the list goes beyond that for why people are excommunicated. And not once, when those people are excommunicated, does Paul shake the document. What we find here though is that when someone rejects the gospel, that he does. Now, what does that tell you? It tells you that whatever view you've had of the Word of God so far, if it is not the most honorable thing in your life, then you're viewing it incorrectly. You must have a reverence for God's word. And this is how it should play out. You should be absolutely unwilling to have it revived. By other people. If someone's going to revise it in front of you and you're just going to go along with it, shame on you. Because if it changes, then the truth is no longer present on earth. And how will people be saved if they cannot hear the gospel? Because you've allowed it to be revised. We must stand up and have convictions about his word. It has been given to us As his church at Severn Run, and we are to hold on to it like a great treasure and allow no one to spoil it or allow it to become uh impure. At every cost, at the cost of your life, you would allow the word to remain true and steadfast. It is a warning against contempt. Our witness is to the word of God, and it does induce two basic responses, and those are the implications, or some of the implications from those responses. Now let's let's pray to our God together