Our God. Praise the Lord, for the Lord is good. Sing praises to his name, for it is pleasant. For the Lord has chosen Jacob for Himself, Israel for His special treasure. For I know that the Lord is great, and our Lord is above all gods. Whatever the Lord pleases, He does, in heaven and in earth, in the seas and in all the deep places He causes the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth. He makes lightning for the rain. He brings the wind out of his treasuries. Certainly he deserves our worship, hearing these features of our God. Let's sing praise to the Lord the Almighty. For the Almighty, but he not created the first time. Oh, my school praise for me is my help and combination. For you now to his temple drawing for me with an adoration. Praise me not for all things who want must be praised. Shelter be on his pre Transform, the white country has been granted what he ordered. For the birth we are. What will do what we always will do if we break me? Spreading his wings through or save me. For him, all that white and we have come down with great for him. Let me some promise be more yet. Amen. Let's remain standing for the reading of James 3:1 through twelve, which will lead into a time of confession. My brethren, let not many of you become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment For we all stumble in many ways. If anyone does not stumble in word, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle the whole body. Indeed, we put bits in horses' mouths that they may obey us, and we turn their whole body. Look also at ships Although they are so large and are driven by fierce winds, they are turned by a very small rudder wherever the pilot desires. Well, even so, the tongue is a little member in boasts great things. See how great a forest, a little fire kindles. And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. The tongue is so set among our members that it defiles the whole body and sets on fire the course of nature, and it is set on fire by hell. For every kind of beast and bird, of reptile and creature of the sea is tamed And has been tamed by mankind, but no man can tame the tongue. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison With it we bless our God and Father, and with it we curse men, who have been made in the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth proceed blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not to be so. Does a spring send forth fresh water and bitter from the same opening? Can a fig tree, my brethren, bear olives or a grapevine bear fruit figs. Thus no spring yields both salt water and fresh. Amen. You may be seated. And let us pray. Please join me in a time of confession. Lord, there is no question as to the relevance of this teaching and doctrine that you give to us concerning the tongue and what rolls off the tongue and what fuels the tongue. And the effects of the tongue. Lord, we find it most clear when we begin the effects, with the effects. We look out in our relationships even over this past week, whether it is with those with whom we live Or those that we work with, or that we've barely met. And surely, Lord, we can think of times where we have said something And our tongue has set them on fire, where we have done damage and not good, where we promised to be fruitful and sweet, but turned out to be bitter Where we promised fresh and refreshing words of comfort and strength, but instead we were like salt water. Deadly and unfit for human consumption. Lord, you know the hearts and all of the deeds of the people that sit before you in prayer now. And I pray, Lord, that you would hear their private confession to you. I pray, Lord, that you would bring to mind the ways in which they have torn individuals and communities apart. with the carelessness of their tongue, with cursing instead of blessing. Even in their inner person, how they're telling people off inside their own minds, working out fifty arguments to destroy people I pray, Lord, that you would confront them in their sin, show them the horror of it, and turn them towards repentance. Hear your people now as they confess their sins to you. Lord Christ, in confessing these things to you, our great hope is that you would be The one man able to tame the tongue. And we know that that is true of you. We pray that you would not tame us into silence all the time. But that you would tame us to where our mouths and what fuels our mouths are serving you and the good that you seek to bring upon your creation. We ask, Lord, that our words, oh Lord, that they would bring life. Ask these things in your name. Our assurance of pardon this evening is from Matthew 11, 28-30. Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Let us remember our salvation and what it's like in Christ. Let us stand and sing together Psalm 16. Oh, keep me safe, my God. I take my food in thee. I said to God you are me. As for your saints on earth, they are not glorious, God you all might be mighty your Those who sing on your cause, their sorrows will increase. For today's day of the peace. I will not like it. Lord, you not give me my portion and my God. And you perfect my heart in your eye. My hand is going for people is beautiful to me. God raised the Christmas. And keep my heart and my love to me. For I have standard before me to stand. And I never shame ignore me as my right hand. Therefore my heart is glad, my spirit must be joined, my bless will cost of your Should have been a place to say, you also love your holy one to understand. For in your presence carry this good wheel is full of rain and your right hand or thought nor I am glad to store for makeup and for glad to have your goal. Let us now open our scriptures to Proverbs chapter six for this final lesson in this section. And our reading will be twelve verses twelve through nineteen. As we look at the last antisocial or inferior person. Beginning in verse 12: A worthless person, a wicked man, walks with a perverse mouth. He winks with his eyes, he shuffles his feet, he points with his fingers. Perversity is in his heart. He devises evil continually. He sows discord Therefore his calamity shall come suddenly. Suddenly he shall be broken without remedy. These six things the Lord hates. Yes, seven are an abomination to him. A proud look, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that are swift and running to evil, a false witness who speaks lies. and one who sows discord among brethren. Let us pray. Lord, you have taken us from one community with its ways of communing, and you have brought us into your new creation, which is a peculiar community with its own society. You have taken us from the city of man to the city of God. We pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that through these words you will show us how to be truly social. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Well, we've been looking at these various kinds of threats and dangers and inferior characters within community. We looked in chapter five as a whole, verses one through twenty-three at the adulteress And the adulterer. We then looked at those who love carelessly, even if it's financially, and how they give. Becoming a cosigner and trapping themselves like a hunted bird. And we looked last week at the lazy person. And I hope that you remember that laziness is not the opposite of busyness. But the opposite of laziness is wise and industrious timeliness. By the grace of Christ, Christians maintain their various communities by being industrious and timely, just like ants. Now I want to begin by making a few observations with our last character here, who is the worthless troublemaker. So the first thing I want you to notice is verse 12. Verse 12 in this chapter, 6, starts with the worthless person. Now this is a serious set of verses. We are not playing around. You have reached the villain of all villains, though there's a little bit of this villain and all the others. It's the worthless person, a wicked man. The worthless person is one who is set against God and is set against his order in every sphere of life. If you spend time in the apocryphal literature, which is interesting as literature but not inspired scripture, then you will find this term worthless. is captured in the Hebrew word uh belial, which is present here in our proverb. It's the bel it's the hadam beliel. is what's present here before you in uh 6. 12. Hadam Belial. If you look for that word in other places, you'll find in the apocryphal literature that it is the name used for the devil. It is also the name used for the Antichrist. And it is also used for all of those people that choose to run contrary to God's ways in every domain. Just make a list of domains, show God's way in that domain, find a person who runs against that way of God in that domain, and that's the belial. You can find a New Testament reference to the Belial in 2 Corinthians 6. 15, and I'll leave that to you to take a look at. discussion uh about Christians not uniting themselves to demons and to demonic ways or worthless ways because they are united to Christ. Second Corinthians 6. 15. You're welcome to look at So that's the first observation is just look at the term that we're dealing with here. This worthless person is the Antichrist, it's the devil, it's the Belial, it's those who run against God's society. God. And now here's second the second observation. Solomon details the troublemaker or the belial by several features. Notice with me us some of these features. Let's just go through them together We start in verse 12, and we see that this is the worthless person and the wicked man, and you can see right away that the first feature is the perverse mouth. Now that should remind you of the James passage we just read. You can see what the tongue does in the devil. It can drive the whole community apart, but then when we get to verse 13, these are difficult to translate and to know exactly what the significance of these features are. But these are basically all unspoken gestures and body language. You ever seen somebody? uh mess up a relationship just with their body language. Well that's right here. That's what's going on. He winks with his eyes, he shuffles with his feet, he points with his fingers. And this, of course, in verse 14, as we move on to verse 14, flows from the perversity of his inner life or heart. From this heart, he plans to devise ways to destroy God's created order continually. This is the same phrase that we see in why God had to come and judge during the time of Noah. All of their thoughts were evil continually. It's the idea of continually planning against God's order. And so he had to remove them that his order might flourish. It's the same conversation here. Next, we see that this same person is pictured as a farmer. And the seeds he sows are discord. That's one way to look at it. If you want it to be a little bit more accurate here and more general. The word, the Hebrew word sows here is really just to unloose. So you could imagine holding seeds and unloosing them. If I said it to you that way, you'd say, why are you telling me you unloosed seeds? That's such a weird way to say it. That's a more general sense of it, but we see this word also used with guess who? Samson. Can you think of something that Samson let loose? The fox, yeah, same uh same word, same kind of thing. So you can see the picture here that this belly ale or troublemaker is someone who lets things out into the field of God's community all lit with fire lit with fire to burn us all up and to destroy our odor and our economy, just like Samson did to the Philippines. Philistines. That's the kind of person that we're dealing with here. These are the features of that person. And any of the features that are associated with him are also feature. If we don't have all of them, you're still a tr you're still partake. So that's the second observation just on the first set of features that we see with this person and that stark image of Samson with the fox. Now we have observation number three. Because this person sets himself or herself against God's created order. And his providence, working all things. God is working all things for good. This word person is working uh for things according to evil, though it's probably good in their mind. The Lord guarantees, therefore, in order to uphold his own goodness and the goodness of his creation, that he will destroy this worthless person. You can see that here in verse 15. Therefore his calamity shall come suddenly, suddenly he shall be broken without remedy. Now that is hopeful for us. As a Christian community, knowing that the gates of hell will not prevail. They cannot stand against God's kingdom. He will destroy them in order to preserve goodness, to preserve truth. We come now to the fourth thing I'd like you to notice, and that's a repetition of the same features. We just saw. But it's in this six, no, seven form of perfection and poetry. In verses sixteen through nineteen, it continues the picture of the worthless person. by listing seven abominable attributes which the Lord hates. That's very strong language. These verses, I'd like you to look at them closely because they have a center, and guess what the center is? If you had to guess which verse is the center, what is the center? It would be the organ of the heart. Right? So you have verse 18 there. It's right at the center of this poetic structure. And now what I want you to do is I've given you This image, I think, a lot now. But we're going to drop the rock in the center, and then it ripples out on both sides. And so I want you to do that same thing when you're reading this Look at verse 18. A heart that devises wicked plans. We want to go one up from it, and that's hands that shed innocent blood. Go one below 18. Feet that are swift and running to evil. You see the hand's feet. Okay? Now go to out of the center a lying tongue, a false witness who speaks lies, a proud look. And one who sows discord among brethren. It's echoing out in these opposite directions with these three ripples. Consummating in the one who destroys the whole community, that is to say, cre creates a discourse. Instead of there being harmony, it is discordant And thus the heart, this is the point, and thus the heart and the whole body of the worthless person is used as an instrument to plan and bring evil to this world, destroying God's plan and his people. That's the worthless person. Now, for our doctrine tonight, I have just a general statement. I think that helps us to read all the rest of the Proverbs also And that is Christ's intent in giving us this portrait. Did you notice there's no commands here? He doesn't tell you what to do with it. But if you understand the scriptures, then you know what to do with it. Christ gives us the portrait of the troublemaker that we may benefit from this portrait as his community. It is a gift to us that we would know what this looks like. One of the problems that we run into as human beings as we don't know what is for our own good and the good of others. And this is evidenced by the first two humans letting a snake into the garden. That was not supposed to happen that way. So I'd like to unfold this a little bit and just see what are some of the benefits that Christ gives us by giving us this portrait of the world. worthless person. The first thing I want to say about this is that I'm not sure, unless it's Satan himself, that there is somebody running around who meets all of the features of the passage. Maybe there is. Maybe you think so lowly of some person that has lived on this earth. I'm not sure. The whole point though is that we would look at this picture and we would say, I don't want, not only do I not want to become that in its full embodiment, I don't want any association with any of those things. I want nothing to do with that. And that is supposed to come through for us, especially as God reveals his attitude towards them. What does it say about what God thinks of them? That they are abominable and that he hates them. Now this is where you can really start to get in that there is an implied command because we are made in his image and we are meant to be like God. And therefore we are meant to share his attitudes. And another way of saying that same thing is we are to hate the things that God hates, and we are to love the things that God loves. That's the first thing I want to say just by way of preface in the application. Now the second thing I want to say is just tying in to how we've been talking about the word um especially this morning and that mirror from James. That is a gift to us, that image. And it's a gift in multiple ways in that the church needs it desperately right now to start giving Scripture this way. And James does not narrow the word the word as a mirror. He doesn't narrow it down to just saying only this book of scripture is a mirror for you He says, all of Scripture is a mirror for you. And so that is the same thing that we have here present with the Proverbs. We spoke about the word as a mirror which reveals things to us when we look into it. The same is happening here. Instead of the way that other cultures work, God communicates to us not in not often in general and abstract definitions. But he likes to give us pictures of things. And those pictures are historical and individual, but they are also representative of whole worlds of things. And that's what we're supposed to do here with this portrait. This is how God works most of the time. He wants us not only to use Proverbs as a mirror. But all of the scriptures and especially the stories as a mirror by which He will communicate to us what we should see about ourselves and about the church and how we should conduct ourselves. Now we saw this this morning with Samson. We looked at Samson and when we looked in the w the mirror at Samson, we saw ourselves. And we saw something about God also. And that's how you're also supposed to read this section on the worthless person. Just as we looked at Samson and learned a lot about ourselves, we should look at this portrait of the troublemaker and learn a lot about ourselves and what God's intent is. for a good society. So I just have a few points I want to make about this, and then I really want to get into prayer actually. Enough talking about I want to look at the benefits of this portrait and mirror of the the wicked or worthless person in terms of self and others. And I'm just going to ask you a few questions. The portrait of the troublemaker, when we look into the mirror of the troublemaker trying to learn something about ourselves. The portrait of the troublemaker, interestingly, poetically, it orbits around the heart, as we mentioned in verse 18. But it does more than that. It orbits around the health of community. Did you notice that everything that was wrong with the troublemaker is that they don't just destroy A person, they destroy a society. It's not about you being destroyed, it's about your brotherhood or your sisterhood being destroyed. This is the opposite of the peacemaker. And so, when we look at this, when we see that God is so concerned with the community of his people that we truly are people that know how to love our neighbor and our neighborly. There's a series of questions that come out at us as we look in the mirror at the worthless person. Who are you and what role do you play in your various communities? What fruit comes from your body language? Now that's a tough one. What's the body language that you give in certain situations and what does that do to the community in those situations? What fruit comes from your mouth? You see how I'm focused on the effects? You say something and then something happens in the community. What is that thing that happens? What fruit comes from your hands? What fruit comes from your feet with regard to the community? At the end of the day, is the community of the church or any of the communities that you belong to? but specifically the church in this example, is the community of the church united in service and love to Christ due to your contribution? Are you like, do you stay in step with the Spirit, bringing the unity of the Spirit Well, that's the self and some things that we could ask questions about ourselves when we look into the mirror of the troublemaker. But there's also others. And this will be short and then I'll conclude. This is meant to help us to evaluate others in relationship to our community. God is giving you a portrait so that as you go throughout your day, you can begin to recognize and say, that person is just like me. That. It's like a simple game of match. That's how God has made us. And so you are to keep these kinds of features in mind as you work within societies and a especially as you protect societies. Do you see in others some of the features of the troublemaker? Now here's a really difficult question for you. Do you see some of the troublemaker in your own children? Because if so, there needs to be prayer and work toward a particular direction that you may not have known about if Christ Christ had not revealed this to you. Does this help you to know the portrait of the troublemaker? Does this help you to know how you should work with them? Sometimes we take a really naive uh angle as Christians and how we work with people. And Solomon is a straightforward frank guy, and under the inspiration of the Spirit, he's letting you know there are some people who have Have certain features where you may not be called to work with them. Should you be cautious with some people when you start to see these features flourishing? in their lives? Is there a case in the life of Christians where we totally avoid people or kick them out of the home or out of the church or out of the school? Is that ever appropriate? when they become a certain level of troublemaker? Or at what level should we make that judgment? All of those kinds of questions are being raised and starting to be answered by what Christ presents to us here in this portrait of the troublemaker that his people would not be naive, having their city ransacked by those who are wiser than us. The conclusion or the doctrine that we have is that Christ gives us the portrait of the troublemaker for the benefit of his community, and it should be our prayer as we go into prayer. That we would learn how to recognize these different characters both in ourselves and for others for the good of our neighbor and for the glory of God. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that you give us wisdom here. Wisdom is not an enumeration or a checklist. But it is the growing awareness of first what things are and what their significance is. We help we thank you that you're helping us to recognize that there are certain characters in the world. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, particularly for shrewdness for your people. I pray that they would not be naive, thinking that everyone has good intents. Lord, there are those who are like the Antichrist and seek to destroy. I pray, Lord, that you would help us as a community, for example, to be able to acknowledge and recognize abuse. Users. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen. Let's stand and we'll close this portion of the service with our song Christ. No. Yes. Where are we? Psalm three, thank you so much. Marker dumps. That was good practice. Alan trying to stop me. Oh Lord, close increase are Now there is more people. You are my shield and glory more. You live in my death. We cry out for me his ancestors. I may answer that all god yes, but all is we I will not be send thousand men in threads on a rounding me. All right, no, save me my God, who called his lost my clothes. Your smile face up with me breaking with your love. He will progress in his wrongness of the. Oh that your blessing brew we are on your post. Amen. This is a good summary of the proverb. And now receive the Lord's benediction. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you, and may he give you peace. Amen. You may be seated for our time of prayer. We'll be using the Lord's Prayer as we always do going through the petitions. I'd encourage you to pray whatever the Lord has given to you to bring to him, of course, but keeping in mind Uh if you developed by way of the spirit any convictions this morning with regard to our Great Commission, not just to mature the saints, but also to gather them. And then I also would ask that you'd keep in mind that we really would be asking God for discernment as a community, that we'd know the troublemakers and know how to handle them. Okay. So let's let's go ahead and enter into prayer. Lord, you begin teaching us to pray by way of the preface. which is our Father which art in heaven. Lord, it is so good for us to rehearse your thoughts. on this, leading us into prayer, teaching us to draw near to God, not forgetting the reverence that is due, the confidence that we can have, just as children. Have confidence in going to a Father who is able and ready to help. We thank you, Lord. And we pray that as as we do pray, Lord, help us to use the name Father. As a sign of affection