This is the word of the Lord. You shall not steal. Please join me in prayer. Lord Jesus Christ, we need a teacher who can write this upon our hearts. And that's you. And so I ask that you would take your word and the word of this sermon and that you would press it on to us deeply and press us. Change us. Make us not just hearers, but doers. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. There is a new show on Netflix where a seemingly I mean no disrespect by this, but she seems a little crazy. Uh a little crazy Japanese woman organizes people's homes. According to the Marie Kondo method. We actually have all of our dressers in our home now, at least uh my children's room, and they're starting to fold all their pants differently and everything is stacked so that you You can see every article of clothing. Uh I've heard reports of people throwing out clothes that don't spark joy in their lives any longer. It's an interesting show with interesting organizational principles. I was taken back by watching her and another person's Home. Whenever someone visits a home, it makes me think of pastoral visitation. I thought of her as a kind of visitor in the home. And not only was she bringing order to the management of a home, which is a godly thing. Although she may not believe in God. She dropped to her knees, or slowly eased to her knees on the show, and she began before she would do any work. She got to her knees and she put her hands on the floor and she gave thanks to the house and all of the property and to what it had given to that family. This was my first thought. She is dead wrong. Not personal beings. There is no soul within them. I think that very idea comes from Japanese culture. But my second thought was this Why have I not at least given thanks to God every single day for what He has given us and how it has helped us as a family? I have, although she did it wrong, have never had the thankfulness in my heart that I saw present with her within her for another person's home, not Not even her own. And there was something that fell over the whole family when she was doing that. A kind of sacredness was all of a sudden present. within the home. Now it's too easy to pick out, as I've already done, that she's developing her ideas from some kind of Japanese polytheism or something. But it does raise a question within the Christian's mind. If you were to repurpose what she did with the knowledge of God that we have. Are you as thankful to God for the property that you have as she is thankful for the property given to the people that she works with? Are you seeking to use what you have for the glory of God? You know, we as Americans have a ton of property. On the way back from West Point yesterday, we drove by a landfill. Mounding it seemed like to heaven, as high as the Tower of Babel, perhaps, just outside of Baltimore. And that was just what we in this area threw away. Not even We do need to ask, as American people, what are the principles that we are supposed to use in under in in Now we've been looking at all of these different commandments about how to love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, mind, and our neighbor as ourselves. How do you do that with your stuff? What are the principles that you use? We won't get into every principle. This topic is huge. We can't get into every principle this morning, but there is one principle that I want you to consider, and this is what we're going to unfold this morning. Here it is. Don't leave home without this. Or don't leave here to home without this. Everyone has the God-given right to protection and enjoyment of their property Let's say it again. Everyone has the God given right to protection and enjoyment of their property. We need to look at the basic principles that are behind this. things that are implied. And then we'll look at the basic protections that God gives for personal property. And then this I of this idea of enjoyment. Usually the name of God and the word enjoyment don't end up in sentences too often, so it is a great enjoyment of mine to speak especially about that point, the positive aspect of the law. Everyone has the God-given right to protection and enjoyment. Let's start with the basic principles. The command is short again, as they have been since verse 17. And I think we understand that well enough. It seems even as you're younger, before receiving any instruction, your conscience. Conscience informs you when you try to take the candy bar from 7 Eleven that it was the wrong thing to do. Seems like God teaches us this just by our conscience We're very aware of it, but it assumes some principles that are worth stating explicitly, and that's what we'll do under these basic principles. Here's the first principle that is implied within this you shall Not steal or no stealing. You have the right to personal property. I need to say this because all presuppositions are up in the air right now with postmodernism. Everything is being questioned. You have the right to personal property, and I'll throw in a little political thing here, although I don't do it, and the ability to be able to defend it. And I'll just leave it at that. that. You have a right to personal property. In other words, stealing makes no sense if you don't own anything. Stealing only makes sense if some things belong to you and some things belong to me. Now, what we end up finding, even within some churches these days, is that there will be an argument from Acts chapter 5, starting in verse 32. Listen to this. And their argument is we should not have personal property. In the New Testament era. And this is the verse that they use to argue. Now the multitude of those who believed were of one heart and one soul. Neither did any one say that any of the things he possessed was his own, but they had all things in common Now they use this as a verse to show that what Jesus is establishing is social communism. And that's actually just quite silly. Communism is a political or social theory detailing how we should relate to each other. I'll put it as broadly as that so that we don't get bogged down. Their claim, sort of, is that society is better with no personal property. But that is an obvious misreading of the scriptures. If you were to just keep reading into the next chapter of chapter 5, this is what it says When Anoniris and Sapphira lied, this is how they are confronted. While it was your property, or while it remained, was it not your own? And after it was sold, was it not the finances in your own control? Why have you conceived this thing in your heart? You have not lied to men, but to God. There was never an extinguishing of personal property or all of the laws that had been present within the scriptures before for some kind of social communism. There has always been the right to personal property. Number two, this is principle number two. Although you do have a right to personal property, please recognize that it rests upon a foundation. And this is the foundation. All the property that you have is given to you by God. Everything that you possess was placed into your possession. for your good and for his glory. And that changes everything. That is a very different worldview than any other religion out there. God owns all property. Exodus 19:5. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant. That you that you then you shall be a special treasure to me above all people, for all the earth is mine, says the Lord Or Psalm 24:1, the earth is the Lord's in all its fullness, the world and all those who dwell therein, whether you're churched or unchurched, the Lord owns you. Whether you're on the land or the sea or the sky, or if you're off in space, the Lord owns you. God sovereignly takes what He owns and He sovereignly distributes that property according to His own wishes. According to his own pleasure. We've seen this already within Deuteronomy. There was the idea in earlier sermons of possessing land and dispossessing people who own the land And only God had the right to give possession or dispossession of land. Deuteronomy 2, 18 through 19. This day you are to cross over at Ar, the boundary of Moab. And when you come near the people of Amman, do not harass them or meddle with them For I will not give you any of the land of the people of Amman as a possession, because I have given it to the descendants of Wat as a possession. God draws the boundaries, He determines who owns what And he had not given the Israelites that particular land, so they were not to harass. But they did give them a different land in Deuteronomy 2, 31. And the Lord said to me, See, I have begun to give Sihon and his land over to you. Begin to possess it, that you may inherit his land. There'll be a dispossession of the land from one nation over unto the other, all according to God's pleasure, because he owns everything and he sovereign sovereignly distributes as he pleases. And now we have those two, in addition with this, God distributes his property to us to manage. We don't have the same sovereign possession of it as he does. We have a stewardship Possession. And we saw that in Psalm 8, 6 through 8. Although speaking of Jesus, ultimately, it is true of all of us that we have been made to have dominion over the work of his hands. You can see this in Genesis also. All sheep and oxen, even the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea that pass through the paths of the sea. And so if you're to take those two principles that we can have personal property, that God intends it, and that it is given to us sovereignly by God for our good and for his glory, when it's combined, this is the full picture. God places his belongings into your possession for your good and the good of those around you and for God's glory. That's a succinct statement of a Christian view of property. Now, before we move on to the basic protections of that property, you have to ask yourself before leaving this point, are you a good manager of the property that God has Has given to you. And this really extends out. God owns all things, and by his grace, because he is the giver of all good gifts, allows you to possess some of them. But it is for his glory. You know, this is actually a new way to reconsider the other commandments. So, for example, the fourth commandment is all about time. I focused on the fourth commandment on the time of today, the Lord's Day, and how we are to spend it positively. But you know it mentions six other days What are you supposed to be doing on those days that have been given to you as a gift? I just spoke to someone who was older than me. And they said, I said, well what did you do today? And they said, well, when I woke up, I thanked the Lord that I woke up. Maybe some of you have that experience. She did not take for granted that she had breath that day, that she had time to do something on those six days that the Lord gives us for work. That's a question that you have to ask just from the fourth command. Do you manage your time well? How much time should you spend in front of an Xbox? How much time should you spend in front of a net Netflix series. It's not zero, but what is the time? What would be pleasing to Christ? And what about the fifth commandment? The fifth commandment is about social relationship. relationships, uh, superiors, inferiors, equals, is the way that the confession puts it. Do you manage your relationships well? Because every relationship that is in your life is a gift to you from the possessor of relationships Who made society? Or what about the sixth commandment? About your marriage. Do you manage your marriage well? The gift that He Do you manage the gift of being able to help others in their marriage? We are having lunch last Sunday and I asked the children, for Lord's Day conversation, how are you gonna help mom and dad with their marriage? The first question out of Nora's mouth was, I don't know, I don't know anything about life. And which I thought was true. She didn't know anything about life. But then she said I said no, seriously, she said, Well I I think I'll make Make it less stressful around here. I thought that's a good start, especially for your mother. That's a very good start. And you have the same kind of questions to you. How could you make it how could you help another Another marriage thrive. That's a gift that's given to you. All good gifts are from the Father. That's the point. It is good for you to consider the implications of the basic principles that There is the right to personal property, and that God has given you anything that you have for the good of yourself, the good of others, and for his glory. Now you have to work that out in a thousand or even a million different ways, but it's good to begin thinking about those things. We have personal property. The problem is that human beings don't respect private property or its proper usage. Have you noticed that? And so this is what we find in our next point. And it's so important that this is put in the negative. It is a prohibition in 19: you shall not steal. And the reason why that is there. is because people will manipulate you or defraud you or exhort you in order to take from you what God has given to you. And so there must be protections in this era of human existence, perhaps now more than ever. And so there's a basic protection. Now, this is similar to all the other commands. Okay, some of them are stated positively, but most of them are stated negatively. There are protections or prohibitions or guardrails given so that a person can enjoy the good things that God has given to them. It is a place to guard God's basic principles and designs, like a seashore, keeping the ocean from going up and washing us away. The main protection is stated clearly in this command. You shall not steal. Now you have to stop and you have to recognize with this command, as you have with all the other commands That although it's small, it is packed tight, it is condensed I hope that you have noticed each of the commands have been like that. They have, I've had multiple people say to me, I didn't realize all that was in that command. I thought I was safe. But come to find out I wasn't. I really needed to consider that command. And it is the same thing with this command. It is the same thing with all of the commands, and that is not a mistake. Just as an aside for you to be able to read these commands on your own even after we're done the ten command. Commands, you must recognize that these ten commands are a summary of the moral law. There are other summaries like love God, love neighbor. That's an even greater summary. But these ten are actually a summary. Now you have to stop and you have to recognize that for a moment. Although the commands are small, when understood or right, they contain every ethical responsibility that could be known to man. Everything finds its way back to one of the ten. In other words, the Ten Commandments are a moral summary of God's moral will You know, in the summer, if you own a pool, you drop a chlorine tablet into that little section that's only about this big. And the water will come from the filter, flow over the chlorine, and dispense molecularly all of the chlorine throughout the water to purify. It is the exact same thing here with the moral law. It is condensed. It is small. But as the Holy Spirit's breath Runs over it, it spreads out into uncountable moral situations. Every molecule of a moral situation may be traced back to the summary of the moral law And that orients us, it helps us as we read through the non-summarized lists in the New Testament. You can take them all back to the moral Now when we summarize, we find some of the following basic, when we unsummarize, we find find some of the these basic protections for the eighth command. I'm just going to take you through some of the scriptures so you can hear the moral law unfolded in regards to the eighth command. Number one Stealing means, you shall not steal means you shall not kidnap. It is one of the uh explicit commands given to us in Scripture that flow from this command. Exodus twenty one sixteen, he who kidnaps a man and sells him, or if he is found in his hands shall surely be put to death. It's actually, as far as I can find Kidnapping is punishable by capital punishment for steal, and that is the only version of stealing That is that falls under capital punishment. Very interesting to me. And I think it should alert us that we need to be doing something about human trafficking. I just heard in Presbytery two years ago that this area is is somehow higher in its trafficking, especially around BWI than than other areas in the in North America. And there are different ministries that are forming that you should find out about, that you should be And thus we condemn the slave trade of the past and we condemn the human trafficking We have Super Bowl coming up. One of the highest days of human trafficking is that popular football game. Make sure you are praying today for those little children who get left behind in bathrooms. by an accident and someone snatches them. You need to be praying that it doesn't happen. You need to be praying for their safety. Rise up and do so. There's also throughout the scriptures, fraud and deceit is condemned. It is a kind of stealing from people. Jeremiah 22, 13-14 says. Woe to him who builds his house by unrighteousness, I think of all the tele evangelists, and his chambers by injustice, who uses his neighbor's service without wages and gives him nothing for his work. That's a kind of defrauding of your neighbor, taking advantage and manipulating them so that you can benefit and they will be disadvantaged. The basic idea here is that you gain for yourself by deceiving or defrauding others. You don't employ you don't pay employees what they are worth. If you're an employee, you don't give your employer your all. As soon as they turn their back, you're doing something you should. You're on your phone or whatever it is. That's all under stealing. This is especially applied by our Lord Jesus Christ. To widows and the poor. Matthew 23, 14, Jesus chides the church leaders for taking advantage of widows Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you devour widows' houses, and for a pretense make long prayers, and therefore you will receive greater condemnation. Not keeping your word or your contracts falls under this. It says in the scriptures that the wicked borrow and they never repay. Okay. There's also this concept of usury. Do you know what usury is? We don't use the that word too much any longer. However, you recognize it when whenever you try to get a car loan, the illegal action of or practice of lending money at an unreasonably high rate of interest like Chase credit cards where if you miss a payment it jumps to 22%. May God have mercy on them. Psalm 15:5. He who does not put out his money at usery, nor does he take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be moved, because they are the righteous of the land. Those who relate well to people is the word righteous there. That's usury. Or what about extortion? The practice of obtaining something, especially money, through force or threats. Again, the church leaders, woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you cleanse the outside of the cup and the dish, but inside you are full of extortion and self-indulgence. What about this one? Not many of you struggle with charging too high of an interest rate, and not many of you are really very threatening, so I'm not gonna just give you my money. But what about this? Not necessarily you in particular. But just think of our culture. Laziness and unemployment is considered a kind of theft. Ephesians 4. 28 gives us the opposite of stealing. It says this. Let him who stole steal no longer, but rather let him labor, working with his hands what is good, that he may have something to give him who has need. Here's a surprising one that you'll find throughout the scriptures. Just as we saw Jesus focus on the heart and the mind with the other command. So too, when we look for it, we find him focusing on the heart and the mind in this command also. Just as Jesus protected life and marriage by reigning in hatred and adulterous thoughts So too we should rein in evil thoughts about how God has distributed his property. What are evil thoughts about how God has distributed his property? What is that called? Envy, jealousy, discontentment. And I learned a new word because I'm cool. FOMO Fear of missing out. I pray that that's what that means. Fear of yes, Nathan's giving me the thumbs up. The fear of missing out is a form of discontent. Seeing what others have and yearning yearning for that, not think and really wishing that they didn't have it These are just a few examples that illustrate the basic protections that are that are scattered throughout the scriptures. There are so many more that have to be put in place because sinful human beings like us. devise so many different ways to unjustly take away the property that was given to somebody else. Think about the housing crisis in 2008 and all that was going on behind the scenes. But God places these protections for us as a kind of sandbag so that the waters don't wash up and destroy everything within our lives. There's more that I haven't mentioned. Did you know that they did have lending within Israel, but that there was a certain year where all debts were canceled so that a person couldn't lose everything? That's how seriously they took property and the protection of it. Our property should not be pried from our hands through fraud, through high interest rates, or threats, or the laziness of others. It should be Protected. We have to be honest about that. That's what the scriptures communicate to us. And therefore, God establishes these basic protections. But we can't lose our perspective. So many times we can hear God say these things within his commandments through Moses or through Jesus' teaching and think that only God has a negative mind. Mindset. Remember that with the other commands, so too with this one, there is something positive that He designed for us. And the prohibitions and the protections are there so that we can experience the positive. The prohibition and protections are always serving the positive. God wants us to enjoy and take great pleasure in the good The good that it brings to ourselves and others around us, and the purposes of our property. And this is our last point, the basic pleasures that have been given given to us. We had two basic principles and now we have the basic pleasures, right after the basic protections. When I speak with folks, especially if you're a teenager, I will listen. And oftentimes, God is spoken about as if he is a grumpy old man in the sky with a wart on his nose. Who fulfills that saying uh about uh the Puritans. We think of him as having the having sitting around having the haunting fear that someone somewhere may be having a good time and he has got to crush it. We think of him as always smacking our knuckles like a nun, a nun in the sky. But that is not how these commandments have been coming off at all once we understand the positive For the last three weeks, we have been brought to the positive aspects of the law that God has designed something quite beautiful. I hope that you've caught that vision. The beauty that God intends in his new creation, as we can see within the law. I've quoted the last three weeks this passage from Philippians 4. 8 because it is perfect for every commandment. I have not seen people take Philippians 4. 8 and tape it on the refrigerator next to the Ten Commandments, but you should Whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, if there is any virtue, if there is anything praiseworthy, meditate on these things. And this applies to your property. We should make Marie Kondo from Netflix look like child's play. Whatever ways you can use your property for your good and the good of others and God's glory, do those things. There are a million ways to bring glory to God with what has been given to you. So you could go over some of the ways in which to apply Philippians 4:8 with the commandment in mind. Here are some examples. You have the right to plan out your life in humble submission to God to get to keep and to use property to take care of yourself, your family, and your community. Now that's almost a direct quote from our Westminster Confession. Larger catechism. You have the right to plan out your life in humble submission to God, to get, to keep, and to use your property to take care of yourself, your family, and your community. Think of all of the different ways that this society provides in order for you to be able to take care of yourself and those around you. Think of all the degrees that are now Offered. Think of all the technical training if you're not interested in just sitting in a classroom. Think of all the study, all of the internships that are available for you These are all gifts that God gives to you within this country for you to be able to thrive for yourself, your family, those around you. Or think about being able to keep it, being wise and growing wise at work, continuing education. Allows your progress to be evident to all, although commanded to Timothy. In 2 Timothy, it is a command we could all receive for our progress to be evident to all as we grow in this way, or to use it. To share our finances with those in need, to share our time with people who need time, to share our spaces. We have the largest spaces in the world. Plenty to share. To share your expertise. You can take all that you have and you can use it to help others flourish. That is the point of the command. Last week we looked at the point of the command was for marriage to flourish, whether it's your marriage or someone sitting next to you. Here we're looking at a person's estate and well-being. that you would take all that you have to be able to help others flourish, even flourishing in their own property. This week we do the same. We don't envy what others have. We figure out a way to make others even more successful. And this does not have to be large-scale economic theory we Stuff. I just heard the other day someone tell somebody else about the savings at Aldi in Glen Burney. And those savings will help that person flourish even more so financially for the sake of themselves, their family, and those who are around them. It can be that simple that you would choose to go to Aldi for some things versus others or for all things. Don't misunderstand. I'm not proposing an unbridled greed. That's obviously not what the Lord intends. We've heard the passages already. Or a prosperity gospel that the Lord intends for you to have everything that you've ever desired. This is the era of the cross, brothers and sisters. Only thing you're promised is that. But whatever you do have, that is what we are to use because it is a gift from God. I'm saying that God wants you to be creative, to provide for yourself and those around you. That's the purpose of this command: to not destroy the person next to you with your manipulative Extorting ways. Do not steal, so that we can thrive with what little God gives to us or with much that God gives us. We are to be thankful and to enjoy what God has given. There's this perfect picture that encapsulates everything I'm trying to say to you right now. It was in Arch's office. It was just a painting of a man sitting at a bare table with a piece of bread on his plate. And I think there might have been some water. And he had his hands folded and his head bowed in prayer. The gift of God was there and he was thankful And you could tell by the humble spirit that whatever would be given to this man would be used for others It's the Christian vision. I'm sure you've seen that picture out there somewhere. But that's what we have here within this command. A beautiful picture that our God has given to us. Everyone has the God-given right to protection. You can see why. Because everyone has the God given right to enjoy their property for their own sake, those around them, and for the glory of God. That was our main point today. Now, this is one of my main hopes. One of my main hopes, it came out in that we're talking about Aldi during a sermon. I'm hoping that these commands and a command like this destroys the stereotypes of Christianity. We often think that Christianity is so heavenly minded that it does no earthly good. In other words, what does Jerusalem have to do with Aldi? This command brings out that Jesus is not destroying his creation. Do you hear what I'm saying? Jesus is not destroying his creation. He never promised that he would do so. You may think so because he talks about fire. That's a purifier. He is purifying his creation, and when he returns, he will complete that. He is not destroying this earth, he is bringing in a new heavens and a new earth. In Deuteronomy, the promise of God's people was the land of Canaan. When we get to Christ, we see that it is a much bigger vision than that. It was a foretaste. Canaan was a foretaste. Sihan's land that we read about in Deuteronomy was a foretaste. Moab was a foretaste. Blessed are the meek. Why? Because they shall inherit the whole earth, not just Canaan. That is Christ's intention Jesus Christ is not getting rid of earth. He is bringing heaven to earth. And he is beginning with the church to know how to handle their property now. What do you think heaven will be like? Floating on a cloud? I was re I was reading a children's book this weekend when I was at West Point with the Shapers. It's a good little book. It's called The Garden, The Curtain, and the Cross. It summarized a Seminary course I took that was much harder than reading this book. The Garden, The Curtain, and the Cross. It was about how we lost access to a beautiful garden The garden was represented by the tabernacle, and a curtain was put up to show over and over again: you're not allowed in here. It is beautiful in here, and you're not allowed to partake of beauty because you're a sinner. But through the cross, that curtain is torn, and God the Father, through Jesus Christ, invites us back into that beautiful place. That's what they were supposed to be learning here in Deuteronomy, with all the accoutrements of the tabernacle. Always pointing to Christ bringing back bringing us back into that beautiful place. That's the story. Bringing us back into paradise. And these laws are paradise. Which explains why David delighted in them. What do you think the new heavens and the earth will be like? It says clearly in the New Testament that we will become somehow the Ten Commandments when we are glorified. We will be walking two tablets Perfection in our relationship with God. Perfection in how we relate to one another. In other words, don't believe the stereotype that Christianity has nothing to do with your relationship. life except for Sundays. It has everything to do with your daily business all the other six days. This command really teaches us that, doesn't it? God is restoring what he always intended. Through the new Adam, not the old Adam, but through the new Adam, we will reign on earth using all of our possessions for the glory of God. We will have possessions in the new heaven. In a new earth. He promises: those who have been given little will be given much who have done well with it. Through the new Adam, we will reign on earth. He has given you now, through this new Adam Starting on that day of Pentecost, His Holy Spirit, so that you can learn how to manage his creation. He is preparing you for what you will do for eternity. It has already begun. The guarantee is here. Here's the picture of heaven. Do you want to know what heaven looks like? It's not cherubim on a rosy-cheeked cherubim and diapers on a cloud. Here's what it looks like. We've all wondered. Here it is. Are you ready? People do not steal or envy what other people have. That's the first picture. They work hard. Of course, it won't be the kind of labor that we have now. But they will work hard. Whatever they have, small or great, they will be thankful. They give generously. And you want to know why? Because they don't worship their stuff. And they know that all their stuff is for God's glory, and they put everything to that use. That's a picture of glory. And because you have the Holy Spirit, you can begin that now. Amen. Everything has been given to us from a fountain who Whose name is Jesus Christ. And so let us prepare our hearts as we remember his great work, the one who gave up everything so that we could have Have everything. Let's prepare our hearts with the singing of this song and for our elders to come forward to prepare the table