Please join me as we continue with the word preached in Deuteronomy chapter four or chapter five, and we'll be Just looking at verse number seven. You'll remember that there was a prologue in verse six: I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, reminding them of the grace that precedes the law. And now in verse 7, we have our first commandment, you shall have no other gods before me. Please join me in prayer. Lord Jesus Christ, it is only by you that we can even utter these words this morning Father, your law is a terrible thing when we are left alone. It is meant to be beautiful, and it is. Of course it is. It's an expression of your will. But we thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ. That we may stand before you uttering these words this morning. That we shall have no gods before you. And we ask that through Jesus Christ and His Spirit, Spirit, that you would ever more deeply pen these words upon our hearts. We ask these things in Jesus Christ's name For it is why he came to earth, that is what he sought to accomplish. We ask these things in his name, therefore. Amen. A diagnostic. A diagnostic is a program or a routine that helps us to detect an error of any sort. You can use It within computers, or you could use it with in a doctor's office to detect sickness, or if you want to, a physiological error. You can use financial diagnostics to determine certain things about um yourself. You may want to figure out how long you would last on your retirement. You could use a financial diagnostic. Have you ever heard of um a financial diagnostic to find out what's the most important to you within your life? I've heard different Christian teachers say if you want to find out what's important to you, check the ledger of your checkbook. I'm sure that we've all heard that. That's one way to do it. There's diagnostics and figuring out what's important to you not only with finances, but also on how you spend your time or how you use your spaces or your property. What do you use your living for room for in your kitchen? All these reveal or are diagnostics as to what is important to you in your life. Do you spend 45 minutes in the mirror? It's an indication as to what's important to you. I'm not condemning you. I'm just telling you it's important to you that something's going on in the mirror that's important to you. It reveals something. That's what makes them diagnostics. If you performed all of these diagnostics, if you were to think of your finances, if you were to think of your time. And you can go back a few years if you want. If you were to think of the spaces in your life, your living room, your kitchen, think of those spaces over the last few years. If you were to think of your property, think of your property over the last few years And you use them as a diagnostic as to what was important in your life, what would it say? If you were to put that into the machine, what would come out on the piece of paper? Paper? What would it tell you about your life and what you place as most important? It's important to consider these kind of things throughout your life, to have a time to figure out what has been most important to you It is in fact what is placed before us this morning to have such a consideration by Moses. Moses here is communicating to us that which was communicated to him. In fact, God communicated it to all of the people that were with Moses, and he communicates to us today something at the heart of that question. What is most important to me? Deuteronomy 5:7, you shall have no other gods before me, is all about. The heart of it is that God deserves to be the most important in your life. Life. He deserves, if you want, first place. That's what this is communicating. You shall have no other gods before me. And I want to look at God deserving first place and the priority of this command And then the primacy of this command, the priority of the command, and then the pri the primacy of the command, just two simple observations. And so first look with me as we consider God deserving first place and what's important in our lives, and first the priority in the first time. A priority is the fact or the condition of being more important or first. That's what the illustration at the beginning of the sermon is about. And that's the essence of the first command: that God is the priority. This can be a little confusing. When you look at the words, it's not exactly how we would communicate. You shall have no other gods before me. It can be confusing. And it can be confusing because of the phrase before me. What does that mean exactly? And in some of your translations it will say besides me. What does that mean exactly? And we don't need to spend a lot of time on that. It becomes cleared up pretty quickly. Beside me or before me Could mean don't do these things in my presence. That's the way that we use that also. That's what the tran some of the translators were trying to get at. God's presence was especially known in the tabernacle on the temple, and therefore don't serve other gods in my temple. That would be an obvious application, but I believe that it goes farther than that, well beyond when a temple temple was present. Before me or beside me can mean don't have other gods in addition to me And what that means specifically is not speaking spatially as in don't have them next to me, but you can have them away from me. What he's saying here is I demand an exclusive relationship. Don't have anyone but me An exclusive relationship. God expects an exclusive and a faithful relationship with his people. Does anyone here remember the main proponent and I think maybe founder of objectivism, Ayn Rand? She wrote Atlas Shrugged, perhaps you're familiar with some of her work there. Did you know that uh the working out of her rationalist philosophy was an open open marriage with her husband. And an open marriage meant that uh you can have an intimate relationship not only with your husband or your wife, but with whomever you choose. That's what an open marriage is. And she believed that to be the ideal within the philosophy that she created. And what's being communicated here is God says, I'm not into open marriages. I expect an exclusive relationship with you. This was exceptionally fitting and pertinent. For the context of this command, because the people of God at this time were surrounded by cultures that competed for their allegiance with Yahweh. Each nation surrounding Israel had a national or patron deity. The patron or the national deity was responsible for providing protection, security, health, wealth, prosperity, etc. Interestingly enough. If you're coming out of a Wiccan religion, or if you know of the Wiccan religion, they have pay it patron and national deities also, or patron deities. So this is still around. This is something that they struggled with. All around there were gods vying for their attention and for their faithfulness. You can catch a glimpse of this in 2 Chronicles 32, verses 13 through 15 I'll just read it to you this morning, and you're welcome to look it up. This is 2 Chronicles 32, verses 13 through 15. This is Sennacherib speaking and boasting before Hezekiah. Who was there among all the gods of those nations that my fathers utterly destroyed that could deliver his people from my hand? That your God should be able to deliver you from my hand For no God of any nation or kingdom was able to deliver his people from my hand or the hand of my fathers. How much less will your God deliver you from my hand? Do you see what he's saying there? Do you see the assumption that is present within the culture? Sennacherib, who is acting for his God and claiming himself perhaps to be a god. was claiming that no other God amongst all of the nations would be able to stand against him, including Yahweh, because those nations have in fact collapsed. The fact of their collapse shows that their god was defeated because they had a national deity or patron god or goddess that was supposed to establish their security. That was the culture in which they lived. And so the point is that sometimes Israel gave in to this temptation. And so this command here is also a warning. To them, the national deities or patron gods sometimes were more promising than Yahweh. You can revisit the sermon on Psalm 4 or just read that text yourself, but it's exactly what David was facing. As one Old Testament scholar says Speaking of Psalm four, because of the drought and a bad harvest, such as the three year drought described in Second Samuel twenty one, the nations rich and powerful were turning to pagan fertility deities. In order to have what they need. If you prayed for three years, and if your king prayed for three years and Yahweh still didn't deliver and people were dying of starvation next to you, then you went and you prayed to another God from another nation. Perhaps the God of Moab, or of the Edomites, or the Amorites, whoever they would choose. And that was the picture here. The god in this case was Baal. Sometimes it was Chemosh. But you can see their situation that Yahweh's people, therefore, would have other gods besides him. That's what it means here in this original historical context. A very real situation for this people. They would look to Baal, for example, for food and water, for salvation from agricultural crisis, for security against nations that were more powerful around them, for significance. For hope. When we start to broaden that out a little bit, you can begin to see that we're not too different than that group of people. Eventually, even this group of people would move from patron and national deities, and those patron and national deities would give way to anything that promises health or wealth, or pleasures, or renown, or esteem, or social prestige, whatever would provide it. That's what would become godlike for them. You could see that in Psalm forty two, for example, and throughout all of the Proverbs And when we put it this way, the command is not only fitting, the first command is not only fitting for this group of people in this historical circumstance, getting ready to enter the land, but for you And Jesus developed this very, very well on the pages of the Gospels. Listen to what Jesus says. He actually takes the idea of a physical God or an idol and he transforms it over something that is more abstract. It's applicable across cultures. No one can serve two masters, Jesus says. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be loyal to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon Matthew 6, 24. And Jesus is playing with the word here, mammon. Mammon is thought to be the patron god from Carthage, but it's also the literal word for money. And so he makes a bridge here in saying that money can become like a god to you. And in fact, it is at the heart of all of your anxious struggles. According to that context of that passage, Jesus is not saying that money is bad. He is saying that when his people turned to money for security and significance as they would have turned to gods in the past. They have turned money into a God named Mammon. And isn't that your temptation? I mean, just take wealth in the Western culture within your life as the possibility of a temptation. And then this becomes this command very applicable to you. Isn't it our temptation? Which would you have? Jeremiah brought this out beautifully in his application. Of the boat with Jesus, which would you have had in that situation? The boat or Jesus? Which would you have? Yahweh or money in the bank? And I'm not trying to nitpick at you. I'm trying to reveal that which is in my own heart, that urge to truly say I would rather have money in the bank. It feels more comfortable to me If I had to choose. Which gives you a greater sense of worth? Your accomplishments as symbolized in what you own and do, or what God has accomplished for you. Those are two different ways of being. One is having gods before Yahweh, the other one is having no gods before Yahweh. One is making him the top priority. The other one is that you're actually using him as pagans would use their patron deities. That is, appease him so that I benefit, so that I am built up. And so therefore, wealth, wealth can become a god to any culture. Surely it is a temptation within the Western culture. And wealth, therefore, not being bad in and of itself, becomes like dynamite to us. Dynamite may be used for construction, it can be used for mining, to get rare jewels, if If you're a redneck in Texas, you can use it to catch more fish than your friends. It's been used for all kinds of good things. But dynamite, when used carelessly, will kill you. And so too will wealth. Because of what resides within the human heart, wealth can very quickly become a God that is beside The true God. That's the point. That's why we have the command. That's just one application that we have from Jesus That is cross-cultural. He gives another one in Matthew ten thirty-seven. He says, He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. See how he's talking about priorities there and therefore takes us back to the first command? And he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. Again, speaking of the first command, Jesus is pointing out how other people can become godlike to us, just like wealth could become godlike to us. There's nothing wrong with other people, but they can become like gods to us. There is something in the human heart that longs for the approval and recognition of people around us in a measure that is too grand and great. Relationships are good, obviously, and we should care about what people think. We just shouldn't care too much. Do you understand what I mean by that? That we shouldn't care too much. When a person becomes a god, you can't really love them anyway. If you are more attuned to what people think than what God thinks, you have lost the priority of the command. Which is this first point. Our greatest pleasure, our greatest care should be to please God, to enjoy Him forever. And our greatest sorrow is when anything in God is offended. That's the priority of the command, that God is first place. You'll be tempted to replace God the Father, Son, and the Spirit with money and with people. There's a hundred other, maybe a thousand other temptations. ways to place other gods besides the true God, to not give him first place, but we must resist temptation. Our triune God deserves first place, and that's the priority of the command. And now there's the primacy of the command. We have the priority and now the primacy. And this is just an observation in that it's uh it's first. It seems a bit silly. The first command is the first command. The primacy of the command means that it is first, but there's a significance in the fact that it's first. I'm saying more than just the fact that it is the first command. Primacy is the fact of being preeminent here, or first among equals, if you will, I think is a good way to put it, truly The first commandment has a kind of preeminence and importance in understanding all of the other commands. Martin Luther put it this way: he actually does a great job, not in understanding of all of the law. I find him to not go with him on certain errors. But his observations here are very good. And therefore, you must let this declaration run through all the commandments. It is like a hoop and a wreath, joining the end to the beginning and holding them together. Now, I don't think we're all familiar, I know I'm not familiar with hoop wreaths or how to make a wreath, and I in fact think, since this is a translation from the German that he actually means clasp that holds two ends of of something together. But if you were to go with this this English translation of a hoop, you could instead think of a bracelet that has charms Scattered throughout of it that hang off. We've we've seen that. Or a a necklace that has a string of of pearls that are on there And the first command is like that bracelet that holds the charms. The first commandment is like a necklace that holds all nine of the other pearls together. And you know what that means then, right? Because you have seen uh have you seen a woman dancing perhaps on the and then her pearl necklace break? And you see all of the pearls scatter throughout the dance floor, never really being able to find all Of them. All of the pearl scatter and bounce across the floor. And that is why I say that there is the primacy of the command, the preeminence and the primacy of the necklace and the command. Biblical examples abound showing when the first command is forgotten, commands two through ten quickly fall away. That's why I'm saying first amongst equals. Consider just for a moment the Garden of Eden in relationship to the first and the rest of the commands. Adam and Eve ate property not their own True. They did so because they coveted. True. Adam bore false witness against his wife at least a little bit. True. Cain murdered Abel not long after. True. And the thing that they lost at first was to place themselves and their own longings as a God beside the true God who is Yahweh. Not giving him first place, no matter what they felt. Our service to God is superior to any emotions or feelings that we would ever have. It is by God's grace that our feelings and our emotions come together with our duties to our Lord. But when they conflict, our duty rises above them. Now listen to this from 1 Peter 4:1 through 3. It teaches us the exact same thing: that when that necklace breaks, all of the pearls will fall. Therefore, since Christ suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves also with the same mind, for he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, that he should no longer live the rest of the time in the flesh lusts of the flesh of men, but for the will of God. See that contrast there? For we have spent enough of our past lifetime in doing the will of the Gentiles when we walked in lewdness, lusts, drunkenness, revelries, drinking parties, and abominable idolatries Notice that the contrast is between man's will and God's will. When we forget the primacy of making God our priority, then all of these evils will follow. And the Apostle Paul summarizes this in Romans chapter 1. showing the plight of all of humanity. And even as they did not retain the knowledge of God in their they did not retain God in their knowledge. Giving glory to the creation rather than the creator, placing other gods beside him that roots, this is what grows up He gives them over to a debased mind to do things which are not fitting, being filled with all unrighteousness, sexual immorality, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, evil-mindedness They are whisperers, backbiters, haters of God, violent, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents, undiscerning, untrustworthy, unloving, unforgiving, unmerciful who knowing the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are deserving of death, not only do the same, but also approve of those who practice them. When the necklace breaks, all of the pearls scatter. Do you see that? That's the point. That's why there is a primacy to this command. And the opposite is true also, however. If the first commandment is established by the strength of the Spirit, Then so too shall the other nine blossom and fruit for the glory of God. And this is what we see In the example of Jesus Himself, focused on the first command and seeing the fruit of all the others. And then I said, Behold, I come. In the scroll of the book, it is written of me. I delight to do your will, O my God. And your law is within my heart. Notice the personal interaction between the Son and the Father. Very focused on God being the first. Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of Him who sent me, and to finish His work. Notice that Jesus s is thinking of all of His will, but especially focused on serving Him personally and making Him the Priority. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. John 6:38. It is from his an unending devotion to God the Father that all of his obedience follows. That all of the pearls, if you want to go with the other image, are claspsed together and unbreakable in the life of Jesus Christ. Bound together by love, as it says in Colossians, which we'll hear from tonight. The love of Jesus Christ for the Father and for his people. Those are the two points. That's the first command. Those are two points about the first command. The first command teaches us That God is our greatest priority. Martin Luther says, what is the first commandment? Have no other gods before me. What does that mean? This means that you must not put your trust in anything. There should be nothing that gives you more hope than God. There should be nothing that gives you more self-esteem than God. There should be nothing that gives you more satisfaction than God, as one pastor has said There should be nothing that is your meaning in life more than God. Not people, not approval, not your spouse, not your potential spouse, not your career, not public acclaim, not critical approval, nothing but God. That's the priority of the command, that He deserves our priority. And all glory goes to Him. The first command is primary: a heart devoted to Yahweh is the beginning and the blossom and the fruit of the other nine. That's the primacy of the command. Both the priority and the primacy of the first command teach us that all of the law is exceptionally personal. This is not a dry, abstract moral code to be followed impersonally. This is a relationship and covenants with the living God. In this way, when you begin to think of it that way, when you begin to think of the personal nature of all of the commands, of this is how you relate to your God, Then it really becomes quite heartbreaking to think how poorly you relate. You had those moments in your life where you realize just how poorly you do relate to the people around you You had those moments where you realize just what a you have been all those years? Well you've only been hearing this for um 22 minutes. And I've been pondering this, and my heart is broken. And I pray in some sense that your heart would be broken. The gods that you place before your God. I think it's a part of our repentance, of our heartbreaking. It reminded me of something I saw recently, this the heartbreak that happens as you stand before the command Think of how much my love, how much your love before him lacks, how much more he deserves. Recently I watched a little boy on the beach build his sandcastle. Have you seen that? How excited they are to build a castle. This wasn't a rich boy because he didn't have all of the buckets that are all the different parts of the castle so that the castle could look like something a professional did in Ocean City. This was just a young boy making a sand castle with with his hands. He had no bucket even. He had to scrape it all together and make his little castle. He sculpted it. He um he must have had some knowledge of castles from something because um he created the towers and there was the gate and then in front of the gate there was a moat that he created. He dubbed The only thing that was missing was the water, and the mistake that he had made, since he's not an expert saying castle builder is that he built it a little high up the shore and he had no bucket. And so he would go down and he would uh cup the water in his hands and sometimes he'd try to Bring his arms together to get a little bit more water and uh he he's younger and so not graceful in his running and and by the time he'd get back there he'd go to put water in the moat and there just would be nothing It would all have leaked out of his fingers or bounced out of his hands. And um it reminds that reminds me of us. We can be as excited as we want to this morning in hearing of this command. We can be motivated by the sermon that Moses gives here in this passage of this Command. And yet when we go to bring it home to actually show some kind of love to our God, we find oftentimes that there's nothing left to drop. That the love has bounced out because of our awkward steps through life, running like a toddler on the beach. And it breaks our heart. And it's right to break our heart, but the Lord God, through Jesus Christ, has given us so much and yet we return back to the castle with so Little. But I think he does this on purpose actually. And in this way my heart stops breaking and it starts to mend because I see in coming back with my hands emptied. I'm able to then look up and see that Jesus Christ is there with us and he comes with his hands full. Actually, God the Father sends the Son and He arrives with a bucket. And his bucket could fill all of it could have all of the oceans of grace. And we turned to him, and you do you see how that fulfills the first command? Do you see that how if we could go to the first command and we could say, Yeah, yes, yes, you are God, I shall have no other before you except for me because I made the decision. Except for me because I made the altar call. Except for me because I went to seminary. Except for me because I had a particular tradition growing up in church. If we came with anything at all, it would destroy the first command. We would have some other God before him, and it would be us. And we would turn into something like Satan himself. And so we come empty-handed. Actually we come holding the hand of our Jesus Christ, who has all grace that we need, the grace of his power, the grace of his Redempt of love, the grace of his death, the grace of his resurrection, the grace of his ascension, the grace of him sending his spirit to us to work what is needed within our hearts and within our lives To where we begin to see in our lives progressively arriving back at the moat and a little drop of love for God because of the work of sanctification in our hearts by Jesus Christ. And we know that it's our destiny, that there will be an eternity because of the work of Jesus Christ and his power where we will love God. with all of our hearts, our minds and our souls, and our neighbors as ourselves, but it will not be because of anything that we have done. It will be because of the work of Jesus Christ through his Spirit in our hearts as he writes the law upon them. Jesus Christ is making sure that we obey the first commandment by not allowing an ounce or a drop of ourselves to consider ourselves as God or participant. Participating in any part of our great redemption. I understand that there is a coordinate process with sanctification, but that's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is this: the same things that we read of within the scriptures. But if God the Father you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification and redemption, that as it is written, He who glories, let him glory in the Lord. And who also says this in Jeremiah 9, 23 through 24? Thus says the Lord. Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, let not the mighty man glory in his might, nor let the rich man glory in his riches, but let him who glories glory in this that he understands and knows me. That I am the Lord, exercising loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth. For it is in these things that I delight, says the Lord. Let's pray. Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for rejuvenating our hearts. As we consider how we are united and how we are in you, how we can stand before this command in your fulfillment of it, and how you are working as our great sanctifier, you began a work in us. And as the author of our salvation you shall complete it. Lord, we ask that you would bring us to our knees in continual confession and repentance and faith. As we continue to violate this command, Lord, we ask for forgiveness through Jesus Christ and that you would refine us in the refiner's Fire. Give us patience and longsuffering as you discipline us in love. That you would be the only God before us, and that there would be none beside you. That you would take first place. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen