Beginning in verse 12. Not that I have already attained or am already perfected, but I press on that I may lay hold of that for which Christ Jesus has also laid hold of me. Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended, but one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind. And reaching forward to those things which are ahead, I pressed toward the goal for the prize of the upward or heavenly call of God in Christ Jesus. Therefore, let us, as many as are mature, have this mind. And if at anything you think otherwise, God will reveal even this to you. Nevertheless, to the degree that we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule. Let us be of the same mind. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Heavenly Father, we do ask that we would be of the same mind. And I ask for your congregation here this morning that through the preaching of the Word you would work and you would renew their minds. That they would know your will, and that you, by the power of Christ's Spirit, would give them the will to obey you. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well the title has not changed in the bulletin, it just keeps receiving new Roman numerals. And that will happen at least for another week. We are looking at And asking the question, well, at least in terms of what we can learn from the letter to the Philippians, what is true Christianity? And the refreshing way in which Paul has been answering that question for us, this will be the fifth time he answers it. is he's a he's uh answering it by way of setting before you various examples. I find that refreshing. Oftentimes if you speak to me generally or abstractly, in my mind, I'm saying, could I please have an example? And the Holy Spirit knows what we need, and He gives you examples that you might know what real Christianity is. If you remember some of the examples, it began in chapter 2 with the ultimate example, who is Christ Himself, moving into his state of humiliation. God the Father, by way of the Spirit, raising him to his state of exaltation. And then we had the opportunity to look at Paul. and how he was pouring himself out seeking to imitate Christ, and how Timothy sought to imitate Paul who was seeking to imitate Christ, and how Epaphroditus and giving up his health for the sake of ministering to Paul. Was seeking to imitate Christ. And then we circled back around over the last couple weeks and we were looking at the autobiography of Paul. All of these as different examples for us to discover true Christianity. And there should, it really shouldn't be a surprise to you here this morning, is that you have another example in front of you today. And it is Paul once again. He's going to lay out for you here in this particular passage that true Christianity is Is a place where people mature. True Christians are those who are growing. And we're going to learn from his example a couple different ways in which maturity should be present where true Christianity is present. Let's make sure we have our scriptures out together so I can step you through the passage It's not immediately obvious that we're following Paul's example here within this passage. So that's the first thing that I want to point out to you is that we really still are learning from his example. Glance down, if you would, please, at Philippians 3, 15 and 16. So we're starting at the end of our passage. And he says, Therefore let us, as many as are mature, you see the mature theme there, that we're going to think like this or have this mind. And if in anything you think otherwise, God's going to reveal that to you. Nevertheless, to the degree that we have already attained, it's an idea of maturity again. Let us walk by the same rule. Let us be of the same mind. Now when we look at fifteen and sixteen there And we're looking to see this as part of the proof that Paul is setting up his example again by which we would learn about true Christianity and maturity. What you need to recognize here in these two verses is that this repetition of the word mind and what he's doing with it. He's saying that you're to have a mature mind, but the question that I want you to ask Is whose mind does he have on display? What is the mature mind? What is at the end of the verses when he says, let us be of the same mind, what mind is that? Well, there's a couple different answers to that, but the first answer is the same mind that I just revealed to you, which is my mind. In the paragraphs that come the sentences that come before 15 and 16. The same mind that I revealed to you, that is my mind. But of course, we can't stop there because Paul doesn't set himself up as an idol. So if we look elsewhere within the scriptures, we see, for example, in this same uh just a sentence down. Or a couple sentences down, you'll see in verse number 17. I just want you to see, we're really on to something here in following examples. Verse number 17. Brethren, join in following my example. It doesn't become more clear than that. And note those who so walk as you have us for a pattern. I hope that you'll be able to begin to see the logic and to see the principle. That Paul is setting himself up as an example once again, that you would have the same attitude and mind and way of thinking and really way of life that he does. He ends up saying it explicitly in verse 17, though we're going to look at what he what he what we're to imitate in 12 through 14. But the overarching principle is this taken from 1 Corinthians 11, verse 1. I wonder if some of you have memorized this. 1 Corinthians 11, 1. Anybody know that by heart? Imitate me just as I also imitate Christ. That's the main working and the logic that's going on here. So yes, you do have in front of you another example. Paul is displaying the way that he thinks and acts in so far as he is mature, that you too would learn what true Christian maturity looked like. And therefore, engage in true Christianity. So we know that Paul is calling you to grow in maturity by imitating him, but the question you have to ask now as you launch If you go back up into the rest of the verses, you have to ask, well, how am I supposed to do that? I would assume that you would ask that question because I all of us desire to be mature. Don't you? I mean I could try this out on you if you want. When the sermon's over I'll go up to you and I'll say, well, how was your week? And then I'm going to pay real careful attention to what you say to me, and I'm going to find something in what you said. That you did, or the way that you think about something that's immature, and I'm gonna say to you, I've never seen a bigger baby. And you're gonna not like it. Which is the ultimate it's a great example for a presupposition, or what I'm saying, there's a there's a a presumption going on there that You don't want to be thought of as a child. You want to be seen as mature And that's what Paul is seeking to give to you here. He wants you to have his mature mind. He wants you to know what that looks like He wants you to realize that true Christianity looks like imitating his maturity, not only in these ways and others, but we're just going to look at these ways. And so now we're just asking the question, well, what in the world does maturity look like in this passage? Here's maturity number one. We're only you're getting off the hook today because you only have two points of maturity. So here's the first one. And this one might be really surprising to you. But I hope that the Lord Jesus makes this point the most encouraging for you. That the first point of maturity is this. Those who are mature in Christ acknowledge that they are imperfect. Those who are mature in Christ acknowledge that they are imperfect. They know that they haven't arrived. They know they have a long way to go. They know that there's still a lot of work to be done on them. They're able to acknowledge their imperfections. You can see this if you glance down again with me, just starting off right at the top of our passage there. And I wonder if this is surprising to you hearing this from Paul, that this is his first mindset. that he acknowledges he hasn't made it. He says in verse 12, not that I have already attained or I'm already perfected. Man is that good to hear. That is so good to hear. I don't know if any of you have heard of a gentleman named Jordan Peterson. Anybody listen to him or know of him? I see his stuff fly up on social media and He has just written his third book that's five hundred pages long. And I think the day after he ign he was celebrating his 500th podcast And I think I was sitting on my couch in my pajamas with some Doritos. And I thought to myself, I am a waste of space. When you're when you have people like that in your life, like Paul And you compare yourself to them often, you can really raise the question, well, what's the use? I'm never going to be like that. And it's so it ends up being so relieving to hear Paul say, you know what I think it's important to have a little pit stop at this point and let you know that I haven't made it. I'm not perfect. Wouldn't that be cool to hear from him? You're hearing it from him. I'm not perfect He knows that however far he has come, there is still a journey to be made The race is not yet complete. He has not reached perfection. He has not attained to the fullness of Christian maturity. And that's really helpful for us because now we can look at Paul's larger pattern that we're supposed to be imitating. This whole section, this whole book is about patterns. That ends up being life. Paul's pattern here is that he had, if you remember in his autobiography, he had this major transformation. But then He he moved from this place where he he s he fought all of the things that he had earned on his own credentials, all of his religious observances according to the Pharisaic view of the law. He had seen them as gain, but then in meeting Christ he realized that those things were all loss. And the only gain for me is really Jesus Christ. Particularly, first and foremost, I should say, not just particularly, but first and foremost, the riches of Jesus Christ's justifying work on my behalf. That's a summary of a couple of the sermons that we've gone through together. And then you see Paul having gone from that worldview change. Something like scales falling from his eyes. You watch him move back into that powerful Paul that you know, but he's not pursuing the church to kill them. He's now pursuing and preaching the gospel. He's converted to Christ and within just a couple sentences it says he's out there preaching the gospel. And that's Paul. That's his he's uh has that major transformation and then he moves right back into that major passion Power of the resurrection in verse 10 is the way that he puts it. I want to know, you can hear the yearning in his voice. I want to know the power of Christ's resurrection. And what he means by that is not the future resurrection. He's talking about the spirit in him, able by that spiritual power to work personally in his own life. in killing the old man, but also in doing the calling that Christ had given to him in planting and shepherding these churches. And then in 10B, which is just a paragraph up from our passage, he says, not only do I want the power of his resurrection, I want the pa the fellowship of his sufferings. And we were able to s go back to chapter two in Philippians and see the fellowship of his sufferings means I want to share in the in in a way the responsibilities that Jesus Christ Himself Took up in obedience to the Father in the establishment of his kingdom. I want to take responsibility too. I want to partner with Christ in responsibility. I won't offer an atoning sacrifice. That's Christ alone. But I can enter in and take responsibility insofar as he gives it to me. But then when we get to verse number 12, though he has that major transformation and he has the major passion that we know of Paul, and I think he does this because he knows that he doesn't want to be discouraging the people. He says in verse 12 to you, but you've got to know I'm not perfect. And here's what I want to I want to make sure that you're not missing. Is he doesn't say, I'm not perfect, in a voice of despair He doesn't condone sin. He wants to be perfect as his Heavenly Father is perfect. He is able to acknowledge that he's not perfect, but he's able to acknowledge in a way where you can tell from these pages he's not in self-pity That's not the spirit that he's displaying for you to be able to imitate He's displaying for you that there is a maturity in recognizing that though you have been brought into Christ Though you have been given the Spirit, though your life has changed and you are pursuing the kingdom of God, there is a maturity in recognizing you are not perfect yet. And that your glory is to come. Now I want you to compare yourself for a moment, and I wonder, there's your pattern. That's what maturity looks like, at least to a higher degree than your maturity. And I want you to ask yourself, do you look like that? Is that your pattern? Number one, are you able to acknowledge that you're not perfect? This could be a great question for your friends and your family. You could say to them, have I ever been able to admit to you that I'm wrong about anything? And then just hold on. Or maybe it's this. I do admit that I'm imperfect every day. And I don't even feel like getting out of bed. But neither of those are Paul's patterns. Those are not Paul's patterns. You take your walk with Christ seriously. I know that you do, Christian. You have bad days? Sometimes you have bad years. You feel terrible that you're not perfect in a sense that's true. That could be a good pattern. But then there's this next step that's not the pattern that we see here with Paul. You lose hope. And you end up saying, what's the use? I want to raise the question, what is it that allows Paul to admit that he's not perfect but not drop into depression? What is it about this human being where he's able to do that? Whatever that is, I think that that's phenomenal. And I want some of that. Do you The Apostle Paul wants and strives to be perfect as his Heavenly Father is perfect. But when he is not perfect, he is not lost in depression, he is not lost in anger, he is not lost in bitterness, and he is not lost in self-pity. All signs, by the way, of the sin of perfectionism. How in the world is he able to do that? Well, here's the first thing. Is that he realizes that Christ is committed to graciously and patiently seeing him all the way to the end. He is able to relax. Because he understands how gracious his Savior is. Didn't isn't that the first thing that he needed to discover? Paul, if you find any status between me and the father, it's not going to be because you were perfect, buddy. You have murdered my people. The warrants are taken out in your name. The coats were laid at your feet, showing that you're responsible for Stephen's murder. How's Paul able to come to grips with that? It's going to be, he's going to learn, even while I was in transgressions, you have chosen to love me. And if Christ knew what he was getting into from the beginning with you, it's not a surprise that you're not perfect a little bit after your conversion. And when I say a little bit, I mean 40 years. The secret is to discover how gracious your Savior is. That's where you're able to admit your imperfection, still yearn for perfection, and not be depressed or anger. Stuck in anger or self-pity. Listen to a couple verses here where we can hear Paul's attitude and how he does it. Philippians 1, 6. Being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Second Corinthians twelve, nine. And Jesus said to me, My grace is sufficient for you. For my strength is made perfect in weakness. Philippians chapter three, verse twelve Not that I have already attained or am already perfected, but I press on that I may lay hold of that for which Christ Jesus has laid hold of me. That is how he's able to do it. Now there's a couple hymn writers that have picked up on this idea And it's such a prominent idea, such an important pattern, that God had led them, though their hymns aren't inspired, God had led them in their calling as musicians to pen important phrases for you to be able to sing. It'd be phrases like this, Oh to grace, how great a debtor. Now we often just slide right over this, but listen very carefully. You already know the song, right? O to grace how great a debtor daily I am constrained to be. I daily rely on his grace Let that grace now like a fetter bind my wandering heart to thee. Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart. O take and seal it. Seal it for thy courts above. Every day. I'm prone to wonder. Every day I need your grace is the bottom of that hymn. Or you could have this hymn. When I fear my faith will fail, Christ will hold me fast. When the tempter would prevail, he will hold me fast. I could never keep my hold through life's fearful path, for my love is often cold. He will hold me fast. He will hold me fast. He will hold me fast. For my Savior loves me so, He will hold me fast. Did you hear anything repeated? All of Paul's efforts after holiness, after the work of the gospel, after the eventual goal of resurrection, they are not a matter of his unaided effort, one commentator says. They are not a matter of his unaided effort to do something that will make God pleased with him. They all take place within the context of God's grace. King Jesus grasped hold of him. And all that he now does is a matter of responding in love. to that firm hand that has gripped his shoulder. And that is the pattern for you. That is the pattern for you of what it looks like to grow in maturity. It's being able to acknowledge your imperfection without condoning sin or saying it doesn't matter. You're acknowledging the need for the grace of Jesus Christ in order to grow. Paul depends on this grace for his growth and godliness, and you are called to imitate Paul in his maturity. Now here's the thing that I want to bring up for us to be able to take the next step into the next maturity. If you experience the hand of your Savior on your shoulder, In grace. Daily you are constrained to him. And he keeps giving you grace after grace after grace after grace. What do you think is going to happen to you? Your heart, under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, is going to be filled with thankfulness And we are finally, if we could get to the point where as a human being, we are actually thankful for the grace that God has given to us, we are in a great spot. We are in an extremely mature spot because a human being that has thankfulness in their heart is not content to sit and do nothing. They want to express the thankfulness in different ways about and to the person who has given them the gift. That can happen in song, but it can also happen in our second point of maturity. We're now ready for that because we can see the inner motivation that needs to be present without turning into a legalist. And maturity too is this. The mature Christian, being a part of true Christianity, presses toward the gold for the price. Now if I would have told you that as the first point, you know what kind of damage that would have done to you? Those of you who can't admit that you're not perfect, it would have just puffed your head up. Those of you who admit you're not perfect, but you fall into depression, it would have killed you. But we don't need to go down either one of those paths now. There's a third way. When we can live in the grace of Jesus Christ, we can hear bold statements like, you're supposed to go for the gold. You're supposed to chase after the prize. And Matt has done such a great job for us this morning giving us that picture of the marathon. Because now I can come before you and I can say, out of the thankfulness that Christ has placed in your heart, by the grace of his Holy Spirit, run. Press towards the goal. You can see this in your passage in 13 through 14. It says what I said. So it's there's not much proof that needs to happen, but maybe a little bit of explanation. He says in verse 13. Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended. But one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead, I press toward the goal. For the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. There's a kind of emphatic way of putting this if you were to read this in the original language, just one thing, one thing. I press. That word also press is the same word that's being used in him hunting down Christians before he was a follower of Christ. Same kind of passion, directed in a different place. I pressed on toward the goal to win the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. And you, brothers and sisters, because he is your exemplar as he imitates Christ, you too should chase after the prize. Set the goal. Now, what is this upward or heavenly call of God? This has a pretty expansive meaning depending on how Paul is using it in Colossians or in other places. But it's considered a kind of heavenly way of life. In Philippians chapter 3, verse 20, you'll see he starts, he uses this word again and talking about heaven. He says, For our citizenship is in heaven. for which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a kind of heavenly life that we're meant to uh strive after now. Don't set your in Colossians he says, don't set your mind on earthly things, but on heavenly things. He's talking about the Lord's Prayer in what is in heaven. Let that be now on earth. And as a part of this picture, but I think it's a little more localized than that, and it's based primarily off of his autobiography This word heaven is the place from which the voice of Jesus Christ comes to Paul in his literal call. that he will perform to Jesus Christ. And that ends up bringing up this goal. You have the heavenly call of God, the voice from heaven in Acts chapter Uh 9, I'm sorry, in Acts chapter 9, and it is it is calling Paul to serve God and to serve the family of Jesus Christ. Now what's the goal? Well it's to complete what Christ what Christ gave him to complete at the very least. Acts chapter 9, 15 through 16. But the Lord said to him Go, for he is a chosen vessel of mine, speaking of Paul, to bear my name before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel For I will show him many things he must suffer for my name's sake. Paul pressed toward Phariseaism. Something like scales fell from his eyes and he no longer pressed in hunting the church. He leaves it all behind, like he says in our passage. He leaves it all behind. It's all lost now. And there's one thing he does. He presses toward the heavenly call that Jesus Christ has given to him. That's what matters. He's after the prize He's after the prize, perhaps, of knowledge that he contributed to the renewal of creation, bringing the kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. But I know that that it that since we're we've located ourselves In the place of a thankful heart, what is the prize of a heart that is filled with grace and is thankful? The prize is for the person that has been giving you gifts to say to you, well done. I see your thankfulness towards me. Well done. That doesn't sound like a prize to some of you. For Jesus Christ. Paul is saying here, this is how different you are from the pattern. This is how different I am from the pattern. Paul says his greatest prize I'm I'm saying this is an inference from this passage. His greatest prize is, well done, good and faithful servant. But other people who have been in the church have seen that this also is the prize. Listen to this quote from John Chrysostom, one of the early church fathers. If you knew how quickly people would forget about you after you die, you will not seek in your life to please anyone but Jesus Christ. And I've seen and I've seen how quickly people forget people when they die. And so I think we can by experience acknowledge that we we can see that the pattern is true, that my ultimate prize really should be Like Paul's to be able to stand before Christ and Christ to say, Well done, my servant. And this is picked up in different hymns also. Different yearnings of the human heart once they have experienced the grace of Jesus Christ. and are still interested in chasing after the goal, they say things like this, take my hands and let them move at the impulse of thy love. Take my feet and let them be swift and beautiful for thee. Swift and beautiful for thee. Do you hear that heart? Each of you, mothers and fathers and grandmothers and grandfathers, and all of the different roles that you end up taking here in the congregation, all the different things that you do in your life, daughters. Sons, fellow members of the church, the list goes on. All of the ways in which Jesus Christ has grabbed a hold of you and said, You're mine, you serve me. All of those ways, here you stand before a pattern that is given that Christ is pleased to present to you. It's the pattern of Paul himself. You have received the heavenly call. Your life is not ordinary. And the main question for you is, can this be your verse? From the thankfulness that is in your heart, can this be your verse? I one thing. One thing. I press toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Can you stand as a mother seeking that? Can you stand as a father and all of the other roles? Can that be your song? Take my hands and let them move at the impulse of thy love. Take my feet and let them be swift and beautiful for thee. Swift and beautiful for thee. One of the dangers of this point Especially when I got to this point where I'm saying, can this be your verse? Can you strive? Can you say one thing? Some of you are already dropping back into that mode and you're saying, I'm tired. I don't feel like doing any of this. I tried. I don't I look at other Christians that are around me and I don't know. It just isn't, I just don't compare. I think I'm just gonna keep to myself. That's an interesting response And so what I'd like to do is just start the sermon all over again at the first point to talk about the grace of Jesus Christ. That's a joke. Come on, people. I know that you're tired. I know that you are not only tired, I know that you're unmotivated. I know that you don't long for God as much as you should. I know that you're willing to make sacrifices for other things in life and not as much for Christ. I know that you don't love God in all the ways that you should. But all we're doing at this point is we really are repreaching the sermon. We're just acknowledging, guess what? You're not perfect yet. You have a long way to go. But this is a perfect opportunity to know that Christ knows that. Christ knows where you stand, and nevertheless, He has not forsaken you. He stands with you. He has determined to hold you fast. All the way to the end. Can you believe it? Can you believe he knows all of your private sins too and he does not leave you? It should move you into wonder and then into thanksgiving. Once you begin to experience the grace of his gentleness and his love and his patience, and to realize that he sings over you as his child. He smiles when he thinks about you. And I expect that there's going to be a flame inside of your heart that gets a little brighter A flame that's going to fuel your devotion to this Savior that loves you. You will rise at that moment. You'll rise and you'll be closer to the pattern You will in that moment when the flame raises and you're thankful and you want to move forward and serve him, you have started to move into the pattern It is a moment where you have entered into true Christianity, where you are actually demonstrating maturity. You are imitating Paul. And Paul is imitating Christ. And by a sacred syllogism, you therefore are imitating Christ. And that is our lesson we have to learn from him this morning, from our great example. Amen. Let us pray.