Verse twenty one. Let's stand for the reading of his law. Chapter 5, 21. This is our final commandment, number 10. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, and you shall not desire your neighbor's house, his field, his male servant, his female servant, his ox, his donkey, or any Anything that is your neighbors. Let's pray. Father, this is such a perfect commandment It is perfect to the core in its essence. Father, I ask that this truly would be written upon our hearts and thus in a way fulfilling all the commands. Pray, Father, that you would give this congregation A desire to love you above everything in this world, and to love their neighbor as much as they love themselves Perhaps even more. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. We've come to the end of the Ten Commandments. We'll enter back into the narrative next week with larger sections. The topic, obviously, this morning is coveting, covetousness to covet Do you have a problem with coveting? I'm seeing some of you smile, I'm not sure what's funny. I think it's funny because perhaps we all recognize that we do. I want to look at this passage under just two main points this morning. The first one are three important truths about coveting, and the next one is one major realization about coveting. Let's begin with the three important truths. The word coveting, although it is familiar to you, it is antiquated within our society. You know when you can tell a word becomes archaic and antiquated in our society. It's used to degrade an image of the church in Saturday night live skits, like the church lady. The word coveting is often used to mock teleevangelists coming from their lips. It just sounds old-fashioned. So we need to spend some time in a word study just to make sure we truly understand what coveting is. I would be interested if you were to just ask those who are a bit younger, if you consider them a millennial. or you consider yourself a millennial, and whatever the generation is before them now, ask them what is coveting? See if they know. It seems to be a familiar word, but perhaps we don't understand what it means and let's just begin with three important truths that will help us to understand what the word covet means. The term covet Is just the Hebrew word Hamad. And I'm not trying to bore you by telling you Hebrew, but it's important for you to realize that we turn to that original language to then search throughout the scriptures how this word is used in its Different contexts because the word is not always translated to covet. It's actually a very general term that just means to desire or to set your heart upon something. So, for example, it can indicate an innocent or even a righteous desire, like we see in Psalm 19. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. They are more to be desired Hamad coveted They are sweeter than honey in the honeycomb, and moreover, by them your servant is warmed, and in keeping them there is great reward. Or again, in 1 Corinthians 12, 30 through 31, when we use the Septuagint or the Greek translation of the Old Testament to understand how words are used in the New. We see this. Do all have the gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? But earnestly covet the best gifts Or desire the best gifts, and yet I show you a more excellent way. And then it goes into the passage we just heard of in the charge. Or in 1 Timothy 3:1. This is a faithful saying, what we saw this morning If a man desires or covets the position of a bishop, he desires a good work or presbyter. It can indicate an innocent or a righteous desire, but it may also indicate a guilty or unrighteous desire, and in those contexts, that's where the word is translated. Translate as covet or lust. Do not lust after her beauty in your heart, nor let her lure you with her eyelids For by means of a harlot a man is reduced to a crust of bread, and an adulteress will prey upon his precious life. That's Proverbs 6, 25-26 6, same word. Here's a very famous example. And Achan answered Joshua and said, Indeed, I have sinned against the Lord, the God of Israel, and this is what I have done. When I saw among the spoils a beautiful Babylonian gar garment, two hundred shekels of silver, and a wedge of gold weighing fifty shekels, I coveted them same word When our desires are directed toward forbidden things, it is a covetous desire. That's the conclusion of the word study. Now notice in the command itself the list of things that one should not desire. These would be considered unlawful desires. Notice the list. Your neighbor's wife Your neighbor's house, his field, his male and female servant. You can see how particular the application is here to this group of people. His ox, his donkey, and then generally speaking, anything that is it that is your neighbor's. Notice that it does not say don't desire a spouse. Do not desire a house. I'm starting to sound like fox and sox, but I'll break it up with do not desire his property. It doesn't say that. Do not desire property. It doesn't say that. Those are fine. God gives us desires for these things. You can see this within Proverbs in the establishment. Establishment of a family. Desiring those things is not condemned. The problem is in setting your heart on those things which the Lord has forbidden. It's not that complicated. If God said No, then you shouldn't desire the things that he says no to. Coveting is also, however, more than that. It's also a process when we look throughout the scriptures. It's not just unlawful desires It's also a process. It's really a dynamic and energetic process. If you were to look at some examples of coveting, you'll see a process that shows up. There's a pattern that forms. I gave you the famous example of Achan When I saw among the spoils, listen to it again in terms of desire. Listen to his language. When I saw among the spoils a beautiful Babylonian garment, two hundred shekels of silver and a wedge of gold weighing fifty shekels I coveted them and took them. And if you don't get that one, maybe you'll get this one. Listen to this in terms of desire from 2 Samuel 11. Then it happened one evening that David arose from his bed and walked on the roof of the king's house. And from the roof he saw a woman bathing, and the woman was very beautiful to behold. Of course, the problem there is that was someone's wife. James tells the categories that gives us the categories that we need to analyze those two samples of Achan and David, those two samples of coveting. But each person is tempted when he is drawn away by his own desires and enticed. Then when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin when it is full grown, it brings forth death It begins with the senses. You notice that? Taste, touch, eyes, the ears. And each of those examples, and each Even the way that James characterizes it, covetousness and its process begins with the eyes, the ears, the taste, the smell, the touch. Something inside of us sees the object, senses the object, and there's something inside of us that says yes and entices us, knowing that God has said no. It is the great yes and the great no of our existence. And if that desire wins, we act out in sin. David and Achan saw their desires for gold or intimacy enticed them. They gave themselves over and acted in either stealing or adultery. John Owen puts it like this. Achin thinks upon the gold wedge. This makes him like it? No. This makes him love it. By loving of it, his thoughts are infected and return to the imagination of its worth and goodly show. He pictures later in this same treatise, The Mortification of Sin, that the The mind ends up under lust's dominion. The mind is turned into a conveyor belt that is continually bringing things before us to seduce and entice us to do that which is unlawful. And so, little by little, the soul is inflamed onto sin. Those are the points of coveting to help us understand and get our heads around it a little bit. When you study the scriptures, you have to always establish the meaning. The authorial intent. And so we spent some time in a word study to be able to do that. It's true for the ninth commandment. These three truths help you to know what we are talking about. Coveting is a translation of the word Hamad. Habad can mean a good desire or an unlawful desire. When it means an unlawful desire, it is translated as coveting. The scriptures, moreover, describe coveting as a process. We see, we are enticed, if we give ourselves over, we act. And we sin. We covet. That's the first part. That's not everything that could be said about coveting. But it is some things, and it helps us to understand what we're talking about. We're talking about About the desires that reside within our interior castle or our hearts. Unlawful desires Now when you start to hear that and you and you start to understand what coveting is, there is a major realization that starts to be seen, or that you can have once you start Start studying this word. And that brings us to our next point. One major realization. Here it is in a sentence. Are you ready? The human race has a major desiring Problem. I want you to think of David and of Achan, those examples, those prior examples. No one was there whispering to Aiken, look at the gold, look at the silver. Look at the garment. No one was on the roof that we know of with David making him look, making him go into planning mode on how this was all going to work There was a voice inside of them. They were enticing themselves. This is a major realization for us as we try to understand Let me put it this way in Proverbs nine, our problem is personified by two women woman wisdom and woman folly. You remember that from the preaching series Woman wisdom entices us to desire God and His wisdom. That's why she she builds the house the way that she does. That's why she lays out all the food in the way that she does. That's why she decorates Her house, the way that she does, all to get your attention, to entice you to the good things of God. But woman folly does the same. Woman folly entices us in her kind of clumsy and trashy way to desire the wisdom of this world. Here's the interesting thing. When you begin to think of woman wisdom or woman folly, they are personified about they're they're teaching us about the struggles that we have in our existence. And oftentimes the personification is about something out there enticing us to do something that we don't want to do in here. But what we find within the scriptures is that's not always true. She lives inside of you is the point. Woman folly is right there. Whether someone's on the roof or staring at the bar of gold with you or not, woman folly lives in you That's the great realization. If you wanted to put it in the terms of Walt Kelly, who used to write a famous comic strip, we have met the enemy, and he is us. That's what we discover. That's what we discover just by our own experience. I'm just telling you your own experience that there's a little voice there. It's also, of course, confirmed by Scripture. We were looking at The experience of those in Scripture, but it's stated outright within Scripture also that we have a major desiring problem. For example, think of Genesis. If you're following that narrative and not just proof texting Once humans are expelled from the garden, the narrative showcases the spiraling of our race. Ever since the garden, which is located on Mount Eden, there is a descent into an abyss of death. And at the low point, God summarizes that and he says this. Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that Every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Mankind, ever since the expulsion from the garden, has had a desiring problem This is confirmed in 1 John, when he says, Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh The lust of the eyes and the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of this world. Now when he says flesh here, he's not referring to our physical bodies. He's not saying that your physical bodies in and of themselves are sinful. If that were the case, and Jesus had a physical body, then he would be sinful Flesh refers to something different in this context and in this discussion with John. Flesh refers to something inside of us that yearns and craves for everything that is anti-God. And has manifested itself in such a way where it is no longer just interior, but it characterizes an entire race of beings that are different than the angels. An entire world order or era is considered the flesh. That's his point And Paul picks up on this, and he and he contrasts, therefore, the desires of one era of humanity versus the desires of a new era of humanity by contrasting the flesh. with the Spirit. I say then, walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary to one another, so you do not do the things that you wish. Do you see how Paul and John are talking about the exact same thing? They are basically, there are basically two orders or modes of existence in the world: the order of the flesh and the order of the spirit. Both 1 John and Galatians are listed so that you would see the scriptures describing a major desiring problem that has continued since the fall of mankind. There is something with which every natural born person is born with an unquenchable thirst. To desire what is displeasing to God. I'm going to state that again because I'm stating for you a basic anthropology of all humans. There is something with which every natural born person is born with, an unquenchable thirst to desire what is displeasing to God. Let me put it this way. When you light a fire, it goes up. When you drop a weight on earth, it goes down. When you are a human, you desire evil. Or as the Puritan Edward Reynolds put it, it is as natural to the heart to lust as it is to the eye to see. Folks, we have a desiring problem. That's the major realization Really, my hope has been this entire time that all of the Ten Commandments have been a major realization. I hope you've seen the positive aspects of the Ten Commandments I hope you've seen how they are moral summaries and they unfold and unfurl into every moral situation within our lives for guidance. They are the North Star of our lives, our moral lives. I wonder sometimes if the tenth commandment holds a special place because how of how important this truth is and how it flies and pervades and saturations. Throughout all the rest, if you were to just meditate on it. In fact, the list lists the other commandments, some of them The tenth commandment teaches us that coveting is a desire against the sovereign desires of our God. Let me say that one more time. That's your takeaway for this. For today. The Tenth Commandment teaches us that coveting is a desire against the sovereign desires of our God. We, in fact, have a desiring problem. All are born with desires that are bent away from God. Let me put this one more time. Humans have an itch to sin, and their greatest joy is to scratch Humans have an itch to sin, and their greatest joy is to scratch. I think that's a good summary of when we look at coveting the understanding Of it being our desires versus the sovereign desires, and then this itch that we have to scratch it, it summarizes well the scriptural teaching that we see throughout. Now let me bring this home for a second. Last week we saw that since the devil is behind our problems, yes, the devil exists, for those of you modern folks. Since the devil is behind our problems, that creates a whole new situation and landscape for us in terms of what the solution has to be. And we came to the conclusion last week that since the devil is behind our problems, that only Jesus can solve the human situation. And I looked at your faces last week and I at least saw on some of your faces, yeah, that's a major problem. And if that's true, true. Jesus is the only one that can solve it. And this is what I have to say to you this week. It is far worse than that. It is far worse than just having the devil behind our problems because now I'm saying we have a desiring problem where we have the exact desires of the devil It is not just the world, it's the flesh, and it's the devil. And now we're starting going back, as in 1 John said, with the flesh. We have found the enemy, and he is us. And so from another angle, this is what we realize. Once again, we find the same truth that we did last week. Only Jesus can save this world. If you diagnose the problem and the disease correctly, only Jesus can save this world. World. And only Jesus can save you. The good news is that Jesus has begun to do that. I want you to think, just in terms of coveting and our desiring problem of all of the New Testament at a glance. Think particularly of the book of Acts as Paul and the apostles wind around the Mediterranean Sea on boats and land in these cities. Look at what God, through Jesus Christ and all the authority that has been given to Jesus Christ is accomplishing. God had up to that point left all of those Gentiles around the world to their sinful desires. God desired this, and whatever that was, Gentiles desired something else. But then after Jesus ascended, he began sending his messengers and his His spirit to cities and towns across the world. And the world changed because of the work that Jesus is doing. When Jesus sent his preachers and his spirit, they did not just deliver information. They didn't show up as a college professor. They delivered power, the power to desire something different Than humans, particularly Gentiles, have ever desired within their culture. And entire cultures were transformed because the heart was changed. That's the work of Jesus Christ. He's the great educator. He is the only one that can address that which changes man and woman truly: our loves, our desires. Anybody can give information. In our culture, we think that discipleship and training and education is all about information. And of course, information is involved. I'm giving you lots of information now. But the real magic, the deeper magic in education is not the accumulation of information and flashcards. It is the formation of right desire. Philosophers actually saw this too. Plato differed with others and said, to my knowledge, I'm not a Platonic expert, real education is the ordering of of our loves, knowing what to love and how much. And only Jesus Christ can do that, Plato. Only Jesus can make those born with a love for the wrong things reborn with a love of God and a love of neighbor. Based upon God's definition of love. If you are not a Christian, and yet your interest is inflamed This morning, I would encourage you to look into this. You're having a new desire, I wonder why. Or maybe the desire has been lingering. I wonder why. Maybe the great persuader and the hound of heaven Perhaps you need to listen more to Jesus. Perhaps He's calling you. If you are a Christian, it's not a done deal. Did you know that? Did you know Notice that even as a Christian, you've got this little devil inside of you. I'm being metaphorical, it's not a real devil. Please know that although you have been re Born that you still carry around with you those old desires. The scriptures refer to it as the old man dragging you down, a body of death still present, speaking in the situations. But here's the good news, and I don't hear this much in the modern church. Jesus Christ has given you the Holy Spirit to dominate the old way of thinking and the old man. You are no longer enslaved to that kind of life. The big question that I have for Christians today, including myself, is: are you fighting the fight? He's giving you everything that you need for life. Are you fighting the fight? I'm not saying change is easy. I'm not saying it happens in five seconds God looks at your life and he says, she's going to live till she's 90, and that's how long I'm going to take to keep working on her. It does not happen in a second. But he does give us the tools to fight. Feel like we've lost the fight. Like uh all we have is just to wait around until Jesus returns. Did you know the new heavens and the new earth The new creation has already begun. The age of the Spirit is here. There is a consummation that needs to happen when the heavenly Jerusalem descends and takes over this world, and there's There's no more tears, but it has begun already. There could be less tears in your marriage and in your friendships starting now because the Holy Spirit has been sent to you. All authority in heaven and earth has been given to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now let me quote another stodgy but beautiful Puritan named William Gernall, 1616 to 1679. I love these guys. He said that the conflict between the saints and Satan's forces was a war, and is a war that makes all the bloody battles of mankind look like sport and child's play. And that's what you're involved in. Where's the fight? My friend was diagnosed with cancer. This is a ways back. He and his wife researched and found out that sugar and many other kinds of food and household products, perhaps they strengthened cancer. So you know what they did, right? They cut it out. Total diet change, different household products. They loved life together. They loved the family that they had. They loved life, period, and so they cut away anything that could feed the cancer and bring death. or allow it to persist. And your sin is a cancer, and you must, by the help of Christ, remove all that feeds your sin, even if it tastes like sugar, and most lust does. The Ten Commandment, the Tenth Commandment, really provides us with a lesson for them all. And I'll end with this statement. Christian, you and Christ, I feel like I'm speaking against so many people in the church at this point. Because I see such slothfulness in regards to our warfare against sin. Christian, you and Christ Are cooperatively putting to death your sin to replace That. The Ten Commandments have been given to you as an aid, alongside and in the very hands of the Holy Spirit Himself. You are learning to love the Lord your God with all your heart. You are being conformed by the power of Christ To love the Lord your God with all of your mind and with your soul. And to love your neighbor as yourself. And you know that's the point of the tenth commandment, too. If you were to look at it in its positive aspect, it's not about you living your life to see what you can get from other people. It's about what you can give to them. How can you start working on your desires to where whatever is lovely, whatever is noble, whatever is beautiful that you could give to your neighbor? What are those things? Do them as we're coming. Commanded in Philippians, as were commanded in all of the Ten Commandments. May we, by the power of the Holy Spirit Love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our soul, and our neighbor as ourself, even in the new desires that have been given to us. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, your law is pure, it is clean, it is beautiful, and because we have forgiveness in Jesus Christ. We shall meditate it on it all day long without condemnation. Just possibility of what we shall become. I ask, Lord, that you would give us a hatred for sin and a love for truth A love for life. Pray that you would write your law upon us. You have taken us from many different cultures. You are showing us how to use money, power, sex, all of those things to your glory I pray that you would continue to permeate and bring everything captive to you, our Lord Jesus Christ. We pray these things as your people and in your name. Amen.