Turn with me, if you will, to Deuteronomy chapter 5 verse 16. And I'm actually going to ask you to stand this morning for the reading of God's Word. When the law was read in Nehemiah, they stood, and so we have good precedence. If a four-star general walked into the room, you'd stand. And so we'll do the same. This is Deuteronomy chapter five, verse sixteen. The word of the Lord. Honor your father and your mother as the Lord your God has commanded you, that your days may be long, and that it may be well with you in the land which the Lord your God is giving you. with me. Lord Jesus Christ, we are wretched creatures, confused and ignorant, and blind. But that is all changing because you are sending your spirit to us. And so we ask that whatever we don't have that we need that you would give it to us this morning. We pray, Lord, that you would illuminate our hearts, not that we would just read your word, but that we would truly honor you and honor you by honoring those. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Thank you. You didn't have to stand for long because the scripture reading wasn't that long. It was just one verse, although a One liner, it is uh deceptively large. It uh reminds me of in my in all of our vehicles, you see the little Text down the bottom of your rear view mirrors or on your side mirrors to say objects may be larger than appear. And that is true for verse 16 Uh it talks here immediately about honoring your parents and some of you your parents may no longer be alive and uh that might seem quite irrelevant to you, but I tell you this object is larger than it appears. There's quite a bit that this command covers, and I'm really looking forward for the Lord teaching us this morning. This is the fifth command, and we began with the first one. God has the right to be first place in our lives. That's what that means. And there's also a primacy to the command, in that all the others are a way in which we would serve our God and keep him primary, including this fifth one. God has the right to be worshipped as he wants God has the right to be represented as He wants, and God has the right to be worshipped one day and seven, to be remembered, His great acts, and to be worshipped through mercy and necessity. That's the first tablet or the table of the law. We've made it through the first four commands, and now we're moving into the second tablet or table. as uh recorded within the scriptures, where we're seeing an emphasis, as Jesus summarized it, on loving our neighbor, not just our God. But really the two intertwine is we love our God by loving our neighbor. God could um God chose chooses in his holiness to be loved and reverenced by us by how we treat one another. Now that's lovely In and of itself. And we've come to our first one, which begins with the honoring of our parents backed up with a promise. So there's really two parts to the command, and so we'll look at the two parts of the command under these headings. A relational command, because it has everything to do with relationships, and then an enduring promise. Promise still stands. And we'll contemplate that promise not as much in the sermon, but we will definitely do that at the Lord's Supper, because Jesus Christ in him, all promises are yes and an Amen. And so let's begin with our first division of this text. It's a relative command or a relational command. And this has everything to do with our relationships. There's more to be said than I can say in this single sermon. Honor your father and your mother as the Lord has commanded you, and then he goes on to talk about the promise or the incentive. But that first half uses the words father and mother. The command with obvious clarity, if he wants to be just specific and literal, Teaches us how children should relate to their mother and their father. That's very true. However, this is what happens. When we look through the scriptures at the words mother and father, we find the words applied to far more than just your parents. And so it ends up with a much broader application. Permit me to just go through a few of these kinds of applications or uses of the word father and mother. And feel free to write down these references so that you can look at them when you get home. I'm not going to read every single one. The first one is that father and mother, as Rob has already read From 1 Timothy 5. 1 and 5. 2, that they refer to those who are older in age than us. Listen to this. Do not rebuke an older man, but exhort him as a father, younger men as brothers, older women as mothers. So the designation is being used for those who are older than us, just in age. You see how the commandment has immediately broadened to include everybody in this room. We all fall under it Well, the the names mother and father continue, and I think some of these may surprise you. Those who are by God's grace particularly gifted in an area are considered fathers or mothers of those gifts in some sense. So I'm going to read this because this is a little more unfamiliar to us, but pay close attention to this context. This is from Genesis 2, or 4, rather, 4, 19 through 22 Then Lamech took for himself two wives. The name of one was Ada, and the name of the second was Zillah, and Ada bore Jabal. He was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock. His brother's name was Jabal. He was the father of all those who play the harp and the flute. Now if you're just reading those verses, it sounds like they started this whole flute-playing thing. They started this other thing. But it's not just about the origin because listen to the next verse. And as for Zillah, she also bore to Balcain an instructor of every craftsman in bronze and iron. It's a repetition of the phrase, but showing that these folks excelled in gifts, and as excelling in gifts, they were considered the fathers or the mothers of those particular gifts. Now isn't that an interesting use of the same word that we see Here within this passage. Those placed over us in authority have also been called fathers, such as our parents in this command, obviously, but then also our bosses. In 2 Kings 5, 12 through 14, are not the Abanah and the Farfar, the rivers of Damascus, better than the waters of Israel? This is trying to convince Naaman. To do what the prophet has said, that he would be healed from his leprosy. Could I not wash in them and be clean? He's arguing with him. So he turned and he went away in a rage, and his servants came near and spoke to him. Naem then is their boss, and the servant says, My father If the prophet had told you to do something great, would you not have done it? How much more then? And then he continues seeking to convince him, but he uses the word father for his boss. In the church, Elijah was Elisha's instructor, mentor, seminary professor because of the prophetic school that was going on during that time. And Elisha saw it and he cried out, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel and its horsemen. And you can read that passage. That's 2 Corinthians 2. 12. So in the church. Those who mentor the mentee are considered as fathers. Those who are over them in authority. Those over you in civil government are designated as fathers Kings shall be your fathers, and their queens, queens, your mothers. Isaiah 49, 23. Now, when I say all of this, I'm wondering if any of you can think of a contrary example where the father The use of father is used negatively. Sorry, I didn't know everyone was going to get into a dialogue with me. This is great. Let's let's keep going. It's like a synagogue. Lovely. In Matthew twenty-three, eight through nine, Jesus says this. We have to consider this. But you do not be called rabbi, for one is your teacher, the Christ, and you are all brethren. Do not call anyone on earth your father For one is your father, he who is in heaven. And yet what we do see is that fathers are called fathers in the first command. And that Paul uses the term father, as we just read in 2 Timothy, for those who are older. And so Christ is certainly not contradicting his own word. If you were to read the context in Matthew, he is showing that creatures Don't have absolute authority. And I have that passage in your bulletin for you to show that those who do not consider Jesus Christ of worth than their mother and their father in allegiance, they are not worthy of him. And that's the same point that he's making here in 23, 8 through 9. He's not contradicting the first command, and Paul is not straying from the words of Christ. Everyone is subject to God as the ultimate and absolute ruler and authority. In this context, in Matthew, the Pharisees, however, were taking a more superior role in the lives of God's people than was lawful and permitted for them to be able to take. They were actually contradicting the second person of the Trinity. And so he brings up this in that context, and that doesn't contradict anything that I have said so far. And so this command has to do with way more relationships than you could imagine, perhaps. So far, we've just focused on how you, as a superior, whether in age or authority or in gifts, how others would relate to you, and how you should relate to those who are over you. You can from this same command begin to look through the scriptures on how all of these other relationships are formed. For example, how is someone who is the leader to relate to those who are being led? How are we to relate to each other as equals? All of that is yet to be parsed out. This here. In this sermon, I'm just focusing on how we're to relate to those who are our fathers and our mothers, not just our parents, but all the ways in which the scriptures Use it. You can see, therefore, that it is applicable to every single person within this room. This command is for you. The command, of course, and with some kind of immediacy, is showing children how to relate to their parents. And yet when we look up the words father and mother, we find many more relationships included, which is why I titled this the Relational Command. Now, I want to continue because he doesn't just tell us to whom we should relate and the different kinds of relationships within our lives. He says how we should do so, and he uses a very special word here, which is honor. Honor your mother and your father. And since we've done all of this word work together, we could say honor your mothers and your fathers. The word here, honor, is actually kavod. Now so I say that word not to impress you because it's I'm not impressive. The the word you maybe you picked up on that, C. S. Lewis wrote a essay called The Weight of Glory There was a play on the word kavod or kovod. It's the same word here. It's often translated for the glory of God, but the meaning and the general meaning is that there's a weight and a significance And we can represent this by the word dignity. In other words, this is what the command is saying: we are to treat those over us with weight and significance. We are to treat our mothers and our fathers with weight and significance Imagine that you are on your own babysitting a four or five-year-old, or maybe they're your four or five-year-old. And just to add to the story, they're kind of clumsy, like all four and five-year-olds are. You take them to a friend's house who has just remodeled their home, and all of their carpet is brand new and white. And it's like the and it's it's like the shag kind. It's not like Scotch guard. And that day for lunch your friend decides to serve tomato soup. The child begins to carry their bowl of soup over to the place we're gonna sit where the carpet is. I'm already beginning to hear groans. What are the thoughts that go through your mind when you think of that scenario? Because they are a low-level thought of what's happening here within this passage. Whatever those thoughts are, it is because you are treating the white carpet the friendship that you have with your friend, the the vision of the tragedy as with a level of significance and dignity and honest And now we're just talking about a carpet. I guess we're also talking about a friendship in some sense and feeling embarrassed about it, but there is a weight and a dignity because of all those things bundled together One Old Testament professor gives a different image. He says, My wife and I began our home with two sets of dishes, an inexpensive set that our children learned to wash and dry, and the fine china we received on our wedding day. I told our children that we have the same two sets and they said, there's a second set? Yes, it's been in the attic since the wedding. They have been they received these this Old Testament professor also received his on his w wedding day. They had been married more than fifty years, and they still remember the day that they broke a china saucer. That China never goes through the dishwasher. It is hand washed carefully and tenderly. And to honor parents is to have a similar heart attitude. It means to esteem them as precious. Now, those are two images to help you to understand the word kavad or honor within or glory within this. And so the question comes and rolls out to everyone in here, since we all have many mothers and fathers now, both in the way I've spoken and Rob brought out the idea of the church. Do you treat your parents with weight and dignity? Or in other words, are they fine China? Are they the plastic plates you get from the cheap section of IKEA? There's unending applications of this in terms of how you treat your parents when they become older, for example. Jesus focuses on that. He chides the Pharisees for their laws where they had to neglect the parents. There's other examples throughout the scriptures. Interestingly, as I'm searching through the scriptures to find these different examples, a pattern kept coming up on how to honor and treat children. Your parents as fine China. It was the act of standing, which is why we stood for the reading of God's Word today. Proverbs 31: Children and husband will rise, literally, to call their wife. Blessed. Leviticus 14, you are to rise when the elderly walk into the room. 1 Kings 2, Solomon rose when Bathsheba visited and entered into the Standing when someone enters the room is not old fashioned and arbitrary at all, which our culture says that it is that they were all arbitrary commands that people made up because they were legalistic and had nothing better to do. Or they wanted to feel fancy. And come to find out they were right and we were wrong. That postmodernism is bankrupt. Children, when your parents enter the room, do you stand For them. Now that sounds crazy. And I'm not going to stand here and say that every time your parent enters into the room, you have to stand for them. What I'm trying to get at is a heart attitude, however. What convictions would you have? What heart attitude would you have if you had the mindset of standing every time your parent entered the room? Every time, now you say I say it's crazy, but as I was thinking through this, I thought of an example. And I had never noticed it really before. Every time I walk into the church in the evening when the Koreans are having their meal, as soon as I come through the door, several of them stand. Isn't that interesting? And they bow. It is on their mind all the time as a conviction of honor. Now does that it shouldn't That shouldn't be that surprising to you with that particular culture. But maybe it's not so crazy. It still resides within Eastern cultures to honor Those who are above us. In our culture, we're dominated by postmodernism, and postmodernism tells us that the old rules are just meaningless formalities. That's what they say: formal bad and formal good. But when we dig deeper, we find that postmodernism is ignorant. And the first command tells us that there is a proper way that God has designed and that you may not define. Because God has already done so, there is a proper way for you to relate to others, and I'm focusing on those who are above you. And they have the title Father and Mother, and it's all throughout the scriptures. And I just wonder today, who are you going to stand for? Who will you show respect and honor to? Surely God knows that we need to hear this today within our culture. We need to admit our arrogance in thinking all those old rules were wrong. But God also knows that we need incentive and motivation to keep treating our superiors with honor, and that's what He does. He is such a good God that He doesn't just give us the command, He gives us an incentive through an enduring promise, and that's the next part of this verse here. Honor your fathers and mothers as the Lord your God has commanded you, that your days may be long too, and that it may be well with you in the land which the Lord your God has given you. I want to say first that when we look through the scriptures, we don't see this is not the only motivation that is given to us for this fifth command. The apostle Paul tells us in Ephesians and Colossians that honor to our parents is the right thing to do. He says, honor your mother and your father, for it is right. That's what he says. Now that's lovely. That we see that. And then he also says directly after that, it pleases him. It is pleasing to him. Can you imagine that? Just for a second. I'm not into the promise here yet. I'm telling you some other promises that are out there in Scripture. Can you imagine? Imagine doing something that pleases Jesus Christ. That is astonishing That we could do such a thing. And if we were to look at the other scriptures, this is what's going on behind that from Philippians: He works and wills in you by his Spirit to make you someone who honors those over you. And then he rewards you for the work in you that he has done. He expresses pleasure at your good works that he created in you. He crowns you as one of his good and faithful servants, even though he's the one You are his creation and you are his new creation, which is why we take the crown off and we cast them at his feet. Because we know that all glory belongs to him. And yet that that's what's going on here, is that we, through his spirit, and that is what he's doing in you, Christian. It's why he's given you this command to remind you the work that he's doing in you is that you would be a person who honors your fathers and your mothers. He also motivates by warnings. This is elsewhere within the scriptures also. I'll get to the promise in just a moment. He also motivates by warning. And these are very surprising. I'm going to read two verses to you. This is from Romans one twenty eight through thirty. And if you're familiar with that, when I say that, you should be familiar that the context is one of a spiral in idolatry to the worst sins known amongst mankind. And at close to the bottom of the list, listen to this And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a debased mind to do those things which are not fitting, being filled with all unrighteousness, sexual immorality. Wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, evil mindedness. They are whisperers, backbiters, haters of God, violent, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things Now he's mentioned homosexuality already. And then at the end of this list, I haven't read this final one, it says this. Disobedient to parents Same list. Same list. Now, and this is from 2 Timothy 3. 1 through 2. This isn't just a one-shot deal. But know this that in the last days perilous times will come, for men will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, and unholy. Now the purpose of a warning is is is kind of like when something goes sour within creation. Have you ever had this experience where there's sour milk or cream? And then someone says, Oh, this is so sour gross, try it. Have you had let me just tell you, I'm not gonna try it Because the point of it being sour in curdles is for me to know not to try it. And you going, oh, that tells me not to try it. And it's the same thing here. These warnings are given to us, and these lists are saying, I want to stay away from this because people do not, who are a part of this, do not inherit the kingdom of heaven. It also is an incentive, it's a motivation for us to stay away from a violation of this fifth command. If you neglect the fifth command, God takes it very, very personally. He takes it that you are rejecting him, actually. The motivation in Deuteronomy now The motivation in Deuteronomy is the promise of living long and going well in the land. Now, we have to be honest, we have to say that there is an immediate relevancy to this for the Israelite. Because it mentions the word land. They're getting ready to go into the promised land. So he's obviously thinking of that which is immediately before this group of people, which Is not before you. I'm not promising you that when you go to Canaan, everything's gonna go well. You could have your passport stolen if you go there. There is an immediate context. The motivation for them was that it would go well in the land and they would remain, they would not have to receive discipline and be removed by way of exile. But we know that story. And we know that they were removed. And listen to this reason that is given in Ezekiel for the removal and discipline of this people. Look, the princes of Israel, each one has used his power to shed blood in you That's showing that the authorities are abusing those who are under them. That's one relationship. In you, they have made light of father and mother. That was the second reason. And then it goes on in this passage to talk about all other different kinds of relationships. That basically they were violating the second table of the law throughout the land, and so he removes them in discipline. What we notice in the teaching of Christ and his apostles is that this promise endures But it is broadened to no longer talk about a specific geographic locality. It moves. The language becomes broader actually. Have you read the first commandment in Ephesians chapter six? two through three. I've already appealed to it, but let me read it. Honor your father and your mother, which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with you and you may live long on the earth So it's broadened. And thus we're not waiting for God to put the Jews back in complete control of the Holy Land for a final apocalypse. The Israelite now is both Jew and Gentile united to Christ by faith, waiting for the new Jerusalem, the new heavens, and the new earth. That's the promise, and we'll talk about that in the Lord's Supper. In terms of land, there is a whole new land which will consume the whole earth. Nevertheless, the promise of a profitable life remains Generally speaking, and ordinarily, those who seek to obey the fifth command by the power of the Holy Spirit shall be blessed. And I'd ask that you would just turn to Proverbs and look through that yourself to see the kind of uh teaching that we receive from that wisdom. Tradition. Jesus himself confirms it in the things that he says within the scriptures. And he will discipline those who continue to violate this as we see him walking amongst the churches. even now. And so that's the command in the two parts. The fifth command tells us how to relate to God through our human relationships. And therefore, it is a relative or a relational command. That's a key word. It is a relative or a relational command. And this command comes with a promise Other motivations exist, but here the promise is a reminder of the new heavens and the new earth, and that living for God by honoring our parents brings a blessed life ordinarily. A life where we can glorify God, which is the most blessed of all, even if filled with suffering. Thomas Boston put it this way. Relationships are the joints of our society. Sin has disjointed the world. And so no wonder it's so miserable. A relative or relationship holiness Would set the disjointed world right again. And that's the point of that second one. The promise. Now, what I want to do is I want to go to the Lord's Supper to discuss how Jesus Christ, all promises, are yes and amen in him, as we consider this fifth commandment. in relationship to him. Let me pray and then we'll sing our invitational song together. Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for these words that you have given to us and that you have help upheld both in uh your teaching in the Gospels and also your teaching in the African Apostolic writings, uh, the letters of Paul. Lord Jesus Christ, we are unable to do these things unless you are to give us your spirit. And you have given us your spirit. We pray that we would not just be hearers of the word that you have given to us, but that we would be doers both of the command and that we would be motivated to do it because of the incentives that you've given us. To us in the promise. We ask now as we go to your table that you would continue to speak to us, that we would apprehend your work by faith As we see you in the supper by faith. We ask these things in your name. Amen