I ask that you please turn with me now to Deuteronomy chapter 5. We are entering back into our regular sermon series from the selectional readings from John and Advent. I really enjoyed that. I hope to preach through John perhaps next after we finish Deuteronomy in 2024. We'll see. This morning we're looking at Deuteronomy chapter five, and we'll be looking at the fourth command, which is found in verses twelve through fifteen. So please read along with me, and then I'll ask that the Lord would teach us Himself. Observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy, as the Lord your God commanded you. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work, you, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your ox, nor your donkey, nor your any of your cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates, that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you. And remember That you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God brought you out from there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm. Therefore, the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day. Let's pray. Father, we need you to teach us through the instrument of your preacher this morning, the instrument of your word this morning. By your Spirit this morning, draw us to your truth. We ask these things in your name. Amen. We return now to the law of God. The law of God has fallen on hard times these days, even amongst Christians. Yet the law of God, according to the scriptures, is meant to be a blessing to us. As Jeremiah was saying earlier, it is a pathway to true freedom. The law brings us to Christ. When we see that we're unable to meet the law's demands, we see a solution in reconciliation with the Father through Jesus Christ, our Savior. It teaches us. Not only that, but upon receiving the Holy Spirit, we are drawn to serve our God. And the way that we are to serve him is detailed here, or summarized rather. In these Ten Commands, it teaches us to love God and to love each other. And it acts as a sandbag, a cap, to keep the sinful tidal surges of humanity from From constantly running past the shore and destroying everything on land. whether business law or what family law, whatever, and it acts as a kind of cap and sandbag. It is truly a pathway to freedom and blessing still for us. We've been looking at each of the commands. The first one is you shall have no other gods before you. In other words, he deserves first place. And all other commands show us how to give him that place. He specifies how he receives primacy within our lives. The first one that he gives, which is the second command, we shall not carve have or make carved images of Yahweh, and his point here is that he alone has the right to determine how he is worshipped. And he's given guidelines for that, and we follow those with the prayer and other things that we've been doing this morning. Ways that he wants to be worshipped in spirit and in truth, as he taught the Samaritan woman. The Father is drawing those true worshipers to himself. That we will not take the Lord's name in vain, and it means more than just saying his name as an expletive. Of course, his name is a treasure, and we don't want to misuse it that way, but it is much bigger than that. It means that we bear his name as his image to the world. And it's interesting because it says that no he shall not be worshipped by images. That we would make, and yet he is found out about him through us bearing his image to this world. It's very interesting and is a great privilege to be made within him. his image. This morning we look at the major way to walk this pathway of freedom. The fourth command is a major way to work on those commands that we have already heard and all of the commands that we will hear after this. It is through the observance of the fourth command that we keep God front and center. That's why he gave it to us. We worship him publicly on this day that he determined, second command. And keeping the day holy becomes a distinguishing mark that we are his people, third command. Now this morning, I cannot say everything that you have ever wondered about the Sabbath or the Christian Sabbath or the Lord's Day. My job is to exposite this passage here in Deuteronomy, and I'll do so with some light shed from the New Testament because that's Important for us to see the full development of God's counsel. But that is my hope this morning is that we would begin by understanding this fourth command, and I want to divide it this way. By God's grace, we have a clear command in front of us. There is an act of rest that we are to partake of, which is also very clear. And to support us against doubt and arguments, he gives us a reason and a purpose. And so there's a clear command, an act of rest, and a supporting reason and a purpose that is all here within these verses And so let's begin in verse 12 with a clear command. There are so many debates on the fourth command. I'll be honest with you, even within my own presbytery, there are many debates. Lots of different positions, lots of arguments. But by God's grace, despite all of the human confusion, the command in verse 12 is clear. It almost doesn't need exposition. It says what it says. Let's move on. The command is to observe the Sabbath day by keeping it holy. There's no debate It doesn't need much exposition. It's right there. But I do want to define a few words just to be crystal clear and not just clear. To observe is a repeated phrase throughout the scriptures, especially in Deuteronomy. We have already looked at this word observe. It means It's not just watching something with your eyes. It's to diligently attend so as to perform and live exactly as God designed, and God has come up with many different ways that we would diligently attend to the commands that He's given us. to us, including the fourth command. Perhaps he gave us ten so that we could remember one on each digit or finger, so that it could rest within our heart. There's another section coming up where there's an obvious five-fold division that we would remember it on at least one hand. The point is that we would observe, and he's coming up with all kinds of ways that we wouldn't miss the observation, the diligent attendance on this. All of Moses' rhetoric, we've been out of this book for a little while, but remember chapter four All of Moses' rhetoric has been pushing toward this. He spoke earlier of fire and smoke. He reminded the people of God's victories over giants. You remember the 13-foot bed. So that they would observe all of the commands of the Lord. All of the recounting of the stories, the remembrance of giants and fire and smoke, are motivation that an observation, a diligent attendance would take place. And he's doing the exact same thing here with these people and with us in the fourth command. The focus is on observing the fourth command by keeping one day and seven holy. That's just Focus. He wants you to do this by keeping one day and seven holy. Now, what does it mean to say to keep it holy? That can be confusing within our culture. Some translations that you have may say that we are to sanctify the day. Some say that the day is to be holy. No matter what it is, the point is that the day is to be consecrated or to be made separate. It is not for common use It is set aside as special. Now we're quite familiar actually with the idea of making a day holy. Did you do you know that? We actually do that. We're not very formal any longer in America Not as much as we used to be, but we still have formal and special days, and we call it a holy day or a holiday. A holiday. We're familiar with holidays. You can consider the Fourth of July, for example. The Fourth of July has been a federal holiday in the United States since 1941. But the tradition of Independence Day celebrations go back to the 18th century and the American Revolution, as you know. On July 2nd, not fourth, interestingly, 1776, the Continental Congress voted in favor of independence And two days later, the delegates from the Thirteen Colonies adopted the Declaration of Independence. From 1776 to the present day, the Fourth of July has been celebrated as the birth of American independence And it is set aside as holy. You have off if you're in the government. You have fireworks or firecrackers, depending on which state you're in, parades and concerts. Casual family gatherings and good barbecue, deviled eggs, made by my Aunt Patty. Thank you, Aunt Patty. Fourth of July is set apart and sanctified in our nation as a special day. And you can think of all the other holidays that we have where if we're someone were to violate it, how seethingly in a rage you would be. This is what the fourth command is saying by way of analogy. The analogy breaks down at a certain point. But by way of analogy, this is what the fourth command is: it is a day sanctified. The difference, of course, between the 4th of July, at least one of the differences in the Sabbath, is that God commanded and instituted the Holy Day of the Sabbath, and He did not command that we would obey the 4th of July, nor really any other holiday. The concept and the command is clear. We are to observe it. It is to be sanctified. There is one day out of seven where this is supposed to happen. God commanded that one day in seven be set aside as special. You have got to nail that down. If you want to be able to move forward, In conviction or understanding, you've got to nail that down. Now I have had the privilege, ever since I showed up here one evening service with a fresh bucket of Kentucky fried chicken. An arch confronting me on how I spend my Sabbath. I've been thinking for nine years now about the Sabbath. And it has this first point takes a lot of time to think about, at least in my world. And it must be nailed down before you were to go forward. Is that command clear? Is that command clear? Do you know what it means to observe? Do you know what it means to sanctify? And you'll need to continue thinking about that. Now this begs a question. If the day is to be sanctified and set aside as special, special how? On the 4th of July, we get deviled eggs. We better. But what does it mean to set aside the Sabbath as a special day? What is it supposed to look like on that day? We're clear pretty much on all of the other holidays. Thanksgiving, there's turkey. Christmas, there's this. Right? What about the one that God has actually commanded? What is it set aside for? Now the beginning of that answer is given in the verses 13 and 14, and the answer is that it is an act of rest. That's what the day is for. 13 and 14, an act of rest. Let me read verse 14 to you. But the Sabbath day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God, and here he's going to tell us what we do in it. In it you shall do no work. You, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your ox, nor your donkey, nor any of your cattle, nor your stranger who is within the gates. That your male and female servant may rest as well as you. He covers all the bases, doesn't he? The phrasing of the command first seems especially directed toward those who have the power to make people work. Did you notice that? That there's an implication present within the language. For example, it says your son, your daughter, your employees, your animals. Whose son? Whose daughter? Whose animals? Whose employees? There's someone who is in charge And so there's some property owner, some head of household, some community heads and leaders, whoever this may be, whether father or mother or CEO or president, they are to direct society on the Sabbath so that all rest. That's one of the first things to point out here. Is that if you are a leader, if you were in charge somehow, you especially must pay attention to the command. But rest is the key to it. term here in determining what is to be done on the day. That is the main practice. We are to rest. Our activity is to rest. It is an active rest And now, since I'm speaking to Americans who love their rest, this needs definition. In fact, I was just looking up on a website called Market Watch that Americans in 2017 spent $100 billion on entertainment. Fifty-six billion dollars were spent to rest watching sporting events. Americans love rest and leisure. We are a leisure nation. Here's a surprising statistic for those of you who think you're immune. Fifteen to nineteen years old, just TV, three hours a day in the nation. That's the tissue Statistic, okay? 55 and oh over, four to five hours a day. Very interesting. No matter what your age, our focus tends to be on leisure and rest Rest, we already have a definition in our mind as to what rest is. So we must ask if God means the same thing by rest in this passage that we mean, that we have inside of our mind. Is American rest the same thing here that God commands on his day? Rest. Now it's obvious from the command that to rest means no work, but if we're not working, how does God intend for us to spend the day? And here's where I'm going to pop out of this passage just a little bit to inform us. You'll see in your bulletin that I included Psalm 97 and I gave the title. To the Psalm, which I normally don't do, so that you can see one of the things that was done on the Sabbath. A psalm. Psalm ninety-two. A song for the Sabbath day. It is good to give thanks to the Lord and to sing praises to your name, O Most High. And now notice how he divides the day into morning and the evening. To declare your loving-kindness in the morning and your faithfulness every night. This is where we get the idea of a morning and an evening service, which is why we have retained it here. As you can see from the call to worship in your bulletin, the day is for celebrating God and his works in corporate worship. And this is supplemented, of course, by private meditation This is stated again in Leviticus 23, and you can write this down if you want to look these up later. Leviticus 23, verse 3. You have six days each week for your ordinary work. But the seventh day is a Sabbath day of complete rest, an official day for holy convocation or assembly. And so the emphasis tended to be on corporate worship. It is the Lord's Sabbath day, and it must be observed wherever you live, is the completion of Leviticus. that passage in Leviticus. Now of course every day we are to do all things to the glory of God. That's always been the case from the beginning. But one day in seven we gather to recount who God is and what he has done, and we praise him from our delight in who he is and what he is doing And that's really if you were to look through all of your worship bulletins and the way that we've structured our morning and our evening service, you would see that that's the principle that we use in structuring. It the whole worship service, both morning and evening, are here at SREPC rehearse who God is, what his great works are, that we might remember. we might remember. Now the second thing besides worship that we might worship him is mercy. This may be surprising to you The instruction that we receive in the scriptures is that you are not to be sitting around all day long worshiping, but rather it is especially a day for merciful action. Now I read that to you in the bulletin also, with the example of Jesus from Matthew 12. The Pharisees misunderstood the fourth command. They made the day of rest a cruel burden to God's people. Jesus provoked them by healing a man on the Sabbath and and This is what he said in the bulletin we read this earlier. Now when he had departed from there he went into their synagogue, and behold, there was a man who had a withered hand, and they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to heal in the Sabbath? That they might accuse him Then he said to them, What man is there among you who has one sheep? And if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath will not lay hold of it and lift it out? How much more value then is a man than a sheep? Therefore it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath Stretch out your hand. And it was restored, just as whole as the other. Passages like this, and the teaching that results from it in decades has resulted in decades. Of Christian social work in cities and towns. If you know anyone, it is very difficult to find now in America, but if you know anyone who is older from Scotland, Ask them about their youth and what they did on the Lord's Day. They will say nothing except go to worship And show mercy by going to the nursing home or making hospital visits. They'll provide you with specific stories. They grew up going to nursing homes and feeding the poor, doing ministry, making house calls. And we too should still make it a day of ministry, visiting the sick, hospital visitation, for example, feeding the poor is an excellent use of the day. At other times, besides worship and mercy, some necessities need to be done. Sometimes you need to get your ox out of a ditch. That's a biblical example that Jesus gives. And so sometimes doctors are on call, fire and police are on patrol. And thus you can see the difference between American leisure and biblical leisure. American rest and biblical rest is very different, which is why I titled this section of these verses, An Act of Rest. It is an act of rest of mercy and necessity and worship. And there's nothing wrong with a nap. God has given us a holiday so that we have time to worship Him and to help others. That's a summary of what you should be doing on the day, what it should be filled with, to worship God and help others. Does that remind you of anything within the Deuteronomy passage? As Jesus summarized it. It is a summary of the entire Ten Commandments: love God and love neighbor. I really see the fourth command as focused on those first three and focused on the last set. One songwriter wrote, O day of rest and gladness, O day of joy and light. O balm for care and sadness, most beautiful, most bright. On you the high and lowly, through ages joined in tune, sing holy, holy, holy to the great God. Triune. The lyrics describe the Christian Sabbath or the Lord's Day. My question to you is: would you describe it that way? A day of gladness? A day that is medicine for your care and a cure for your sadness. Is it most beautiful? Is it most bright? I don't always hear that. Sometimes I just hear complaints that your parents won't let you play Call of Duty. But I pray that it would be different than that. I pray that it would be Now the command is clear. The rest is an act of rest, which is different than that as we conceive of rest within America. And yet God knows that the world, our own desires, and the devil will tempt us to neglect this command. And so God gives us support And he gives us a purpose. And that's verse 15. I take this really as a purpose and a reason that he's given for them to continue in it. The key word here within this section, verse 15, let me read that to you. And remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God brought you out from there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm. Therefore, the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day. Now, the key word here is remember at this point. The reason for celebrating the Sabbath is to remember. Let me give you some examples of this throughout biblical history. Noah was given a rainbow to remember And you can think about all the things that he was to remember when he saw the sign within the sky, what he was to remember. Abraham was given circumcision to remember Aaron's rod is stored with tablets in the ark to remember. And in the same way, or likewise, we are given the Sabbath as a day to remember. This is another way of saying, which also comes from the root of the same word: it is a memorial. A memorial is something like a monument, or in our case, a day that reminds people of certain events. According to Exodus, if you were to go to the Ten Commandments in Exodus, there's a different reason given, actually. According to Exodus, the Sabbath reminds God's people that he is the creator of heaven and earth. And I shall serve no other God, nor worship any other God. And I will worship him as he deserves and as he commands. Because he's the creator. And Deuteronomy, the Sabbath reminds God's people that he is the great Redeemer from Egypt. That's the reminder. But it also acts like a badge, which is also a kind of reminder. I remember a story recently told to me from my dad. He was on Bononi Point in St. Michael's. He was hunting there. I think he was goose hunting. And he was stopped for the first time in all of his life in hunting by a DNR agent. The agent said, he just walks up to him in the woods and says, Let me see your gun And my father replied, because he's old school, let me see your badge. My father needed to make sure of the identity of this person, and so he asked for a badge. And the Sabbath, in a similar way, or by analogy, also acts as a kind of badge according to the scriptures. It's a kind of reminder. It is a reminder to ourselves and to everyone around us. whose people we are and what has happened to us and what will happen to the whole world Observing the Sabbath day is a badge. It reminds and shows your identity. Here's Ezekiel 20, 11 through 12. I gave them my decrees. And I made known to them my laws, by which the person who obeys them will live. Also, I gave them my Sabbaths as a sign between us, so that they would know that I, the Lord, made them whole That we would never forget who we are, and neither would anyone else. The Sabbath day is a day of worshiping God and loving neighbor. That especially one day in seven, love of God and neighbor becomes a distinguishing mark of who we are and a reminder of what we are becoming. Perfect in love for God, perfect in love for each other. Now I don't know how anyone could not see that as beautiful The command is clear that there is to be one day in seven set aside. The rest is not American rest that is active, although we're not against a nap. It's appropriate, but the day is meant for worship and for mercy, especially and for necessity. Necessities especially for policemen, firemen, doctors. And we have a good reason to obey the fourth commandment. Man. The day helps us to remember who God is, what He is doing, and who we are. Three of the major questions of human existence. A day is set aside for that to be re-established within the heart. The world can see that God is making a new creation. God has given us a great day of remembrance, a balm for care, a balm for our sadness. It is a market day, not to fill things in our living room. It is a market day for the soul. That is what the Puritans call. called it. Now what's interesting, and a major and and transformative shift that we see within the New Testament Is that they don't continue to make a remembrance of the Egyptian Exodus the main focus, nor the creation account as the main focus What I mean is this, let me ask you this question. On the Sabbath, are you supposed to remember the exodus from Pharaoh, that group of people? Is that the main thing you should remember? Are you supposed to remember God's rest in creation? Is that the main thing that you should remember? As where you are within redemptive history? Those things would be good to remember, but something has happened. And there's a different memory that must now fill our minds because when we look at the New Testament disciples of Jesus They are doing more than remembering the Israelite exodus from Egypt, and they're doing more than remembering God resting at creation. Now, how do I know this? They are remembering Jesus Christ on this day. How do I know, or how would you know, if you went to the scriptures, That the remembrance, the memory that should fill your mind now is the memory of God the Father's work through Jesus Christ and his Spirit. How would you know that? The main way by which we know is because the day has been changed They started to gather for worship and mercy, the disciples in the New Testament, not on Saturday, the Jewish Sabbath, the seventh day of the week, but on the first day of the week. The Lord's Day. The Lord, referring to Jesus, the Lord. That's why we gather on this day and not yesterday. Because that was the day of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the first Christians called it the Lord's Day. That's where we got the name. Revelation 1:10. This is John speaking I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice as of a trumpet, and then he receives on that day that revelation that is now written down in the book of Revelation. From creation to the resurrection of Christ, God's work was memorialized on the seventh day. Everyone was to remember his work that he had done and the promises that he had made on that day. But from the resurrection of Christ onward, God's work is memorialized on the first day of the week. And what better way to memorialize his work in Jesus Christ than to constantly be on the day of his resurrection? Every Sunday is Easter. That's technically not correct. Every Sunday is the Lord's Day. And so here you have before you, what are you to remember? Every Saturday night you can say to yourself, I am going to prepare for the Lord's day because it was the day he was resurrected from the dead, and he began his new creation. Begin to remember a day before. You don't even have to wait till Sunday morning. Every Lord's Day you can say Christ is risen from the dead, and you can think about all the implications of that. No matter how sad you are on Saturday, no matter how much hope you do not have on Saturday, when you wake up on the Lord's Day, the whole day is filled with hope because Jesus Christ is risen from the dead. Every Lord's Day you can say, God kept his promise. He provided a way for me and my family to escape our slavery to sin and misery and evil. You can begin to look at the Pharaoh story as just A real historical event, but a foreshadow of what God ultimately intended for us to be exodus out of the evil of this world, even the evil that resides within our hearts of darkness. All through Jesus Christ. That is what you should remember. Those are just some of the things. There are so many different things to remember that Jesus Christ has done that He has given you 24 hours every week to do it. And that's the point. And we need it because we are sad, because we are we need consolation, because we run out of energy because we run out of stamina, we run out of motivation. We need to remember, we need the day. That's what you should remember. This is a good place to begin if you just take these three points here from this Deuteronomy passage, which don't answer all ethical questions about the Sabbath, on whether you should have Kentucky fried chicken today or not. Doesn't answer all of those questions, but it's the beginning and it's the foundation to be able to answer them correctly. Is the command clear for you? Almost everyone will agree that the command is clear for an ancient Israelite. I'm asking you, is this command clear for you? Is the day commanded for you? There are many things that have been said that you would agree to. God should be worshipped. You would agree to that. Everyone here in this church agrees to that. The specific thing that the Sabbath is saying is on a specific day. In corporate worship, especially, that there is a day that He's commanded you to do it. Is that command clear for you? You need to sort through that. And that's where you should begin with your children also Looking in Scripture, making sure that's clear for you, nail that down. Do you have a biblical understanding of rest? Because after you get that nailed down, if you don't have a biblical understanding of rest You will justify all kinds of things to do on the Lord's day. And to be able to help you with all of your other ethical questions, begin with the purpose. The purpose is to worship, the purpose is to rest, the purpose is to remember God the Father through Jesus Christ and what they are accomplishing through the Spirit. Is what you're doing contributing to remembering those things? Let's pray. Father, this is admittedly a difficult command because of all of the but what about? That can arise within our hearts, not only from the church, but our culture that surrounds us. Anyone that would think through this will be double-teamed And so, Father, it's true with every other truth. It's true even about you, Lord Jesus Christ, that you are God, become man. That is an impossible thing to believe unless the Father draws you. And so we ask for the same miracle to take place, the same supernatural illumination and activity to take place in regards to your fourth command. Give us clarity, give us an age. Where we realize that one day in seven has been set aside to remember your resurrection. All that the Father is accomplishing through Jesus Christ. Christ the Son. Would you do so first and foremost that you would be glorified? And secondly, that we would have mercy on each other. Help us to act in our society again, especially on the Lord's Day. Help us to visit prisons, nursing homes, the sick to do our elder ministry and deacon ministry especially. Let it be full. We ask, Lord, for an active rest We ask, Lord, that you would encourage those who are downtrodden today, who feel sad, who feel confused and worried. I pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would place right in front of their face. Whether they understand the fourth command or not, that you have risen from the dead, and that all authority has been given to you in heaven and on earth, and that therefore Although they may have trouble in this world, they should not fear, because you have overcome this world. And may that always be remembered on this day. I ask these things in your name. Name. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and we'll finish our service with a resurrection song