Matthew 6, 16 through 18. I'll go ahead and read that now. Moreover, when you fast, do not be like the hypocrites with a soul sad countenance For they disfigure their faces, that they may appear to men to be fasting. Assuredly I say to you, they have their reward. But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, so that you do not appear to men to be fasting, but to your father who is in the secret place, and your father who sees in secret will reward you openly. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I ask that you would bless the preaching of your word here to your people. Oh, may your word go out and And accomplish all your purposes. I pray, Lord, we give praise to you and you would show people how to relate to you. Ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Has anyone here noticed that we have a lot of young babies around? Usually at this point somebody says there must be something in the water. We have a lot of babies around and and um For me, it has really reminded me of what it was like to have young kids around the house, which I I don't really experience too much any longer. But when I did, I remember one of the first things that we learned were the differences in the kinds of cries that a baby has. Everybody. Pretty much aware of those differences. If you if you um are expecting or whatever, you're going to learn the differences real quick. There are some there are some cries where the baby just doesn't want to do what you want the baby to do. There are cries when the baby is tired. You can get so good where you can say, the baby's crying because mom had broccoli. I mean you can get that good. There's broccoli cries. And there are cries when the baby is in pain. And you can distinguish those cries within a child. especially the mom really becomes attuned to that and knowing when to get up and when she has just uh maybe ten more minutes to to hang in there. And uh I bring that up with you here this morning because I think uh you know that's what th this is an illustration that was given to me when I was in seminary. And it's an illustration for us to understand a topic that isn't that familiar with us, at least In my knowledge, it is not that familiar with you, and that is the topic of fasting. Fasting, we were taught in seminary, and I'll go over a more formal definition in a bit. Fasting is a time of an intensive cry. Where God, as your father, would hear his children, knowing that there's something special going on. It could be a cry of pain, where he would give a special ear to it. A cry of deep sorrow, where he would give a special ear to it. And that is a time, that is a part of what fasting is. Fasting is that a a crying out or an in a time of an an intensive cry of prayer to our Father in heaven that is made intensive by depriving our bodies of food and drink and usually just accepting water. And that's what we're gonna discuss today as a part of an overarch-arching teaching that we've been going through here with the Sermon on the Mount It's actually closely related to what we discussed last week, which was at the concluding section on prayer. We looked at some verses last week in verse 15 where we were able to see that it was a further explanation of verse number 12 in terms of the daily prayers that we're meant to have with our Heavenly Father. And keeping up the relationship by way of sanctification and growing in holiness with Him throughout our days by continually asking Him for forgiveness. And the forgiveness that we receive changes us, and we're able to offer that forgiveness to others. It keeps up our relationship with God. and it keeps up our relationship with each other. The focus that I ended up giving was a real focus throughout the whole prayer of a meaningful and personal relationship with our Father who is in heaven. I really hope you caught that. And this extends that. This fasting, the way we're even putting it as a you being his child who has an intensive cry. And for that to be an intensive period, it is accompanied by a depriving of the body with a fast that goes along with you relating to him, not just in the daily. But when the daily starts to become quite difficult or urgent, God encourages us and actually anticipates or assumes that we as a people will fast. Now let's go ahead and we're going to go through that, through the, through the passage here. I want to look at this passage basically just through two main parts the assumption of fasting and the purpose of fasting. The assumption of fasting and the purpose of fasting. Now We're in 16 through 18, and I want to begin, before I even get into the assumption of fasting, let me just state for you one last time a basic definition for fasting that I was given in seminary. And uh maybe I'll modify this as my years go on, but I'm gonna take this from people who have fasted a lot. I actually haven't practiced it very much, to be honest with you. But my seminary professors did, and often called days of fast, and they defined it this way. Fasting is the intensified praying of the believer in order to humble himself and seek God. Fasting is the intensified praying of the believer in order to humble him or herself and to seek God. Now, if any of you out here are fans, of Wilhelmus Obrachel and his treatise on fasting, which actually is quite good. That definition matches pretty well with that too. You can take a look at that if you'd ever want. But fasting is the intensified praying of the believer in order to humble himself and to seek God. And the first thing I'm pointing out to you from this passage is this it's assumed. When we take a look closely at the language in verse number 16, it says, moreover, when you fast, It doesn't say if you do. There is an assumption here based upon, I believe, the history of God's people and fasting where Jesus just comes to the table assuming that his disciples will have the practice of intensively calling out to God during periods of their life by way of depriving their bodies of food and drink. There is an assumption here in verse number 16 when it says when you will. Now, like I mentioned just a second ago, it comes from a long history of fasting. I would encourage you to just go through your scriptures with some kind of uh What is that thing called? A concordance or whatever whatever resources you have. Just start at the beginning of the Bible and start plugging your way through, looking at all of the times that God's people are fasting you'll be quite surprised at how many times it's there. It's in all of the different genres within the Bible. I'll just mention a couple examples that you probably already knew about, but maybe forgot or wasn't on your mind. Moses fasted. If you remember that, in the time of judges when they were under in uh oppression, specifically I believe it was by Midian, they moved into a kind of fast David fasted in waiting to find out if his son was going to live based upon his adultery. I wonder if you remember that story. If you do. 1 Samuel, there is a fasting that's present there. Esther fasts. Ezra fasts, and here's one that we just covered not too long ago. Do you remember that in order to seek to be spared of judgment, the king of Nineveh called for a national fast? It called for a national fast. So those are just some examples from different books of the Old Testament, and there's more where that came from. Now, did you know or even remember that in the in the beginning here of even this gospel that Jesus fasts? He starts off his ministry there being tempted in the wilderness, and he's on a fast. So that's good to remember. I'd encourage you to turn in your Bibles very quickly, and we'll turn here actually a couple times, I think. If I stay with my game plan, we'll we'll turn to this a couple times in the scriptures. It's Acts chapter 13, verses 2 and 3. we start to see a picture painted for us that the New Testament church is continuing this practice of fasting. And in that it has continued to be assumed in Acts 13, 2 through 3, there is a commissioning ceremony that's going on. And ordination and ascending out of missionaries. Now it says, and I'll just begin in chapter 13, verse 1. Now in the church that was at Antioch there were certain prophets and teachers. Barnabas, Simeon, who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Minayan, who had been brought up with Herod, the Tetrarch, and Saul. As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Spirit said, Now separate to me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. And then in verse number 3, especially, this shows this kind of normative aspect of it. Then having fasted and prayed and laid hands on them, they sent them away to do their ministry. You see that there. We'll come back there in just a little bit. So here we see this practice. We don't see a long explanation of it here in these passages, and it's because everybody just knew that these were the things that uh would attend such a an ordination or commissioning ceremony that we see here in Acts 13, 2 through 3. Now another one I wanted you to look at is in 2 Corinthians chapter 6. 2 Corinthians is right after 1 Corinthians. Dad that was a dad joke. 2 Corinthians is right after 1 Corinthians And I'm looking at chapter 6, verses 4 and 5. Now we're pretty familiar with this passage, but I don't think we pay attention sometimes to the final word in it. And that is that the Apostle Paul himself seems to have, we have a picture here of the Apostle Paul having a regular practice of fasting. You take a look in 16, 4 through 5, I'll read that for you. And that's uh But in all things we commend ourselves as ministers of God in much patience, in tribulations, in labors. Who's heard this passage before? In sleeplessness, in fast and then it he goes on in distresses, in stripes, and imprisonments, in tumults, in labors, in sleeplessness, in fastings In fastings. He's afflicting his own body at particular times because there needs to be an intense cry to God for particular things. And so you see here there is an assumption of fasting. There's an assumption of fasting in the word when. There is an assumption of fasting in all of redemptive history throughout the canon. We see it through each genre of the books. There is an assumption of fasting that we see within the ministry of Jesus. We see it in the commissioning and the ordination and acts, and we see an assumption of fasting in the practices of Paul. And so it's no wonder that we see an assumption of fasting in Matthew chapter 6, in verse number 16, with the word when. Now, I don't know about your experiences, but Largely speaking, when I became a Christian, I entered into a Bible-believing church, is basically what it was called. It was a really beautiful group of believers there, by the way. And then the people that were discipling me were a part of that church plant, which was just called a Bible-believing church, and they were members at a PCA church, and they and so I eventually ended up with them at SPEP. in Saverna Park. And ever since then, as a part of the Reformed community, it was pretty rare for me to hear about anybody really doing any kind of fasting. So uh actually in the Bible-believing church I heard of it pretty regularly. In Baptist circles, I've heard of it pretty regularly. In Anglican circles, I've heard of it pretty regularly. But within the Reformed community, I haven't heard of it that regularly. But You know, it's a major part of what we see in the teaching of the Scripture as well as our tradition. I was just looking at the directory of public worship that is a that accompanies my Westminster Confession of Faith And there is a whole section in the Directory of Public Worship on fasting. A whole section on fasting, like our forefathers and our foremothers assumed it also. That we, whether you're a reformed community or whatever other community that kind of distinguishes you, that there would still be that mark of fasting You know, even nationally, March 30, 1863, there was a famous proclamation requested by the Senate designating August 30, 1863 as a day of humiliation fasting and prayer. Abraham Lincoln urged confession of sins, repentance, and seeking mercy to end the war and reform the nation. It's a regular part really it goes even broader, just a regular part of the kind of the American people in a sense. And it brings up in me, I've already confessed to you in the beginning of the sermon that this is not a regular practice for me But it brings so it brings it up for me, and it also brings it up for you that we as Christian disciples, as disciples of Jesus Christ, we need to really start understanding what fasting is and we need to start practicing it. that it's assumed. I'm not encouraging anybody to just rush into there. I'm not sure what medical situations you have. All that needs to be taken into consideration. But I encourage you now, even by way of this sermon, to just start going to God and asking about this fasting. I am, when I get into the office on Tuesday, I am going to order a number of books by a gentleman that I know who has written a book on fasting. It's quite short, you'll be glad to hear. And I'll have those available for you to keep exploring that. And if you are a person who fasts uh biblically, then maybe you can let me know and then we can you can help me understand it a little bit more also. But I just encourage by way of application that it's time for us as a congregation to start taking steps to bring fasting back into our lives. You know, for example, If I'm not mistaken, in the Book of Church Order, it says that when you move into a time where you're calling officers like elders and deacons, and we're moving into the election, that that would have been a day of fasting and prayer That that would have been a day of fasting and prayer. So maybe we could pick that kind of thing back up or other areas within our life that we as a group of people would specifically by way of food and drink put ourselves into a place where we're intensively crying out to God, our Father, in prayer. That it's assumed. Okay, now the second thing that I s that I wanted you to see within the passage, besides the assumption of fasting, is just the purpose. the purpose of fasting. Now I wanted to start with what it what the purpose is not. Because as human beings we learn by contrast, so that can be helpful. And there's actually quite a bit of talk. Uh depending on what podcasts you listen to, there's quite a bit of talk actually of fasting, but it's not what Jesus is talking about. So what is so the purpose of fasting, let's talk about what the purpose is not. Number one The purpose of fasting is not a political hunger strike. It is not a political hunger strike. That's not the same thing. There have been famous political hunger strikes. I wonder if you've learned of any in school. For example, in the um Mahatma Gandhi, I believe is how you say his name. There's a famous fast that he had performed uh a as a part of a protest against British policies. And uh another one would be um the rights for women to vote, that is also another famous fast, in 1909 through 1914, the British women's suffrage movement and activists When they were arrested, they refused food in prison in order to demand recognition as political prisoners and voting rights. So I'm just mentioning that because I want you to see some examples throughout history where there have been there's been fasting, but it has been as a kind of political hunger strike, and Jesus is not talking about that. That's not what he's talking about. Nor is he talking about fasting as just like a healthy uh benefit that we could bring to our bodies. Though there are healthy benefits. But the intention is not primarily for that. For example, I sometimes listen to a gentleman, his name is Andrew Huberman. on a podcast and he talks about fasting as it can bring benefits of weight and fat loss and we know I'm not fasting now That there are metabolic improvements, that there's organ health like your gut microbiome. We love to talk about our microbiomes. around here, that that can be helped with fasting. Cellular repair and longevity. Well none of that is what Jesus is referring to. Though that can be a benefit of fasting, but Jesus is not focused on you doing it for that particular reason. That's not the intention. The intention is not a political hunger strike, and the intention is not for a healthy benefit. And there is one other purpose that this is not supposed to meet. And you see that purpose in verse 16. In verse 16, it says, it's not to be like the hypocrites with a sad countenance. They disfigure their faces that they may appear to men to be fasting. Assuredly I say to you, they have their reward. Do you see what's going on there? And this is not according to the purposes of fasting? They're doing, there are two different kinds of fast. There is a private fast and there is a public fast. That is still true today. They have entered into a private fast But their private is their private fast ain't so private. Because though they are doing this, apparently supposed to be doing this in secret for the sake of an intensive cry to their Heavenly Father, they are literally manipulating their appearance so that you can't miss that they are in a fast. And then you have to ask the question, well why would they do such a thing? At the end, Jesus alludes to it when he says, you've received your reward from men. The point is they're doing it for public influence. They're doing it for public manipulation. Their fast has nothing to do with relating to God as their father. It's not an intensive cry. As Jeremiah put so well this morning, they're acting. They're acting. And that's not a part of the purposes of fasting that Jesus gives to us. Now, that's what the purposes are not. Well, what is the purpose of fasting? The purpose of a fast is to cry out to God in an intense way for a godly desire we have with hope that God will meet that desire. The purpose of a fast is to cry out to God in an intense way for a godly desire we have with hope that God will meet that And we sometimes miss this, but it's laying for you right there within the passage. There's the contrast between doing things for men and you receiving your reward in public acclamations and social influence. But then in verse number 18, you see what is the purpose? You see what is the end and what your hope is through all of this is that In verse number 18 it says, so that you do not appear to men to be fasting, but to your father who is in the secret place, and your father who sees in secret, in your private fast, he's the one that will reward you. You see, you're going into the fast with the intense cry because you're crying out to your Heavenly Father that He would give to you The daily bread that you need in a really special way at that time within your life. This isn't just like the normal everyday stuff. There are things that go on within our lives that are intense And we move into a time of fast to intensify it even further, where we are bringing that cry up to God like a baby cries out when they need their mother or they need their father in a special way. And that's the purpose of the fasting. You see it right there in verse number 18. It's so that our Father would hear us and he would reward us. that he would give us our desire. Now, go back and just think about the passage that we read earlier about the ordination and the commission. And Acts chapter 13. They fasted and they prayed for Paul and Barnabas. Why? What was so urgent? Why did they need to cry out to God with regard to that? Well, you and I could sit down and we could just keep naming things, couldn't we? We could come up with a list, like, please, Lord. Do not let these men fail under pressure and bring disgrace upon your holy name. Please, Lord, do not let them have their heads cut off before they even get to be able to preach the gospel. Please, Lord, be with them as they're on these ships that have to cross these treacherous seas, and then the ship wrecks, and then they get bit by serpents. Would you please be with them at that time? You can see it's an intense time as missionaries are being sent out into the unknown, really. And so you can see how this is just an example where it fits exactly what we're talking about here. This would be a time where you would need to intensely cry out to God as they are heading into danger. They would have, during that time, deprived themselves of food and drink, probably kept drinking water. in order to intensify this time to remind them continually of their need of God and going to Him in a prayerful cry. That's what they would do. Now let me try to explain that a little bit as it was explained to me. The way this was explained to me, in uh especially by Dr. Pipa, he's our seminary president, and He would teach us on this and call us as students to days of fasting. It's explained that there is a string between the body and soul. And then if you pull on a string, the soul moves to the body, and if you pull on the soul string, the body moves with the soul. And there's a string that's connected. We're not just souls We're not bodiless beings. We're meant to be body and soul. Even a reunion with the body at the end of all times in the resurrection of the dead. And this string is what is behind this discussion with the fasting. Now, I know that you have common experiences with me. I want you to think for just a moment of a time when you were deeply grieving. Deeply grieving. Did you lose somebody? Did you do something that you never thought you would do and you were just so grieved over it? Did you hear about something else that happened in somebody else's life and you were just mourning over it. Now just imagine you in that moment and I come up to you and I say, would you prefer garlic or old bay wings? Would you like a big helping of lasagna? The way that the soul is situated at that particular time in morning, the appetite is gone. There'll be so many times when you'll see someone who, for example, who has been with their husband or their wife for so many years in marriage, just celebrated their 50th, and then that person has gone to be with the Lord, you know, they don't have an appetite. There's no appetite. You see the string between the mourning of the soul and the appetite of the body. That the stomach is affected by the heart. The heart is broken, the stomach doesn't want to eat. Now you can see that also if you or I want you to think of a time where you struggle with anxiety. It's hardly a time to sit down and enjoy a good steak We're wringing our hands or whatever it is. And that's the that's the one dire I'm just pointing out one direction. That when we are afflicted in soul, it affects the body because there's a string between the soul and the body. And and the argument that I'm going to bring to you now is that the string works the other way too. Is that when we afflict the body It afflicts the soul. Now I'm using the word afflict in a really ancient sense. I'm not talking about anything crazy here. I'm talking about you going without eating. Not any kind of weird Martin Luther documentaries. I'm just talking about you going without eating, without food and without drink for a period of time in order to deprive the body. In order for that string to be pulled, to remind and to help the soul to remain in an intensive cry to your Father because you need him to answer this prayer. You need him to answer this prayer. And so you deprive the body to wake up the soul for an intense and a concentrated time of prayer for a serious desire in hopes that God will reward you. even openly when people see it. Now you know what could be helpful at this point is to see that fasting belongs. When we we see this connection with this string, we see the purposes of fasting and we understand what it is and this string between the body and the soul and how it works. I think another step we could take that could be helpful is just to remember that fasting is also a means of grace. It's just a means of grace. So let me just ask you, why do you read your Bible? I mean, isn't it so that God would be gr gracious to you and reveal himself to you and what path you should be on? And doesn't he promise to you Hey, I'll work through my word. I work through my preached word. I work through your Bible readings. I'll give you my grace through that. That's one of the ways in which I'm going to be gracious to you is by way of my word. How many times has God been gracious to you through his word preached, through his word read, through his word counseled? We all know that's the case. And what about with prayer? God says, I'll be gracious to you through prayer. There are these different ways, in other words, that God has told us in His scriptures that I will work with you, especially in these ways. It includes the Lord's Supper and Baptism, for example. And Arch gave a sermon a couple weeks back on how the Lord works through that. Well, the Lord works through fasting. A time where we deprive the body to go into an intense time of prayer. I think the mains of grace is still here, it's just prayer. It's just an intense time of prayer. We ask God to bless us through other means of grace, like our Bible reading, our daily prayers, and our Lord's Supper, and I'm just saying it's time that we would trust Him in our times of fasting, which is just an intense time of prayer. So that's what the Lord has for us this morning We have the assumption of fasting here within this passage in verses 16 through 18. And then you saw what the purposes are not. But then you saw what the purpose of fasting is and how that string, knowing that string between the soul and the body, can help us. And so I just I want to ask you What are some things in your life right now that are serious? What do you have going on? Now before we answer that, and I'm not going to be long on that, I want to say some of you may be sitting here and you draw a blank. Well, I don't really have anything serious. I never really do. I would encourage you not to let that pass. You know, there is a sin that is called the sin of indifference. The way that Jesus talks about that in Revelation is that your heart has become lukewarm, and you don't really care much about much. You know, that's not a place where Jesus compliments people. He wants us to actually, it might be surprising to you, but he calls us to be zealous. He says that our hearts are to be set on fire for him. That's the state we're supposed to be in. So the first thing I want to just say is that if you're never intense or have any real concerns about God's kingdom Then we need to look at that. You're not meant to be lukewarm. You're meant to be zealous. And number two, now going back to that first question that I asked, what is going on? Is there a sin within your life that has caused a great deal of grief for you and for the people that are around you? You know, it might be time to fast. It might be time to fast and to cry out to God intensely for some deliverance from that, for some help for that. Is there something going on in another person's life that's really just gut-punched you? Maybe it's time to fast and to intercede for them. to pray on their behalf that God would bring blessing in their life. Are there things going on nationally? Are there things going on with just statewide? That could be a time of fasting. You're sitting here as an officer, an elder, or a deacon. Is there something going on that concerns all of us? Will something come up that this concerns all of us where we really need to call all of God's people to a fast? That happens all the time among churches. The PCA has called the entire domination to fast. Is there going to be something like that that comes up? Things in our relationships, sins that should grieve us, but don't grieve us enough, so we need to move into an intense time of crying. People within our lives our own children that we're worried about. We don't know what's going on with them. Maybe it's time to fast and have our Father reward us in private. It's time for us as a reformed community, or really just a Christian community, to be taking fasting more seriously. For us to take more seriously an intense cry to God. Knowing that he rewards his children, as he promises in the passage. Let us pray.