It is an incredible privilege for me to be here and to exhort you all from God's Word this morning. We're going to be looking at a passage from the book of Ruth. And the book of Ruth is entirely about God's sovereign and almighty plan of bringing permanent security to his people. And we're going to be looking at Ruth chapter 3, verses 5 through 18. If you're able, I'd like to ask for you to stand as I read God's word. Word. We stand out of respect for our Lord, whose word this is. This is not my word. This is not Thomas Nelson Publishing's word. This is the word of the living and true God. We're going to be focusing on verses 5 through 18 in chapter 3, but I will start reading in verse 1. The word of the Lord. Then Naomi, her mother-in-law, said to her, My daughter, shall I not seek security for you, that it may be well with you? Now Boas, whose young woman you were with, is he not a relative? In fact, he is winnowing barley tonight at the threshing floor. Therefore, wash yourself, and anoint yourself, and put on your best garment, and go down to the threshing floor But do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking. Then it shall be when he lies down that you shall notice the place where he lies, and you shall go in, uncover his feet, and lie down, and he will tell you what you should do And she said to her, All that you say to me I will do. So she went down to the threshing floor and did according to all that her mother-in-law instructed her. And after Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was cheerful, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain And she came softly, uncovered his feet, and lay down. Now it happened at midnight that the man was startled, and turned himself, and there a woman was lying at his feet, and he said, Who are you? So she answered, I am Ruth, your maidservant. Take your maidservant under your wing, for you are a close relative. Then he said, Blessed are you of the Lord, my daughter For you have shown more kindness at the end than at the beginning, and that you did not go after young men, whether poor or rich. And now, my daughter, do not fear. I will do for you all that you request. For all the people of my town know that you are a virtuous woman. Now it is true that I am a close relative, however, there is a relative closer than I. Say this night, and in the morning it shall be, that if he will perform the duty of a close relative for you, good, let him do it. But if he does not want to perform the duty for you, then I will perform the duty for you, as the Lord lives. Lie down until morning. So she laid his feet until morning, and she arose before one could recognize another. Then he said, Do not let it be known that the woman came to the threshing floor. Also he said, Bring the shawl that is on you and hold it. And when she held it he measured six ephas of barley and laid it on her. Then she went into the city And when she came to her mother in law, she said, Is that you, my daughter? And then she told her all that the man had done for her. And she said, These six Eaths of barley he gave me, for he said to me, Do not go home empty handed to your mother in law Then she said, Sit still, my daughter, until you know how the matter will turn out, for the man will not rest until he has concluded the matter this Please pray with me. Lord, guide us, open our minds and our hearts, that we would be transformed by your word. I pray, Lord, that you will, by your Holy Spirit, move in your people this morning. morning, for this is your word. The flower fades, the grass fades, but your word will stand forever. Amen. Please be seated. As I said, the book of Ruth is all about God providing permanent security for his people. And the story of Ruth begins with a family that is seeking freedom from a famine. And in seeking that freedom, they move to Moab. The family is led by Elimelech, the husband, who once they arrive in Moab, he dies. And they have two boys, Malin and Killian, and they they find wives in Moab. They spend ten childless years there, and then they die. Naomi is left by herself with her two Moabite daughter-in-laws, and one of them, named Ruth, puts her hope in the God of Naomi. She puts her hope in the God of Jacob. And she returns to Bethlehem with her. And while she's there, on the very first day that she's back, she begins to glean, as the poor are given right to do by God's word, and she happens just so happened to find the field of Boaz. And she sees along with Naomi that God has a plan for them. And in the way that Boaz treats Treats Naomi and treats Ruth. If you went back and looked at all of chapter two, you'd see that the plan that God has for them is truly a good one. And so Ruth stays there. She works the full harvest, the full two months, gleaning. And at the end of it all, Naomi says, I want true security for you, Ruth. I want you to have true freedom. She wants Ruth to marry Boaz. And so she gives her some very specific instructions. And Ruth, as we will see, is going to obey Naomi's instructions despite the strangeness of them. And she's going to find that those who seek true freedom must find it in Jehovah alone. So I ask you, do you seek true freedom in your life? Do you desire freedom from poverty? Freedom from chaos? Freedom from the disorder of this life? Do you desire freedom from loneliness and from disease and from death? Our text here this morning shows us that to gain true freedom in this life, we must submit to God and we must sit. waiting upon his timing. We must submit to God and sit to gain true freedom So where do we see in our text someone submitting? If you look at verses 6 through 13, we're going to see that Ruth and Boaz both submit. Let's look now at Ruth as she submits. Ruth's submission began back in chapter 1, verses 16 to 17, when she swears and says, Wherever you go, I will go, and wherever you lodge, I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God my God. Where you die, I will die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also, if anything but death parts you and me. This is what Ruth said to Naomi, as she swears to be an Israelite from that day She gives up her people, she gives up her blood family and all of her false gods and submits to God's will for her life. And now we come to this point where Naomi's given her these very strange instructions She's told her to get cleaned, to be anointed, to dress in her best clothes, to follow Boaz where he lies down, and where he goes to sleep, and then to uncover his feet, and then do whatever it is he says to do We see Naomi submitting, or we see Ruth submitting, because she says, all you say, I will do, and that's a pretty heavy order. Now it's strange, these instructions, surely, and they can easily be misunderstood if we only look at it from our 21st century perspective. If we look at this from the perspective of God's law, it really is not that strange, not that scandalous as some modern liberal theologians might have us believe. No, Ruth is virtuous. We see in verse eleven that Boaz says she is a virtuous woman, her virtue is well known, and the fact that she's going to obey these instructions should be the first hint to us that they're not really something scandalous. If it is in accord with her virtue and she's going to do them, then we we kind of have to tell ourselves we need to take another look at this. Getting cleaned up and dressed nice, this is not some method of seduction. This is not, Naomi's not telling Ruth that she needs to get all gussied up in order to make a good impression for Boaz. This is really a public way, a cultural way, for Ruth to broadcast that she's available. She has uh a widow, she has been mourning, and now by putting on her best clothes and cleaning herself and anointing herself, she's letting everyone know that she's no longer in mourning, and she's now available for some kind of core And when she goes and she follows Boaz, as Naomi says, and this is not, again, something scandalous. She's not She's not sneaking around to find Boaz. She has to find Boaz. She has to know where he's laying down. Because the next thing she's going to do, if she does it to the wrong guy, it's going to be very very bad. And let's talk now. Let's let's address the elephant in the room. What is this thing that Naomi has her doing with uncovering her feet? Well, we know that Naomi and Boaz, based on their behavior, are familiar with God's Word. We can tell that they, being uh faithful Israelites, raised in an Israelite home, they know what God expects of them. But as a Moabite, we would we we're safe to assume that Ruth probably is not aware of much of the scriptures, and we're probably safe in assuming she's not aware of Deuteronomy twenty-five, verses. 5-10, a passage that relates directly to the instructions that Naomi has given her. This passage describes the responsibility of an Israelite man to provide security for his closest kin. This man is to preserve children, preserve the line of the widow by giving children to that widow in the only way that God has designed for children to come about. And he refuses. If this man, this close relative, refuses to give the children, then the widow is to take him before the elders, and the elders will exhort him to obey God's word. And if he still refuses Do you know what the widow has a right to do? She has the right to spit in his face. She has the right to uncover his feet. by removing his sandals, and that man's house would forever be known from that day forward as the house of he who had his sandal removed. He would be publicly shamed for neglecting his duty. And Ruth, Ruth goes, she uncovers Boaz's feet very softly, and in a way she's saying, shame on you for not doing your duty. But required by God's law. Ruth doesn't even know that this is what she's doing, and yet she submits to God's law. And let this be a lesson to you, little ones, young children. When you submit to your parents and the godly commands that they give you, this pleases God. Because by submitting to them, you're submitting to God. As Ruth was submitting to Naomi, and then so submitting to the Lord. Well then we see Boaz submitting. He's startled in the night. We can we can imagine what his first thought was. It wasn't, I'm shamed! His first thought was what we would have thought, and that was, who are you? Who's this person laying at my feet? And Ruth is very clear in what she wants. She says, take me under your wing. Naomi had given away her right. to Boaz. It was Naomi's right to be given children by the Kinsman Redeemer. But she gave that right to Ruth. And Boaz admits to their choice. I'm sure he wasn't putting up much of a fight. And Boaz submits to God. His own words prove that he can barely believe the match, because Ruth could have gone after anyone, specifically someone younger. So what is it that Boaz is doing here? Why is he then going to give some other guy a chance at Ruth Boaz could have just said yes. They could have gotten married in the morning, tie it all up in a nice bow. He's got Naomi's lands, he's got Ruth as a wife, everything's going fantastic. But he doesn't do that Boaz doesn't do that. I ask you, what could stop a man from taking the thing that he desires when it's right in front of him, ready and willing? What could stop a man from doing that? And the only thing that can stop someone from doing that is submission to a power higher than their own desire. Boaz submits to God's law, not his own wants. And that means acknowledging that there is a closer relative than himself. There's another man who has the right and the duty to buy Naomi's land and to provide children to her through Ruth. Under God's law, Ruth's proposal was to the wrong man. But Boaz, being a godly and honorable man, he's going to do this the right way. He's going to do this God's way. And so he says that he has to give the other relative a chance. And even more, Boaz submits to God's law further by telling Ruth that he will perform the duty for her, even if this other man won't. A lesser man might have seen an escape hatch. He might have seen a good way out of God's plan. He would have been able to give a polite refusal, save face. I'm so sorry, Ruth. No, no, n it's not me. That's that's this other guy. You've got the wrong guy. You're gonna have to you're gonna have to go to him. And if he could have wiped his hands of it, been clear, been free. He wouldn't have had the hassle, the legal hassle of buying the land and of marrying Ruth. But no. Boaz submits to God's way. Whether or not he wanted to marry Ruth, he submits to what God would have him do. He submits to perform the duty because this is what Jehovah has demanded. Both Ruth and Boaz, they relinquish their freedom. They relinquish their freedom to choose their own way into the future. They relinquish their freedom to choose what they want for their own lives, and they submit to the past that God has established in his life. law. When it's all finished, both Ruth and Boaz receive a far greater freedom than what they would have had if they had not submitted. And this is a spoiler alert. If you haven't read the book of Ruth, it might be new to you, but I I hope you have. Ruth in the end ends up with Boaz And while she could have had one of the young workermen, she ends up married to the guy who employs all the young workermen. She could have married one of the servants and instead she ends up the lady of the manor. She ends up the lady of a wealthy house. And Boaz, while he could have still had Ruth, would he have been free? He would have known that he took another man's right. He would have known that God knew that he took another man's right. Is there any bondage more pervasive than a guilty conscience? Imagine that Boaz hadn't given this other relative the chance. And something happened later on down the line, and eventually a legal battle ensues, and Boaz loses everything. No, by submitting to God, he received the truest freedom he could have received. in this situation. Because in God's way there's no strings attached. God doesn't have small prints trying to get you. God doesn't he's not trying to trap you in some way. To to submit to God you simply have to relinquish your will. You simply have to relinquish your desire. You simply have to submit to what God wants. That's all you have to do. It's really simple, isn't it? Well it is simple. It's not complicated. But it's not easy. It never feels simple when I have to submit to God. I wonder if you ever feel foolish for submitting. to God. Do you ever look at some people in the world and you see that they're clearly not submitting to God, and yet we think that they're the ones that got the good deal. They're free to say what they want, they're free to do what they want, they're free to love who they want, they're free to to believe whatever they want. Christians, we're not free like that, are we? We have to give up some of our freedoms in order to be a Christian. Our culture tells us that freedom is being able to choose our own way and do whatever we want. We are able to do whatever's right in our own eyes If you want something, not even money can get in your way. You can just charge it. Or since we're talking about not submitting to anything, you can just steal it. If you don't have to submit to any laws. Do you think that the rich and the powerful and the famous have more freedom than we do? They have more freedom to buy things and do things? To be more than we can be? We build the freedom to be this romantic ideal, this notion that we never have to submit to anyone or anything. Does this track with the reality of your life? Is this how things work in your reality? Doesn't it seem like we're always having to submit ourselves to someone or something? We always have to sacrif sacrifice some measure of our own freedom to be more free. I wanted to be good at music. God gave me a certain amount of natural talent, but I had to relinquish plenty of freedom when I was in college. I had to give up the freedom to hang out with friends or the freedom to to have a meal in order to get more time in the practice room. I had to submit to practice. And even uh for any musician, they can tell you that even once they've uh reached a certain level of freedom on the instrument, they still have to submit to the metronome They still have to submit to the tuner or to the maestro. There's many things that we have to submit to in order to gain greater freedom. It's not true for just music. It's true for any area of study or any hobby or skill. You have to put in the time. You have to hit the books. You have to practice the craft. You have to learn the skill and you have to use it and do it. You have to do it instead of doing something else. You have to submit to it Employees submit to their bosses to gain the true freedom of employment. Citizens submit to the just laws of the government to enjoy relative peace and safety. Even the mighty great white shark has to submit. He submits to the water if he wants to enjoy the freedom of continuing to live. I've heard a pastor put it this way. He says, freedom is not the absence of limitations and constraints, but it is finding the right ones, those that fit our nature. and liberate us. Ruth and Boaz found the right limitations and constraints on their life. They submitted to God's law, His perfect will for His people. So why don't we submit to God's plan for us? We see that we submit to something all the time. Why is it so hard for us to submit to God? Well, it's hard because it's not just submitting, is it? It's not just submitting. We have to sit. We have to wait for God to work things out in His timing. We have to sit. And Ruth had to sit if we look back at our passage. Ruth waited there till the morning, as Boaz had instructed her. And again, this is not something scandalous. This is really just common sense. He didn't want her to risk her safety trying to find her way home in the middle of the night. And he also didn't want to risk her um and her reputation if she should be seen leaving the place where all the men were sleeping. Now he sends her, before the sun's even up, he gives her a nice, it's a pretty hefty gift. Six ephhas of barley is quite a bit of barley. And he gives it to her and he sends her on her way. And when she gets home, she tells Naomi all that's happened. She tells her everything that's gone on. And Naomi, what does she say to Ruth? She says, Sit still, my daughter. Sit still, until you know the matter will turn out, for the man will not rest until he has concluded the matter. So all Ruth needed to do after submitting to God was to sit and to wait. But this is far easier said than it is done, isn't it? Ruth had to wait for Boaz to do his part. She had to trust what he said, that he would e even perform the duty, even if he didn't have to, even if the other kinsmen would not. She'd submitted to God, but the freedom had not yet arrived for her. She was still in limbo, as we call it. She was waiting and sitting, and there's nothing more that she could do. Brothers and sisters, sitting without worrying may be one of the hardest things that we ever have to do in our lives. Again, it's a simple thing. Just sit. It's not complicated. Just one step. But it isn't easy. It's not easy to submit, and it's not easy to sit. So why is it so hard to sit? What is so hard about sitting still and letting God work? Sin is what makes it hard. Sin is always right there, tempting us to give in to it. Sin tells us that we don't have to wait, that we can have it all right now We don't have to save our money, we can just put it on the credit card. We don't need to wait until we're married, we can just have that special intimacy now We don't need to sit and wait for God's will to be clear to us, even in the hottest flame of trial that we endure. Sin says you can just move on. Sin says you don't have to wait for your marriage to improve, just get a new marriage You can have a new life. You can find a new church. You can find a new job. You can do new things. You don't have to wait for God to work. Sin is always telling us that we have the freedom to just go and take our life, to just go and do what we want. Sin tells us it's our life, it's our party, I'm gonna do what I want to do. And this is hard for us because it's true. It's so difficult because this is true. Sin is not lying to you when it tells you that you can have what you want right away by rejecting God's law You can do that. The real lie that sin tells you is that what you'll be gaining is just as good as what you would have had if you waited. But it never is. With sin, there's always a catch. With sin, there's always a penalty. With sin, there's always a death. Are you familiar with the Greek myth of Midas? Do you know Midas? He had a wish. He wanted to be wealthy beyond compare. He wished that everything he touched would turn to gold. And the wish came true. And everything was amazing until he touched his daughter. Think about Adam and Eve. The serpent tempted them with the forbidden fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. It told them that as soon as they ate it, they would be like God. And this is not a bad thing. Being like God, knowing the good knowledge of good and evil. This is something that God always wanted for us. What was bad is that they violated the law of God, his prohibition against eating from that fruit. Rather than sitting and waiting for the Lord to give them this knowledge in his timing, they took it for themselves and they immediately received the knowledge. But at one What cost? They gave up all of their former freedom and all of their future freedom. It was all destroyed in a single instant that they disobeyed God. I had a friend whose life was turning around. Everything was improving for him. He had finally married the mother of his daughter. He had gotten a new job and it was uh it was an incredible job, a huge improvement in terms of time, in terms of hours worked and the money he was getting. But life was still stressful for him. It was it was difficult. He dealt with chronic pain from a an athletic injury, and he still had lots of difficulties that he faced with his marriage and with his family. And sin told him that there was a way that he could be free from all of that difficulty. He could immediately put all of the worries and stresses of life behind him. And that sin was called heroin. My friend believed the lie. And the lie, the sin, delivered exactly what it promised. In an instant, he was free from all the trials and stress and worry of his life. But it took his life to deliver. It killed him. It left behind even more stress for his widow. It left behind even more pain for his children. Sin gave him the instant gratification. It gave him the instant release that he was promised, but at a dreadful cost. Brothers and sisters, we have only one way to gain the ultimate freedom for which our souls are designed. There's only one path that leads to true freedom for which we yearn. We must patiently submit to God. We must submit and we must sit. And I know it's difficult, and at times it seems impossible. But there is one, one who submitted to God in all things, even to the point of suffering the most horrible death imaginable. He sat and he waited, nailed to a cross. He was beaten and scourged and mocked and derided, and yet he sat. Jesus could have called legions of angels. He could have spoken a word as he spoke to the storm, and it all would have calmed. But he submitted and he sat until God's timing was fulfilled. And do you know how Jesus did it? Do you know what helped Jesus submit and sit? He was doing it to save someone he loved. Jesus was doing it. So that you and I could be reconciled to God the Father through his death and through his resurrection. He did it so that by our regeneration his Holy Spirit could dwell within us and sanctify us, preparing us For the ultimate feast with him in heaven. Jesus submitted, and Jesus sat for you and for me. He submitted and he said, so that we can have the true freedom of a completely sinless life, living in the perfect cosmos to come. Jesus submitted and he sat so that you could one day be glorified with a perfect body and a perfect sinless existence that never ends. Brothers and sisters, will you do it for him? Will you submit to the Father and sit waiting for his timing in your own lives for Jesus? So that Jesus Christ can be glorified? Can we seek only the true freedom that Jehovah gives us and trust that He alone is the true path to happiness? Can we trust and obey and submit to God, sitting and believing that His timing is best for your life? I pray that you will. I pray that we will. For Christ's glory. Please pray with me. Gracious God. We thank you. We thank you first and foremost that you have given us your will. You have given us your law, that we may know your mind, and we may know what we must submit to. Please, God, help us Help us to submit to you. Help us to see you as more beautiful than the other things we want or the things that sin tempts us with. And Father, help us to wait and to sit. Help us to be calm in your timing, to allow you to work things all for good. Help us not to give in to sin that promises instant gratification, Lord, but let us submit to you and sit and wait that we may gain the true freedom that you have designed for us from the beginning. We pray this, Lord. All Christ. In Christ's name. Amen. Please stand and sing with me our closing hymn. Trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy in Jesus.