Matthew six, beginning in verse one. Take heed that you do not do your charitable deeds before men to be seen by them Otherwise you have no reward from your Father in heaven. Therefore, when you do a charitable deed, do not sound the trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory from men. Assuredly, I say to you, they have their reward. But when you do a charitable deed, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. That your charitable deed may be in secret, and your Father who sees in secret will himself reward you openly. Let us pray. Father, on the topic of motivations, cannot think of a more difficult animal to domesticate. Than our intents. But we know that Christ tames all things. And I pray That you, Christ, would minister to your people here this morning, increasing in their hearts, by their hearts being purified by your Spirit, increasing real love. For you, and for the Father, from the Spirit. I ask these things in your name. Amen. May be seated. Children, I'm gonna need some serious help this morning. I Do all of you know that I have trouble knowing what certain colors are? Sometimes if you're wearing a brown sweater, I think you're wearing a green one. Sometimes if you're wearing a green one, sometimes I think you're wearing a brown one. If you're wearing a mixture of different colors, I just give up on what's happening. And I I wanted if you could just take a look, children, on your chairs. Do you see the metal on the side of your chairs? What color is that? The children have really deep voices. What what color is it, would you say? Like a Nobody really knows. Light brown. Light brown. Somebody said gold. All right. Going once. Bronze. Going twice. Let's just say it's gold. That'll be fun. Let's just say that it's gold. I heard gold. You had your chance to tell me one color and I got fifteen. But you told me it's gold. Can you believe it, children, that you here today are sitting in a church that can afford Golden chairs. Isn't that amazing? We're doing really well. Golden chairs. Now, it's not true that even if the color was golden and not bronze or whatever it really is Are these really golden chairs? No. If you'll notice on some of the chairs that have been around long or or been in certain situations that other chairs haven't, You'll notice that the gold scrapes right off. Or the bronze scrapes right off. Maybe you see that on your chair, for example, from it being stacked for so many years. And really what you have is just a veneer over top of uh a commonplace metal. You know, if you were to look around in your life, you'll see that there are veneers all over the place and that it's It's that that we're not actually dealing with things that are pure all the way through. There are many things in our homes that may that are meant to look, for example, like furniture that you would buy, it looks like someone has been able to afford a solid oak piece. But children you'll find out and adults have already known that it's just a veneer over top of uh a kind of glued-together mush that IKEA has put together in order to keep costs down, but for you to feel like you have real furniture. Our lives are filled with these veneers and In the case of furniture, or in the case of these chairs, or maybe even in the case of your dental work, those are all really good things, or they can be. They can have a place. But Jesus is going to bring up a place here this morning where it's not okay to have a veneer. And Mark has brought that up in terms of the word hypocrisy. That's really what the teaching is on this morning. The whole thing is about hypocrisy, and it will be for the next several weeks. Jesus has been teaching us a lot because he loves you. If you were to just glance down at your scriptures, you can remember some of the lessons that we've taken from him. If you were to go to verse 31, we could of course go back all the way into the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount But in verse 31, we see there where he lays down what his true law is for marital relationships. In verse 33, he goes on to talk about how we're not only to be people of our word, whether it's in that marriage covenant that we keep our word in our marriage covenant, or if it's in other oaths or covenants. In verse 38, you can see that he is calling his disciples not to retaliate evil for evil, but to be a constructive people. And in verse 43, he continued with a similar kind of lesson, but he helped us to connect it to see that really his disciples are meant to grow in the image of God Himself, who sends his reign. on the righteous and the unrighteous. And in all of these different ways, you as a congregation, together with all the rest of the congregations, get to be salt and light in the world, bringing glory to the name. of God the Father. That's all the way back from the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount. And now, as we move forward here, the Spirit is going to teach us one more of these lessons. By way of the incarnate Son of God, Jesus the Christ. And it's this lesson here. This is what the Spirit has to teach us. As you seek to do good works in the name of Christ. As you as his disciple, as his disciple, as you seek to do good works in his name, you must be careful of hypocrisy. You must be careful of hypocrisy. And put going back to the chair or or the dental work or the furniture or whatever it is, we must be very careful. that our love for him is not just a veneer. But that, as Mark had just put it We're serving from the heart. Serving from the heart. That's what the Spirit has to teach us this morning. Very important. And it's not a lesson that you can just like check off your list today. You can hear this word from the Spirit here this morning, and this is a lifelong pursuit under the ministry of Jesus Christ. If there's one place that we'll continually slide back on, it's our motive to do things out of a love for our God. So it requires a constant stirring up and working with each other. So let's see what Jesus has to say about this, that as you seek to do good works, as the as you as his disciples seek to do good works in the name of Christ, you must be careful of hypocrisy The first thing I want to look at is that we receive a warning about hypocrisy. The second thing is that there is an illustration of hypocrisy. And the third thing is that there is a transformation from hypocrisy, or at least the beginnings. And so there is a hypocrisy warned, hypocrisy illustrated, and hypocrisy transformed. Let's go ahead and step through the passage now, beginning with the warning that we see here, beginning in verse number one. about hypocrisy. Jesus teaches here, he says, take heed that you do not do your charitable deeds before men to be seen by them. That take heed is this warning that he is laying out in front of you. There is something very important that he needs to say to you. That's why he's beginning this. the way that he is. He is saying, if you're going to give your attention to anything, would you please give your attention to this right now? And then he continues that sentence saying that pay attention, do not do your charitable deeds before men to be seen by them. Very important. Actually the words here are please pay attention. Or really pay attention. Now This whole idea of charitable deeds, I don't know which translation each of you have in your laps there, but I did notice that there is what we call a variant. Where there can be different translations in this verse where you'll see some different words. All of them are pointing to the exact same thing, so we need not worry. But in my NKJV it says charitable deeds. If you have the ESV and maybe even the NASV or others, it's going to say righteousness, most likely. It's getting at the same kind of thing. One is just more specific than another. Charitable deeds is specifically the giving or alms giving to the poor that Jesus is talking about here in this particular section. It could be conceived more broadly in those ESV translations as righteousness, and that's all of the righteousness that you're to do, which is not to be to be seen by men, but out of love for God, is the basic message, including charitable deeds Prayer, fasting, etc. And that's the section that we're going into. So just to tie all of that loosely the tightly together for you, the righteousness or the charitable deeds, it's getting at the same thing. If you look across all of the scriptures, there is an assumption that Jesus is working off of here that his work, especially in the sending of his Holy Spirit and writing the law of God upon your heart His work in you moves you according to his plan to perform good works throughout your life. He has not just saved you from something, he has saved you to something, and that something is righteousness. in all of its specific forms. You could see this, for example, in 5. 16 of Matthew, which we've already covered. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Jesus is already operating off of that foundation. If you were to go and look at the specifics of James or of almsgiving or giving to the poor, you would find this is a good work expected from his disciples from James Chapter 1, verse 27, pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this to visit orphans and widows in their trouble, and to keep oneself unspotted from the world. Same kind of thing. One is just the more general term than us than the specific. But make no mistake The main concern here within this warning. The main concern is that when you do those spirit motivated and spirit planted good works and that spirit righteousness that is given to you, you must be warned that you will be tempted and often fall into wanting to do it for other motives than for the glory of God. And that is what we see here if we continue to to read in the next verse there. He says Or the same verse, take heed that you do not do your charitable deeds before men to be seen by them. Otherwise you have no reward from your Father in heaven. And now another name for that is hypocrisy. We're going to get to that in the next verse. I'm kind of jumping the gun there a little bit, but that's what Jesus is really concerned about here, and he's warning you against hypocrisy, not before men to be seen by them. In each case, one person wrote, the leaders of that time, the church leaders of that time, they performed traditional duties of Jewish piety. in order to be seen by men, not out of a love for God. They called attention to their generosity to the poor. They prayed long and flowery prayers. They put on a face to make sure everyone knew how much they were fasting. Jesus instructs his disciples to behave differently. Now do you see that that's the section that we're in? Notice that hypocrisy will be the theme for the next few weeks. We're going to go into Advent, but then when we get back, it'll be the weeks after that. Take a look at the scriptures with me real quick so that you can be oriented We have charitable deeds or almsgiving is what we're dealing with tonight today. Verse number five will move into when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites. Verse number 8, therefore do not be like them, for your father knows the things you have need, and he'll teach us how to pray. Verse number 16, moreover, when you fast, do not be like the hypocrites. Hypocrisy is the topic for several weeks. And Jesus is concerned about it. He is concerned that his disciples would behave differently, even when we are doing the same thing as the hypocrites do. You know, when you put a check in the box back there, it looks the exact same way as when the hypocrite puts the check in the box. That's what's so difficult about this. But Jesus, in all of the wisdom that he has, is it was able to pick up on the fruit of people and able to point things out to help us to be able to diagnose our hypocrisy and to move away from it. And that's the warning. That's the warning. Now I wonder if some of you wonder how does this fit, this warning about hypocrisy? And making sure that we don't do things to be seen by men. How does that fit when Jesus just said, you're meant to be a light to the world and be seen by everybody for the glory of God? Well the way that that fits, there's no disharmony about it. The way that that fits is you are to be doing good works, and it is to be a witness to the nations, but you're not to be doing good works in order to grow in your status and fame before men. It even says there that you're to be doing it that your father in heaven would be glorified, not you That's Jesus' point. That your Father in heaven would be glorified, not you. There's no disharmony between those two things. And so we may continue and just say there is a great warning with the hypocrisy. Hypocrisy, some right, is uh is the fly in the ointment. You can have these good works, and if there is hypocrisy present, it spoils them. One writer said, Take heed of hypocrisy, for if it rains in you, it will ruin you. It is the dead fly that spoils the whole box of precious ointment. Not that it is unlawful to give alms when we when men see us, we may do it, but not that men may see us. Another person wrote. And I remember uh one uh experience that someone told me about that truly is a good illustration of this. They were very hungry and they loved pasta And they brought out this giant pasta dish that had all this lovely creamy pasta on the dish and and those what are those uh Sun-dried tomatoes and all of those things and they went to go dig in and then they looked in the pasta and they noticed there was something black there And they grabbed the black thing and they pulled, and it's like a four-foot piece of Italian hair. And they thought, I'm not having this pasta. And it's the same thing when we look at our lives, that though we may on the veneer and on the surface be doing the good works, if the heart not be in it, It's like that black hair in the pasta. It's like the fly in the ointment. And as Matthew Henry said It is not that it's unlawful to give alms when men see us, we may do it, but not that men may see us. This is the great warning that Jesus gives to us. Now he moves on from A warning about hypocrisy or hypocrisy warned to hypocrisy illustrated. And this is our second main point, hypocrisy illustrated. He's going to give here in verse number two this example. He says, Therefore, when you do a charitable deed, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets. That they may have glory from men. Assuredly I say to you, they have their reward. You know, Mark uh did a good job of explaining what a hypocrite is, at least w one of the ways in which we can explain it is that that term hypocrite that occupies much of Jesus' attention, writes one commentator throughout the Gospel of Matthew. Some of your schools have a play every year or every couple years, and this and the the The idea of an actor or an actress is at play here within this word. When actors take on a role, they pretend to be something they are not. The whole idea of acting and pretense was borrowed from the theater and later became a pejorative term to describe someone who merely goes through the motions and plays the role. But it's just a veneer. Your actions are no more golden than these chairs. That's the hypocrite. Hypocrisy is pretending to be something you are not. Or trying to get people to believe that you're not doing a certain thing that in fact you are doing. And Jesus is warning you about these things, and now he's illustrating us about this hypocrisy, having given us that specific word hypocrisy. You see the illustration that he gives there right in verse number two where there is this absurd scene that when a person does a good deed, they have someone blow a trumpet to call attention to it. Could you imagine that within your own life? The way that Jesus brings this out, there's a this kind of absurdity to this image. You want per a picture of silver trumpet? And every time you do something good, someone blows the trumpet and calls attention to you and the great things that you're doing. You helped someone across the street this morning. Presenting whoever it is and his goodness. That happens to you throughout your life whenever you're doing the greatest deeds. Now, Jesus' point is that the reason why that is happening at all, and all of the different ways in which we toot our own horns, as my grandmother would say And all of the ways in that would happen, it is a fruit that tells us something about the tree, and that the tree isn't really serious about worshiping God, or really about helping the poor. Because giving alms and helping the poor is an act of worship, not really serious about worshiping God or helping the poor, but they're worried about their status in society. And the trumpet is the sign that that is the case. And that's the example that he ends up giving us is that charitable giving is to give uh the poor relief out of a worship and a love for God and That is literally happening, but inside of that person's heart, that's not the point at all. And in fact, if they stopped receiving status, they'd probably stopped giving to the poor. Because the only reason why they give to the poor is to get their status. And Jesus knows that, and he knows that this is an example that is not isolated to thousands of years ago. This is an example that runs and confronts the heart of his disciples. That we can fall into the same kinds of traps. Now that's hypocrisy illustrated. I don't want to dwell any longer on that. I'd like to move now into the third point, which is hypocrisy transformed. So we have a warning of hypocrisy. We have hypocrisy pictured or illustrated for us, and now he's starting to show us Kind of transformation that can begin and that starts to take place that we find a bit surprising. And that's in verse number three, if you'd like to take a look at that with me. But when you do a charitable deed, do not know your let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, that your charitable deed may be in secret, and your father who sees in secret will himself reward you openly. Once again, as we've seen in all of the other instructions, Jesus gives us a very practical way, being his disciples, to start making steps away from the hypocrisy. And what I find interesting is he does not say, I want you to become gruesomely introspective and do nothing but think about your motives all day long until you get them right. He actually, just as he had dealt with adultery or the oaths or anything else, he gives us very practical, concrete steps to move forward. to where we can move away from those temptations and grow and mature away, in this case from hypocrisy. One writer said, also it's important to see that although Jesus is addressing issues of motivation His actual instructions are not in the realm of motivation. When he condemns the hypocrites for doing righteousness to be seen by men, he doesn't command his disciples, don't have bad motives. We saw earlier in the sermon that Jesus is concerned about the heart, anger and lust, for example, but that his instructions are always about actions that we perform. Reconciliation and plucking out the eye. And the same is true here. What he tells us to do is very specific. It is concrete and it is active. He doesn't tell us to stop thinking about how we look before others. He tells us a different mode for performing these acts of righteousness. And the accent is on secrecy. We are to change motivations, but motivations are being challenged here by changes in practice. Very simply, under the ministry of the Holy Spirit as a disciple of Jesus Christ, if you have a problem with vain glory and status Stop putting yourself in public positions where the temptation overcomes you. Instead, let us do these things in secret with our Father in our intimate relationship with him. And that was a similar lesson that we had seen with anger or lust or any of those things, that there is something that the Holy Spirit changes by way of practice that is inside of us. And what a relief. You know, I was looking throughout the scriptures to be able to find different applications of where Uh the the hypocrisy is transformed or or instructed this way where we realize we're diagnosed with hypocrisy. But then the Holy Spirit tells us, don't just sit around focusing on your motivations. Instead, I want you to start implementing certain practices that I'll work through the practices on your heart. I found Matthew chapter 23, where Jesus condemns the Pharisees over and over again as hypocrites. They know how to clean the outside of the cup, but the inside is dirty. They look like a clean tombstone, but the inside is dead bones. I saw that relationship all the way through Matthew 23, but I didn't see exactly the practices to change that. They'll need to be born again like us. But one place I did find it, which was a little bit surprising to me, was in 1 Peter 3, 2 through 4. And I'd encourage you to reflect on this, especially if you're a woman. But in 1 Peter 3, 2 through 4, it says specifically to women that when husbands observe your chaste conduct accompanied by fear, That there is a change that can take place within the household. We are I think we're aware of that teaching, but then after that teaching, some people get this confused. It starts talking about jewelry that women wear. I wonder if you've been confused about this before. I remember one person coming to me who told me that he had refused he had forbidden his wife to wear any jewelry. in application of this. Now depending on the circumstance, I could see where it could fit and in another circumstance where it wouldn't, where it would be a it would have been an overruling on his part. But if you were to take a look at 1 Peter 3, 2 through 4, listen to verse number 3. Do not let your adornment be merely outward. Aren't we already talking about Matthew chapter 6? Women aren't to be veneer women. Not the discipl not women who are the disciples of Jesus Christ. The women of this that are disciples of Jesus Christ, he says, don't let your adornment be merely outward. Which is a great temptation. And then, because the Spirit knows his audience, he goes on to give a list. He says, the arranging of your hair, the wearing of gold, or the putting on of fine apparel. These are examples in which you could be consumed with this focus, that I, as a woman, know my value and my worth, and it is in my appearance. But here we see Peter instructing, do not just have it merely outwardly. He goes on and he says, rather, exactly what we learn in 6, let it be the hidden person of the heart. With the incorruptible beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit. And now this is really getting us back to Matthew 16. Notice how in this final clause It's done before God and not men, which is very precious in the sight of God. He didn't say it's very precious in the sight of men. He didn't say it's very precious in the sight of other women. If you decide not to focus on the exterior, other women are going to be like I don't know what women I don't know what women think. But you see, that's an application In another area of scripture using the same teaching that Jesus is giving us in Matthew 6. Not mere adornment, but the heart before God. And so now That gives us another picture of the way in which that practice. You see the practice there? The practice wasn't for the woman to just focus on the motivations, but to start changing the practices. of being overly concerned about all of the hair and the dressings and never really thinking about the inside before her father who is in heaven. Whether it's a warning that Jesus gives to us about the hypocrisy, and boy do we need to be warned, we all sit here knowing our hearts, don't we? The hypocrisy warned or giving us this illustration of the way in which our motives can go sideways longing for status or power or wealth or prestige or whatever it is, the heart is so drawn to those things, even after being saved by Christ. But he also gives us that transformation where he's a good Savior and he shows us how can we begin today with just these basic practices, changing up our routines. Christ, by his Spirit, it should be obvious. It should be obvious that as we seek to do good works in the name of Christ and being careful of hypocrisy, it should be obvious that you cannot Avoid hypocrisy on your own. It says in John chapter 3 that if you are to have a heart that is renewed, you must be born again. You must be spiritually reborn, and you could see why. Unless Jesus Christ sends you his spirit, there's no way you'll be able to even want to love God. I've told you this story before, and I'll tell it I'll tell it to you again here this morning. It's one of my favorites is Jonathan Edwards in a sermon. wanted to to prove to people that they really by nature are at enmity with God. He had a lot of people around him who said I enjoy God. I love Him on my own. And his point from the scripture is that unless God gives you the grace, you won't love Him. And he points out this thought project where he says, you know, one of the only ways for us to be able to test this is that God would have to make himself vulnerable to us. Because right now, there's no way for anybody to know if we really do love him. He's too high and lofty and majestic. He's outside of our reach. And so what would happen if he made himself vulnerable, if he became like one of us, and he put us in if he put himself within our responsibility? What would we do? Would we find people falling over loving him? Not without the Spirit. You'd find all of his disciples deserting him at the end. And you would find his entire nation, though he came to his own, his own did not receive him. In the first chapter of John it says that. Yelling, crucify him, crucify him. That's the natural human heart. But the heart after Jesus Christ sends his spirit is a heart that begins small like a mustard seed. that actually begins to love God. And if you're a disciple of Jesus Christ, that describes you. Your heart has been changed and he has planted something in you that is starting to grow up and it's love for God. But I'll tell you what, right now, you all know some of you have been disciples of Jesus Christ longer than others. And you all know that the struggle to do things for the love of God is an ongoing struggle, do you not? It's an ongoing struggle. So we'll need the ministry of Christ by His Spirit through the rest of our lives, praying to Him that these things that we do would not be hypocritical or they would be less hypocritical. Over time. And then of course, you know, we'll die struggling with hypocrisy. But then Christ promises that as he brings us into glory, there's no more hypocrisy. It is a kingdom of pure hearts, and that's your hope, Christian. That's your hope for us to be able to keep marching forward. Even after Christ changes you, doing good from a heart of love for God is a constant challenge. But I tell you now, because of the hope that's before you and because of Jesus Christ has your back, keep pursuing it. Even if you can do it in just trying in little ways to focus on, you know what, Father, I'm going to do this for you. Now, having said all of that, I also would like to give you another warning about this. Can everybody hear me okay? Okay. I knew you could, I just needed your attention. The one of my concerns is that the enemy in your culture, which can take different forms uses your hypocrisy against you. The fact that you admit, because Jesus told you you're going to struggle with hypocrisy, and you admit, I struggle with hypocrisy, they use that against you Everybody here has said, I will never become a part of the church because it is full of hypocrites. And you feel sometimes very defensive about that because it smears the name of Christ. But I tell you right now, those who acknowledge that they're sinners are not hypocritical. They're acknowledging that they're hypocrites. That means they're not hypocritical. And let me also say this any club or league or society Society or group that your friends are a part of that want to criticize the church, are they not a part of a group of people that are also hypocrites? You can't escape it. It's not just in the church. Don't buy that It's not just in the church. I heard these lovely sayings. I was t taking a look at some things that R. C. Sproull said. I I don't actually know who this person is because I'm young, gur, but does anybody know who D. James Kennedy is? Yep, okay. Yeah, I knew I was going to get some laughs at that. Right, D. James Kennedy. RC4 related that people would go to j to D. James Kennedy and they would they would kick they would um say They would say there's there's all these objections that Christians and the church are hypocrites and the church is full of hypocrites and and R. C. Sproul relays being in the presence of D. James Kennedy that he that Kennedy used to answer, that's all right. There is always room for one more. And then R. C. Sproul relayed that he would continue. Kennedy sounds like a real character. But he would continue with that same person and he would say, if you ever find a perfect church, don't join it because you'll ruin it. His premise was that the church was filled with sinners. In fact, it is the only organization, writes R. C. Sproul, that I know of, that requires an acknowledgement of sin to belong. If people outside the church see us sin, they really should not be surprised. What those outside fail to see is that a Christian is only a hypocrite if he says that he does not sin. Now I'm not endorsing you running headlong into hypocrisy. Not giving you permission for that. I'm just saying don't give in to that What the enemy's trying to do, they're making you feel ashamed that you're a part and that this group can't really be from God. This is God's congregation. There's no group on the face of the earth that doesn't have hypocrisy. At least we have the heart purified by Jesus Christ to admit it. At least we have the heart to admit it. And as Christ works on them, though they be our enemy, if they become friends with Christ, they'll admit their hypocrisy too. They'll repent, turn to Christ, and believe in Him for Hiself their salvation. And begin the same journey that we are beginning, a journey where we need some serious warning. How much are you stopping and just asking yourself, why am I doing these things? And what practices could you avoid or could you adopt to where you don't put yourself in those same temptations to keep seeking ambitiously your fame and your status and your vainglory. We can't do it for this motivation because it spoils it, but I'm going to just tell you this anyway. If you actually want to be the strongest people in the earth, if you want to be the strongest men and the strongest women, you don't live for other men and women. You live first for God. And then you love others for his sake. That's as mature as it gets. That's where you're a force to be reckoned with. And the purpose of us even talking about this is this final statement is that this is where we really become lights and salt to the earth. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you. That you have sent your son, and he is our teacher. He is the Christ. I thank you that you show us another way. Hearing with just our ears will not do it, Lord. I pray therefore that you would work these things into our hearts, that we would be not just hearers, but doers. I pray, Lord, that you'd make us a congregation that is possessed with pleasing you. And doing so in the name of Jesus Christ. It's in his name that I pray. Amen