Rather, enjoin in following my example and note those who so walk as you have us for a pattern. For many walk of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ, whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly and whose glory is in their shame, who set their mind on earthly things. For our citizenship is in heaven. From which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly bodies that it may be conformed to his glorious body. according to the working by which he is able even to subdue all things to himself. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, I pray that your preached word would go out with power. I pray that you would make it effective. And that your Holy Spirit would sow the seed of your word I pray, Lord, that the devil would not take it away from your people or those whom you're calling to yourself. I pray that the worries and cares of this world would not choke it out. I pray instead that it would take root and produce a harvest that is a hundredfold. I ask these things in your name for your congregation and your glory. Amen. You may be seated. What would you say to yourself and anyone else who would ask you this important question? What does the genuine or that's That's like the Southern translation, isn't it? The genuine. Yeah, the genuine or the authentic or the real Christian life look like. That's an important question to ask because depending on which church you stop at, even on the way to this church, It's quite possible that each church would give you a different answer as to what is the authentic, genuine, or real Christian life. And that's what I want to take up this morning, because that is what Paul himself is seeking to answer, is what is true Christianity. Now I think we've hit a record in a um in in staying on one theme, we're on True Christianity Part 6. So congratulations. And this morning we're really focused on true Christianity in the sense of what does the true Christian life look like and how do we know. Paul answers that here. He's actually been answering that question of what does the true Christian life look like? He's been answering that for a while. The the apex of his answer. Could you tell me what the apex of his answer is in Philippians as to what does the true Christian life look like? That would be in chapter 2, beginning in verse number 5 When Paul presents to us the image of Christ, or really who Christ is, he says that we're supposed to have the same mind as him. Now the whole community that we are to look like Christ. We are to imitate him. Now sometimes we could make the mistake and say, well, what Paul's point The point that Paul is making there is he's saying we're to imitate Christ specifically in that context with regard to how we're supposed to get along and not be in constant fights and community. And I'll take your point. That's a well-stated point. Thank you for making that point. But if you continue to look throughout the scriptures, Imitating Christ as the genuine way in which we participate in real Christianity is not isolated to just how community could get together. I want to bring up uh Perhaps the premier verse on this is Romans 8, verse number 29. And I'd encourage you to take a look at this for this afternoon because it's profound. He it says this, Romans 8. 29, the first part of the verse, for whom he foreknew He also predestined. And sometimes we stop there, because uh foreknowing and predestination are very hot topics. Sometimes we stop there, but the verse goes on and it says for whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. to be conformed to the image of a son. And that's without qualification. It's not just we take up the image or we're conformed to the image that we could have healthy community. What he's stating is if you want to know what true Christianity looks like, you look at where everything is headed. And Paul says everything, there's one thing that Paul's after. Everything is headed toward being conformed to the image of Jesus Christ. That's his answer. Now the question that comes up in our specific passage, we've seen him saying follow the pattern of Christ since chapter 2 and earlier in Philippians, but now in our passage there's an There's an exciting uh uh development. Paul asks the question now, quite practically, you'll be thankful, well, how does that work? How do we grow? And how is it that God, through his spirit, conforms you into the image of his son. I bet you you have some answers, but I want to look at ex specifically what Paul says here. And he essentially says this. This is a summary of the of the of really the passage, and really the summary of the verse. It's put in another way. The true Christian life is a process of pursuing Christ's likeness by following the godly example of Paul and others. The true Christian life is a process of pursuing Christ's likeness by following the godly example of Paul and others. This is such good news to me. Do you know how complicated things get in my head? Just trying to figure out how to fit together all of the canon of Scripture in such a way to where I may glorify my Lord? Paul does us all such a favor here by saying, you know what it really boils down to? Is we imitate those who imitate Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit. Boy does that simplify things. It simplifies things not only in Christianity, we are aware analogously of how this simplifies All the areas of our life. Imagine teaching your youngster how to play baseball. But you won't show them how to swing. You'll just describe to them what a swing looks like. It'd be like uh I mean w we we see how this happens, for example, if you played around with AI. When AI first came out you couldn't show it pictures, you'd have to describe everything to it and then it could make a picture for you And no matter how hard you describe, it would always make the wrong picture. It would get weird. It's so much easier to just say, if you had a had a wise father And he just says, listen, stop asking questions about baseball. And I'm going to stop talking about baseball. I just want you to watch how I swing the bat. And then I want you to swing the bat like I swing the bat. Paul's really on to something here that we see across the spectrum of our lives, but he's focused specifically on how we would not be good baseball players. but how we would grow as Christians. And his answer is that we would pursue Christ's likeness by following the godly example of Paul And then he does broaden the field and he says, and follow the example of everyone who is following the example of Christ. So let's take a look at that. I want to begin by looking at Paul's example. Paul's example. You can see this in verse number 17, which is really the only verse we're focused on here this morning. Verse number 17, I'll just read it to you again. Brethren, join in following my example and note those who so walk as you have us for a pattern You'll notice in the next verse for the next sermon that we're going to do is going to be the bad pattern, but this morning it's the good pattern. And so there it is. We can see that Paul is specifically calling us to imitate him and those who keep the pattern. We've seen this already throughout Philippians. Paul has been giving his autobiography. Which means he's displaying or placarding himself as a model to be imitated. Paul called us to imitate him specifically in the last few paragraphs in Philippians to a very important topic. He called us to imitate him in how to reconcile with God. That we are in a state of enmity with God, and the way to be at peace with God is not going to be through some kind of works righteousness that we would perform. I think we understand what we mean by that. But Paul goes on to say in Philippians 3, 7 through 9, but what things were gained to me, these things I have counted lost for Christ. Yet indeed I also count all things for loss, for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and I count them as rubbish, that I might gain Christ. Now why would he want Christ? So bad in seeking to resolve enmity with God. Well, he answers that in this passage, and he says, I want to be found in him. I don't want to have my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ. The righteousness which is from God. By faith. Wow. And he's giving to that to you as a chapter in his autobiography so that you would follow his pattern and not follow the pattern of those who through ceremonial acts and and how they conduct themselves on their s in society, they think through their own works they will then have peace with God and that He will become pleased with them. Paul is saying that's not the right pattern. The Judaizers were not the right pattern. I'm the right pattern, and I give you my autobiography so that you could see the pattern. He gave that to you throughout this letter, really. And it's a very important thing for us to be able to hear. Do you remember before we started the Advent series that I brought out a very specific feature about the pattern of Paul? The pattern of Paul is important because he shows us how we can reconcile with God, specifically in these chapters of Philippians. But he also says to you, I'm not perfect. I haven't arrived. But insofar as I imitate Christ, imitate me. And boy, is that so important for us to be able to hear that. I recently heard a gentleman that I respect explain this passage And he he gave a contrast that I hope will be helpful to you on why we could why it would be so important for us to be able to see Paul as this This person who hasn't arrived yet. That's what he says in the prior paragraph. Not that I have arrived or have been made perfect, but I there's one thing I do. I strive to be conformed to the image of Christ. The gentleman points out by way of contrast. He tells a story and he says, I just want you to imagine with me for a moment that uh there's there's um the ultimate example being carried uh on a helicopter. And this human being could show you exact or could encourage you to climb the mountain of the Christian life. And the helicopter goes and it drops the person on the top of the mountain. And you're down at the bottom of the mountain. And there's so many different situations that you're going to face. As you climb the face of the mountain, and the only one at the top the only thing that the one at the top could do is just say, keep going. And you're thinking, How am I supposed to face this situation You didn't tell me there was going to be snakes and snow and every other thing against me in climbing this mountain And then he goes on and says, you know what actually the person needs, as opposed to someone at the top of the mountain just shouting out with a pep rally, is you need someone who is also climbing the mountain, who by the grace of the Holy Spirit has already taken the path and can say to you, I remember that part of the mountain, do this. Imitate the way that I climbed there. And that's what Paul is saying to you. Paul is saying if you if you want to make it to being conform to the image of Christ, Then that's my goal. And by the power of the Spirit, Christ has shown me how to climb this mountain. And insofar as I imitate Christ, you imitate me, and climb the mountain as I climb the mountain. And I really believe that the Holy Spirit meant for us to see Paul as an example. Someone pointed out to me, although I could have just you know inferred this myself, that Paul dominates the New Testament, doesn't he? If you attribute Paul as the author of Hebrews, Then Paul has written 14 epistles in the New Testament, if I have the count right Epistle after epistle after epistle, that you might be able to see more and more of what he looks like under the power of the Holy Spirit in climbing the mountain. that you would have a pattern or imitation to follow in being conformed to the image of Jesus Christ. Now we're not at the bad pattern part, that will come in a couple weeks. But that would provide you, you'd be able to say, when you're on your way here and you want to stop at other churches. You could take a look and you could say very quickly, mmm That's not Paul's pattern. That's not Paul's pattern. That's Paul's pattern. Christ is so gracious to us in giving us a guide up the mountain. And seeking to be conformed to his image. But he didn't just give us, did you notice in the same verse that he didn't just give us the pattern of Paul? Take a look at 3. 17 again. He says, brethren, join in following my example. Okay, we just looked at that. We looked at that. And note those who so walk. So there's other people that are seeking or who are a pattern also, as you have us for a pattern. So we have not only the pattern of Paul, but we have the pattern of others. And the others that are the uh the closest to being a pattern, if we were to just study the letter of Philippians is going to be the names that were dropped earlier a few paragraphs before. Paul isn't the only example in Philippians chapter 2, verse 20 through 21. You might want to mark that so that you could begin to start accumulating examples. Because the whole point in the growth of your life is to have the right thing to imitate as you head to the top, to be conformed to the image of Christ. And those patterns are given to you in the Word, and there's a pattern in Philippians 2, 20 through 21. And what's particularly interesting to me is that there's a pattern that is given for each individual situation. That life is meant to be approached on a case-by-case basis, and you're meant to exercise Christian wisdom, and that's why there's so many different patterns in the scriptures, so that you could see all of these different saints Exercising wisdom in different situations, and you would have a kind of pattern. Well the pattern given in Philippians 2, 20 through 21 is Timothy. Well, why is it that Paul pointed out Timothy? Well, Paul points out Timothy according to 20 and 21. He says this, for I have no one like-minded. Who will sincerely care for your state, for all seek their own, not the things which are of Christ Jesus. I have no one who's like-minded who will sincerely care for your state. Everybody seeks their own, not the things which are of Christ Jesus, except Timothy. So that tells you that Timothy's motivational structure in putting the Church of Jesus Christ and the saints of Jesus Christ above his own interests is a motivational structure and a pattern that you should follow in seeking to be conform to the image of Jesus Christ. That's one pattern. Another pattern he gives is in Philippians 2, 29 through 30, which is Epaphroditus. Epaphroditus, he says And this ends up being the closest example that we see, although all of them participate in this example. Epaphroditus, even with the language that Paul uses to describe him, Epaphroditus is seen as a pattern of Christ. Because Epaphroditus is willing for the sake of the gospel to give up his own life. Listen to what it says here. in Philippians 2, 29 through 30. Receive him, therefore, of Aphrodite, in the Lord with all gladness, and hold such men in esteem. Hold them up as a pattern. Because for the work of Christ, because of the work for the work of Christ, he came close to death. not regarding his life, to supply what was lacking and your service toward me. There's the pattern. And it's so close to the pattern of Philippians too that he uses the same kind of language. He's imitating Christ. And there's a pattern for you. You want to know what a true Christian minister looks like? It looks like someone who's willing to give their life up for the life of the sheep. There it is. The life of the work of Christ. You know what it looks like to be a a Christian who is seeking to be conformed to the image of Christ? It looks like giving your own life up that the work of Christ may advance. in you, in your children, in your fellow church members, and in the lives of your neighbors. What are you willing to sacrifice to take up the pattern of Christ who sacrificed? You see how clear that is when we begin to see what Paul is really after in teaching us as a congregation? And then you could go outside of just these initial examples. If you were a part of our Advent series, I brought up other examples. I wonder what examples of what saints in the scriptures are meaningful to you as a pattern. Which ones is the Holy Spirit seeking to place before you that you'd be able to keep climbing that mountain? towards conformity to the image of Jesus Christ in the exercise of Christian whim uh wisdom. I wonder if, for example, if it's Tabitha. I brought her up in Advent, I believe. Tabitha. Or what about Lydia from the book of Acts? I'd encourage you to think about which saints the Holy Spirit is commending to you as a pattern. That you might continue in your sanctification. Now, you have the pattern of Paul And you have the pattern of others, specifically the saints that are within the canon of the scriptures. And this implies. That in order to be able to obtain that wisdom that the Holy Spirit would give to us, that you as a congregation are going to have to take up and read. You're not going to know the pattern unless you crack the scriptures to be able to see the pattern. But I suspect, by way of application, that this is actually Strengthening to you. I've sat in my office many a time with a person who wants to be dutiful in their Christian disciplines that they might grow as a Christian And they read their word day in and day out. They develop a little schedule. They have a notification that goes off on their phone. And those who can just work for the sake of duty will, even if it feels meaningless, just keep reading. But many people aren't like that, so they stop reading their scriptures. Because people tell them that they're supposed to read their scriptures, but then when they're in the middle of it, it doesn't have much meaning, and they're not sure what they're supposed to be doing when they read the scriptures Now there's a lot of answers on why we should read the scriptures. But Paul gives you one here. And I hope it's a motivation for you to make some kind of in the power of Christ a resolution for this new year. That you would crack open the scriptures, and that as you seek to be conformed to the image of Jesus Christ, you would study who Christ is. And you would fall in love with him. You would find him so beautiful that you would find yourself saying, By the power of the Holy Spirit, I want to be like him. By the power of the Holy Spirit I want to be like him. And insofar as other saints from the scriptures reveal Christ to you in the way that they wisely walk through situations that you would study those saints also. Saints like Lydia, using the word saints in the same way that Paul addresses his letters to the saints at such and such. We would learn who Christ is in studying the Word. We would imitate the pattern of other saints as they imitate Christ. This is another way of saying what James says. He says that we would not just be hearers of the word. I think that's sometimes what our Bible practice is. We're hearers of the word. And that becomes meaningless. What Christ calls us to by the power of his Spirit is that we would not just be hearers, but doers. And I'm telling you what the doing looks like. It means the follow-a-pattern. Follow a pattern as you seek to be conformed to the image of Christ. I also want to take this one step further. Take a look at 41, or I'm sorry, 317 again. Brethren, join in following my example. That was the point that I made on following Paul's example. And note those who so walk as you have us for a pattern. And I pointed out there are some other saints given to us in the scriptures that also act as a pattern. But if you look, he doesn't limit it to just the pages of scripture. I mean they knew Timothy, they knew Epaphroditus, so it was great for the for Paul to set Timothy and Epaphroditus up as a pattern. But I don't see anything in the language that says the only examples in your life can only be from the pages of Scripture. I see him saying, insofar as anyone imitates Christ, you imitate them, whether on the pages of Scripture or not. And doesn't that end up applying to you? Doesn't that call for you, that you also are meant, as you are being conformed to Christ, to be in a pattern for the people that are around you? Now this is getting very serious I'm now going to start talking about how you approach the re your responsibility And the calling that Christ has given to you, and calling you into an estate of salvation, his promises to you of sanctification, that all of those things are not just consummating so that you only can be benefited. But that Christ has called you, as you are being conformed to his image, to be a pattern for those who are around you, that they might follow you up the mountain. Do you see the image now? Paul is going up the mountain because he's following Christ. You're following Paul because he's following Christ. And now the people that are around you are meant to see the pattern of Christ in you and they follow you up of the mountain. And now we can begin to see there is great personal responsibility that we bear every morning when you wake up and you place your feet on the floor You have been called by Christ to a particular vocation. And in that vocation, you are to be a pattern for those who are around you. It's amazing to me how much this comes up. On Friday and Saturday, I had the privilege of being a part of a rehearsal for a wedding. Some of the guests are here. I had the privilege of being a part of a wedding. And at the rehearsal and even during the wedding in the in the speaking, this is what was part of the encouragement to those who were getting married. That they would know what good married life looks like. They said, you've had good examples in your life. You've had people in your life that Christ has been conforming to his image. Imitate them insofar as they imitate Christ. It shows up everywhere, and it's supposed to show up, and it's a responsibility that is placed upon your lap also. Good examples have a powerful influence upon us. Now listen to this. This is a bit catchy. This is from a Puritan. They're always catchy. Good examples have a powerful influence upon us, for we are led more by pattern than by precept, especially the examples of those we love. Or this one from another Puritan. We are the Bibles the world is reading. We are the creeds the world is needing. We are the sermons the world is heeding. Oh, what responsibility in our call. But that's what makes our life meaningful. I don't want a life without responsibility. It is in my responsibilities to Christ that I find my meaning. Because I find my meeting in my calling Let me just ask you, what are the patterns that you are following? What are the patterns that you're following? As human beings, we're main we're made to detect patterns. Who are you following? And think about that even more specifically. As you seek to be healthy as an individual, what patterns do you look to to show you the standard of health? What standards are you seeking to conform yourself to? Or for example, what about as a family? As a father or a mother or a grandmother or a grandfather or an aunt or an uncle or a younger sister or an older brother, to what pattern are you looking? To be conformed to the image of Jesus Christ. Is it a godly pattern? I think that's probably one of the most important questions for the church to answer today is what pattern are you following? Could you do me a favor and survey the landscape of Christian leaders today? How many have fallen? How many have taken up a pattern that is from the devil and not from Christ? How many names did you used to trust? You used to sit in your living room and you remember back in the day when we had VCRs? Some of you still have B C Rs. And you'd pop in the BCR tape and there would be your favorite speaker. Maybe it was a speaker who helped you to enter into the kingdom of Jesus Christ. And then you hear multiple years later what they've been doing to children, what they've been doing to women that aren't their wives. It's too real, isn't it? We have a serious question that we need to ask is whether or not the church is even interested in taking up the pattern anymore. I mean we get it because things are confusing today because people twist and turn and they say, no, no, no, that's not the pattern. I mean basically in many ways we send away our children to go to college and university so they can learn all the wrong patterns. And we're lucky if they make it out of line. But Paul is calling you to something different here. A little bit later in the passage he's going to say to you. I'm showing you the pattern that leads to everything good It leads to everything that is beautiful. It leads to truth itself. He doesn't he's not trying to hurt you. But boy do we need to consider that question. Are you what patterns are you following and are you being conformed to Christ? And I'll take another step Another step that is going to hurt a little bit for the sake of your health. What patterns are you setting for others? I want you to think about, for example, the three-year-olds in your life. What pattern are they seeing? You know they largely learn by way of imitation. You are supposed to be presenting before them what it looks like to be a good human being, made in the image of God. But what pattern do they see? Another way to put it is what examples do our children have? And I'm not just trying to be hard on you. This is a call for you to take seriously what Paul stated in Romans 8. 29. In 829, Paul points out to you that you are a part of a much larger picture. He says that God foreknew you And that God predestined you. And that God specifically predestined that you would be conformed to the image of his son. You're caught in a tractor beam of the will of God. And in order for us sometimes to to re-realize that We need to have a little bit of a wake-up call and what better way than before New Year's Eve? I just want to help you to set your resolutions Finally, I want you to picture a chain that has various links so that you can see just in a snapshot the true Christian life. Imagine a chain. The Christian life, the top link, and there's links that are underneath, and they're all connected The top link of the chain is that we have been called and predestined to be conformed to the image of Jesus Christ. Here this morning we're asking the question how? And that brings us to the link that is connected to it in the chain. You do so by seeing Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit in his word. And now our reading is meaningful once again. And then there is a third link below that. You see Christ's pattern or example by the saints who seek to follow Christ who are also in the scriptures, especially Paul, because he dominates the New Testament with his 14 epistles. So we have being conformed into the image of Christ, chain link one. Second, we get to know Christ by way of his word. And in his word, we also get to know those saints who are seeking to imitate Christ, especially Paul. Then we go to the next link. Those who have been seeking to imitate Paul because he is imitating Christ We now have as flesh and blood examples around us, and we follow them in their pattern. We honor our mothers and our fathers. The people around you see the pattern of what real humanity looks like, and they follow you up the mountain. Your children follow you up the mountain. Hopefully one day even taking up the pattern of a public profession of faith in Jesus Christ. Really? All of those links can be summarized in a single verse. You know what single verse that would be? It's our verse from this morning. 317. Brethren, join in following Paul's example and note those who so walk as you have them for a pattern. Amen. Let us pray.