Please turn with me to our passage in Deuteronomy. We're going to stand for the reading of God's Word. It's Deuteronomy chapter 5, and we're looking at verse 18 this morning. Let's hear his word and then we'll pray. You shall not commit adultery. Please pray with me. Father, we are all guilty of this command. It's one of the purposes of the command is to show us our need for Jesus Christ. Lord Jesus Christ, some of us here have committed this command quite literally. All of us have committed this command in our imaginations and thought life. All of us have committed this command. And literally relative to you and our relationship with you. We ask that you would help us with our grief over our own sin. I ask that you would help us to see the glory of Jesus Christ, who has never adulterated anything. And I ask that you would help us to see how Jesus Christ is making us faithful people. And I ask these things that you would do these things by your power in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. Obviously, I'm mourning over the decisions that we have heard in our news. I'm mourning over a lot of decisions. I hope that you are also. We mourn over that decision relative to the commands we've already heard. The sixth command, those who are put into authority, the fifth command. We can mourn on almost all the commandments this morning. We have a right to be grieved. This this morning We're going to be grieved over another one. And it's the seventh command. But I don't expect to spend the whole time in grief because Jesus Christ is faithful and he He's making us faithful people. There's a real mix that needs to happen. We don't grieve without hope, in other words, is what I'm saying to you We stand up for all of those commandments. Recently, Stanley Howerwas uh used to be a Duke University professor. He's an ethicist, I'm not sure. where he is now, he might be in Edinburgh University. He said this if in a hundred years Christians are identified as people who do not kill their children or the elderly, we will have done well. It speaks to our witness and what we're called to right now. But I want to add this. I would like to add one more commandment in regards to this morning. If in a hundred years Christians are identified as people who do not kill their children or the elderly and who take their marriages seriously, we will have done well. Now, I don't know if you knew that was coming, that I was going to add that one. But that's really what the seventh command is about. And that's the question that you have to ask yourself this morning. Whether you're married or not. Do you take Christian marriage seriously? There's a lot of marriage talk within our culture, lots of debates that are going on. I can't ever address all of those things Within the allotted time that I have. I can't address all of the questions you're going to have about adultery and divorce either. But please know that whether I can address all those questions or not, this morning is about the seriousness of marriage. Whether you're married or not, you are to take it seriously. Now here's what I want you to take home in a longer version of that that little bumper sticker that I just gave you. Take marriage seriously. Command. Here's the longer version. The covenant of marriage is so precious to God that he forbids any threat and he promotes anything that would help marriage, any lawful thing. Let me say it one more time for you. The covenant of marriage is so precious to God that He forbids any threat of marriage and encourages the promotion of any help, any lawful help. For marriage. And you could see how that would fit, whether you're married or not, whether you're young or old. The covenant of marriage is precious to our God, and therefore He forbids any threating and promotes any help. I want to look at the big picture first Because the command says you shall not commit adultery, and all of a sudden I'm talking about marriage. The reason is because of the big picture. When we look throughout the scriptures, we can see that's the focus and that's the point There is this adultery is the great threat. That's the second point I want us to look at. The big picture, then a great threat, but then there's many other threats And then the whole point of this really is not to stay in a negative state of mind concerning marriage. It's not just about what we can't do. There's a point that he's making that's positive. There's a positive lifestyle that he is after within his people and really the whole earth when Christ So that's a big picture, a great threat. There'll be other threats and then a positive point. And I will remind you of those because there's no alliteration or rhyme to any of them. It's like trying to hold disparate things together in your hand head. I'll remind you of those. The very first thing is the big picture. The big picture that we have. The covenant of marriage is so precious to God that he forbids any threat and promotes any help. The big picture is that we're talking about marriage here. In each of the commands, we have observed that the extent or scope of the command is far broader than we thought. Think of the different commands that we have. The fifth command included way more than just obeying your mother and your father, your literal parents. It included a whole lot more, and we were surprised by that. The sixth command included not only different kinds of murder, but the promotion of life, that we are to look out for those around us to make sure that they are flourishing That was a bit of a surprise. We should be surprised and expect the scope and the extent of the seventh command to be that same way. You read it and you can get the impression that the command is narrowly focused on the rules of intimacy and romance. And it is about that, of course, but it is about something bigger than that. And there's a bigger picture. Here's the bigger picture: God is against adultery because he is for marriage. God is against adultery because he is for marriage. You can see the importance of marriage in that it is used for God's relationship to his people. He uses this analogy. It is precious to him. For your maker is your husband, Jeremiah 3, 14. The Lord of hosts is his name, and your Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel. He is Called the God of the whole earth, for the Lord has called you like a woman forsaken and grieved in spirit, think of Ruth in Naomi, like a youthful wife. When you were refused, says your God. Jeremiah continues and says, Return, O backsliding children, says the Lord, for I am married to you. Hosea 2, 19 through 20, I will betroth you to me forever. Yes, I will betroth you to me in righteousness and justice and loving kindness. I will betrothe you to me in faithfulness. This is an analogy that he uses. To show the preciousness of the relationship that he has with us and that marriage is important to him. And that truth continues in even more explicitly through the Apostle Paul and his teachings in Ephesians five thirty one through thirty-two, which you already read this morning. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother, and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. And Paul is giving practical advice on marriage, but it's so closely related to the main point, which happens to do with our marriage to God, that he can't not talk about the mystery of our union with Jesus Christ. He says This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. And God hates it when marriage is unlawfully broken. For the Lord God of Israel says that he hates divorce, Malachi 2. 16. Take heed to yourself that you don't deal with your husband or your wife treacherously. And Jesus reaffirms this in Matthew 19:4 through 6. He's he's like many times they're trying to tempt him and put him into a bad position, the Pharisees, and so they have in their mind different positions and arguments on this matter. And Jesus tells him the correct position. And he answers them, and he says to them, Have you not read that he who made them at the beginning made them male and female, and said, For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. flesh. So then they are no longer two but one flesh, therefore what God has joined, let not man separate. They had become very loose in all of the reasons why one could get rid of a marriage, but Jesus is reaffirming by going back to creation How important marriage is to God, that it is precious, and it is continues to be precious And that no human contrivances should be philosophically developed in order to take away from the importance and the seriousness of marriage God is the one who invented marriage as a great and precious good to those who are made in his image. If you remember the Genesis account to which Jesus appealed, do you remember what it repeats? And he said it was good. And he said it was good. And he said it was good. Do you know there's a time when he says this is not good Finally gets to the point where he says, this is not good, and it's when man is alone, and so he makes woman and establishes them in one flesh in marriage. And then he says, This is good. Marriage was the answer. Marriage is precious to God. It is so precious that anything that would get in the way Is is condemned by him. And he mentions specifically the great threat. Actually, you know, in ancient Near Eastern documents, not only amongst this group of people, but other groups of people people, the act of adultery was considered and labeled in their law books the great threat. The great threat. And that's his point here. His point is that marriage is precious to him, and therefore, if there is a great theft, then it is condemned. Then he lays before us here in this commandment the great threat. Adultery threatens to break marriage, and therefore it is prohibited. It has great power to break apart husband and wife beyond what can usually break apart people Let me put it this way. Marriage can withstand a lot, and I've seen marriage withstand so many storms, but if this enters into the relationship, the kind of tragic concern that is present amongst those people is devastating. It reminds me, and this is a bit trite compared to everything we've been talking about this morning, but it does remind me of Superman. Faster than a speeding bullet, more powerful than a locomotive. You can tell this is the old ad, because no one even knows what a locomotive is anymore. Able to leap tall buildings at a single bound, look, up in the sky, it's a bird, it's a plane, it's superman Yes, it's Superman, strange visitor from another planet, who came to Earth with powers and abilities far beyond those of mortal men. And we have seen marriage have like powers able to weather many storms. But we know with Superman and with Mary's that there is a particular kind of kryptonite that can sh shatter it more than others. This is why I'm calling this the Great Threat, which is why it's in here in these commands Superman's weakness is green kryptonite and marriage can be weakened by many things. But my argument is particularly through adultery. And therefore it weakens the whole family, which ends up being the nuclear pillar of all of society. Do you see what's at stake? Your own experience knows this to be true. I don't need to argue from the scriptures about this. I will in a minute. But your own experience confirms this to be true. Think of country songs. Think of blues songs. Think of classic rock songs. They are usually about relationships. And what do we hear when adultery enters into those relationships? A wife got caught and the husband shows up with a gun in his hand. That's a paraphrase of one of Jimi Hendrix's songs. Or the husband caught the wife Or the the the husband's caught and the wife sets something on fire. That's almost every country song sung by a woman And then there's a tear in his beer and he's left just with the dog. That's the rest of the song. We know this to be true not only from songs, but just looking around. Look around at relationships. What happens when this enters in? Can they withstand it? Very difficult. Think about contemplating it within your own relationship. What if it happened to you? Think of the emotions that arise And then as we think of that experience, and then we go to the scriptures, we find the experience confirmed. Proverbs is an easy book to find. I want you to take a look at Proverbs 6, verse 20. Here it's confirmed. I've actually preached on this text before, and you could go back and you could listen to it. You could listen to the Proverbs chapter 5 sermon. But chapter six, verse twenty-six confirms this experience. Look at what happens particularly how this sin is called out to destroy marriage and to destroy people. Start in twenty-five. Do not lust after her beauty in your heart, nor let her allure you with her eyelids. For by means of a harlot a man is reduced to a crust of bread. And an adulteress will prey upon his precious life. And now here's the Proverb 27. Can a man take fire to his bosom and his clothes not be burned? Can one walk on hot coals and his feet not be seared? So is he who goes into his neighbor's wife, whoever touches her, shall not be innocent And it's not just talking about judgment within a court. Of course, that's part of it. But you can see having fire on your lap isn't fun. If you have any doubt, let me let me do that to you sometime. Why not just boil some water and I'll pour it on your lap? You tell me how it feels. That's the point that he's making. You know, God He proves this to us too, that this is a great threat by the way in which He providentially works these things out in our lives. We witness it in our own experience. We witness it in the scriptures. And when we put those two things together, we can gain even greater clarity because God has providentially set up our society still, the way that we feel emotionally, the laws that are enforced. to let us know that it is a great threat to human existence. He does this across the board with nature. Did you notice that? There are certain frogs that you shouldn't touch because There's certain plants that smell a certain way or are certain colors to let you know that they're venomous, certain snakes that are shaped a certain way to make sure you run the other direction, certain insects that you want to get away from He does the same thing. Are you paying attention to the signs to let you know about this great threat? And let that become a sign to something even more, which is marriage is extremely precious to him, and he doesn't That's the whole point. He paints adultery with alarming colors and consequences so that you would not destroy that which is precious to you. to him which is marriage. Think of some of the consequences. Child support, broken homes, incredible hurt, jealousy, divorce, and just think of the children with regards to that. I'm a child of divorce. Murder. We've seen that happen in country songs. And apparently in this area, one in four people have an STD That's also a consequence of living outside of committed relationship. Those are all colors painted on the nature of the case. For you to run away. Like Joseph, when the threat entered into his life and he was tempted to destroy another man's marriage He said, no, God hates that. I'm out of here. And he fled. That wasn't silly That's exactly what this command is all about. And Joseph saw the light. He read the situation. He saw the colors, that they were bright and they were venomous. And that's the seventh command. The seventh command is like the others You must not only see the narrow application, but you have to see that big picture. God is not like the skit on Saturday Night Live of the church lady. smacking your knuckles because he's uptight about romance and intimacy. That's not the case at all. The big picture is that God is for intimacy within committed relationship called marriage. The big picture is that God is against adultery because he's for marriage. Adultery is green kryptonite against the marriage covenant. And yet the teaching on adultery finds more development in the life of Jesus than just the obvious thing that you may be thinking about. Jesus agrees that we should not commit adultery, but he ends up expanding the command to include many other threats So there's this great threat, which we fit into the big picture, but there's all these other threats that can enter into the relationship also. And Jesus points this out in Matthew 5. I want you to turn there also. So that you can have this on your mind, that you literally see the words before your face. Because these kind of sayings people have really gotten wrong because they haven't read the context very well. But in Matthew 5, Jesus is correcting the misapplication of the seventh commandment by the current leaders within the church. And he says over and over again in these sayings, you have heard that it was said of old, but I tell you the truth that he's correcting misunderstandings of the law. People have been led astray. In this case, he says, You've heard it was said, Of old you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. That's twenty-seven and twenty-eight. Now I want you to observe as you go down further the logic of the passage. Look at what he says as he continues the exact same thought. If your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you. If your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and cast it from you. Look at the logic of what he's pointing out here. He's not just focused narrowly on the imagination and thoughts, although he is focused on that, that this command is meant to go into the heart of our lifestyle It is meant to be a part of our imagination's emotional and intellectual life. That was always the case in Deuteronomy. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all of your mind is a commandment in Deuteronomy. That's where Jesus got it from. The logic here goes beyond just the imagination, however. And just the thoughts. Those are specific examples of cutting off a hand or plucking out an eye. Do you see what I'm saying? The point he wants to drive home is anything that threatens the covenant of marriage should be removed. Now some people have taken this quite literally. I have people in seminary here, so I have to mention this just so they don't do it. Himself. Don't do that. Jesus doesn't want you to do that. Jesus, that's a misunderstanding of Scripture. God does not condone self-mutilation The whole point here is we must put aside other threats to marriage. So those are the questions for you. What in your thought life, what in your imagination, what in your practices is sapping strength from your marriage? What is a liability and what is an asset in your relationships? Well you say, you know, sometimes my wife she's like a um don't the scriptures say that she's uh that I don't have to listen to her when she's like a dripping faucet? Well, yes. But it also says that not everything permissible is beneficial. And there are many sacrifices that we are called to make within our relationships to sustain the relationship in strength. And that's his point here. Jesus Christ calls us to be servants. He calls us to do whatever it takes. He calls us to the radical nature of cutting things off. Don't lose the power of that. He said, pluck it out, cut it off, because he's talking about radical nature radical action within our relationships. Will you do what it takes to make the marriage stronger or will you keep sapping The strength out of your marriage by what you choose to do, even though it may be permissible for you to do it. Is it beneficial to the relationship? That's the question. And so you have the big picture in front of you. The whole thing is about marriage, but there is a great threat, and that is explicitly adultery. But there are many other threats, according to Jesus: our imaginations, our thought lives, what we do with our time, what we do where we walk, company that we keep, things that we watch. They can all be threats. And she says that we need to watch out for those things too. And so far, this is some of the warnings that we have: threats, prohibitions, don't do this, you shall not. And the focus, like when we were dealing with the Sixth Command or with the Fifth Command, is entirely negative up to this point. You shall not commit adultery or commit any threat that would do the same thing that adultery would do, which is to break the marriage But the real point of this, which is the last point here, is to look at the positive, the positive aspects. The negative is a guardrail, really, to help you to do the positive That's the focus. And so we have a point positive here as the final point to see what we are to do within our marriage. Within our relationships as a whole. It is helpful to avoid everything that has been mentioned, and you have to start working those things out in detail within your relationships and for the relationships that are around you But there are positive actions too. Last week the command was, you shall not murder. It's put in the negative. No murder. Yet, when we looked at Jesus and we looked at John, we both saw them teaching that the point of the command was love God and love your neighbor, which is positive. So we have to bring that to every command. The positive of do not murder is promote life. The positive of no adultery is promote marriage. That's the argument. Paul develops this in Ephesians 5. 22. We read that already. Wives submit to the order God has given with husbands as the executive of the family. It doesn't mean that you're ontologically inferior to them. It's just like a general would put his soldiers in a particular rank. So too God has established a rank. Husbands, nourish and cherish your wife as you would your own self. In fact, nourish and cherish your wife as Christ does the church. What an excellent example of what it means to promote life. And a thousand applications for you to work out, perhaps over lunch today. You could think of um date nights. I'm convicted there. I should have one at least once a month, shouldn't I? Vacations, cards, celebrations. Don't forget romance. Intimacy, I'm being euphemistic on purpose, but hear my euphemism. The Bible teaches that one great help from eating off another person's tree is to already be full. That's what the scripture says, intellectually, emotionally, physically. Whether you are married or not, you can contribute To marriage, so now I'm speaking to everyone, young and old alike. How could you contribute to the marriage of the people sitting around you I read this last week, but it's true again for this command, Philippians 4 8. Finally, brethren, whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely Whatever things are of good report, if there's any virtue and if there's anything praiseworthy, meditate on these things in regards to marriage Go through each one in the list, not only for your own, but for those who are around you. Not all of us are married. Some of us have been married and now we're not married anymore. But Philippians 4:8 certainly applies to all. I'm trying to take this quite literally by downloading a habit tracker off the App Store. I now have a a habit tracker on my phone and I'm adding different things that I need to be dedicated to. I need to be dedicated to my marriage, and you need to be dedicated to And you need to be dedicated to the marriages around you. And you can add it to your habit tracker whether you're married or not. You know what a habit tracker is? Everybody's just staring at me. It's just a way to be reminded about certain habits you want to be a part of your life. It will send you reminders on your phone. You get to swipe it and say, I did that today. It feels great. I'm the kind of person that if I can check something off of the list, it feels really good. If I know I'm getting ready to do something, I may put that thing on a list just so I can check it off right when I do it. And that's what a habit tracker does. And I'm saying instead of just putting on your habit tracker, learn how to play the guitar like Jimi Hendrix. Learn how to bend it like Beckham. Learn how to, whatever, why not add something about a very important relationship within your life and the lives of those around you, which is marriage? What is it? It is amazing to me when you just spend 15 to 30 minutes a day, every day on something, how much you can accomplish. What if you just put down for 30 minutes or 60 minutes a day, you will focus on some way to improve and strengthen your marriage or the marriages around you? What could you accomplish if you did that every day? It's amazing. It's amazing how many people, how many books people read by just dedicating 30 minutes a day. Or how good they do get at the guitar by just spending 30 minutes a day. We need to get practical here. Maybe it is the date nights. Maybe it is vacations or cards or celebrations. Or romance. Whatever it is, whatever is virtuous, anything that's praiseworthy, meditate on those things. And maybe a habit tracker could help. What could you add to a list or to a habit tracker? To help make marriages healthy around you. Because here's the point the covenant of marriage is so precious to God that He doesn't want there to be anything to free. And he wants you to do whatever it takes lawfully to promote and to preserve it. That's the main point Now, of course, the difficulty with this command is that a lot of the ministry of the word with regards to this command needs to happen in private. It because you can have a lot of questions that deal with your past in regards to this command. Let me just say this: I was encouraged for those of you who have committed adultery, I was encouraged to find a story within the scriptures where the leaders drug an adulterous woman before Jesus Christ. He said, any of you who have not committed the sin, and I'm presuming he meant adultery, pick up the first stone and throw it. Now that gives us two lessons. And then when they all scatter and they leave, he says, Did no one condemn you? Then neither shall I condemn you. Go and sin no more. That teaches us a couple different things. Number one, if you have not specifically committed literal adultery, you are no better than someone who has. Because the point that Jesus Christ makes in Matthew 5 is that we are all adulterers. Maybe not all in the same way, but in our thought lives and our imagination and particularly in the most important relationship of our lives, designated by the first command, we are adulterous in our relationship with the living God. Whether you are Christian or non-Christian here this morning, you are an adulterer. You need the grace that God would provide for you to be reconciled with Him, that He would not sue for a permanent divorce from you Right now he invites you to arbitrate and discuss. And I encourage you to take that invitation. Here's the second part of that. If you are still grieving over the adultery that you have committed in the past, but you have repented and had faith in Jesus Christ, I encourage you you today to look to your bleeding savior who has stabbed to death and killed your sin. Your sin died with him on the cross. It is yours no more. There shall be no condemnation for you. If he is going to forgive murderers, which we did in the last command, he is going to forgive you, adulterers. You need to look to Christ. You need to see and have your heart warned by the love that He has for you for dying for your sin on the cross. And that gives us a third lesson. This is a very difficult truth. But if God and Jesus Christ can forgive us adulterers, then so too can you. Sometimes it does mean the breaking of a marriage, but it doesn't have to mean that Jesus Christ is doing great things within our land. He's actually giving us capabilities and dispositions to resist the strongest kryptonite. This is all encouraging for us. Whether you are an adulterer literally, or you're an adulterer by your imagination, this is what's supposed to happen within sight of you Your heart this morning is supposed to be warmed by how much God the Father through Jesus Christ is committed to you in his marriage. You are to be warmed by his love for you. And this warmth of love that rises within your heart as you see his faithful dedication to you. is to cause a yearning to happen in you where you cannot wait to see Jesus Christ, your heavenly husband, in the flesh. Flesh. You cannot wait for the marriage supper of the Lamb, where you will sup with him no longer by faith. You won't be listening to the words of Jesse. You'll just be looking at Jesus in the flesh. Steve Lawson is a teaching fellow at Ligonier Ministries. Has anyone ever heard of him? He's pretty broad spectrum, a lot of the different denominations. Listen, Ann, uh Steve Watson. And he tells a story in one of his books about a young aristocrat who was blinded at the age of ten, lost total sight And uh he fell in love in college. And when he was in grad school, this was early on, um maybe like mid-18 Is the impression that I got. There was a surgery that was developed that could correct the blindness that was going on within his eyes, and he elected to go ahead and have the surgery After the he was in his engagement, after the surgery, you're supposed to keep the bandages on, very much like stuff today. You're supposed to keep the bandages on for so long. He made the doctors Keep the bandages on his eyes until his wedding day because he wanted the first sight since year ten to be his beautiful wife And the words that come out of his mouth as he's standing there, and his bride shows up at the door, and his father unwrapped the gauze from his head. When his wife came up the aisle, he said, You are, and think of this because it's a play on words, you are more beautiful than I ever imagined. Isn't that lovely? The scriptures teach us that something like this is supposed to be To happen with us when we are glorified through death or when Christ returns. When you see Jesus Christ By sight, you are supposed to say, you are more beautiful, you are more lovely, you are more fair than I ever had faith in. That I ever imagined. And this is a great question that rises for us this morning on the Lord's Day Do you have such a yearning within your heart for Jesus Christ to see him on that day as that young man did when he had the gauze removed from his eyes? You see now but in part, but one day you shall see fully. The gauze will be wrapped, unwrapped from your face, and you will see Christ as he is. Are you ready for that? Do you expect him to be lovely? Here's where I'm going with this. I want to add Since Paul keeps taking the talk of commandments over into Christ, I want this to be the proposition that you leave with today. The covenant of marriage with Christ is so precious to God the Father that he forbids any threat And he wants you to promote anything that would cause you to fall more and more in love with Jesus the Christ. He wants you to consider the loveliness. Of Jesus Christ, to find songs all day long to consider the amazing splendor of Jesus Christ That's really the whole point. And I find that when we can do that, when we can find our greatest pleasure and enjoyment in God the Son. Then it is so much easier to love those around us, whether we're married to them or not. That's the goal and that's the point. Whatever threatens your yearning for Christ, cut it off. Whatever promotes our faith, let us stir it up. Let's be prepared for the day that he returns, and the gauze is wrapped unwrapped from our faces, and we can see him as the flesh. He is so precious. It is worth the loss of an eye. It is worth the loss of a hand. than for us to spend eternity thinking hellish thoughts. Instead, let us enter into eternal life now and begin contemplating our Lord and Savior, Jesus the Christ. Christ. Happy Lord's Day. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus Christ. You are our heavenly husband, and you have written love letters to us. Your love is displayed for us on the cross. Your love is displayed for us in your ascension. Your love is displayed for us in your ascension gifts through your Holy Spirit. You have been our great provider. And we look forward to seeing you face to face. Lord, we ask for anyone now in the room that has not kissed the sun, that they would do so, that by faith they would plead. Not for a divorce any longer, but for marriage. Union with you, that their sins may be forgiven and granted Transdate eternal life. We ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.