What things were gained to me, these I have counted lost for Christ. Yet indeed I also count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish, that I may gain Christ and be found in him. Not having my own righteousness which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith. That I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings being conformed to his death. If by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Father, I grant that you would accompany the preaching of your word here this morning I pray that you would give your congregation ears that are able to hear. And I pray that they would not just hear your word, but by your power do it. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we looked at examples. In fact, Christ supplies you with examples. so that you may know what true Christianity is, especially in the face of anyone who is giving you false Christianity. He gives you a rule or a standard by which to measure. And he does so in a way that all of us could understand Examples. He supplied the example, for example, the premier example of Jesus Christ himself in chapter 2, entering into his state of humiliation and his estate of exaltation. We then see that there are those who are seeking to be like Christ, like Paul, pouring out himself like a drink offering for the church There are those like Timothy who are sons to fathers, who is the imitation of Christ Himself, another example, and Epaphroditus Really, in in a sense, giving a another very high-level example because he was close to death for the sake of the ministry of the gospel. These are examples that we're learning from, and we're learning what is true Christianity. Now last week, after Epaphroditus, we looked at Paul presenting himself with the repeated I. I, I, I. Meaning Paul was giving not just theological concepts, which he sometimes does, which are sometimes hard to understand. In this case, he gave an autobiography. He began as a Pharisee accumulating, accumulating merit before God through his ancestry Through his personal accomplishments, through his religious rigor. And he thought that he had a life that was full of gain But once confronted by Jesus Christ, Paul, with eyes to see, something like scales fell from them, Paul looked on his Pharisaic credentials And he saw garbage as compared to knowing Christ He said this in Philippians 3, 8-9, yet indeed I also count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord. For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as trash or rubbish, that I may gain Christ. Now that's a review from last week, and I'd like to continue on that part of the passage first thing this morning. Just it's so compact and there's so many important things. I want to continue, in a sense, with the sermon from last week, and then we'll get to verses 10 and 11. uh Lord willing. But I do want to continue with that the same thought. And I want to do so just under this heading. We're gonna we're gonna take some steps together. I want you to picture a stream that's pretty wide that you can't just jump over with one leap And through the stream are a set of boulders. And we're and the to get across the stream, you've got to jump to the one boulder and steady yourself, and then jump to the next boulder and steady yourself. And we're going to jump to the first folder and then to the second one here, all throughout the sermon, and just look at a few items in the passage. This first folder has uh the question, this question that we I want to deal with. What does it mean to gain Christ? What does that mean? We saw how Paul is getting at that. He he emphasized it three times last week in his autobiography, saying I used to think these things were gained. Now I realize they're loss. Christ, I want to gain him. But what does that mean? Last week, we tried to use the Pharisee and the widow in their offerings at the temple to try to understand this reality that was going on. And this week, to answer that question, I want to look at another parable, the parable of the rich young ruler. This is something that can be found in each of the Gospels, this parable, and I just want to point out three main parts. I hope you remember the parable of the rich young ruler, dealing with Pharisees. Jesus goes to this rich young ruler as an example of a Pharisaic mindset and heart and has a conversation with him Whether it's in Luke or Matthew or Mark, Jesus uses this as a kind of case study in dealing with that legalistic part. That's the first thing I want you to know about the rich young ruler. The second thing is that Jesus knew what the Pharisaic problem boiled down to, and he confronted it. Specifically when he confronts the Pharisee rich young ruler and says, No one is good except for God. That was very important for that young man to hear. He states at the end of the parable, to go even further, he states at the end of the parable that it is impossible for people like this who think that they are rich. To enter into the kingdom of heaven. And then the disciples say, Well then who could go? And he says, Well, what's impossible for man is not impossible for God. Well, thank God for that, by the way. So that's the end of the parable. That's the second thing I want you to see: that it's impossible without God for someone who thinks they're rich to enter into the kingdom of God. And then the third thing about that parable is that the parable shows you why it is impossible. It's impossible because that rich young ruler believes he's good. He believed that he was good because he had followed the Torah according to the Pharisaic system. He says that he followed all of those commandments since he was a since he was a young boy. He probably learned them from his parents. Followed each detail with rigor And the reason why that's the main problem that Jesus boils everything down to that he's dealing with within these Pharisees that that's going to have to change. Is that the Pharisee, if he thinks of himself that way, if you think of yourself that way, then you have nothing to gain And everything to lose by following Christ. And that's the way that the parable was left with that young man is you could picture him if you wanted sitting on a throne, high and lifted up, with gold around him, representing or symbolically representing all of his achievements and credentials. And the Pharisaic way of life that he had lived. And then Jesus says, follow me. And he looks around at his gold, and then he's already elevated, and he says, No. And the reason why is why would he? He already has everything. And I think that's why Jesus was bringing up the law and saying to the Pharisee This profound lesson. There is no one that is good except for God. But the Pharisee can't see that. In fact, if that Pharisee, that rich young ruler, had understood a fundamental reality about the law, then the law would have done its work on him. And here's a general lesson, basically, from that parable that I'll give to you now, that's one step away from answering the question, what does it mean to gain Christ? Here's the main lesson. Before you are willing to see Jesus as a treasure, you must first see that your own life without him is a loss. Before you are willing to see Jesus as a treasure, you must first see that your own life without him is a loss. And that is what a rich person cannot do Unless God acts. And the way that God would act in this young man's heart, if it f were to happen to him. And the way that it did act within Paul's heart from his autobiography, is that one of the first steps that he would take, the Lord, our God Is that he would take the law that is written upon the conscience, he would take the law that is known so well through Sunday school lessons and the preaching of preachers, and he would impress that human being. With the fact that they do not live up to the law, that they have a major problem, that they have to say, I am not good. The only one that is good is God. And when they begin to be able to do that, they then can raise a new question of, oh Lord, how might I be saved? And that is where the preacher stands up and offers to them Christ, who is offered in the gospel. The question then becomes, how might I stand before God or have fellowship with him? And that's the answer, only through Jesus Christ. And that's what Paul was seeing in the answer to our quick question, what does it mean to gain Christ? It would mean right here in this context for you to understand how poor you are And that there's no reconciliation from your achievements and credentials before God, and asking the question, how then might I live with God, you would be able to answer, I must gain Christ. I must not gain personal achievements. I must gain Christ. That's what it meant for Paul. In fact, in this whole passage here, in these verses that we're looking at, when he's talking in verse number 7, if you look down What things were gained to me, these things I have counted lost for Christ. This is literally a counting language If you were an accountant, these are the words you would use in talking about stacking up treasure or doing bills of sale or keeping a record of your accounts. And once you realize that there is nothing in your account, you would realize that if there's going to be any gain, the gain must be in Christ. Now, I think that that explains it pretty well as to why Paul would say, I must gain Christ and not be in a gain like the rich young ruler. And the same thing can be said for you. But I think there's another way here in Philippians chapter 3 verse 9 where we can continue to understand this. I must gain Christ By understanding I must be found in Christ. That's another phrase that he uses in order for us to understand this very important teaching among the church, which by the way goes by the name of justification. Paul explains found in Christ in verse number 9. Take a look at verse number 9 just so you can see he's using this language, and be found in him. And then notice how he really is getting away from the rich young ruler when he says, not having my own righteousness. You see that? So we're really on the right track here. There's something external that has to happen. There's nothing in here that can make it happen. I have to go and be in Christ and I have to gain Christ Now you can understand what Paul is saying. The way that Paul wants to unfold this to Christians in the book of Romans, for example, is if you want to understand what it means to gain Christ and to be in Christ then it's good for you to remember that you're first and foremost in Adam. That's the way that he explains it in Romans. This is a teaching found in chapter 5, for example, of the book of Romans, and Paul sees all of humanity divided into two main branches. The one branch of humanity is in Adam. The other branch of humanity is in the new Adam. And the new Adam is Jesus, who is the Christ. Those in the old Adam are marked by particular features. They are under a curse, for example. They are guilty in Adam and by their own actual acts. They are under God's wrath and have nothing to look forward to. It is a continual accumulation of more and more wrath. They are oriented fundamentally away from God as the supreme good of all life. And this was signified, of course, in many different ways throughout the scriptures. but especially in the Tower of Babel as they built themselves a monument or a mountain to human achievement and their own autonomy. That's what it means to live in Adam, and I don't really need to explain it to you because you have personal experience Of what it means to live in the first Adam. But then Paul doesn't want to live in the first Adam. Paul wants to live in the second Adam. He wants to live in Christ. And in Christ, the second Adam means that you have a different representative and you inherit all of his benefits and features. Christ, our new Adam, lived righteously, did not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, did not complain against God in the wilderness, etc. And therefore, you in the new Christ are pronounced righteous. He received the wrath and the curse. And therefore, as since he was your representative, you therefore no longer have anything to fear. He was raised to glory, and therefore you are raised to glory. If you are in Christ, in the new Adam, and not in the old Adam. I understand that these things are quite profound. But this is what Paul gives to us as he wants us to understand what the gospel is and what is being accomplished by God the Father through the Son and His Holy Spirit. We could give an illustration here. We could illustrate this. I heard this illustration from another preacher. That we could illustrate what's going on here with the transfer of a title or a deed. Now, if you were to go to my neighborhood, I could take you around the corner and I could show you a house And we would stand out on the curb together and we would look at this house and it would just kind of be sagging in the lot. The grass wouldn't be mowed unless it's winter and because the grass can't grow. Undoubtedly there's bugs and whatever else in there, wild animals, I don't know. But you get the picture, it's a dilapidated house that's sitting there in the in the neighborhood, and really what it's good for is bulldozing. But I'll give you a story is that somewhere downtown in Annapolis, a person walks into a lawyer's office. with another person who owns that house, and that person buys that house that's stagging in the lot from that person And as a representation of the buying or the purchasing, there is a transfer legally of title or deed of the house from the one person and what they have not done with it. And the house to the next person and what they plan to do. And now, if you were to drive by some of these homes that you could find in the Saverna Park area, you would see that these houses are definitely under new ownership because the lights are on inside and they're getting new foundations and they're becoming beautiful reverse gate lens and hip roofs. Well, likewise, sin and death and the devil owned you, is the whole point. Owned Paul, owned Epaphroditus, or Timothy, or whoever, in Adam. But Christ, however, through his work has purchased you. The deed has been transferred, and he is your owner. And therefore, you have a different place and a different destiny under him. You have a very different standing, actually, that will begin to unveil itself when Christ begins the restoration project. within you. For example, once Christ buys you, the lights come on Once Christ buys you, the work of restoration begins. You get a new foundation, and the roof is no longer leaking. That's another way to illustrate what Paul is after here in these initial questions in the leftovers from the passage from last week. Paul wants to gain Christ. He doesn't want his own gain. It's trash compared to what Christ does. Paul wants to be found in Christ. He wants Christ to own him and to be purchased by him. He wants to receive not the benefits of being in the first Adam, but in the second Adam. Those are all Paul's goals and the realizations that he had to come to on the road to Damascus, as well as a great deal of study, I believe, that he took place down in Arabia, if I'm not mistaken. That's what Paul means by gain Christ. That's what Paul means by being in Christ. And he wants those same things for you. And if you already have them, he wants to re you to realize the great gain that you have. Now, once we see how God has planned salvation, we see that we must gain Christ and we must be found in Him. And that helps us to understand true Christianity. Remember, the one of the points that reasons why Paul is bringing this up is because other people were arriving and saying, no, we gain this way in the Pharisaic way. And I warned you a couple weeks ago that there is a part of this as a part of the Roman Catholic system, and I told you it was dangerous. So you still need to be on your guard and understand what is true Christianity. It is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. That is our Protestant cry in being in representing the scriptures accurately. And now, now that we see that we want to gain Christ and not have anything added. On our own. We are in Christ, not by anything added. We're now ready to deal with the rest of the verse in 10 and 11. Are you ready? I'll make this one quicker. Okay, it's not these aren't equal halves. Okay? We hope, right? Pray So here's the new question as we start to look at verses 10 and 11. After you have been placed in Christ, and therefore your standing is righteous. Or you are justified. You're not justified through your sanctification. You're not working out your justification through purgatory, like Roman Catholic speech. You are justified. That's it. It's over. It was an event. It's not a process. Now we start to move into that second half where the restoration can begin, called sanctification, in verses 10 and 11. And Paul puts it like this: he says, Know Christ and the power of his resurrection. After you have been placed in Christ, and therefore you stand as righteous or justified, we may continue, as Paul does, to know Christ. Not just in his justifying power, but in the power of his resurrection. Now, this is not speaking power of his resurrection. This is not speaking about the power of his resurrection in the future This is the power of Christ's resurrection now. And it might be a little confusing because of the way that sometimes the possessive is used here. Christ's resurrection, the power of his resurrection. But I'm going to give you a couple other passages whereby you may understand this power of the resurrection. Here's Ephesians chapter 1, verses 18 through 20, getting at this reality, where Paul taught it elsewhere. He prays that the eyes of your understanding being enlightened. That you may know the hope, what is the hope of his calling? What are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints And what is the exceeding greatness of his power toward us who believe? There's the power, according to the working of his mighty power. Which he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. So once this justification occurs and we stand in Christ before the Father as righteous, we now move forward into the domain of what is called being sanctified Over time? And do you know what causes that? What causes that is the same power that raised Christ from the dead will be raising you from the dead. The same power that worked in Christ to complete his ministry will be the same power that works in you, and it is the power of the Spirit. Philippians 1 6 already said this to us, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. How is it That God has begun a good work in you. He has done through through sending you his Holy Spirit. And it is that spirit by which the Father raised Christ from the dead. And therefore you have that same resurrection power inside of you to accomplish the ministry that He has given to you. To have eyes to see and ears to hear. In terms of the house, if we were to re to go back to that house in my neighborhood, the deed was transferred, and now through the power of Christ In the sending of his spirit, he is now restoring you. He's restoring you personally in your mind, your will and emotions, and he's restoring you in your various communities, like in the family, in the church, and in the nation. That's what Paul is getting at. And Paul wants to keep entering into the same power that raised Christ from the dead, the same power that has been given to you. what it means to walk in the Spirit. And this really brings up two vital questions for you. Here's the first vital question. Why is God powerfully restoring you? Why is God sent to you in his spirit? The same power that's powerful enough to raise Jesus Christ from the dead. Why is he giving this to you? The answer that Paul ends up giving us here in this passage is that he is restoring you with resurrection power so that you can advance his kingdom through sacrifice. We see this for example in verse number eight. He says here, and being found in a period I'm sorry, he he brings this up earlier in the letter in Philippians chapter 2, verse 8, when he says about Christ these same kinds of things. The same power that was sent to Christ is being sent to us, where in Philippians 2. 8 it says, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. And that we, in the same kind of power that Christ have, we are to have the mind of Christ, and we are to humble ourselves and become obedient to the point of death. And not to the death of that cross that atones for those whom God gives to Christ, but we all carry our crosses. That our communities may flourish, that our children might flourish. He is restoring you to serve him and advance his kingdom. In the same way that he advanced his kingdom through Christ as seen in Philippians 2, verse 8. Christ did not just humble himself. He humbled himself and he became obedient to the Father. Did you ever, when you're reading that passage, I wonder how many of you read Philippians chapter 2, verse 8 before? Have you read the great humiliation and the exaltation of Christ in Philippians 2? We all read it together, so the answer is yes. I'm not sure why we're all quiet right now. Did you ever give any emphasis to the fact that it doesn't just say that Christ sacrificed, but that he was obedient? We're supposed to if you're lost right now, let me just take a second. We're supposed to we're asking the question, why has have you been given resurrection power? And I'm answering the question, to advance God's kingdom. Well, what does it look like to advance God's kingdom? Well, it looks like what Jesus Christ did. That's what we're doing right now. And now I'm pointing out to you, if you go back and you look at what Jesus Christ did, you'll find that he did not just sacrifice. It says he was obedient to the Father. And one of the things that we need to take away from this so that we can understand what's going on, another way to put this is that Jesus Christ If he's going to be obedient, that means that he has taken upon himself a certain responsibility. That's what that means. I hear what the Father says. I myself take responsibility to accomplish the will of the Father as it was declared in heaven, and I will now accomplish it here on earth. That's what's going on there with the sacrifice and the obedience next to each other. Sometimes we don't see that. We see sacrifice as a kind of passivity in entering into doormat phase and letting people walk all over us What Jesus Christ is talking about is that you are taking active responsibility by the resurrection power that He gives to you in order to advance the kingdom. That's this next step. That's the next step that Paul is talking about Those of you with the Spirit, and therefore the same power which raised Christ from the dead, you must ask yourself the question, are you taking responsibility? Take a look at the scriptures with me here for a moment. Take a look at verse number nine. And being found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith. There's your justification, Christian. Now look at verse number 10. That I may what now that I've gained Christ, now that I'm in Christ, I want to keep going because it's all towards a particular end, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. Well, how do you know if you know him and the power of his resurrection? Verse number 11 If by any means I may I'm sorry, ten still, that I may know him in the power of his resurrection, comma And the fellowship of his sufferings being conformed to his death. And it takes us right back, conformed and in the form of a servant. Those are repetitions of each other from chapter two. Paul is calling all of you, therefore, to be like the pattern of Christ, as Epaphroditus was, as Timothy was, as Paul was And that pattern in resurrection power is the power of taking responsibility for his kingdom. So ask yourself now. Are you taking responsibility to advance God's kingdom? I think that's the ultimate question And honestly that's very exciting to me. I think we're in a kind of meaning crisis right now. Everybody's wondering what their meaning is They're trying to find it through passively receiving it. And I'm telling you that your meaning is not there for passively receiving passively receiving. Your meaning is in finding out what your responsibility is in this life. And if Christ has sent you his Spirit and given you resurrection power, then your responsibility is to advance his kingdom. And that's your meaning. Everything that you do from this day forward will have meaning insofar as it's the exercise of his kingdom power in the advancing of his kingdom. That's what Paul wants. But then he goes on. He not only wants to take responsibility for the advance of his kingdom and his family, his church, his community. There's another vital question, and that is what is Paul's motivation in order to take up that level of responsibility? That's major. You mean, like Jeremiah pointed out to us, you mean you want me to read Philippians chapter 2, and you want me to be like Christ Wasn't he crucified for the sake of his people? Wasn't he disadvantaged? Yeah, that's right. And that's your responsibility too. And then comes in the f the vital question, okay, well then if that's my life, that sounds like a very difficult life You're essentially saying I should summarize my life as it's better to give than to receive. Yeah, Jesus said that. Okay, well then how can I do it What would keep me in the game? And Paul gives you that in his final verse. Philippians 3. 11. If by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. Now the way that this is phrased is it looks like if I do all these things then maybe he'll let me be resurrected. That's not what's going on. We already established everything earlier about the justified This isn't a uh he's not trying to figure out his way to accumulate credentials so that he can be resurrected. Didn't we already prove that? His hope is in the resurrection. That's where everything is headed. That's the top of the mountain. Everything is for that day. He says it like this in 1 Corinthians 15. I'd encourage you to take a look at this when you get a chance when you go home for your lunches. Talk about this one, 1 Corinthians 15, verse 58. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, be immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. And that's the motivation. The mo the the way that we view our lives right now is as if God has given you a giant stone. And he has said, take a chisel and a hammer and start chiseling away the stone so that it's in a rectangle. And your whole life, you go through your whole life and you're just banging away. Sometimes you forget what you're supposed to be doing. A Christian brother or sister comes back and says, Where's your hammer? Why aren't you banging away at the stone? And then you've you you receive the rebuke and you go, oh yeah, where is my hammer? I need to get my hammer back and I need to get the chisel and keep banging away and then and then you die. That's it. But but but what Paul tells you here is that Jesus Christ will not forget any of the work that you have done. But in some mysterious way, he will gather up all of the stones in the building and the establishing of his kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. That's the way that Paul looks at this. Paul is not just looking at this as his own personal resurrection. That would be part of it, but it is a resurrection unto a newness of life for all of creation. Psalm 8 in fulfillment Everything recapitulated under the head who is Jesus Christ in perfection. And so Paul keeps getting the hammer and the chisel out because none of his work is in vain in the Lord. And it can be the same with you. Christ sees your every suffering. Christ sees every way that people disadvantage you. For the sake of his kingdom. He never forgets it. Just like he would never forget the work of Epaphroditus. And how he almost lost his life in ministering to Paul. He'll never forget the work of Timothy. He'll never forget the work of Paul. He'll never forget the work of Peter. And all of these things, all of the work that they have done in Christ's hands, are building a mighty kingdom. And all the work that you're doing, moms, and dads, and grandmothers, and grandfathers. And how whoever else, Christ sees your great work done in his resurrection power, and none of your work is in vain. Once God confronts you with the law, with a kind of gospel grace, you realize, you know what? I'm at a loss. But once we see Christ offered to us in the gospel, we say, He is my gain. Being in Christ, we receive the Holy Spirit. This is all super compact here in Philippians. I'm doing my best. But being in Christ, we receive the Holy Spirit, and we are empowered with the same power that raised Christ from the dead. I think the my great burden here this morning has been to ask you this question. What are you supposed to be doing with this power? And the answer that Paul gives us is we are to have the same mind as Jesus Christ, and we are to advance God's kingdom through meaningful sacrifice, and none of it will be in vain. That's the main message. This is captured really well. I wonder if some of you have uh this as your favorite hymn, When I Survey the Wondrous Cross. Anybody like that one? I'm gonna jump from a stanza to another s uh one, but when I survey the wondrous cross on which the Prince of Glory died. Now listen to this. This is great. My richest gain, I count but lost. And I pour contempt on all my pride. Were the whole realm of nature mine Well that would be a present that is far too small. Love so amazing, so divine, it demands my soul, it demands my life. And it demands my all. Amen. Amen. Let us pray