Please turn with me to your scriptures now in Deuteronomy five. We're looking at verse seventeen. And we will stand for the reading of God's Law. It is a it's a short one today. It's even shorter in the Hebrew. Let's stand And Deuteronomy chapter five, verse seventeen. You shall not murder Amen. Please pray with me. Father, we thank you. You got right to the point this morning. Of course you always do. Lord, even with such succinct and to the point words, we could miss them if you don't give us your spirit and teach us. And so we ask, as you've promised In your new covenant, that you would write these words on our hearts. No murder. We ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Please be seated. Mark has already let on through his confession That this commandment is applicable to everyone in this room. If we did not have a good understanding of this commandment, you might think this morning I have never had anyone confess to me yet that they have literally murdered someone physically. I don't know of anyone who has told me that they know someone who has murdered someone. And so this commandment could seem entirely irrelevant to you. It may have been the one safe place that you had felt in the commandments. No, I I don't always put God first. The commandment after this one, I understand Jesus talks about thoughts with that one, and I I probably messed that one up too. And no, I probably don't worship him, and I probably don't do the Sabbath right all the all the time But the sixth command, I've never murdered anybody. And so really, I wonder sometimes if you think we could just skip over this and there's nothing to say to you, but that would be false. There's actually a great deal throughout all of the scriptures to say about the sixth command, just as we were perhaps surprised how much there was to say about the fifth command. There's just as much to say about the sixths. And so we can't just skip over it. This is why I understand that you see in the commandment something negative. I understand that you see you should not murder, but there is more to it than that. This is what you need to take away. I tell the the when I have the opportunity to teach the teens in Sunday school, I always say, never waste a Sunday. Always leave with something that you can take home that makes you stronger. Don't waste a day. Always leave with something. Always leave with something. And that's what this is this is what you are to leave with this morning. God not only prohibits murder, we get that. But he requires from each one of us to promote the life of our neighbor. That the person that is sitting next to you would flourish. That is the main thrust of this command. God not only prohibits murder, but requires that we would promote and that we would preserve life. That's the positive aspect. Now let's look at this under two main parts. We have to look at the translation and the extent of the command because there are different translations that have been a part of your history with this command. Sometimes it's been translated you shall not kill. We need to talk about that. And we need to talk about all that this covers. So there's the translation and the extent of the command, but there is also the purpose of the command. And that's really where we're going to start getting at the positive aspect that you may not So those are the two parts. The translation and extent of the command And then the purpose of the command. God not only prohibits murder, but he requires that you promote life. So let's start with the definition. The sixth command, it's very short. And you felt how short it was. That's why you started to giggle. But in the Hebrew it's actually even shorter. It just says lo, no, and then murder or no killing. Just two words in the Hebrew. But there are translations that have translated this differently, and they have said no killing, whereas in other translations it says no murder. The translation makes a huge difference If you grew up with the KJV, you grew up with no killing. You shall not kill. There's a huge difference if it says that than if it says no murder. And we need to talk about that for a moment. There's a really big difference. For example, if the sixth commandment says no killing or you shall not kill, it means this: you shall not kill in self-defense. You shall not kill in war. You shall not kill in capital punishment for crimes. If you're an environmentalist. Environmentalists have used the KJV translation of you shall not kill to try to save trees, bees, beavers, all kinds of animals. Now, I'm not against beavers, I'm not against trees, I'm not against beavers. Bees But is it legitimate for them to use the sixth command in that way? Well it would seem like it if we have the translation of you shall not kill. A word study, however, shows that you shall not kill is way too broad and is not the intent. of the author. It's way too broad of a translation. For example, there is in fact killing condoned by God in self-defense or defense of property. If the thief is found breaking in, and he is struck, so that he dies, there shall be no guilt for his bloodshed. Exodus 22, 2. If a thief breaks into your home and you defend your property and your persons you shall not be held accountable. That's essentially what that is saying. God instituted in addition to self-defense He instituted capital punishment as lawful. Whoever kills the person, the murderer shall be put to death on the testimony of witnesses. Numbers thirty-five thirty. You see it's more complicated than say Here's another example. We find permission for ordained and just war to take place, to draw the sword And when the Lord your God delivers you them into your hands, you shall strike every male in it with the edge of the sword. And that's in Deuteronomy, the same book. We'll get to this in chapter 20, verse 13. So the translation is clear. The point is clearly seen. No killing is too broad of a translation. Many modern Bibles have picked up on this. The NKJV, you shall not murder. The NASV, you shall not murder. The NIV, you shall not murder. That is the best way to look at this. It's the best translation That's the translation. Now if it means that and it does, you shall not murder or you shall not unlawfully kill, if you want to put it that way. What is the extent of that negative command? What are the prohibitions, the things that we cannot do? What is considered murder or unlawful killing? Now that might sound like something you already know, but there are different divisions within the scriptures where I want to educate you in the law that is being written upon your heart by the the Holy Spirit. And so let's look at what this murder includes or this unlawful killing. We find Moses Addressing premeditated and involuntary murder and negligent homicide. If you're a lawyer, you get that. If you're not a lawyer, then maybe you get that if you watch Law and Order. But this is what it means if you don't watch Law and Order. Premeditated means that you planned the unlawful killing. Involuntary means you didn't plan it, you got in a rage and you killed. Negligent homicide means you were reckless and someone died. Murder and rage are clearly unlawful within our society. Every time I speak to someone about the murder rate in Baltimore, they look aghast on their face. And they think about the rage that could have been present or the premeditated murder. But not many have taken the opportunity to consider the biblical notion of negligent homicide as also under the command. Listen to this. This is from Deuteronomy 19, 4 through 5. And this is the case of the manslayer that says negligent homicide. They categorize it as manslay. And this is the case of the manslayer who flees there that he may live. Whoever kills his neighbor unintentionally, not having hated him in time past. Now here's the story When a man goes to the woods with his neighbor to cut timber, and his hand swings a stroke with the axe to cut down the tree, and the head slips from the handle and strikes his neighbor so that he dies. He shall flee to one of these cities and he shall live. This is negligent homicide, according to the scriptures. There's a kind of penalty that is received because he must go to a special city, and if he leaves the city Then the family whose relative was killed could kill this person. The whole thing that is behind it is the carelessness and the neglect. This is what one author says He had no hostility toward the victim when the axe head flew off, or any intention of killing him. But he failed to take adequate precautions. His crime is carelessness. That is present all over the place within the scriptures. a prohibition. And it expands our understanding of the law. Here's another one from Deuteronomy 22, 8. When you build a new house, then you shall make a parapet, a guardrail, because they're homes, you use the roof. As a living space. When you build a new house, you shall make a guardrail for your roof that you may not bring guilt of bloodshed on your household if someone falls from it If you were not thinking ahead and following Osha with your home, you were held accountable for negligent homicide. Now we have this present within our culture. If someone drinks too much and then they kill somebody, we believe that they're irresponsible because they were negligent with their substance abuse. And the Bible, that comes from the scriptures, that kind of law. But it is applied to guardrails. It is applied to axe handles where you didn't think through. Maybe the axe handle was the axe was inherited from your grandfather in 1950 and you knew it was cracked. You saw it fall off a couple times before, but heh, caution to the wind. Here you would be held accountable for that And I'm hoping that you're a bit surprised by that, because I don't see that application too often amongst God's people, but it is present within his scriptures. Is an aspect of what Jesus intends for us to understand through the sixth command. Jesus and the Apostle John focus on negligent homicide when they begin to Speak to the people in Jerusalem. You have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not murder, and whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment. But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And we read this earlier, so I won't continue. That's from Matthew chapter 5. And then John says in 1 John 3. 15, which Mark read, Whoever hates his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. This is what's going on behind this as you see the development through the scriptures. You should be in control and not neglect your thought and emotional life You are responsible for the bitterness and the anger that has built up within you that you are now expressing in words or in glares towards your neighbor. That's negligent homicide in the emotional and the thought life. The extent of the law goes so deep within the life of humanity. When you permit evil thoughts and undisciplined emotions to build and deconstruct your insides, and when you finally act out with a harsh word, you have committed murder, according to Jesus. And according to John. You committed negligent homicide by neglecting to discipline your thought and your emotional life. You committed murder by stabbing a person with provoking and malicious words. But it actually began with all of the forethought that went into that. When you woke up this morning and certain thoughts about other people Were on your mind, and they were thoughts that tear those people down, and you chose to just let it go and to tend and to nurture and to raise up those thoughts and bitterness and hatred. And then it finally comes out in the word. The sin started way before the word. The sin started way back when you allowed those thoughts to stay in your head when your head was resting. on the pillow this morning. Or maybe it began when you were eight years old. And this is how your family was. They always talked about people that way. There's these habits that can cross through generations. I can think of my own family of how those habits have been. That's the extent You see, we have the translation, which is you shall not murder, but that's the extent. That's the scope. I didn't focus on the obvious parts. There's the obvious rage killing, there's the obvious planned murder. These are a lit a little less obvious for us, but it is a part of the extent of the law when we look through the scriptures. When you read the sixth command Above all others, you may think that you have no problem. You see where I'm going with this? But when you begin to look at the extent of command, you can find that all of us are guilty before this law. Paul. There is much work to be done in our lives, much confession that needs to happen. You have probably never planned and executed a murder. You've never told me about it anyway. You have probably never murdered in a rage. You never told me about it anyway. But you certainly have committed negligent homicide in some respect, particularly with neglect of your thought and your emotional life. A disposition that seems out of control sometimes. Have you? Have you neglected your thoughts just this past week and how you think about the people around you? Have you allowed hateful thoughts and attitudes to accumulate about your neighbor? Last week, I got a chance to hear of the awesome snow team here for the church. We knew that the storm was approaching, that we were going to get dumped on. We didn't know how much at first, but then we we looked out our windows, we saw all the the snow that had fallen. We had prepared for it, we had a shed full of salt. And we had a salt dispenser to go across the parking lot. And we had a shovel team with a list of names, and they knew they were going to get a text and a call. And I saw the text flying through the congregation We were prepared to make sure that people were safe on the snow and the ice in this parking lot, that no child shall be left behind or slip for the academy on Tuesday mornings. We were not guilty of negligent homicide in regards to the snow. But I want you to think about your emotional and your thought life. You know that there are sometimes storms brewing in your interpersonal relationships Anger and anxiety, you know, are on the horizon and they will accumulate more than five inches that we saw last week of snow. They will accumulate in your heart and your mind. Why don't you have a shovel plan? Why don't you have a thought plan? Why don't you have a team that would help you with it? Who will be the victim of the icy patches on the path of your thought life and hatred towards other people? That's the point that Jesus wants you to consider this morning. In addition, of course, to the outlandish modes of murder. Will it be your children? Will it be your children that you will murder with your words this week? With your disdainful looks? Will it be your wife? Will it be your husband? Will it be your neighbor? Will it be your co-worker? Who will be murdered with your words when the axe head of your your your words slips off? and cuts to the heart. It's a lot for us to consider. It immediately brings out one of the major purposes Of the law, which is to show you that you need Jesus Christ and his atoning sacrifice more than you really thought you did You thought you could show up to the sixth commandment and just breeze through the service. No problem. But Jesus is saying, you need me for the sixth commandment You need to be bathed in my blood. You need an atoning sacrifice. And I provide it to those who entrust themselves To me. We should be overwhelmed by our sinfulness and the grace of God through Jesus Christ. Two things. We're overwhelmed by the sixth commandment and we're overwhelmed with the grace. It's always the case. We should not be overwhelmed, however, in the sense of thinking that God is nitpicky and a real Debbie Downer. Jesus taught the law with precision and yet said that his yoke was light. It is difficult sometimes to figure out how those both of those can be true, but it is true. Really, despite how we may feel, as I start to go into the nitty-gritty, the the the the the specifics of these God intends for you to understand yes the translation of this command that it is murder, not just any kind of Killing, self-defense is allowed, just war is allowed, capital punishment is allowed under God's ordination. Not just about the translation. It is about understanding the prohibitions. Yes, we must understand what we cannot do. That's all a part of this. But the main point, the main thrust that I see as I study the scriptures, is that there's something positive here. Which is our next point. That this is meant for you to be able to promote the lives that are around you. Nobody enjoys having an axe head slip off and hit them in the face That's the point. There is a command that is positive here, and that's the purpose of the command. We not only have the translation in the extent, but we have the purpose of this command. The whole purpose of the sixth command is to preserve and to promote life. It's the purpose of every one of the commands. If you don't understand the commands that are in the negative, and not all of them are, in the positive, then you don't really understand the The whole purpose of the sixth command is to preserve and to promote life. That is how you should understand the command. Commands are guardrails and boundaries to make sure that life can flourish in you and around you. For example, and I've given you this illustration before, but it is a good one, and I'm going to use it again. God put a boundary on the ocean. This is Job 38, 11. When I, God, said, This far you may come, but no further And here your proud waves must stop. He was speaking to the ocean when he established the shoreline, that those waves were not allowed to sweep up into cities. Destroy people. He set a boundary on the ocean for life and for flourishing. And when the ocean stays within those boundaries, then people are safe and life prospers. You can go down to the Annapolis docks and enjoy a Storm Brothers ice cream. But if there's a hurricane tidal surge. Or if there is an earthquake that creates a tsunami, the ocean breaks its boundaries and life stops. And downtown Annapolis starts to smell like the gutter and dead fish. It's the exact same thing that is going on within these commands. He says, You shall stop proud ways and hear no further. Do you understand the destruction that will result if you move past this point? Life will not flourish. Here and no further, you shall not murder, but you shall promote and preserve life that is around you. Life and love are the whole point to remember. Do you know how I know that? Let's stop and just make sure we're all listening. Do you know how I know that love is the point? That life is the point? Jesus summarized all the commands: that you shall love God and you shall love neighbor. So obviously they're meant to be put in the positive. And you know the passage that Mark read this morning, 1 John 3:15 Read on into the next chapter and see what he says, because he gives the opposite. No murderer, if you hate your brother, you are a murderer, no murderer inherits eternal life. And then he moves on to the opposite and he says, But if you love But if you love, because that's the whole point. The whole point is positive, is that there would be love through the summary of Jesus in the two tables, to the quote of 1 John following his master Jesus. The point is that the command is meant for a positive outlook, an outcome. Let me state this outright. The command is stated as a negative, no murder. Your responsibility, however, includes something positive. Preserve and make sure that the people around you are flourishing in their life Make sure that people around you are flourishing in their life. You know, it comes down to the simple things. God does not enjoy it when you are anxious. When God remakes the heavens and the earth, will he leave anxiety untouched? Or will he wipe that away as he will with every tear that comes from our eyes? He does not enjoy anxiety. He is the promoter of life. He wants true life, not an anxious Life. And so if there is someone around you who is anxious, do something to make them flourish and not to be anxious. You know what it could be? It could be a song that they love It could be that you could tell them a joke. Listen, this might sound trite to you or like God wouldn't care about our joke life, the mundane things, but that's not true. If you could bring comfort by Putting essential oils in your house and diffusing, and it brings the tone down a little bit, God honors that. Because you are helping the people to flourish around you. That is not an ad for essential oils. But those are the kind of things that God cares about. So consider those kind of physical things that you could do for one another, and consider your thought and your emotional life. Do you have, we talked about the negative, let's talk about preserving and promoting life. Do you have thoughts about how to bless people? Thoughts about how to promote and preserve the lives around you. Do you have somebody in your life That you know knows how to bless people. They just know how to drop that note to you in the mail. You know how awesome it feels to receive a letter with your name on it I'm not talking from Amazon. That's all typed out by a computer. I mean where someone has taken the time to write you a thank you note or whatever it is That's the kind of life that we're talking about here. What were the thoughts in that person's mind to bring them to the point to care about you that day? You were actually on somebody's heart and mind. What are the thoughts? What are the emotions that you are promoting and preserving? What are the things that you have to do? What are your routines that you've got to be a part of in order to make sure that your thoughts and emotions are? Positive. This isn't psychological mumbo jumbo. I'm not turning into some pop psych guy. I'm thinking of Philippians 4, verse 8. Finally, brethren, whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely. Whatever things are of good report, if there is any virtue, if there is anything praiseworthy, would you meditate on these things? Amen. And you know Paul studied the law and I would I don't I'm not a betting man. But if I were a betting man and Paul walked through those doors, I'd say, Paul, were you thinking of the sixth commandment? I bet you he would say, Yes, I was thinking of the sixth Sixth Commandment. Because that's what the Sixth Commandment is about. It's about the promotion of life. It is about the promotion of life and the physical things that I do. It is about the promotion of life and the thoughts and the emotions that I Raise up and nurture in the admonition of the Lord. And so that's the sixth command: no murder. The translation is not, you shall not kill. The translation is you shall not murder or you shall not unlawfully kill. The extent of this law makes all of us guilty in need of the atoning blood and sanctifying work of Jesus Christ. The purpose of the command is for those around you to flourish and to preserve their lives. Even those who cannot speak, like babies in a womb, need your protection. Speak for those who do not have a voice. That is also included within this command. God not only prohibits unlawful killing But he requires that we promote life. That's the main truth. That is the doctrinal statement of this passage. Now, I believe that some of you may be surprised this morning to find out that you are in fact a murderer. In your grief, God the Father has provided forgiveness for you through Jesus Christ. If you have not claimed Christ as your own, you need to run to Him this morning. You need to confess your sins to him, and you need to gain eternal life from him. He is in the business of saving murderers. And so I encourage you, if you are not a Christian and you found out that you're a murderer today, run to him. Some of you hear the sixth command, and you already know that you are forgiven. But you want more. You want release from your sin. I spoke of all these different emotions and these different thoughts that you can have, and you, brothers and sisters. You know how hard it is You know how hard it is. You know it feels like you're under some kind of spell and you can't control the thoughts. You can't control how bitter your heart can get I would encourage you first, if you feel that way, if you think that way, don't run away from the difficulty of seeing your sin. Don't run away too quickly. Set on it, sit on it for a minute. There is this wonderful practice that used to be a part of the church where you would take your sin and you would keep meditating on it. In order to learn to hate it more and more. Let it help you to have a hatred for your sin In the mid-1600s, there was this guy, Isaac Ambrose. You've probably never heard of him, but he's got these great writings. Here's some of his words. They're just really helpful for us this morning. In order that we might grow in our hatred of our sin of murder. This is what Isaac says: Christ's bloody atonement Should make us deeply mourn over our sin that nailed him to the cross. Oh, the curse and bitterness that our sins have brought on Jesus Christ. When I but think of these bleeding veins, his bruised shoulders, his scorged sides, his furrowed back, his harrowed temples His hands and his feet. And then I consider that my sins were the cause of it all Methinks I should need no more arguments to hate my sin. Christian. Would not your hearts rise against the person that should kill your father? Would not your heart rise against the person that would kill your mother, or your brother, or your wife, or your husband or any of those relations in all the world, oh, then how should your hearts and souls rise against sin? Surely your sin it was that murdered Jesus Christ, that killed him, who is instead of all relations. who is a thousand, thousand times dearer to you than father, mother, husband, child, or whomsoever. One thought of this should, I think, be enough to make you say as Job did, I abhor myself, and I repent in dust and ash. Ashes. Oh, what is that cross on the back of my Christ? That's my sins. Oh, what is that crown on the head of my Christ? It's my sins. My sins. Oh, what is the nail in the right hand and the other in the left hand of Christ? It's my sins Oh, what is the spear in the side of Christ? It's my sins. What are those nails and wounds in the feet of Christ? They are my sins. They are my sins. They are my sins. They are my sins. It is through our contemplation of the cross of Christ relative to our sins, as Isaac Ambrose has done, that can put a distaste in our Thoughts and our minds for our sin. Look on Christ murdered and see that it was your sin and hate the thing that put him there. Number two, do not despair of your sins, sinner. Your murder is but a small cloud before the atoning work of the Son. Jesus Christ. It is just passing through. And the sun will dry it up. Your sin is but a drop in the ocean of God's justification through His Son. Look on Christ and see your justification. Sinner, look at Christ. He is your surety that your sin is no longer your own to bear. And third, take hope and be patient. He is not a savior on the cross. He is down from the cross, and all authority in heaven and earth has been given to him: the authority to write the sixth commandments upon your heart and upon your conscience. He shall sanctify you from murderous thoughts. He will sanctify you from negligent homicide. God Himself, through the Spirit, has become your teacher. Not Jesse Crutchley. God himself will teach you and write his law upon your heart, Christian He has become your teacher. He is taking your stony little heart and he's turning into a fat, fleshy heart that loves the law. As Christ killed sin on the cross, so too Christ is killing sin in your mortal body. This is what he says. This is what I leave you with: to remember your Savior. The Sabbath is for remembering our Savior. Remember your Savior as this. I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly. I am the Good Shepherd, and the Good Shepherd gives his life for the sheep. Amen for Christ fulfilling the sixth command. Amen. Let's pray together. Oh Lord Jesus Christ, our praise rises to you in the morning, and our praise will rise to you this evening if you give us the breath. And Lord Jesus Christ, we see why. We see the complexity and the turns that we have to take and meditating on your precepts this morning as they have done throughout all ages. Lord Jesus Christ, my greatest prayer for your congregation this morning is that you would write this law, its prohibitions, and its positive aspects upon their hearts. That they would delight in your law. That they would delight in coming to you this morning, their lawgiver, their atoning sacrifice, their Their sanctifier, their prophet, their priest, and their king. You are all things. You are our all and our all. You are the Alpha and you are the Omega. We remember you this day. This day is sanctified, in that we are giving praise to you like no other day, altogether. May your name be praised across all lands, and may life prosper In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen