Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. For me to write the same things to you is not tedious, but for you it is safe. Beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers. Beware of the mutilation. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, your sermon here is a call to discernment that we may walk in truth and in true Christianity. And in safety upon your path all our days. I therefore pray that you would give discernment to your people here this morning by way of your preached word. And I ask these things in your name. Amen. Discernment is the ability to judge well. And it shows up in many different areas and many different skills within our lives. I remember a carpenter who was a foreman on a job site. who had been doing carpentry and leading job crews for over 40 years, and his discernment in the task of building was admirable. We would build or frame walls on the on the first floor deck. We would then stand those walls and we would take a six-foot yellow stabil a level and hold it up against the wall to make sure that our walls were perfectly plum. Lo and behold, we'd move on to the next wall, and then we'd hear the foreman's voice You all need to come back here and check this wall. Without a level, he could walk the job site and see which walls were plum and which walls were not plum. If he was on an exterior wall, he could see which walls were perfectly straight. I would say to him, I just put a level on the wall, it's perfectly plum, and he'd say, you're wrong, it's not perfectly plum. And I said, Do you have a level? He says, I I do, it's my eye. And I put the level up against the wall and it would be out. Someone didn't pin the top so it got bumped and it would slip What you could say is that this is an example of discernment. And when people have this level of discernment, we look up to them. But not only in carpentry, I mean that skill is impressive, especially in that domain. We look up to people who have discernment in every different walk of life, but especially those who know how to navigate through all the walks of life. All the different eras that a human being sees, all of the different transitions that they must make. When discernment is exercised, we admire people who navigate well. We admire people who get the passage from Ecclesiastes, for example. where they're able to exercise discernment between different time periods. There's a time to mourn and there's a time to dance. We don't hold people in high esteem who are dancing when they should be mourning. We hold the discerning person in high esteem. We hold the person that we see in 1 Thessalonians 5. 14 in high esteem because of their discernment. Paul says, now we exhort you, brethren, warn those who are unruly, comfort the faint-hearted, uphold the weak. Be patient with them all. And we admire those who are discerning enough to know when you're unruly, or when you're faint-hearted, or when you're weak. And they deal with you accordingly. We say that that person is skilled and discerning. Now, this morning, we are encouraged to develop discernment. And we're encouraged to develop discernment, if you look at the title of the sermon in the bulletin, relative to discerning what is in fact true Christianity. What is true Christianity? We're going to begin that journey over the next couple weeks of discerning true Christianity by first learning how to discern false Christianity. And that's really what our passage here is today in verses 1 and 2, and you'll continue to see false Christianity into next week. False Christianity is given to us by Paul here in verses 1 and 2. Would you please open your scriptures and begin to take a look at these different verses with me? I want to go through and explain this passage and then we'll go ahead and summarize it in terms of our main lesson today. Let's just step through the verses. In verse number one, he says, Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. Well, I actually think that this is closing out the prior section. It's a bit of a bridge. We could talk about it in terms of the verses that follow that we'll be reading in the future, but it makes the most sense to go with the other rejoicing that Paul has encouraged these people toward In the section that we just finished. You are to rejoice, for example, in what Jesus Christ has done in his humiliation and his exaltation. You should be rejoicing in the sacrifice of Paul when he says, I do rejoice, and I'm glad to pour myself out as a drink offering for your faith. We should be rejoicing in the sacrifice of Timothy and the sacrifice of Epaphroditus, and we should be rejoicing in this day for men and women who take up the same responsibility and lives of Timothy and Epaphroditus. where they are willing to sacrifice for the community of faith. We should rejoice in the Lord because all those things come from him. Well that's verse 1, but there's a second part to verse number 1 after that comma. So Paul continues going, and now we're going to really enter into the new section and this new set of teaching. Having to deal with discernment of false teachers. He starts it off like this in verse 1b. For me to write the same things to you is not tedious, but for you it is safe I hope you can hear what he's trying to communicate just through my intonation. Paul, first and foremost, is not ashamed to have a ministry of reminders. He likes to get back into the basics because he knows that we always need the A, B, Cs of the faith. Really, we're never leaving those things behind. We have the ABCs of the faith. We have an understanding of them intellectually, but then through experience we grow more and more in trusting in the Lord and his basic truths. And Paul's not ashamed, therefore, to keep bringing up those basic things. In fact, he says here in this passage, it's not tedious for me to do that, to bring up things that I've already talked to you about. I'm fine with having a ministry of reminders. But then he goes on and he says even more. He says, it's not only that I don't mind, it's not only that it's not tedious for me, but it's actually safe for you. For me to repeat certain things within my ministry. I think he has something in mind like Proverbs chapter 3, 21 through 23. It says something like this, and Paul would be putting himself in the place of a father, teaching his son. My son, do not let my words depart from your eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion. They will be life to your soul and grace to your neck. They will then you will walk safely in your way and your foot will not stumble. Paul has a kind of ministry where he is teaching his children and the faith, raising them up that they would be able to navigate through the world safely. Now the question that you have to ask. Is from what do they need? Protection. And that brings you to verse number three I'm sorry, two. That brings you to verse number two, where he says that you are to beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers. Beware of the mutilation. I really wish that I could speak the Greek to you this morning because the consonants Never mind, forget it. The language is cool if you could see it. See Brad afterward. He'll read it to you. Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the mutilation. It's like, if you read the Greek, it's like he's spitting these things out at you. There's a lot of rhetorical effect that's going on. And then if you look at verse number three, you can see that he's talking about a group that considers themselves the circumcision, but he's saying, actually, no, we're the true circumcision. So whoever the dogs are, whoever the evil workers are, whoever the mutilation is, they are ones who are calling themselves the circumcision and highlight the circumcision. But Paul is saying, no, we're the true circumcision. Now who are these people? Well, I want you to turn with me to Acts chapter 15 so you can see who are the dogs? Who are the evil workers? Who are the mutilation? Acts fifteen is a famous section, especially for us as Presbyterians. Because we see here a normative account of the church conducting a presbytery. I want you to take a look first at 15, verse number 1, Acts chapter 15, verse 1, so that you can see that a problem has arisen in the church. It says this, and certain men, these are the dogs, came down from Judea and taught the brethren, quote. Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. Now that is a very serious thing to say. They will go on to make the argument: not only must you be circumcised, but you must follow the laws of Moses There was a kind of return to the Levitical system under these men from Judea. They were not denying Christ as the Messiah. but saying that Christ as the Messiah was leading us back into following Levitical law. It was an unholy conjuncture between Christ and Judaism, and they were known as the Judaizers. Those are the dogs, those are the evil workers, those are the mutilation. Now if you look in Acts chapter 15, verse 4, you can see that because these men were stirring up trouble within the churches, The issue was brought before a presbytery to deliberate on the matter, to determine by Scripture the authorized understanding of what was going on within the Gentiles. Take a look at verse number six. I apologize. Verse number six. Now the apostles and elders came together to consider this matter. There's Presbytery. Or Synod, however you want to look at that. And when there had been much dispute. Peter rose up and said to them, Men and brethren, you know that a good while ago God chose among us that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe. So God knows the heart It's literally he's the heart knower. Acknowledged them, that is the Gentiles, by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as he did to us, and he made no distinction between us and them Purifying their hearts by faith. Peter's argument is that none of them were circumcised, and yet God sent them the Holy Spirit that you could clearly see that Gentiles are also his chosen people. So how could it be that they must be circumcised to be saved? Doesn't make any sense. And now they're going to take testimony from Paul and Barnabas, and Paul and Barnabas are going to testify that yes, we're seeing miracles done all across the land, and God is gathering the Gentiles into the people of God, and He's not requiring circumcision or a return to the Levitical law. And what you're going to find if you keep going is that they are going to deliberate in this Presbytery meeting, most likely according to the Roberts Rules of Order. And then they're going to result in an official letter that goes out to all the churches, which you can find in Acts chapter fifteen, verse twenty-three. They wrote this letter. Now notice how this whole thing is set up. This is an official letter. The apostles, the elders, and the brethren. to the brethren who are of the Gentiles in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia. See how that they were causing troubles amongst the Gentiles. And then they're going to detail here That those men who are the dogs, who are the evil workers, and who are the mutilation are not teaching the truth At the end, they say in verse number 29, they just say they don't want they don't want them to come under the same yoke that they themselves couldn't bear. Peter said that in Presbytery. That you abstain from things offered to idol, nevertheless, from blood, from things strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves from these, you'll do well. And the main goal of the letter was for them to walk in the faith of Jesus Christ. and avoid an unnecessary disturbance among the Jews. Because there were Jews in every city, and they hear the law of Moses read about these things, so they're trying to keep peace within the church. So then they sent them off and they came to Antioch and they give this letter to the Gentiles. And Paul is still fighting against these false teachers. These are the dogs, these are the evil workers, these are the mutilation. Now did you notice that his language is a bit sulky? I really hope that you can take some lessons from that because we just spent all this time on Unity and you could maybe get the picture that you're just called to be a doormat. And to just exercise a kind of kindness, and that's the only ethic that you have, is just an ethic of kindness. And that is not what we end up seeing displayed in the exact same letter, is that there is a time Where we are going to use insulting words. But these are not just insulting words for the sake of insulting words. If you are called a dog by Paul, it is a religious term. It is a term signifying those who were Gentiles and outside of the covenant. So what Paul is doing here is he's reversing it on them. He's saying, you call the Gentiles dogs because they're outside of the covenant, actually because of what you believe. And what you're trying to do with Christ in the Levitical law, the fact that you're a Judaizer, you're the Gentile. And he does the same thing with the evil worker. They pride themselves on works of righteousness according to the law. And he flips it on them. He says, Because of what you have adopted, you're not a good worker or a righteous worker, you're an evil worker. And he does the same thing with the mutilation. You think that you are giving the s the Abrahamic sign to the Gentiles and maintaining uh some kind of of right that shows them to be within the covenant of God through circumcision. You're not, when you do that, you're not circumcising people, you're mutilating them. Because you have mutilated the understanding of the administrations of the covenant of grace, both under Moses and now under the new Moses, who is Jesus Christ. There's a great reversal that has happened here. So it is far more insulting than just these words. But it is an insult toward a good end. That's what we have here in these first two verses. Now if we were to bind all of these things together, you can see that especially from that last verse being in the imperative, beware, beware, beware. He is calling each of you to exercise a discernment. Especially in relationship to dangerous false teachers. You are quite simply called to beware And exercise discernment with false, dangerous teachers. That is your calling. Now, to some of you that may seem like an obvious truth, but I'm gonna complicate it just a little bit. Because the way that we end up walking in our lives, we don't always exercise, we're not always cautious, and we are not often often bewaring. of dangerous false teachers. One of the things that can actually happen among the Christian church is that we can beware of everything as if it was dangerous. And we can beware of nothing, because nothing's really dangerous. And Paul is calling you to discern in knowing what you're supposed to beware of. and therefore knowing what is actually dangerous. I don't know if you had uh the similar experience Some of you didn't because you weren't even born. I'm starting to get depressed when I hear birthdays. I was born in 2002. Great. That's awesome. That makes me feel wonderful. So some of you won't remember this, but when I and this is a bit of personal experience, some of you may have had very different experiences But when I first entered into Christianity by way of the mercy of Christ, it was by way of people that are still very dear to me. But I, in hindsight, looked back at some of their mentalities, and they had dropped into a kind of Christianity that thought that everything was dangerous. Everything was at the same level. As I continue to think about this, it seems like there was some kind of movement going through the 90s and the early 2000s. where everything was satanic. I remember the poster children standing up for this kind of movement would be those who are finally repenting and burning all of their cassette tapes. Does anybody remember this? And I didn't grow up in the church. That was confusing to me. I thought, why all of the cassette tapes? why not just some of the cassette tapes that were encouraging worldliness, but then others which maybe they had like a little bit of worldliness in there, but it doesn't seem like you should be burning them And then of course, if you grew up in the nineties and the two thousands, you'll remember that there was one cassette tape that a Christian did not have to burn. Does anybody remember what that cassette tape was? No no. Oh. You had cassette tapes you weren't supposed to have. No. You too. Somehow, every church endorsed Fono and U2. So every Christian kid would burn all their cassette tapes, but then they were allowed to hold on to U2. Apparently they'd never listened to those words. But then it extended, and again this may have been for f f my just my personal experience, and sometimes parents were doing uh justice to some of the things that kids were facing in that day. So I'm not really judging the whole movement. But sometimes it was treating everything as if it were a danger of the utmost concern. Music. I remember that coming out with toys, even with regard to teenage mutant ninja turtles. There was an argument made that they were satanic. And books, lots of different books. And that is one way that Christians have viewed the task. of exercising discernment in the name of Jesus Christ. But I'm I'm just starting off this whole thing saying to you that doesn't Look like discernment if you look at the scriptures. The scriptures don't treat everything as if everything is dangerous. The scriptures actually have degrees of danger, just like the scriptures have degrees of sin. All sin is mortal, that is to say, it is deserving of death, according to the Schwarter Catechism, but not all sin is equally grievous to another sin. Some sins are more grievous than others. And a kind of an analogous thought is some things are more dangerous than other things. And this is a very important truth to have as a church if we're going to detect what is true and what is false and then what we should be doing about the falsity, such as being wear. So, my first point to you is that sometimes we treat everything as dangerous when we're meant to exercise discernment. Now, why would I say that? Why would I say we are meant to exercise discernment? Well, I've already given you a couple hints. The scriptures encourage us to exercise discernment. The scripture, in fact, a famous phrase among the reformers, since this is a day in which we remember the Reformation, is we distinguish. It's very similar to exercising discretion and discrimination. We distinguish, we distinguish between things of higher danger or lower danger And we do so based off of certain scriptural principles, like we see in Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verses 1 through 3. To everything there is a season. There's not just one season in your life. There are a lot of different seasons. And the discerning person, the one who knows how to distinguish, recognizes the season they're in. And they're not skipping around like it's spring when it's actually the winter of affliction. Rather, they're in lamentation. To everything there is a season, a time for every purpose under heaven, a time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant, and a time to pluck up what is planted, a time to kill, and then there's a time to heal. A time to break down and a time to build up. And it is from a kind of analogous reasoning from this passage that we realize, huh? I wonder if we're not only supposed to distinguish between different seasons, but distinguish between different kinds of people and the level of danger that they are. And the answer is yes, we are meant to. We saw that in 1 Thessalonians 5 14 that I read to you in the introduction. We're not to treat all people the same. Not even those who hold some false teaching. It says here, now we exhort you, brethren, warn those who are unruly, comfort the faint hearted, uphold the weak, be patient with them all. So you already see a distinguishing going on between different kinds of persons. And that would include even those who hold on to false teaching. Do you know that I often walk the narthex and hear you talk and I think that's a false teaching? Because you have not had a certain amount of time to work out specific doctrines, so you end up stating them in such a way that is a level of danger. But do you find me stopping you all in the narthex and bringing you up on charges? There are other explanations for why you're voicing things the way that you're voicing them. Some of them give me concern Some of 'em I'm all of them give me concern, but a lot of the time it's just like a low grade thing. And I know just from having been around for a little while that being a part of this community, an iron sharpening iron, those things, those wrinkles get ironed out. Now every once in a while one of you wants to go ahead and hold on to a false teaching and stand up and make a big deal about it. And guess what kind of conversation we're going to have? Even if it is in public. There's a distinguishing and a discernment that's going on there based upon these scriptural principles that we find, at least within Ecclesiastes and in 1 Thessalonians. And we know this from common sense also in how we conduct our lives. I was thinking about the kind of distinguishing I do when I walk my dog down the B and A trail. And if you're walking your dog in a public area, I wonder if you discern in these same ways. Sometimes I'm walking my dog And I discern that the dog coming up is a good dog, and the dog's not a problem, and my dog is going to look at that dog, and this dog's going to look at my dog and they're going to pass. and we're just going to go on our merry way. Other times I can see the dog down the B and A trail already starting to get a little funny And my dog getting a little funny, but then I see that it has a cap. They're just getting a little funny. I mean maybe they're attracted to each other. I don't know. Maybe they're saying, hey, I'm so excited to see you. You look better than other dogs. I don't know what they're doing, but I'm not really that concerned about it. But then every once in a while I will come across a dog where I say to my dog, we're leaving the trail. Because that dog needs to be put down I'm not kidding. There are some dogs that are just have lost it. They if you ever have watched Cujo, it would be something like that. So there I'm not recommending you watch that. There's a way in which we distinguish. Now let me give you another example of how we distinguish between different levels of danger. We do this all over our lives. Another, and some of you are going to disagree with this, but we also disagree on snakes. We disagree on snakes. Now, there are many people in here that no matter what the snake is, including Nick Clark, he's just gonna freak out. But then if you ask Nick, why what does Jesse say to you when you're freaking out about the black snakes around here? Jesse says what every father Whatever grandfather and whatever grandfather great grandfather and great-great-grandfather has said for a long time, what do they say? It's good for the mice. Or it's good for the pest control around the area. They serve a good purpose, so we're not going to kill them. So we end up distinguishing Throughout generations on the differences of snakes. However, if I did walk into the North X and there was a cobra, then I would leave the building And all of that is a kind of distinguishing or a discernment in which we naturally exercise and we recognize This is the main argument that I'm giving to you. We recognize that the way that God has built the world, in order for us to function it and navigate it in it well, then we need to have discernment, distinguishing between higher and lower dangers. Otherwise, we're going to live our life always standing up on a chair in case something on the ground might bite us. And that's not the kind of life that God calls us to. Now, I picked a little bit on those who saw everything as dangerous, and I said, we need to have discernment. But there are some here, usually those who were a part of that world where they thought everything was dangerous. They react and then they say nothing's dangerous. And here's the main point, really, of the passage. And I've been trying to lead to this so that we could be prepared to receive this truth. Even if you grew up in a kind of fundamentalist ethic. Where everything was dangerous, your ears cannot be deaf to the message of this passage, which is There are some people in this world that are very dangerous. There are some people in this world that are false teachers. That need to be called dogs, evil workers, and a mutilation I hope that you were ready to receive that, my fundamentalist brothers and sisters. Or recovering fundamentalists, rather. I hope you were ready to receive that because sometimes you can respond too much in the other way. Now What Paul is dealing with are false teachers at that level. He's not dealing with teachers at every level. He's dealing with teachers that are taking and twisting the scriptures and the main message of Jesus Christ And these people have have a kind of seductive power about them to where they're actually able to lead people away from the truth of Jesus Christ. And that is extremely serious. Now you can see this, you don't need to turn there, I'm just going to read this to you. You can see this in how these dogs had their way in Galatia. Galatians 2, 11 through 14 recounts where these dogs were even able to lead Peter and Barnabas astray from the gospel. It says this. Now when Peter had come to Antioch, I withstood him to his face, because he was to be blamed, for certain men came from James. He would eat uh before for before certain men came from James, he would eat with the Gentiles, believing that God had brought the Gentiles into the covenant. He could eat with them. But when those men came, he withdrew and he separated himself, fearing those who were of the circumcision. You see that? It's the same group, it's the same dogs, it's the mutilation. And the rest of the Jews also played the hypocrite with him, so that even Barnabas was carried away with their hypocrisy. But when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, imagine what it would take for Paul to do this in public. Paul says to Peter, before them all, if you, being a Jew, live in the manner of Gentiles and not as the Jews, why do you compel Gentiles to live as Jews? That was a serious moment to do that in public. Imagine that all of us were having a get-together and a dinner. And I decided not to walk in line with the gospel, and Brad rose up and rebuked me in public. That would be very serious. And so you can see there are some times in the life of the church that the false teachers which God has permitted to influence the church are extremely dangerous. And Paul is telling you, you have got to beware. Of who those are. Don't beware in an undiscerning way, treating all snakes the same and all dogs the same. Have discernment and recognize who truly is a danger. And you can see these examples of those who are able to sway and who are striking at the vitals, the vitals, the lifeblood of the gospel. The question underlying everything that I'm saying here this morning is a little bit broader. Do you have discernment? I've looked at a kind of scale, haven't I? Those of us who are in the Sunday school class, we've looked at a scale or a slope of peacemaking responses. You could be on the left and you could be a peacefaker. You could be on the right and you could be a peace breaker, or you could be in the center and be a peacemaker. That's cute. And I'm doing the same thing with danger. Dangerous people. I'm saying there needs to be discernment in acknowledging who is really dangerous, not everybody is, just because they say something false. But we have to admit, actually, God does permit very dangerous people to influence the church, and we must beware. If you lack that discernment, if you're not able to find the right place on the discernment slope, so to speak, Or the discernment scale, so to speak, or the danger scale, then you know you can end up being one of the people that are dangerous to a holy communion? I think for example of Baptists. I think for bat of Baptists because this is an example where I of people that I disagree with. We disagree like this. Those who are in the Baptist camp are saying that those who profess faith in Christ are members of the covenant and therefore should be baptized in a particular mode of immersion. And I say Those who profess faith in Christ and their children are members of the covenant, and they should be baptized really by sprinkling. Both the adult professor and their children. And this is a true disagreement that we have. They would disagree with me, and I would disagree with them, and I would say, you're false, and they would say, no, you're false. But at the end of the day, do you know what I call them above everything else? Brothers and sisters. But if I didn't have discernment, if I didn't have a danger scale, then I could go ahead and call them a cobra. I could call them a dog or an evil worker or a mutilation. But that's not what they are. It is because Jesus Christ is giving his congregation discernment that we are able to distinguish between the different dangers. And acknowledge our Baptist brethren as in fact brethren. Now that's one side But you know I also have an evaluation of those who are in leadership and conducting largely. I can't this is a hate this is a generalization because I don't know every single individual. But I also know in my experience in dealing with many, many leaders within the PC USA That what they are professing and what they are teaching people that walk through their doors is extremely dangerous. And they have become a synagogue of Satan. They are dogs, they are evil workers, and they are a mutilation of the truth. And I say it about those who from the pulpit deny the inerrancy of Scripture. Deny the divinity of Jesus Christ, deny the virgin birth, they deny anything that is supernatural. That, my friends, is extremely dangerous. And there are other doctrines that they're getting ready to pour forth in terms of different lifestyles That will make them truly dogs. I have other dogs on my list too, which maybe I'll bring up next week. But we need to be able to see those danger scales and make those discerning judgments. It'll be based on our past experiences. It'll be based on the different communities in which we live. Some things are more dangerous for one community versus another. Some things will be more dangerous based on our temperaments. And we'll need to make certain judgments and tell people to stay away and beware, because I know you. You shouldn't be around them. You have an inclination toward Greek Orthodoxy. Get away. And those of you who grew up and are recovering fundamentalists, you have grown cynical of thinking that anything is dangerous. And that's different than the loosey-goosey Christian who hasn't stood up for a thing. And I understand That we've had some different experiences, but the main message from Paul is that no matter what that is, he wants you to admit And to live your life admitting that there are in fact some dogs in the world. There are some evil workers. There are some people that are just butchers and they're mutilating eternal life. And you You need to beware. Amen. Let us pray.