We are still in chapter five. We are almost through the commandments. Lord willing, we'll have one more week and then we'll start taking up much larger portions of the book like we were in the beginning. Let's stand for the reading of God's Word as we see ex exemplified for us in the book of Ezra, particularly with the reading of the law. This is the ninth command, and it is found in verse twenty of Deuteronomy chapter five. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this command. Help us to rightfully understand it as you intend. Don't let us do weird things with your word. That's been done too often. Protect it and apply it. Let it grow inside of us and take us over. We ask these things for your glory. Amen. Amen. Maybe we should. It's good to be back with you this morning. The ninth commandment is supremely significant. significant to your situation. You may not consider yourself a liar. That's okay. I'm not here to try to convince you of that. You may have considered that you've never But as Brad brought up last week, at the very least, you have lied to yourself about something. you allow other people to lie to you and you believe it. This happens across the board. What do you think is behind eating disorders or suicide? Lies. I'm just trying to tell you that this is a significant commandment. It's something that you need to consider. And I need to tell you that because these days people say the Ten Commandments aren't really worth considering But then there's an everyday false witness. There's not just a false witness in formal settings, but in casual settings that we need And then lastly, I want to look behind the scenes of false witness. What is going on cosmologically with lying and believing lies? And so we'll look at the formal false witness, the everyday false witness of this command, and we're going to get behind the scene. And so let's just take a look at verse 20 for formal false witness. You shall ne'er not bear false witness against your neighbor. In context, if you were to look at these words particularly and how they are used. This is formal and technical legal language. That's the primary context that we're talking about here. In other words We're talking about court. In a court of law. If I asked you what is the ninth command, most of you on the street, or if we were having dinner to together and I said and we were having b red pudding at uh some place. I say, what's the ninth command? You would probably say, you shall not lie. It does not say that. It does not say you shall not lie You shouldn't lie. And though there'll be other ways in which it it comes around to that. But that's not what the command says. It says, You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. And here's a legitimate translation. Therefore the command is not about lying in general, it is about lying in court. In other words, there's a name for this. It's called perjury. That's what it's about first and foremost. Perjury is the offense of willfully telling an untruth in a court after a Having taken an oath or affirmation, perjury was particularly dangerous in Israel, and perjury continues to remain particularly dangerous in Australia. Societies. A number of crimes in Israel warranted the death penalty. And if you were lied against and those lies were believed, you could be killed unjustly. Say. That's the sum of it. So follow the logic. The command is about the formal court setting. The command, therefore, is first and foremost about perjury, and perjury could result in innocent people dying So why the ninth command? It's to protect innocent people. You see, the Ten Commandments aren't bad for you. He's not just saying to you some um annoying phrase like drink your oval tea. You can ask your parents what that means. Or maybe your grandparents at this point, I I don't know. But I never had oval tea. But it's you can see it's good here. He's seeking to present to protect innocent people. You run into you actually run into this protection idea within each of the commands. From command four two ten, God Makes clear what love to our neighbor looks like and love to him and one way to love is to protect. We've gone over this a number of different times. So for example, think about the fourth commandment. Just for a second. Fourth command is protecting worship. It's protecting your right to remember the hope that you have in Jesus Christ. And who here doesn't need hope? And he protects that by giving you a day to remember who he is and what he's doing because boy can the lights become dim if you don't have that connection with him. Or the fifth command is protecting the family. The sixth command is protecting Seventh command is protecting marriage. Eighth command is protecting your private property. And now the ninth command is protecting innocent people from having all those things taking a taken away from them. in perjury in the court of law. You know, every one of those rights could be taken away if someone decided to lie against you in a court of law. They could use the power of the government to take every single personal right You can see this throughout the scriptures when they were City. These means have been used forever, and God doesn't like those means, and so He places it and codifies it here within these commandments that we might be protected from one another. from lies. Every protection can be taken away through perjury. Knowing that people will ignore God, God put other protections in place in regards to this command. So when we start to look at this If a false witness rises against any man to testify against him of wrongdoing, then both men in the controversy shall stand before the Lord before the Priests and the judges who serve in those days, and the judges shall make careful inquiry. Careful inquiry is a good thing to have as a part of a society to make sure that someone's not lying and to find out what is actually the truth. Do you see the basis that the scriptures provide the basis of our own Western legal system? Do you see that? Protection three If the witness is a false witness who has testified falsely against his brother, then you shall do to him as he thought to have done to his brother. That's quite the protection. And protection four, this is Deuteronomy nineteen, verse twenty. I've been doing verse fifteen, verse sixteen, verse seventeen, verse eight, and working down to twenty now. Protection number four. And those who remain Remain those who remain as just onlookers of the whole conflict shall hear and fear, and hereafter they shall And you can see this present within the New Testament too, in the way that elders are meant to be dealt with. First in 2 Timothy. Formal false witness is perjury. Perjury can destroy what is most dear to us, and so God gives us protections. And yet you have to think Think about this for a moment. Is the only danger in a court of law or can false witness bring misery out Outside of that courtroom. And thus, not surprisingly, we find not only formal false witness, but a kind of casual false witness without the throughout all of the Or an everyday false witness, which is our next point. Every everyday false witness. Remember that the Ten Commandments, and so we have this command here in the ninth command that That it is a moral summary. It is the acorn from which the oak tree of all of morality that we see within the scriptures grows from It's called a summary, and therefore any form of false witness that we find throughout the scriptures falls under and flows from the ninth command. Find false witness not only within formal settings but within informal settings. Fal false witness outside the courtroom goes by this. And now it starts to make sense of all of the lists within the New Testament. James Chapter four, slander. Making a false statement which damages a person's reputation, whether it's in person or it's on Twitter or whatever Backbiting, Proverbs twenty-five-twenty-three, speaking evil of someone when they are not there to defend themselves. Gossip. Those who go around telling false and seductive stories about people. And the Bible really focuses on this. The authors of the scriptures focus on this. The Holy Spirit focuses on gossip a number of times. And I think one of the reasons is because of the description of gossip and what it's like. When you look at Proverbs, for example, in 188, this is what it says about gossip It calls them the tail bearer, and it says the words of a tail bearer are like tasty morsels, and they go down into the The words of a tail bearer are like tasty morsels going down into the inmost body. This reminded me I I had to think well what do I consider tasting and what can I not resist? I cannot resist someone selling Girl Scout cookies at my door. Samoas, or that's what they're called Right? There's this new lemon one with the lemon icing and the shortbread. I'm just done. Never gonna be able to resist. Those peanut butter ones with the chocolate? Like Like Girl Scout cookies or like a Girl Scout rather showing up at your door with cookies, caramel, chocolate, shortbread, lemon icing. Gossip is is powerful because people love to gobble it down. There is something about us where we enjoy it. The problem is that since it flows from the ninth Commandment, we should expect the exact same things that we see within formal false witness to follow within casual false witness, which will be the result of your go your gossip will be the destruction of somebody life to some degree. Some kind of pain and some kind of misery. I haven't even mentioned the scarring of the image of God Gossip is powerful because people love to eat it, and so we have to mention supporters of gossip. Those who love to listen to the stories instead of putting a stop to it, instead of Eating each tasty piece of gossip you could refuse to buy. False witness outside the courtroom in all these forms end up Revealing a pattern, whether it is slander, whether it is backbiting, whether it is gossip. Do you notice the pattern that is in each one of them? Which leads us to a Very obvious conclusion throughout the scriptures that the tongue in our speech is exceptionally important. It causes much damage. There is an emphasis within the scriptures on speech like no other Particularly in relationship to the ninth command, because of the kind of damage that it can do. Are surrounded by warnings and about the damage that can be done, and therefore the protection that is needed, and the protection that is given to you is the ninth command. No one is outside of this conversation. If you You can speak or use sign language, then this ends up applying to you because all of us have speech. James especially gives illustrations so that every age group can understand that Your speech is something to take very, very carefully. I don't care what your age is here today. If you're able to speak or use sign language, this applies to you And that is proved in part by the metaphors and illustrations that are given so that even the youngest child could understand this ninth commandment and the results of it within our speech. James gives, for example, one illustration that has to do with a spark. Our tongues are small, but through many ways, and especially false witness They can destroy, even though it is small. In other words, one little word is like a spark that sets the whole world on fire, James says. I was Doing some research on this, and recently in Sweden, a government agency found that trains cause wildfires. When a train breaks, sparks fly off of the track, and they're thinking that it's it's causing about ninety percent of the the fires within Sweden. Now I'm not sure uh about Sweden and all of the statistics with it, but if you were to think about fires, wildfires within our own country, for example In California last year, that caused 6,453 homes to be destroyed and 260 commercial properties with over 85,000 acres decimated Through the single spark, that's James's point. Although it is small, although it's just one little snapchat It can burn down an entire person's life. He burns up also the rudder on a ship. And the point there again is that it's small, but it can steer this large vessel The point is that a ship can be moved by this relatively small thing, and likewise a single tweet or text is small, but could guide the course of a life into destruction. Isn't that what we hear on the news when we hear about bullying? Wasn't it just some words that some boys said on social media That tipped the scale of someone who was already feeling a bit pointless and disconnected and isolated? Isn't that the result of the speech? And so I remind you of what I I have said so many different times that is a far better saying than what I grew up with. The correct saying is, sticks and stones may break my bones, and words will break my heart They will destroy me. That's his point here. And it's connected to the ninth command because one of the primary ways in which we can destroy a person is through form Received the same thing here within Deuteronomy. God knows, God knows, Proverbs twenty five, twenty-three, the north wind brings forth rain and a bad Backbiting tongue and angry countenance. Have you ever thought about that proverb? Which destroyed a farmer's crops, and it would come out of nowhere. Have you ever dressed for spring and then all of a sudden, because you weren't watching the weather, a northeaster came in Or have you ever been out on a boat, you thought it was going to be a lovely day with the family, and then all of a sudden a squall came through, and you're clinging to the side of your your uh Carolina skiff with your life? That's the image that is given here. That those words that can be said about a person they come out of nowhere and they destroy them. They didn't even see it coming. They had worked so hard for their present reputation, and it was taken away by one lie, one false. False witness, whether formally or informally. The backbiting tongue, the slanderer, the gossip, they're all forms of everyday false witness, and they're all destructive God knows this and therefore He gives you the ninth commandment as a protection. He seeks to protect you from formal false witness in the Cosmologically serious this is. And so let's move into our third point and let's go behind the scenes of false witness. This is what I mean by that. In other words Where does all of this come from? What is going on in our world where we have to deal with this problem? The first time we see false witness and the spark of deceptive speech is in the And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden, but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat it, nor shall you eat You touch it lest you die. And then the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. For God knows that in the day you eat of it your eyes will be open And you'll be like God, knowing good and evil. And there it was. It all began. Tell me that there is not one miserable situation that does not derive And what that means is that lies are at the bottom of everything that is wrong. Mentions this in John chapter 8, when he speaks, speaking of the devil, he speaks And since that day the devil has been bringing death and destruction to this world through his lies. That is his primary modus opening. Is that he lies and that's how he accomplishes his will. Whereas God speaks the truth and that's how he accomplishes his will. And now the devil Did you know the devil has children? Mentions in John 8 that same passage he says Jesus calls Jesus calls Does not stand in the truth because there's no truth in him. And then it continues with that phrase that I had just mentioned. Those men and those women who are the children of the devil, that is to say, they live a life of lying, that's their natural tongue, and who believe lies naturally, form together over time, and they pull their resources and they create And those societies gain enough resources where they can then have uh uh educational institutions like universities and colleges. They can have governments and they can have buildings and they can have streets named after themselves and all the streets can be paved. They can have a military. In other words, they can become a nation. A nation that has created the plausibility structure for only lies to be believed. And thus, behind the scenes, you have the devil working directly and indirectly to mislead and destroy the entire world. Now, I would love to give that same part of the sermon in a modern university and just see what happens when I say the word Devil. Uh it sounds crazy to people. But those of you here who trust the scriptures, let me remind you of Ephesians chapter 6, verse 12. For we We do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness In the heavenly places. And they work directly and indirectly. That's the big picture, and that's the behind that's the true behind the scenes We could get to the behind the scenes within your own heart, but there was something that happened before that behind the scenes. So we went all the way behind the scenes to see what was going on And much more could be said about that. Much more could be said about the ninth commandment. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. We've looked at that Formally. It's perjury. Let's stand up and let's allow our vote to count that perjury wouldn't take place within our justice system. Would you please care about our justice system system in some way. Although even outside of court in our everyday lives, false witness shows up in how we use our speech. So it's not just relegated to that domain of our life, it's all the parts of our life that we have to consider world on fire. Do you agree with that last statement? Let me state it for you one more time because I'm getting ready to launch off into logical implications from it. So I just want to make sure you know what you're signing up for. If we look behind the scenes, we don't simply find poor education and upbringing. We find the devil That's a different meta-narrative Christianity alone has this meta-narrative. A meta-narrative is that which gives ultimate explanations to all of life and reality, we're saying that there is something far more grievous happening in the background than that someone's father didn't raise them correctly. Although that may do that may be true. One of the things that can stand in the way, however, is all of this talk about the devil can sound Crazy. Do I sound crazy to you this morning? Let me remind you, if I do sound crazy, that the majority of the world therefore then sounds crazy. It is only in secularized Europe and in secularized North America where the devil is no longer believed in, and that means that the majority of the world does. Now this is what could be going through your mind is that well then North America is the only one that's right. And so too secular Europe. And I think that's pretty arrogant of you to say that the majority of the world is right. And I think it's culturally narrow of you too, also. And maybe you would just reconsider it with regards to this. This is what I do find. Most Americans, although are not able to articulate it in terms of Christianity, do believe in some kind of benevolent In supernatural power. If you believe in supernatural good, why could there not also be some kind of supernatural evil? Why couldn't we have both? And so I just ask you to consider that because here's the thing: if the devil is behind all of this and has somehow made us into his children, the problem of humanity has just become a lot more complicated. You cannot solve this problem through education. There's no way And I believe that most Americans are actually realizing this and are now resorting to just pure violence and force. They are seeing no sense in having rational dialogue because most Americans recognize that through education, humanity will not change. Notice the college campus. It is not a place mostly of rational dialogue any longer. If you show up and you don't say what they want you to say, they will chase you off of their campus. There's a reason for that because they are viewing mankind differently and the problems of mankind. Education has been tried for a long time and they do no they no longer put their hope in it. They don't believe there's hope that you can put into anything that this world offers. The only thing that you can do is have a will to power. Might makes right. Social Darwinism. If you disagree, I will become stronger than you and make you agree. And I can make you agree by spinning narratives also if I want to have a kind of gentle perspective. Persuasion. But trying to solve the human problem through power will not work either. We have seen the human race oppressed in other countries before to subjugate truth, and it never worked out well And it won't work out again. You cannot beat or scare or shame or humiliate the lies out of people, the problem of humanity. Is that we are not naturally inclined toward the north toward the ninth commandment. And this is where Christianity is unique, which is why Christianity It's the saving grace of the entire world because back behind it is someone who is strong enough to save the world from lies. It is only Jesus Christ that can do so We believe that God has sent Jesus Christ to defeat the devil and to bring back truth into the world. I'm trying to convince you with reasons. You just heard a lot of amens. This isn't a bunch of religious mumbo jumbo because you just heard a bunch of amens. I'm dealing with you rationally at this point. The only thing left that is standing that has plausibility for solving this problem is Jesus Christ. Part of your problem might be that you have believed lies about Jesus and you don't really know who he is anyway. Look at how the Apostle Paul describes the work of Jesus Christ. Ephesians chapter 4. But you have not so learned Christ, if indeed you have heard him and have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus, that you put off concerning your former conduct the old man which grows corrupt according to the And be renewed in the spirit of your mind, that you put on the new man which was created according to God and true righteousness and holy Holiness. Therefore, put away lying. Let each of you speak truth with his neighbor, for we are members of one another. And then it goes on in the very next chapter to state this This be imitators of God as his dear children. There is a great translation that is taking place because of the work of Jesus Christ, and where Jesus Christ Christ is taking by his spirit people who were children of the devil and in darkness, and he is making them the children of God and children of the light. And their native language is to speak truth and to believe it. That's what's happening in the world. The only chance for this world is that Jesus Christ would do. More of that, and that he would return and finish the job. God for a sweet smelling aroma. God gave the ninth command to guard and protect society, and yet written laws aren't strong enough. So he provides a Savior to change and write the law upon our very heart and to make it our great love. That's what Jesus Christ is doing through his spirit. He's changing you to where You would love the ninth commandment, that you would love truth, and that you would hate slander. Remember, this is all supposed to be positive You would become and you are becoming Christian through the power of Jesus Christ and his Spirit, the person who hates slander and backbiting and gossip. Do you know what you love? Love now? You love to spread the good report of those who are around you. Now I've said this before, this is a perhaps a trivial example. This is the kind of person that you're becoming. Before, when someone would show up late to church, you would say, Oh, look at this. And you would use it to build Yourself up. I'm better than them. You can elevate yourself. But now, Christian, you're thinking to yourself, I'm sure there's a good reason Who am I? I'm sure there's a good reason. And if they are having trouble to get getting to church, I wonder if there is a way Because in the same way that you would have cared about their worship, and the same way that you would have cared about their family, and in the same way that you would have cared about their marriage, and in the same way that you life and their estate within life, so too do you care here about what people say about them, about their reputation, about who people know them to be. Within the community. That you would protect it. You would become a protector of who they are and how you talk about people and promote things on social media. That's all present here, and it's present now within your heart, Christian. Praise the Lord Jesus Christ for the work that He is doing within you. He's changing your Spiritual taste buds. You're like an outsider who moved to Maryland, who didn't like Old Bay, but now you're learning to love it. It's the same thing. You're starting to become a real creation. And so therefore, if you are a Christian, put off all forms of false witness. Notice Paul did not say sit around and pray about it. Said, put it off. Prayer is good, but he says, put it off. Jesus Christ has changed you and it's changing you. If you are not a Christian, turn to Christ and be saved. Saved from the devil. Don't be culturally arrogant. Jesus Christ is the Christians, and he is the non-Christians' only hope Whether you believe in him or not, he is your only hope. And so I'll end with this: a wonderful dramatic image of the reality behind Revelation chapter twelve verse nine and ten. So the great dragon was cast out, that serpent of old, called the devil and Satan. He was cast to the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. And then I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now salvation and strength And the kingdom of our God and the power of His Christ have come. For the accuser of our brethren, you accuse them before our God day and night. has been cast down. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Father, may your kingdom come and your will be done On earth as it is in heaven. Amen