3, 1 through 9 in Philippians. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. For me to write the same things to you is not tedious, but for you it is safe. Beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers. Beware of the mutilation. For we are the circumcision who worship God in the Spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh Though I also might have confidence in the flesh. If anyone else thinks he may have confidence in the flesh, I'm more so. circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews Concerning the law, a Pharisee. Concerning zeal, persecuting the church. Concerning the righteousness which is in the law? Blameless. But what things were gained to me, these I have counted loss for Christ. Yet indeed I count all things loss. for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and I count them as rubbish, that I may gain Christ. And be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ Jesus, all authority has been given to you in heaven and earth. You hold all things in your responsibility. We ask the Lord Jesus Christ that you would be gracious to us here this morning We pray that you would accompany your preached word. Lord, I myself am a chamber pot. And you use pots of clay like that to demonstrate that it is you alone who deserves any glory But I pray that you would use these human words anyway. And Lord, this is a congregation who on their own would not have ears to hear. They have no real interest in you. But I pray that you would be gracious to them. I pray that you would save them even from themselves. And that they would attend to your word this morning. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I want to begin by just telling you what the whole sermon is about this morning. And then we're going to reflect on a few items that are here within our passage. And I think reflect is a good word. We're going to meditate together on these things by way of a preached sermon. There's a number of examples that we need to look at this morning. The main thing that you need to take home, the umbrella under which you should find all of the words here this morning is this. Is that we as Christians, we are meant to put all of our confidence in Jesus Christ for salvation. Mark's got us on a good foot in thinking about that. You, as a Christian, you are meant To put all of your confidence in Jesus Christ for salvation, your status before God. Your growth in the image of God, eternally residing with God in glory. Those are some of the major categories of salvation. And you need to put all of your confidence in Jesus Christ to be able to have that Like I said, I want to begin by just looking at a few examples, and we're going to look at the examples really that begin in chapter two, though I could go back even further. For those of you who are interested in learning how to read your Bible, the book of Philippians or the letter of Philippians can really be divided in a kind of iterative back and forth. Between exhortations and examples. And thank God for that, right? I mean, has anybody ever found it difficult to read their Bible? And sometimes you're surprised by that. You'll come to my office and you'll say, it's difficult to read the Bible. And I'll say, well, did you forget That it's it's it's like six thousand year old ancient Near Eastern literature written on animal skins. And you're like, oh yeah, that does explain some of the difficulty. So thank God that Paul doesn't make it more difficult for us by writing out some strange philosophical treatise. But instead, he exhorts you in this letter and he gives you a bunch of examples. Just like the way Jesus did in his teaching ministry, telling you that the kingdom of heaven was like such and such. We really need that kind of teaching. Paul shared examples in the case of Philippians, he shared examples and shares them with you here this morning on what does it look like to have true Christianity? We're on the third part of true Christianity, if you look in our bulletin. And Paul gives us these examples so that we can see what true Christianity looks like. In chapter 2, when we were talking about having the same mind, Paul started off by giving us the premier example. The example of all examples. And in fact, if you took a theology course, it would be called the anti-example. Because it's it's just it's a be it's everything else is in is an example of this. He exemplifies He is the anti-type, and it was Jesus Christ in chapter two. We looked at how he went into what we called his estate of humiliation And then the Father vindicating the work of Christ moved Christ through his resurrection into the state of exaltation. And that was an example. The main point of it wasn't to get lost in theological terminology like kinosis or whatever. It was for you to be able to see this is what it looks like. to be as real as it gets, to have the same mind. That example then continued on in Paul really seeking to be himself like Christ. If you were to keep keep moving in chapter 2, if you have your scriptures open now, if you went, you kept moving your finger down to verse number 17 in chapter seven in chapter 2, you would see that Paul ends up giving his own example. He gives an example where for the health of the church he has turned his life into a living sacrifice. And he likens it to pouring himself out like a drink offering. Now, whether you understand a drink offering or not, you understand what it would mean if somebody came to you and said, I've poured myself out for you And Paul has poured himself out for this particular congregation. And that's another example, more specifically stated, in relationship to a church of what it would look like. To take up the pattern or the image of Jesus Christ. It would be to pour yourself out for each other. That's what true Christianity looks like. It's what true community looks like. And then if you kept your finger going, just a couple more verses past verse 17, well here's another example. It's the example of Timothy. And this is a beautiful example because Paul gives a contrast here and he says, you know why Timothy is an example And other names that I know aren't examples, is because Timothy's different in this one at least this one regard, and that he actually has the interests of the church in mind when he's doing the work And he's not motivated by selfish ambition. That's a good paraphrase of why Timothy ends up being an example. And it's a way in which Timothy as a son is taking up and imitating Paul as his father, as Paul is taking up and imitating Christ as his Lord. It's really a a uh a ladder of examples, isn't it? But there's another rung in the ladder. And that's where we're brought up in, and this is take could even take us back to the beginning of the letter, but if you kept your finger going down in your scriptures. I'm kind of dating myself, so I guess if you scroll further, in verse number twenty-five we have the example of Epaphroditus And he ends up being this example because he went all the way to the point in the sickness that he caught went all the way to death's doorstep. Now, when a person is willing to give up even their own health for the sake of the cause of Christ, you have officially seen an example of someone who's walking worthy of the calling. Which is another phrase in chapter 2. You've seen another example of what true Christianity looks like. It's through these examples. Now. Those are some examples that I wanted you to see so that you could begin to see that all the way from the beginning of chapter two, we've really been dealing with what is true Christianity, not just what are the words, but what does it look like by way of the examples. Now we don't only have in Philippians good examples. Recently we've been looking at a bad example. And that bad example has started up in chapter 3. Over the last few weeks, Paul has shared examples of what Christianity does not look like. And it's such an essential part of Christianity that Paul feels like he needs to warn the entire congregation. You could really in a in a without hyperbole say, Paul felt the need to warn the entire world about a certain example of people that we would call works righteousness. this example. We used a different phrase in order to be historically accurate and we said that these were Judaizers. It's quite possible when we look at Acts chapter 15 and we look at Galatians, for example, to try to understand who are these Judaizers and what they were teaching, we'll never know that in full. But we at least see that there's the possibility that they did in fact accept Jesus as the Christ or as the Messiah But they looked at Jesus as the Christ or the Messiah, as one who was then going to reinforce and continue to establish Judaism. That Jesus Christ is leading you to be a Jew. And Paul's saying that's deadly. And so he ends up giving these names, which are a play on, I think, what the Judaizers were calling the Gentiles. They would call the Gentiles dogs. They would call the Gentiles evil workers. And they were trying to say, and you need to be circumcised, and enter into all of the Mosaic law, including the ceremonial law, under Moses. You can see all that in Acts 15. I'm not making that up. And Paul flips that on them and he says, actually, you know what? You're the bad example, not the Gentiles. Not the Gentiles that have received the Holy Spirit. who have accepted the word by the power of the Holy Spirit. In other words, the dogs are not the church at Philippi. Though it be filled with a bunch of Greeks, or who or whichever Gentile nations of which it was composed. You're the dogs. And that's another way of him saying he's not just being punchy and and r writing a kind of uh Twitter post. He's saying, you're the Gentiles. I'm going to draw a circle. And I'm going to take the church of Philippi and I'm going to put them in the circle. And the name of that circle is the People of God. And all of those outside of that circle, I'm going to call them dogs. And guess what? Even though you think by following the Mosaic law and in earning your own righteousness that you are the people of God, I'm putting you outside of the circle. You're the dogs. And then he goes on to say that they're evil workers, which is a play they're not evil workers, you'll evil evil workers, even though you keep talking about all of the good works that you do according to the Mosaic Law. And you think that you're a God's gift to this green earth in seeking to enforce mu uh circumcision in the way that you're enforcing it as a part of salvation by way of Pharisaic righteousness. But I'm telling you, you're not circumcising people in the way God intends. You're just mutilating them. To where they stand no chance of being clean. Now what might be surprising to you, I know it's not surprising to you when you look at the letter of Philippians that you have positive examples of what true Christianity would look like. And I know that if you've read the Pauline letters, that you're not exactly surprised that Paul is laying into somebody That he has given some bad examples. I think if you looked at each of his letters, he gives bad examples. He shows you this isn't it But this next example I want to show to you, I wonder if you're a bit surprised by it, even though we've gone over it a little bit And that really starts to continue in our chapter 3. We've looked at the dogs, the evil workers, and the mutilators. Now, if you keep going, there is a sense in which, it's tricky because he's using this for a rhetorical effect. But there is a sense in which the next example is Paul as a bad example. Now, if I wanted to, I could say it this way: Saul. as a bad example. Saul as a bad example, and then it's going to flip, and you're going to watch him turn into a good example. Back again. But this is beautiful because uh not only is this good this is he gives you his autobiography So he's not just interested in teaching you concepts here and for you to be convinced by way of conceptual argumentation or something like that, which has a a legitimate place within our lives. He's really dropping down out of those abstractions, and he just wants to tell you, I need to share with you, with regard to all of these examples and what true Christianity looks like. I need to share with you what I myself have discovered. Very personal, very pastoral. And so he does so by way of giving us his autobiography here in these next set of verses where he says in verse number 4 of chapter 3. Though I also might have confidence in the flesh. And when he says that, you've got to keep in mind, it's quite possible at this point, that he's the baddest example. That he, because he calls himself a Hebrew of Hebrews. If you want to be a Judaizer, if you want to be a Pharisee, there's no better way than to be a Pharisee in the way that I've been a Pharisee. And he ends up listing off a couple different uh attributes of himself as this bad example. And I won't belabor the point because I've gone over this a little bit, but he starts off in what he has inherited here Though I might have confidence in the flesh, if anyone uh else thinks he might have confidence in the flesh, I have more so. And then we move into verse number five. I was circumcised the eighth day. I was the stock of Israel. I was the tribe of Benjamin. Now that's one of the tribes, if I'm not mistaken, that did not defect from David. It ends up having a certain preeminence or luster among the other tribes. So again, he's just showing you that his life is golden here. That he is not just a Hebrew, but he is a Hebrew of the Hebrews. More pure. than all of the others that have a little dross inside of them. Whatever carrot you think you are, I'm a greater carrot. K-A-R-A-T. Don't get weird on me I was talking about gold and jewelry. Gosh, you all wander so quickly. And then he goes on to continue this example of him looking at himself and building up his sense of pride, besides his pride being built up and scaffolded by that which he inherited in terms of his bloodline, it's also that which he acquired That concerning the law, he is a Pharisee. Now, this is an elite group of folks who have dedicated themselves to the Perfect performance of the Mosaic law as they understood it, and the ceremonial law as they understood it. And when Jesus entered into these different cities and he faced Pharisees, he oftentimes had to confront them in their understanding of the law because they would twist it. In order for it to be able to be obeyed in a kind of perfection, it was largely a kind of behaviorism To where I can perform these behaviors in such a way to where I can consider myself to have earned a particular status among the nation of Israel and even before God Himself. And if I do need a little bit of cleansing, I will perfectly perform the ceremonies and the tithes with different herbs, etc. And they were given the best places to sit in the churches because of the prestige in the what in what they have worked out. But it what didn't just stop there, it kept going. Where he concerning the law he was a Pharisee, concerning zeal, persecuting the church, we'll come back to that. And then this is where some of you are are uh uh um c surprised by his boldness, but he says it at the end, something that he truly believed. That's why this is such a bad example. Concerning the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. Now what does it take to get before God? Blamelessness. And here they had constructed a system to where Paul, with a clear conscience for all of his life until a moment we're going to talk about, could say, with his head resting on his pillow at night, he could say I am blameless. Now I just want you to before we move on in the story here and we move and we flip and we're able to see a transformation that happens here. I want to ask you a question. What happens inside of a human heart if they think they're blameless based upon their own efforts? Have you ever met anybody like that? Ladies, have you ever met a girl when you were in, not just ladies in general, ladies when you were in middle school, do you ever meet a girl that thought that she was blameless? What was she like to deal with? I'm seeing some of your faces and and you haven't forgotten her and you're still trying to figure out how to enact revenge There's something that goes wrong in the human heart, and Jesus Christ wanted to confront this. Can you think of some ways in which Jesus Christ sought to confront this notion where a human being could construct a religious system even off uh uh twisting and distorting and using the puzzle pieces of his law arrange that puzzle in such a way where they could draw the conclusion that they are blameless. Can you think of some stories where Jesus confronts those kind of people? Here's one from Luke chapter 18, 9 through 12, and I'm only going to give you part of the story. Jesus says also he spoke this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and then here's the heart condition that always happens and works righteousness. And they despised others. And then here's the parable. Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and prayed just like this with himself. God, I thank you that I'm not like other men. extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I possess. Amen. There's the picture of Paul. There's the picture of Paul. That's the example that he lays before in this tricky rhetorical move that he's making in saying, hey. You really you think that you could boast and have confidence in the flesh? I was blameless. But the moment he's saying that where it sounds like he would be giving a uh an argument to be strong You'll notice that he's also giving an example of this is the worst that you could be. And it's extremely dangerous to become a Pharisee who thanks God that you're not like other people. Well, you know, we begin in chapter two and we look at these positive examples. We expect that Paul would give some bad examples. And he does, but then we are a little surprised to see that he even gives an example of his former way of life as a Pharisee in order for us to learn, well, what does this look like to really be a Christian? And that's where we have another example of Paul where the coin flips. Really, there's a transformation that happens. And transformation in the Bible is different than change. Change would be like if I w was myself but then you f filled me with air and I just I was all plastic and I kept blowing up, I would stay myself, I would just get bigger and bigger. I can't really get bigger than this, but you know what I mean. Transformation would be I become an eagle. It's a change in kind, not a change in degree And that's what we have here in this next example of this transformation in Paul. Something profound happens to Paul, and he's alluding to it in that list that we just looked at when he said Zeal, persecuting the church. Now that brings up another story, doesn't it? It gives us another example of the kind of person that he was, and it was characterized by Luke writing in Luke 2 or the book of Acts saying he still went around breathing murder That's who he was. He so despised those who were not of that Pharisaic self-righteousness, who were teaching of the Christ. That he sought to murder them. And that begins in Acts chapter 7, verses 57 through 59. You don't need to step all the way through this with me. I'm going to move through it quickly. But in Acts chapter 7, I start there Do you know why I start in Acts 7? Do you know what's in Acts 7? It's Stephen and his martyrdom. Why would I connect Paul or Saul to that? Well, it says in Acts 7, 57 through 59, then they cried out, this is the large crowd to which Stephen spoke, revealing to them that they've misunderstood All of what even Moses himself was saying. He's really preaching to Pharisees. And he says, then they cried out with a loud voice, stopped their ears, and ran at him with one accord, ran at Stephen. And they cast him out of the city and they stoned him. That means, children, if you're listening, he's dead. That means they hit him with enough things that he dies. It's not pretty. And here's the next step. And the witnesses laid down their clothes at the feet of a young man named Saul. And they stoned Stephen as he was calling on God and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. That's how vicious Saul is. While someone is on their knees crying out to God. to receive his spirit. God through Jesus Christ, Paul is condoning and underwriting and warranting them killing him. It will go on in Acts chapter 9, where Paul, after gathering up warrants for the arrests of all of those who are confessing Jesus as the Christ, He's journeying and he comes near Damascus, and suddenly a light shines from heaven. And Paul or Saul falls to the ground. ground and he hears the voice of Jesus himself saying, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And now we're on the verge of Paul moving from that example, from Pharisee, from righteous in his own efforts To good example of Christian who is righteous only in the efforts of Jesus Christ. Just like we said when we started off this sermon. It continues. Saul arises from the ground, but there's something that has happened to him. Do you remember this? He rises from the ground and he opens his eyes, but he's not able to see. He's been blinded. In Acts chapter 9, verses 3 and 4, and then Acts chapter 9, 8 through 9. And so what they need to do is they need to take Saul by the hand, and they need to lead him to the place where he's supposed to go. And for three days he's without sight, and he neither eats and he doesn't drink. Imagine the kind of place that he was in, the kind of place that his soul was in as he's going through this transformation. From one who despised others to who will consider himself the chief of sinners. He had to go down into the belly of the sea and the belly of the whale for those three days, didn't he? In order for there to be a resurrection that would take place within his own soul. And then Ananias Enters the house after a certain amount of time. He lays his hands on him as it was taught from Christ himself, and he says, Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road as you came, has sent That you may receive your sight and you would be filled with the Holy Spirit. Can't you see that in this passage, too? We're the circumcision. We have the Spirit. You see, Paul's still working with you personally. I didn't I had a spirit of despising people, but now I've got a different spirit. I once was a man and now I'm becoming an eagle Immediately, something like scales fell from his eyes. And he received his sight at once, and he arose, and he was baptized. Now that's significant. Something has changed in this man where he has gone from the place of where he was murdering Christians to where now being baptized, if you go back to Acts, you'll look, there's a series of people being baptized And now Paul, Saul, is now going to become Paul, and he's added to the number of those who are not cleansed by their own works or bloodline or inheritance. But are cleansed by Jesus Christ alone. The only reason why they have any light in their life, the only reason why they're able to truly see, is because of Jesus Christ. That's the shift. That's the great transformation in Paul. That's the result. And so he'll end up There's this example where it flips from being bad to being good, and this ends up inspiring hymns where we say, though I was blind, now I see. I used to have chains on, and now they're broken off And how many countless hymns are rotating around this notion that many people across many nations have experienced just like this? of what it actually takes to look like a true Christian, to become a true Christian. So Paul will have these results of transformative effects leading into a tree that's bearing different kinds of fruit. He's going to have an accurate view of self. In 1 Timothy 1. 15, he's going to say, you know what's a faithful saying that you could put the whole house on? You know what's worthy of everyone in the world accepting? Accepting as much as Newtonian physics and more. More reliable is this, that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners, and I'm the worst. I'm the chief of them. Now that's quite different than when that Pharisee went up And was praying next to the tax collector. There's not only an accurate view of self, there's an accurate view of works righteousness now He'll say in verse 7, going back to our passage now in Philippians after we've taken this kind of circuitous but meaningful route. We come back to verse number 7 in chapter 3, and we are prepared to understand what he's getting at as he continues now the positive example, and he says to me, what those things that were gained to me The bloodline, my knowledge of the law, my interest in the ceremonial laws and the conducting of it perfectly and blameless, whatever those things were, and they were gained to me, When I look at those things with eyes that are no longer scaled, and I compare them to who Jesus Christ is in the economy of God, they are no longer gain for me, they are loss. Now I can't get into all of the details because of the time, but there is a progression now in this passage as Paul relates to you his own experiences, and I hope it's tapping into your experience. Because he's going to say, I didn't just lose those things. They're not just lost, and they don't just pale in comparison to Jesus Christ. Everything pales in comparison to Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. And then the third one is, and I I ha I hate to do this, but it's in the Greek. He says all of those things are crap. That's a very good translation that many commentators have taken up when he's talking about this. Crap That's what that life is now, when he compares it to the surpassing greatness Of the knowledge of Jesus Christ and what the Father is accomplishing through him with regard to the law and the prophets. He has moved from an accurate view of self to an accurate view of works righteousness to an accurate view of the worth of Jesus Christ. Just like in your bulletin under the title Effectual Calling. And he did not do so through highfalutin conceptual frameworks with you this morning. He did so by sharing his example. He shared his life with you so you would know where real life resides. Paul gives his autobiography so that you may know, embrace, and experience the same truth that he learned. Is that we as Christians, we must put all of our confidence in Jesus Christ for salvation. You must put all of your confidence in Jesus Christ for salvation. Everything else is crap Now, that's a universal lesson. Let me just ask you a couple questions before we fold this up. I need you to do a little bit of self-reflection. I want you to go ahead and not literally, but we're going to get a mirror out and we're going to go ahead and have you look at yourself. That's fun, right? What makes you confident in your relationship with God? What makes you so sure that you and God are friends? What makes you so sure that you could call him father. What makes you so sure that you actually have peace with him? You know, those are important questions for you to ask because if there's any creature out there on the planet that knows how to deceive themselves, it's us. We're super good at it. Christ partly got at this by saying, you know, your father is really the devil. I remember having a falling out with a friend, and I was kind of happy go-lucky about it. And several years passed by after the falling out. In my happy-go-lucky, immature stupidity, I'm thinking time heals all wounds. I'm thinking, it's water under the bridge. I use all of these different sayings from pop psychology in order to gain some kind of confidence, you know what, we're fine. One day I had to go over to his house to pick something up, and I went in with confidence, thinking everything was fine. I noticed that they were interacting with me transactionally There is no warmth to the relationship. So, to throw a little like, let's Let's see what's actually going on. I'm gonna throw something out there and we're gonna see what's happening. A little test. I said um Man, we really had a hard time in the past. I'm really just so thankful we're past that. And the wife turned around fast and said, you aren't past anything. You never address anything with my husband. And she looked at me like I was crazy. But here I was, all confident, thinking that the relationship had been healed. And that's why I'm asking you. I'm asking, are you in a kind of similar situation where where you have a certain conception of life and of God where you have a lot of confidence that you're doing fine But then when you go and you meet him, you're gonna find out this isn't going well Now is the time to ask the question because the answers are in front of you. Clear answers from an authority from God Himself who is the Apostle Paul. Do you have confidence? And here's where you have to, this is where you have to really make sure you're not deceiving yourself. I took confidence because of Certain pop psychology notions about life and it led me into a trap. Are you thinking that you have are you taking confidence that you have peace with God based on things that aren't real? Have you put your confidence in the wrong things? That's what I'm trying to say to you. Do you have confidence in something? And when you actually meet God, you will find that you should not have had any confidence. Here are a couple things. These can be good things. This is what makes them tricky. They can be good things set in their proper context, but if they are a replacement for confidence in Christ, or in addition to confidence in Christ, then they are not good. I said a prayer during the VBS Summer Get Together. I was homeschooled. I went to classical Christian school. I took an apologetics class. I read Van Tyl. Obviously, God and I are good. I was baptized. I went on the missions trip to Guatemala. I only ate twice a day instead of three times a day in America. I waited till marriage to be intimate. I fed the poor. I tithed Now all those things can be good things. But if those are the reason, even if you've never been conscious of it before, if you're reflecting, remember the mirror. If those are the reasons why you think you have confidence to have status before God and that you're at peace with Him, then you have put your you you have built a foundation that is made of sand and it will collapse I want to continue and give you a different picture of a person who put their confidence in the right place by continuing Luke 18, 13 through 14. And the tax collector standing afar off. This is continuing on from the Pharisee. So we have the Pharisee, and then it continues and it says, and the tax collector. Now listen to this. Standing afar off, so notice the distance wouldn't dare approach God Standing afar off, he would not so much as raise his eyes to heaven But he beat his breast saying, God, please be merciful to me, a sinner. And Jesus continues with the parable and he says, I tell you, this man went down to his house justified. rather than the other. And here's the universal law that is more sure than the Copernican Revolution For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. This will be picked up in a hymn later on, and it'll be put like this. Not the labors of my hands. Can fulfill thy law's demands? Could my zeal no respite know? Could my tears forever flow? All for sin could not atone. Thou must save, and thou alone. Nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to your cross I cling. Naked come to thee for dress. Helpless look to thee for grace. Foul, I to the fountain fly. Wash me Savior or I die. There's another good example Newton dropped the apple, discovering the universal law of gravity. And we come in contact here this morning by way of the personal example of Paul. With a universal law far more sure. That true Christians put all of their confidence in Jesus Christ for salvation. Yeah, Amen. Amen. Let us pray.