To Deuteronomy. We'll be considering verses eight through ten in chapter five this morning. The second commandment. Deuteronomy five, verses eight through ten You shall not make for yourself a carved image, any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them nor serve them. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me, but showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me. And keep my commandments. Please pray with me. Lord, we have already oriented ourselves towards this command in the pastoral prayer. We ask and bring that prayer before you again. In a confused age of seeking to serve you, particularly on Lord's Day Worship services, we ask that you would teach us how you want to be served. And that you would do so through the preaching of your word this morning. In your name. Amen. Amen. There was a a woman that I met a few years ago And as an act of repentance, she took a long-owned statue of Mary. She placed the statue of Mary in a brown paper bag, the kind that's like a double-layered brown paper bag from Food Lion. She tied the top of it tight She got a sledgehammer, she raised it to the sky, and she smashed the statue, and then she buried the statue of Mary. She was not, and speaking to her, she was not trying to dishonor Mary as maid in the image of God. She was not degrading the importance of art. She was not setting a specific example for all. She didn't hand out sledgehammers and paper bags for all of her neighbors. She was engaging in a particular and personal act of repentance on her own part. Before she had heard the words of the gospel She told me that she had placed Mary in the place of God, and now she was putting Mary in a paper bag, and with a sledgehammer raising it, and saying, There shall be no gods besides Yahweh. Way. That was her personal act. I'm reporting to you, matter-of-fact, whether you like what I'm saying or not. This happened in the world. What she does here is an example of the first command. It's an example for her of the first command, and I wonder what you would need to put in a paper bag and smash in your own life if you were to be as radical with the first command as she was. The first command is that God has the priority. God deserves first place. And nothing should ever stand in his place, and she with zeal made sure she would never stand again. This morning we move on to the second command. The first command deals with who. The second command is going to deal with how. The first command tells you who is deserving of worship. The answer is Yahweh. The second command tells you how to worship God in a deserving way. The first command showed you who is the only worthy of your devotion in all of your life. The second command will tell you this morning how you are to worship God in a devoted and worthy manner. Do you see the difference that I'm saying? It's summarized in who and how. And so let's look at this second commandment, how to worship God in a worthy manner, under two main headings that we see in the passage itself We must understand the command. But after the command has given, there are motivations that he gives for his people to obey the command. And so we'll just look under two parts. Let's understand the command together, and then let's embrace these motivations together. So beginning to understand the second commandment, we'll understand You shall not make for yourself a carved image, any likeness of anything that is in heaven That is in earth, that is beneath the water, under the earth, you shall not bow down to them or to serve them. That's the command. And you would think that that's pretty straightforward enough, and that we don't need to spend any time trying to understand. it, that it's just right there on the face of things. But that's not the case. If you have read uh throughout the history of Christianity, this text is actually Severely debated. And so seeking understanding is appropriate here. There are major interpretive differences In these verses between our branch of the Reformed Church and Lutherans and the Roman Catholic religion. Major interpretive difference. I've included a chart in the bulletin for you so that you can see and you can think about this over today, the Lord's Day. ten for the Roman Catholic and Lutheran version, but just notice the differences. They combine, in summary, commandments one and two, whereas we separate them And so you can see that all of their commandments are different, and then they divide out the tenth, whereas we keep it together. You see that? And so you can see that these are major, major differences, and they lead to majorly different practices. And so you can ponder that chart, but I want to explain how that they have arrived at these differences, and it really does make a difference. Roman Catholics and Lutherans read verses 8 through 10 as a description of how to not have gods besides Yahweh. Don't make any other God. That's don't have any gods besides me is the first command. And they believe that 8 through 10 is now an explanation as to how not to do that. Don't make any other gods in the likeness of anything in heaven, the earth or the sea. In other words, if you take a look at verse 9, let me read it to you. You shall not bow down to them. Now I want to remind you of your English classes. Do you know that when you have a personal pro pronoun like that, that it needs to have an antecedent? Remember this? There's an antecedent to them. What is it? Well, Lutherans and Roman Catholics would say, no other gods, verse 7. And we're saying something different, that it's verse 8, carved image. And so Roman Catholics and Lutherans divide out the commandments differently. They join verse 7 6 all the way to 10 as both a statement of the command and an explanation of it. But we read it differently than that Of course, we arrive sort of at the same place because we also believe that you should have no other gods before you It doesn't give you us permission for any kind of idol at this point, but what we're saying is that that's covered in the first commandment. You should not have any other gods besides Yahweh Okay, and now we're moving on to the second commandment, and it's not dealing with that. It's dealing with how Yahweh wants to be worshipped. That's not the intent of the second commandment The second commandment is not primarily concerned with making and serving other gods. It is concerned with how to worship the one true God. And so, how are we supposed to do that? It is stated negatively: you shall not make Yahweh into an image for worship That's the point. He does not want to be served by you representing him in any kind of image, whether it's here on earth, or an image from heaven, or an image from the sea He does not want to be represented in any man-made invented images whatsoever. He's trying to be very clear. And if this is a Bill of Rights, he has the right to be represented, how he wants to be represented That's his point. Now I want to establish this for you from the scriptures. I don't want you to just take me at my word. I want you to take God at his word. And so by just considering the context, you can see that the right-hand column in your bulletin is really the way that the commandment should be divided. That Yahweh did not want to be worshipped by any man-made images is established in Exodus chapter 32, verses 1 through 6. They made a golden calf, if you remember, while Moses was on the mountain, and they did so, verse 5, as a feast to Yahweh. And then they commanded, looking and pointing, you see Aaron pointing at the golden calf and saying, This is your God who brought you out of Egypt. It's obviously supposed to be a representation for Yahweh at that point. God overhears the conversation that's going on down the bottom of the mountain, and he sends Moses down, saying, they have already broken the command. You see? The point is that the command was that Yahweh wouldn't be represented in man-made images. This is brought out again later in 1 Kings 12, 25 through 33. Jeroboam, likewise as those who were in the wilderness in Exodus, made a golden calf to represent Yahweh, to have local worship, to not have to do a pilgrimage, and this was in fact highly condemned throughout all of Scripture. If we're to just look at our immediate context, which you can do with me in Deuteronomy chapter 4, verses 15 through 19, take a look with me. The words of the second commandment are repeated verbatim here in chapter 4. And look at the context in which they are placed. Take careful heed to yourselves, for you saw no form when the Lord spoke to you at Horeb out of the midst of the fire. Lest you act corruptly and make for yourselves a carved image in the form of any figure, and then it goes on to repeat the same words. Whose form is he concerned about them making in this context? It is his, and his point is: I didn't show you a form, therefore no form should be made, and I did that on purpose, because I do not wish to be represented in man-made forms of any kind That's the second command. It's established just one chapter earlier, and it's being reasserted here in the ten words. Are we supposed to worship other gods? No, of course not. But that is covered in the first commandment: you shall have no other gods beside. The second commandment is focused on how to worship Yahweh Himself. It should not be through art of anything in heaven, on the earth, or the sea. Is that clear? Is that do we understand the command? We got that? That was a mouthful. I said that all in one single breath. Wasn't that amazing? God does not want any artwork representing him for worship. And now why? Why do you think that would be? Can you think of any reasons in the scriptures why that would be? There are, I'm sure, plenty of reasons, and I'm not going to go through all of them. I have found one reason that is most common that he gives And it is stated in Psalm 106, 19 through 22, and this is the main reason that I find that he does not want to be represented by us. They made a calf in Horeb, the Psalmist says, and worshipped the molded image. Thus they changed their glory into the image of an ox that eats grass. They forgot God their Savior. Who had done great things in Egypt, wondrous works in the land of Ham, awesome things by the Red Sea Do you see what he's saying there? Why he doesn't want you to represent him as images? God's people, in whatever image they would choose, by choosing an image. Would degrade the exact nature of God and who he actually is. And he points that out: that you're going to represent me by an ass, an ox, or a cow? I don't think so. And now when you begin to look at anything that could be on the earth, whether it's in the form of male or female, or anything in the heavens, or anything that is under the sea. Any representation that is man-made would be a degradation of the nature of God Himself and somehow would take away from His glory. And that's the whole point. The whole point of Exodus and Deuteronomy so far, repeated over and over again, is that they would recognize that God is incomparably excellent above all other gods and all other creatures. And that in some way would be slighted if they started to represent him by the creation. People, God's people, degraded God by choosing to represent God in the image of an ox. that eats grass. And that is the problem. And it's the reason why God asserts his right to proper representation in the Second Commandment. Any man-made representation of God by anything on earth, in the sky or the sea, degrades the incomparable glory of God. You know, we hear these complaints about proper representation, not only from God, but we hear about this from human beings also. Have you ever heard anybody complain about a photo that you took of them? When you captured them on Snapchat without permission and sent it out to all your friends, it's kind of something similar, catching you in all your glory, so to speak. There's a famous example of this kind of attitude. In 1954, the English artist Graham Sutherland was commissioned to paint a full-length portrait of Sir Winston Churchill The painting was presented to Churchill by both Houses of Parliament, and they funded the painting. At a public ceremony in Westminster Hall on his eightieth birthday on the thirtieth of November 1954, when Churchill saw the portrait, these were the words that came to mind and that left his lips. It is filthy, it is malignant, and you make me look like a drunk from downtown. After the public presentation, the painting was taken to his country home at Chartwell, but it was not put on display. If you watch the Netflix version of it, he goes out and starts a nice campfire and chucks the painting in. there. We don't know what has actually happened to the painting. It's nowhere to be found. From the artist's perspective He thought he was giving a good representation of Churchill. And maybe he was. Maybe Churchill was a drunk at that time. I don't know We can allow some kind of debate when it comes to the creature. But when we are talking about God Himself, there is no debate. That any man-made attempt at representations of him will always degrade and misrepresent his glory, and therefore we shall not do it as the second commandment says. That's the point. That's the understanding of the command. But I want to state this positively. It is put in the negative and it begs for an invitation of a positive statement. Here it is positively saying the same thing God reveals himself and his will to you by his words, and he wants you to respond with worship by faith to his word. He wants you to worship by his word. And this is a very important principle for you. God reveals to you in his word how he wants you to worship him. And it is only by that revelation that we would construct any kind of service or worship service. We are not to invent by any human creativity how to worship him. If you ever move in the military, this is an excellent principle for you to establish as you seek to choose a new church for you and your family. We are not to invent by any human creativity how to worship him. In the Old Testament, you can read the book of Leviticus, and there are details upon details on how he expected his people to worship him. But those principles have fallen with the fulfillment of that sacrificial system through Jesus Christ. Since the advent of Jesus Christ, the tabernacle or the temple system is over. God decentralized the worship from the Jerusalem temple and he has simplified it. He has done this because his word has gone out to every tongue and tribe and nation, and we can't build a temple in all of those places. It is no longer characterized by elaborate instructions, but simple ways that any culture can do. We could have a worship service this morning in this building If this building burnt down, I'm going to take you to the backfield or the pavilion. If the pavilion burns down, we can just go to the backfield. We can worship God and the simplicity of his worship in any any place in how he has revealed to us. In the wilderness of Africa, outside of a hut, under the shade of a tree, because worship has been made so simple to be in any culture We can all publicly and privately pray with thanksgiving in the name of Jesus Christ. We can read and preach and wholeheartedly hear God's word, 2 Timothy and James 1. We can let the Word of Christ dwell in us richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in our hearts to the Lord, Colossians 3. 16. We partake of the sacraments of baptism and the Lord's Supper in the exact way in which Jesus Christ instituted them. 1 Corinthians 11 and Matthew 28. The simplicity of New Testament worship, handed down by Christ, promised to the Samaritan woman that he would teach his church How to worship in spirit and in truth. Spirit, because God is spiritual, should not be represented by an image. You should only be represented how he wants to be represented. And he says, here, not at all, not by man-made inventions. Now, much more could be said on this. But this is the basic understanding of the second commandment. Now, hearing that commandment is one thing. If you were to read through the history of Israel, you will find doing this command is a whole other thing, which is why he supplies in the rest of this command, in his grace, he gives them motivations. And these are the same motivations that we need to embrace. And so let's now consider the second command and the motivations that are present You can see this beginning right at uh the end of verse 9. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me. But showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me and keep my commandments. The first motivation is a warning Did you notice that? Did you feel the weight of the warning? That if you choose to disobey, or if they chose to disobey the command, that it would be effect not on them, but just but on their children and their grandchildren and their great grandchildren. God reminds his people in this of the first command in this warning. The very first thing that he does, did you notice that he states his name again? He says, I am the Lord Yahweh, your God. It is a designation again of his rights. What should happen is the remembrance of the earlier speeches of Moses. The name Yahweh of that's the name of the covenant should have reminded them that he and he alone is their God and and they are his people and they owe him allegiance. All the stories of incomparable excellency Should rush back into their minds. I'm God who created man on earth. Don't you remember that? I'm the potter, and I formed the clay. I am God who delivered you from Egypt with great signs and wonders. Do you remember seeing the hail stone from the sky? Do you remember seeing the waves split? That was me. That was my power. I am God who conquered other nations through you. Do you remember the giants with the 13-foot bed? It was me that allowed you to turn their sword on themselves. I am God who spoke from the fire. Remember who I am. If you think of the Ten Commandments as the Bill of Rights, as I said before, then God is essentially saying, because of who I am. I have the right to be worshipped how I choose. That's all stated there within the name. And the warning continues as he reminds his people not only that he is the covenant God that has done all of those things, but that he is the God that speaks. From the fires of his jealousy. It's not a sinful jealousy, if you remember. This is God's determination for faithfulness to his people and faithfulness in return. It is the right that a husband and a wife would have for mutual faithfulness. That's always the context of jealousy that we see here within this passage and other passages. The context of God's jealousy is covenant faithfulness, which is likened to marital faithfulness. Consider this from Proverbs 6, verses 34 through 35. For jealousy is a husband's fury. Therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. He will accept no recompense, nor will he be appeased, though you give many gifts It's the same kind of jealousy here. He is jealous for his love of his bride. And the bride is to be jealous for the love of the husband, and the bride is not to cheat on the husband. According to verse 9, even if God is jealous for you, you can in fact hate him, however. And yet know this. Those who refused to glorify God at that time, they were in fact punished. That's the warning. The second motivation is a promise. To the third and fourth generation of those who hate me. That's the warning. And now verse 10 is a promise. But showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me and keep my commandments. Those who love God by keeping his commandments will receive mercy. You know, there's no better picture than this. It actually summarizes both the warning and the promise at the end of Psalm 2. It summarizes the motivation perfectly, although it's implicit. This is what it says in Psalm 2. Now, therefore, be wise, O kings. Be instructed, you judges of the earth. Serve, same word that we see within our passage here of the commandment, serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling. Now here's a picture. Kiss the sun, pay homage, drop to your knees, relent, give your commitment in allegiance to him. Kiss the sun, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way. When his wrath is kindled but a little. And here's the promise. Blessed are all those who put their trust in him. It's the same thing. Even the most evil men. Even those who are in charge of all of the evil of the land, the leaders of evil, are given the opportunity to bow to God alone and to serve Him with fear. And it's represented here in Psalm 2 by the bowing before the Son, Jesus Christ, whom the Father has appointed. But if you don't bow, the warning is that you shall perish in punishment. But blessed are all those who trust in him. Those are the two motivations, and I bet you they were especially motivating for those on the brink of entering into the land of Canaan. That's the second commandment. Those are the two parts of it. The first command told us who to worship The second command tells us how to worship Yahweh, how to worship Him in a worthy manner. We should not degrade His glory by representing Him with man-made images of anything on earth Anything in the heaven or anything in the sea. Really, we don't need to invent how to worship God. What it's saying positively is we just have to do what he says. Whatever instructions he's given to us, as his people, that's what we do, and there are plenty. Will you take this seriously? God provides two motivations to help you, a warning and a promise. And I summarize the motivations. I said it much more quickly in proportion to the very first point. It maybe is half as long. But they end up raising a lot of questions if you look back at the warning and the promise, don't they? Especially the punishment part? Are you really telling me that if I disobey even at one point, even for a moment, the second commandment, then there will be punishment for me, my children, my grandchildren, and my great-grandchildren? Is that really what this is saying? Will God really punish me in that way? Will He really bless just because I've kept the command? Will He really bless thousands? In order to be able to answer that, you have to take this command. If you want to expand on the summary that I've already given, you have to realize that this command was set in a very specific context. That I can't answer all of those questions. There is not an algorithm or an algebraic formula to apply to be able to figure out those questions, but this I can say Historically, if you were to look back at the people of God after many, many, many violations of the second command, with many, many warnings God did in fact punish Israel and her children by sending them for generations into exile. It in fact happened. As a matter of fact, I'm not applying it to you yet. I'm just telling you that in history it in fact happened. Historically speaking, God's people never remained faithful to it. You'll see as you get into Joshua, it only takes a few chapters to find them setting the command aside. And forming Yahweh and a representation that's man-made. Through the ages, if you were to move outside of the people of God, Israel. If you were to move to all of the Gentiles that surrounded them, it seems like from the beginning they were at least violating the first command and deserved a like kind of punishment. The story of mankind is that we have all chosen to hate God. That's the story. If you wanted to summarize the whole thing You can see why Romans chapter 5, verses 8 and 9 becomes so important when we consider a context like this. When we consider the punishments that should be present for the human race, and when we consider the promise that could be present, The mercy that could be present. Romans 5, 8 through 9 brings it all together under the title Good News or Gospel. This is what it says. Think about the hatred of man towards God just in the violation of the first two commandments, and then hear this. God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were still sinners. Christ died for us. Much more than, having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. You see, he's actually, I believe Paul has this section of Deuteronomy on his mind. He's thinking of all of the failures of the commandments of the people of this covenant. And how it will it be that God can offer mercy to anyone, whether Jew or Gentile? That's the context. And when you get into chapter 9 and 10 and 11 of Romans, that's what Paul is dealing with. How shall he offer mercy, and when shall he offer mercy? To Jew and Gentile. And why has he offered mercy to some and not to others? What are his plans? It's true for the Jew by birth if you read the first part of Romans. God atoned for their breaking of the second command. All have fallen short. This is true for the Gentile, it says in the first chapters of Roman. God atoned for their breaking of the first command, at least It says this both Jew and Gentile have sinned and deserve punishment, them and their children, and their grandchildren and their great grandchildren, and every generation that would proceed from that But through Jesus Christ, God the Father has broken in, and he's interrupting the perpetuation of sin amongst generations. And he is redeeming both Jew and Gentile to be reconciled to God. That is the gospel. And it stands in relationship to this law here within Deuteronomy. For there is no difference, brothers and sisters. All have fallen short of the glory of God, and you are only justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God set forth as a propitiation by his blood through faith to demonstrate his righteousness. Because in his forbearance, God had passed over the sins, the violation of the first commandment and the second commandment, and all of the other commandments that were previously committed. to demonstrate at the present time his righteousness that he may be just and the justifier of one who has faith in Jesus That is the heart of the letter of Roman, is the heart of the plan of God, of what he is seeking to accomplish. And that is our motivation. It's redoubled. Punishment still stands for those who reject Christ, but can't you see that mercy has triumphed over judgment through Jesus Christ? God has found a way. To be both merciful and just. And therefore know this day. And seven run, consider it in your heart That the Lord Himself is God in heaven above and on the earth beneath. There's no other And therefore, we here at Severn Run must be careful. We will not worship Yahweh by images. Not even images of Jesus It is true that one day we will behold Jesus Christ face to face And you have permission, when you see him right in front of you, to drop to your knees and to worship the express image of God. But until that time, you were only to behold Christ and his glory by faith and through the power of the Holy Spirit through his word. Let us by faith behold our God in His Word, and let us by His Word worship Him rightly. Amen. Amen. Please join me in a time of prayer. Father, you do have the right to representation, and we will violate it. But you have provided mercy for us, not as an excuse to continue in sin. May that never be the case. May such childish thoughts not cross our mind. But Lord, you have provided mercy. You have figured out a way for mercy to triumph over judgment, to be both the just and the justifier through Jesus. Jesus Christ. And we pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would purify our hearts, that you would bring us into the simplicity of your worship And that we would behold you and embrace you by faith as you present yourself to us and the Father and the Spirit by your word. We pray, Lord, that this commandment would lead us into worshiping you rightly and that it would lead us into taking your word more seriously than we ever have, especially as we prepare for your worship. We ask these things in your name. Amen.