Matthew seven, twenty-one through twenty-nine. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father in heaven Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name, cast out demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them I liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, and it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock But everyone who hears these sayings of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rend the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, and it fell And great was its fall. And so it was when Jesus had ended these sayings that the people were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would bless the preaching of this word, that you through it would teach your congregation, that you would give them ears to hear and hearts to grow in their allegiance to you. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. You may be seated We're coming to the time in our year where a number of us will start to travel more often just because the school year is about to end or has already ended. In other words, we're gonna head out on some road trips Uh whether it's related to school or not, it's just becoming summertime and we tend to take more road trips during the summertime. And I wonder if you've ever noted uh when you're taking your road trip of some of the signs that you would see giving you warnings along your way. You can't really if once you start to notice you can't go very far without being warned about something. You can be warned that there is no outlet. That's a pretty minor warning. You can be warned that this is a dead end. That could save you some time. There are um some uh stranger ones that I have seen. Uh if you go to Florida, you can be warned to not hit people on golf carts There's golf cart warnings. If you go to Florida, you can also see that you should be warned to watch out for alligators. There are alligator signs If you are in Texas, there is a sign that I have seen and it says hitchhikers may be escaping inmates. So we we have to we have to watch out for that too. Watch out who you pick up Dead ends. Road may flood. And I don't know if this is true or not, but someone had told me that in Seattle, Washington, there's a sign for beware of invisible and falling cows. I don't know what's going on there, but I do think that they have a lot of drugs in that state. So maybe that was a trip. I don't know Then there are there are funny ones like that, there are mild warnings, but then there are really serious warnings, and whether it's the mild or it's the funny They come usually from my experience, they come from experience. So there are accumulated experiences that say we need to put this up. So for example, growing up on the eastern shore, after a number of deer were hit at a particular place, guess what kind of warning went up? Beware of the deer. Something along those lines And that has deer in mind and the kind of damage that it can do your to your car and to yourself. But sometimes it gets really serious. There's a stretch of road on Kent Island called Route 8. and right at a particular point of Route 8, it before it was redone, it was pretty sharp in its turn. And you and if you got it wrong just a little bit, you could easily drift drift over into the left and be hit by oncoming traffic. And I actually actually lost a friend in high school at that qu at that little turn right there. And after that accident they did put up a sign that told them to be very careful about the turn that's upcoming and then even that didn't work, so they redid the entire road. But you can see just by going on road trips the kind of warning signs that you'll continually run into And a actually when you start to think about it, though one of the some of the examples I gave you, like invisible cows, is kind of silly, most of the time it's for s it's for good reason, it's for our welfare, it's so that we can be safe. Well, we're seeing the same thing here within the Sermon on the Mount at the very tail end of the sermon. You have you're under the instruction of Jesus Christ, and Jesus is choosing to end his sermon here with warnings one morning after another. So if you were to take the time to just look down at the overarching section here before we get into our particular passage this morning, you'll remember that he warns you that Entering into the kingdom of God is not like entering into a wide gate with a broad way. It is rather like entering into a narrow gate with a narrow way. And there are different implications that we can take from that. If you just drift, allowing the current to take you wherever it will, one writer writes, then you're going to miss the path. This gate leads to life. You've got to take it seriously. All the other gates lead to destruction. It means that our choices really matter. Our actions really matter. Our motives really matter. Learning to follow Jesus and to know God as Father really, really matters, and we have to be intentional about it. Those are some of the implications of the warning of the narrow path and the narrow gate. He also has warned us that, hey, listen, just when you think this is tough enough, there are also people out there that want to deceive you. And they are called false prophets. That's at least one name that he gives them. There are other names. In ancient Israel, false prophets were people who claimed to be speaking the word of Yahweh, but they actually were not. And there were different tests to be able to show that they were not. If people listened to them and they ended up going the wrong way Disaster surely would follow. I gave you an example from 70 AD last week of how disaster did follow for 6,000 people. But the trouble with false prophets, as one person writes, is of course that they seem very nice They seem very reasonable. They seem very trustworthy. And if you were a wolf, then you also would dress yourself up like that so you could get a tasty snack. And that's the point that Jesus makes. In the Old Testament, the test for a true or false prophet was, well, let's wait and see. If the prophet tells you that something is going to happen, you will discover whether they are truthful by seeing whether it does Jesus ends up giving a more graphic picture here and another method of detection, and that is we judge the tree by its fruits. We judge the tree by its fruits. Can you see healthy, tasty fruit on this tree? Can you see other people being genuinely nourished by this tree? Or is it in fact producing a crop of lies, immorality, and greed? Those are the kind of warnings that he gives us. Those are two warnings that he gives us. And here this morning, we're ending our series on the Sermon on the Mount with the final two warnings. that Jesus gives us here in the passage. And I want to cover this under two main areas, which is has to do with his will. And his words. His will and his words. Two final warnings from our loving Savior. His will and his words. Let's begin by taking a look at the passage here to start talking about underneath it, or start talking under the category of his will. We'll start in verse number 21, where we began our reading. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. Now here he ends up giving an example of what he means by not everyone who says Lord Lord. He says in verse number twenty-two, Many will in fact say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name? cast out demons in your name, and done many wonders in your name. And then Jesus goes on to say what he's going to say to that group of people who are saying that to him. And then I will declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. So the first thing that I want to point out to you is apparently, apparent spiritual power isn't enough. to be included within the family of God. Apparently, just the fruit of spiritual or apparent spiritual power is not enough for you to be included in the kingdom of heaven. What he ends up teaching here is that what counts, what counts is not apparent spiritual power But something deeper and more personal. And that is, as I just read to you, allegiance to the Father's will. It's just right there on the face of it. I don't need to spend much time proving that to you. But I would like to give you some examples of where this is the case. We can look throughout the scriptures and we can see that there are a group of people who demonstrate apparent spiritual power But they're not the kind of people that you would want to follow, and they are the kind of people that Jesus knows don't really belong to him. So I'm going to give you a couple of examples of that, and I'm hoping it'll help you maybe square away this passage, maybe for the first time in your life. You have a an example of this apparent spiritual power where they prophesy in his name, they cast out demons in his name, and they do many wonders in his name. But, as it will say a little bit later in the passage, they're actually committed to lawlessness. So they're not following the Father's will. They're just demonstrating an apparent spiritual power. And we see whether it is in sacred history or in or in history outside of the scriptures. Remember, scripture is also history. It's history outside of the scriptures, we see accounts of people that said they did many mighty powers, but they're not the kind of people who are actually God's people, and you would never want to follow them. So for example, Josephus, once again He comments and he says this, he says that there were there was a certain charlatan whose name was Thaedus. He persuaded a great part of the people to take their belongings with them and to follow him to the Jordan River. And he had claimed that he was a prophet. So here's another prophetic movement that was cropping up during the time of Jesus. There were actually many prophetic movements during the time of Jesus. And his name was Thaedis. He told everybody to come down to the Jordan. And what he was going to do is that he was going to make a command to the Jordan River, and the Jordan River was going to split He was going to divide the Jordan River so that they could walk safely through it. And this was going to be a kind of legitimization of him that he had been given authority by God to be a kind of new Moses so that people would follow him and listen to his instruction and become his disciples Now, I, you know, I can't prove the hypothesis beyond a doubt because this is just coming from Josephus, but it wouldn't surprise me If Jesus had this kind of movement on his mind and he's saying, just because this guy over here says he can split the Jordan River, and even if he figured out a way to like I don't know, gather up a bunch of beavers and make dams so that he can really do that and make it look like it was magical or powerful, even if that's the case. He's not one of mine And he's not somebody you should follow. And in fact, if I ever met the guy, I'd say, you keep claiming to know me, but I don't know you That's the kind of thing I think Jesus has in mind here with regard to history. Another prophetic movement, I don't know the person's name, but he was known as the Egyptian prophet. And he led many people, actually. I believe it turned into the thousands, turned into the thousands of people. He led them to the Mount of Olives Isn't that interesting? He led them to the Mount of Olives overlooking Jerusalem, and there he announced that is at his command the walls of Jerusalem would collapse. and allow his followers to enter the city to take it over as a new act of divine deliverance. Now what story is he appealing to there? He's appealing to the story of Joshua, where they march around the city and there's the conquest of Jericho when Joshua's sixth. where the wall f walls fell at God's command. And this prophetic movement, led up led by this Egyptian prophet, is trying to cr uh grab a bunch of authority for himself. And I imagine that Jesus has that kind of thing in mind too, saying just because these guys are saying these kinds of things, and even if they're able to do certain things, it doesn't mean that they're my followers, and it doesn't mean you should follow them. It's a great warning actually for the people of his time. Now those are the kinds of things that you could find within the history books like Josephus. You could go read it for yourself. I'm not making that up. I didn't look it up on AI. It's right there in Josephus. But there are also some of the same kind of accounts that we find within the scriptures themselves. If you wanted to mark this down or if you want to follow along with my reading right now, you're welcome to. But here's another example from Acts 19, 11 through 17. of a kind of prophetic movement where they didn't really know Jesus. And Jesus didn't really know them in the way that he's using the word know here. Acts 19, 11 through 17, he says, Now God worked unusual miracles by the hands of Paul, so that even handkerchiefs or aprons were brought back. from his body to the sick, and the diseases left them, and the evil spirits went out of them. Then some of the itinerant Jewish exorcists Took it upon themselves to call the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, We exercise you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches. I can't think of a more specific application of what Jesus is talking about, really. I mean it's like all of it's just showing up right here in this story. Well, listen to the rest of it. He says, we exercise you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches. Also, there were seven sons of Siva, a Jewish chief priest, who did so. And the evil spirit answered and said, Jesus I know, and Paul I know, but who are you? And that follows our passage too. Jesus says, I never know you and this this demon here is saying, I don't know you either. Who are you? Then the man in whom the evil spirit was leaped on them, overpowered them, and prevailed against them, so that they fled out of the house Not just fled out of the house, they fled out of the house naked and wounded. This became known both to all Jews and Greeks dwelling in Ephesus, and fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified. And that really straightened things out as to who should we follow and who's really belonging to the, who's authorized, who's legitimized. All of that is being straightened out, especially during that time. And boy does that story help us. It's got to be one of the reasons why the Spirit included that in Acts 19, 11 through 17. So you see the kind of thing that Jesus is referring to. Here's one more, and then I know you've had enough. Acts 8, 14 through 23. Acts 8, 14 through 23. Now when the apostles who were, and this is the story of Simon the magician. Now when the apostles who were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent Peter and John to them, who When they had come down, prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit. For as yet he had fallen upon none of them. They had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Then they laid hands on them and they received the Holy Spirit. And when Simon saw that through the laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Spirit was given, he offered them money. saying, give me this power also, that anyone on whom I lay hands may receive the Holy Spirit. But Peter said to him, Your money perish with you because you thought that the gift of God could be purchased with money. I'll continue in just a second, but basically this story is saying that there are He wanted to be the kind of person who had a kind of apparent spiritual power. But you can already tell by the apostles' response that even if he was given that apparent spiritual power If you read this account, he actually was known for having a kind of power about him. That even if he did have that power, it is not proof that the Lord knows him or that he knows the Lord. In fact, the apostle points out that if you know anything, it's corruption. Listen to the rest of the story. He says But Peter said to him, Your money perish with you because you thought that the gifts of God could be purchased with money. You have neither part nor portion in this matter, for your heart is not right in the sight of God He's trying to figure out ways to where he can benefit from the the giving of the Holy Spirit in order to make more money. This is a business proposition for him. You know, there can't be something more perverse You have neither part nor portion in this matter, your heart is not right before God. Repent therefore of your wickedness and pray God if perhaps the thought of your heart may be forgiven you. For I see that you are poisoned by bitterness and you are bound by iniquity. So he was already performing these kinds of He had an apparent spiritual power. He wanted more apparent spiritual power. And even if he were given it, you see what the conclusion is about him. Don't follow him, and he's not a follower. Now maybe he will repent of that, and you could keep reading the story to find that thing out. Though they had all of these different examples, whether it's in Josephus or other stories or within the scriptures. Though they had some kind of power, they were lawless, as you can see with Simon. Jesus warns that the lawless are not his. It's actually been a main theme through the entire Sermon on the Mount. And then I will declare to you, those of you who are like this Though then I will declare to you, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. You see what he's doing there? He's not m trying to make you, as an established Christian, constantly doubt your faith Is he really going to say this to me at the end? If we were to have just a couple minutes conversation as a Christian who's been around for a little bit, we could keep talking about this context and see Jesus doesn't really have you in mind at all. He's talking about a certain group of people who claim to be his because they have an apparent spiritual power, but that's not enough. That's not what he's after. What he's after are those who are loyal to him and his father And because you have been given the power of the Holy Spirit, and your heart has, it used to be made of stone, but now it's made of flesh. And though you have a long way to go, and we all need to grow up Nevertheless, there is fruit from us, and we are not described by Jesus as the lawless ones. We are a group of people that need to remain humble and constantly confess our sins, but Jesus Christ is accomplishing good things through us. And so I hope that's helpful for you as you begin to see this very first warning and to take seriously, it is those who father his those who follow his father's will. Keep that in mind too in terms of who are the kind of people that I want to look up to. Do I want to look up to people with an apparent spiritual power and great personality, but who are really lawless? Do I want to look at those people who in humility are dedicated to our Father's will? And you know the answer on that. So that's the first part of this passage, and that is his will. We now have a second part that I want us to consider with a follow-up warning, which is his words. So it's not only his will that is a warning for us here, but his words. He says, uh um whoever hears the words of Jesus and duh does them are his true disciples. It's almost a it's a little bit of a repetition of what we've already heard because he's saying whatever Whoever does these words, not just hears them. We've just said that, those who are committed to the Father's will. But he now also says, whoever hears the words of Jesus and does them. are his true disciples. You can see this in verse number thirty-four, for example, or uh twenty-four. Take a look with me. Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken him, and then there is the parable. And we'll talk about the parable in just a little bit. But you can see that his focus here, you you really at this point, if you wanted to, you could go ahead and you could ask the question. You can say, okay, well what do you when you s okay I I get it. I need to make sure that I'm not giving myself over to people who have a cult of personality and a parent displays of spiritual power. Check. I, there's something more personal in terms of relating to Jesus Christ and being a part of his people, and it has to do with me being allied or in allegiance to his father's will. Check. Okay, now what would it look like to for me to begin to be allied to the Father's will? And now we have with this with this passage Jesus essentially answers and he says in verse number 24, therefore Whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, whoever listens to me and does them. Those are the ones we're after. Those are the ones who really have a kind of badge that they have received the Holy Spirit because they don't just have faith, they have faith that works. And James talks about that That faith that is not working is a dead faith. But the faith that is alive is a faith that erupts in faithfulness. There's some teaching behind that that goes behind these words of Jesus. Whoever hears these sayings of his and does them, those are the ones that are his true disciples. Now Did you notice in this passage that one of the reasons, it's starting to be alluded to here and it will be picked up more in Matthew a little bit later, but one of the reasons why people would want to give themselves over to the sayings of Jesus in particular and not any of the other prophetic movements that had been cropping up during that time is because it's Jesus, is Jesus is the one to whom has been given authority. By God the Father. Just take a look at the illusion here. The conversation begins in verse number 28 and 29. The Holy Spirit is giving us just a little tiny snapshot. And a little foretaste of the larger discussion when he says, and so it was when Jesus had ended these sayings that the people were astonished at his teaching. For he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. So there's a little foretaste In the declaration, by the end of this, now by the end of this gospel, do you know what the declaration is All authority in heaven and earth has been given to me. That's the Great Commission in Matthew chapter 28. So that it's going to build, but you already see the foretaste here. where this kind of authority has been given to Jesus to where you would hear his words and his sayings and you would do them. And that is the mark of his true disciples. You can see throughout the scriptures, let me give you a couple different examples of the authorization of Jesus as capital T-H-E teacher. as capital messenger of God. You'll see this first. I give you an example from Matthew chapter 17 verses 4 through 5. where Jesus is authorized by God Himself and legitimated by God the Father Himself at the Mount of Transfiguration. It says, Then Peter answered and said to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you wish, let us make three tabernacles: one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and suddenly a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear him. Now that's interesting because if you were to count, you have the three tabernacles and you have three spokesmen three spokesmen for God, the major spokesmans for God, you have Elijah, you have Moses. And then God shows up to make sure there is God the Father shows up to make sure there is no confusion whatsoever who has the authoritative word, and he says, This is my beloved son, pointing to Jesus or by way of words, declaring that Jesus is his beloved son and then hear him. Now that's an ultimate authorization So it wouldn't surprise us if this mount of transfiguration and that occurrence stuck around for Christians to be able to continually rehearse that That Jesus is the authorized one. And that is actually what we find. If you were to go to 2 Peter, Peter reflects on this time that he had. Peter reflects on the time that he heard the Father speak of the authorization of Jesus at Jesus' baptism. And Peter reflects on the authorization of Jesus from the Father here on the Mount of Transfiguration. And you can find this in 2 Peter 1. 16 through 21. We got a lot of scripture flying around here this morning. I'm just realizing this is good stuff. He says in 2 Peter 1, 16 through 21, for we did not follow cunningly devised fables. When we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But we're eyewitnesses of His majesty. For he received from God the Father honor and glory when such a voice came to him from the excellent glory. This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And we heard this voice which came from heaven when we were with him on the holy mountain. And so we have the prophetic word confirmed, which you do well to heed as a light that shines in a dark place. until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your heart, knowing this first, that no prophecy of Scripture is of any private interpretation. For prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. Just as there was a kind of an analogy and authorization of Moses and Elijah. So too there is the ultimate authorization here. He says, from the excellent glory came from him who is the excellent glory. The ultimate authorization and receiving of honor and glory, it goes to Jesus Christ. He's the one with the authority. He's the one that if he says something, you do something. If he says something, you listen. If he says something, you hear him. And that's what's being brought out here at the end. in one of his final warnings. Now the way that he primarily brings this out, of course, is not just a discussion of his authority. We were networking in a number of other we were kind of hyperlinking over into different passages of or different passages of scripture. The way that he develops this in 24 through 27 is he gives a parable. In 24 it begins, he says, Therefore whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain descended ascended, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house, and it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock But everyone who hears these sayings of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house, and it fell. And great was its fall. Now I think there's a kind of immediacy in getting what he's talking about. We don't need to do much work to get the point there. and which choice or which path you would want to go down. But sometimes we can forget some of the historical overtones that he that might be going on here. I don't know if you're aware of this, but among scholars there is a hypothesis that Jesus is referring to a actual historical happening here. Let me just tune you into this, and then we'll take the general point from it We can often miss, one writer states, what his first hearers would probably have heard behind the dramatic picture language. Not far away from where he sat on that hillside, just a hundred miles or so away in Jerusalem, Herod's men were continuing to rebuild the temple. They spoke of it as God's house. and declare that it was built upon the rock, proof against wind and weather. Jesus warns that the temple itself will come crashing down. Because Israel as a whole has failed to respond to his message. You can think of the moment in Matthew when he comes down and he says, I long to gather you under my wings. But you have refused. And then he speaks about this kind of destruction. Jesus warns that the temple itself will come crashing down because Israel as a whole had failed to respond to his message. Halfway through the gospel, in another dramatic moment, he promises that Peter's confession of faith will form the rock on which something very different will be built. The community that believes in him, Jesus as the Messiah. Now you can take that and you can see perhaps what they would have heard standing right there with 100 miles away, knowing that there is this temple and the way that it's talked about. and the kind of work that Jesus is doing in taking that temple and he in fulfilling it in this worldwide multi-ethnic temple of God with Jesus Christ as the cornerstone and the apostle and prop and prophets as the foundation, you could see how they would start to make all of those different connections. But if you're not ready to accept that historical connection, then at the very least, and in general, you could say that this message is for all of us. And it's for all of us because he's teaching us that if we build our lives on Jesus' teaching and way, inspired by the Holy Spirit in our own cleansed hearts, We will be a part of the house that lasts forever. We will be a part of the house that lasts forever. That is Jesus' warning here, and this is his teaching. This is his will, and these are his words. I'll remind you that as we began this series, we did so that so that we could discover what it meant to be a disciple of Christ and to disciple. So I'd like to read to you again Matthew 28, 18 through 20, and I'd like you to hear that it says pretty much the same thing that we have looked at this morning. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you And lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Amen. The Sermon on the Mount is about Jesus as the center It is Jesus as the cornerstone. It is Jesus as the foundation. It is Jesus as the Messiah. It is Jesus with all authority. And we are his disciples. We build our lives and the lives of others on Jesus Well, not just hearing his words, but doing them. That we would all be a part of the new creation of God, the new temple that is constructed from different stones, from different quarries, from all different nations. All rising in praise to our God. Thank God that He is with us all the way to the end. Amen. Let us pray.