Philippians 3, 1 through 6. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. For me to write the same things to you is not tedious, but for you it is safe. Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the mutilation. For we are the circumcision who worship God in the Spirit Rejoice in Christ Jesus and have no confidence in the flesh, though I also might have confidence in the flesh If anyone else thinks he may have confidence in the flesh, I more so. Circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews. Concerning the law? A Pharisee. Concerning zeal, persecuting the church, concerning the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. Let us pray O Christ, in you we live and move and have our being as the eternal logos that has taken upon himself human nature. We thank you that you are appointed head of the church, given all authority in heaven and on earth. across all lands. And I ask, Lord, that you would use your authority this morning to benefit your congregation through your preached word. May you make it effectual. May it shape and mold their hearts and their minds. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. What is the first frightening experience that you remember from childhood? What is the first frightening experience that you remember from childhood. I'm not sure if it was my first, although I think it was. It was either first in the sense of chronology or first in that it was the most prominent still in my memory is I was uh very young and we went to the grocery store with my mother and then after I was looking at all of the fancy cereals Like uh Count Chocula and Cocoa Puffs and Lucky Charms, all the cereals that we never got I remember turning to the left and to the right and all of a sudden realizing that I was alone in this strange thing called the grocery store. I started wandering a bit, went over into the next aisle, and I thought I saw my mother. So I ran to her and I grabbed onto her leg, and then the stranger looked down. And wondered who I was and it scared me because it was a stranger. So then I I went I continued on in the journey and I eventually found her near the apples and the bananas and the produce section And in my memory, when I when I remember that, I remember seeing her and and spatially in my memory, it's as if the entire grocery store Circled around her, like she was the center of the place. And I was going to go to that center, and that's where I was going to feel exactly as I was supposed to again safe, belonging, meaningful, with a sense of purpose. That's all that's how my memory has reconstructed it And I wonder if you have had a frightening experience when you were younger and then were saved and your memory reconstructed it that same way. That kind of imagery and those kind of questions are important for us this morning because Paul is advancing his arguments beyond just looking at who the dogs were. who those mutilators were or who the evil workers were. He's moving in now and he wants to show you not what was wrong. He wants to show you the center. He wants to show you what is right. Now in order to show that to you this morning, I want to step through some of these verses with you, namely verses 3 through 6. So I'd ask if you'd please have your scriptures open. So that we can begin to see the center of our salvation, the center of our life, life himself, which everyone is craving. It begins in the third verse as I picking up from last week, and this third verse is divided up into different parts. You have a verse 3a and a 3b and a 3C And it's compact. I could preach three separate sermons and still not reach the heights of what Paul is doing here in bringing up these different topics But he mentions in contrast to those who were calling themselves the circumcision, he says, no, you're dogs, you're the mutilators. You're the evil workers, we. And it's interesting that he says we there because he would include with him Gentiles. We are the circumcision. Paul is continuing his reversal here. The converted Gentiles aren't the dogs, Paul opponents are. Paul and the Philippians are not the evil workers, the Judaizers are. Those distorting God's covenant are mutilators seeking to re-establish the Mosaic ceremonial law, and that's not the case. For the Philippians, they're actually God's people. And you could even, if you were to read in other places, Paul would be so bold to say, do you want to see true Jews? Look at the Philippian congregation. Now, this is very heightened speaking and very heightened rhetoric, is this truth that he's seeking to get across, that Paul and the Philippians are the real circumcision. Now, how could he say something like that? Well, he's obviously playing with words a little bit, but he's not playing with them outside of the theological context that preceded him within the Old Testament If you continue on, just in that same verse in verse 3, 3b, he goes on to say, we are the ones who are the circumcision, and then he's going to define us who worship God in the Spirit. And that helps us to see what Paul means by the real circumcision. He doesn't mean a physical act of circumcision described in the Old Testament He doesn't mean the physical act of circumcision that is still done today. That's not to what he refers. He means the spiritual circumcision wherein Christ's Spirit fundamentally remakes or regenesises or regenerates chosen humanity. There are plenty of verses that talk about this. I'll just point out a couple that you could talk about over lunch. The first is from Galatians chapter 6 verse 15. And this just points out, in light of circumcision, that we must, as a human race, be remade. We must be born again. It says in Galatians 6 verse 15, for in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision avails anything but a new creation. That's what's necessary. Or if we go on, we could see that it must not just be a circumcision that is physically done, but it must be a circumcision of the very nature of a person, the very heart of them. Romans two, twenty-eight through twenty-nine. For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh. But he is a Jew who was one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter. Paul is taking what had been expressed by Jeremiah and the in the the recapitulation of the New Covenant and in other authors from the Old Testament, he's combining all of these things here that you'd understand what was a shadow and what was real. even included within this religious act of circumcision. Lastly, we could see Galatians chapter 5, verse 6 for this same kind of teaching. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision avails anything. But faith expressing itself in love. Still talking about that heart change that then expresses itself in love. Love of God and love of neighbor. Now, you could begin to see therefore why Paul continues not only in saying uh uh that we are the circumcision and not only understanding what he means by that by talking about a spiritual circumcision in terms of we who worship God in the spirit But he goes on, and you can see why he would say, Therefore you should rejoice in Jesus Christ. And he gives a contrast here for you. And he says, and have no confidence in the flesh. He's really repeating himself in the development, and it's a restatement. They the opponents were putting their confidence in the flesh And he's saying, no, no, no, no, no, though that was fitting for a time in a sense, we are to have our confidence in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh. Well what do you think he meant by put no confidence in the flesh? Well, depending on which letter you're reading, he means a lot of different things, but you can see he spends quite a bit of time here explaining that from his own life. You want to see what it looks like to put no confidence in the flesh and instead all confidence in Christ Jesus, exhibit A, verses 4 through 6. Exhibit A. Paul lived in that system perfectly. But he knows that it does not lead to salvation. Outward religion of any sort, you could generalize from this passage, has no power to bring you to paradise. That's what Paul had to realize, perhaps even over three years, more and more, understanding what God had always intended in his covenants. Only Christ gives you access into that eternal life and world. And therefore, Paul puts his trust or confidence in Christ to accomplish this. And not in even the sanctioned religion of the Old Testament. Those things were good, if you understand them correctly. The purpose of that ceremonial system was to point beyond itself to Jesus. It was like a giant finger. It was the shadow of something that had a body, for someone that had a body. And Paul had come to realize that in contradistinction from his opponents, who were still pushing, like we talked last week, the ceremonial law, not realizing that we're not to have confidence in religious exercises That's not what brings us into the presence of the Father, that we may dwell with Him in the garden. We have to put our confidence, you have to put your confidence, in Jesus Christ alone for salvation. Now that is a message that though the way that I just delivered it to you now had little uh pieces and scraps of ancient history. I hope that you can see that those pieces and scraps, there was something back behind there pushing through the ancient history that are timeless truths that are exceptionally relevant for you today. If we wanted to gather up the timeless truth, it would sound just like this. True Christians put their trust in Jesus Christ for salvation and not religious practices. True Christians put their trust in Jesus Christ for salvation and not religious practices. Now, one of the difficulties of preaching a sermon like this is that sentence has probably, you've probably heard that sentence over a thousand times. And familiarity breeds inattention. But I would ask you to fight against that. Because this has survived for each generation Not because it's irrelevant, but because we need to continually hear it. Now you remember last week when Paul said, I've said these same things before, and it's not irksome for me to say it again And I'm going to say the same thing to you today. This is your thousands one thousand and one time hearing this sentence. That's okay We need to hear that true Christians put their trust in Jesus Christ for salvation and not religious practices Now what I want to do is paint a picture of the problem. And my hope is that I'm going to paint it both specifically and generally enough. To where if you're a Christian, this will be relevant to you. And if you have are not a follower of Jesus Christ, that this still is in conversation with you and has a relevance to you also. And here's the picture that I want to give you to help you to perhaps find meaning in this reality again, that true salvation is in Jesus Christ and not religious practices. Here it is. Here's the first thing that I want to give to you in this picture this morning. If you study the Old Testament and the ancient Near Eastern literature, You will find that all civilizations were fascinated with mountains. Now, that's not just a curiosity. That's actually very interesting and makes sense of a lot of things for us. Just think about the scriptural texts in terms of mountains. I remember going through my Old Testament biblical theology, and my professor lectured through the Old Testament by way of moving from mountain to mountain. As a way to get across to us God's progressive revelation. Can you think of how He would have done that? And the importance and the relevance of paying attention to mountains. Adam and Eve on Mount Eden. Noah on Mount Ararat, Abraham on Mount Moriah, Moses on Mount Sinai, and we could keep going. Other nations, if we read those same Old Testament texts, were on tops of mountains, setting up high places. And then if you were to fast forward or look across different parts of the globe, we're fascinated when we turn on the Discovery Channel and we find the Aztecs or the Mayans Building what? Mountains. Zigarets is what you would call them. There's even some speculation, even among my professors in seminary, that Noah's Ark was a floating mountain. That it was shaped like a ziggurat or a temple or a mountain with those different levels. If you study the Old Testament and the ancient Near East, you will find that all civilizations use mountains. Now, in your mind, as a human being, just think about this. I'm talking to you now not about some one culture that decided that mountains were cool. I'm talking about a universal phenomenon that we have where human beings are paying attention to mountains and using them in the most important practices. of their existence. The mountains have captured and gripped human attention from the beginning. What do you think could be going on there? Symbolically, immediately you'd think of something like, well, it takes us up to the heavens. And in order for us to get to the kind of life that human beings want, We would have to ascend in some way. We talk about this even in our secular culture as we'd have to climb the corporate ladder. Why is it that we don't climb it down? We climb up the corporate ladder. So maybe it has something to do with it reaching up into the heights and symbolizing human aspirations for us here on earth. Certainly it at least means that But here's the interesting thing that even my professor pointed out is that if uh if we all hopped into a plane together, it'd have to be a decent sized plane. And then we were able to fly over these mountains, and it was a perfect mountain, and then we hit the pause button and we just sss say we're in a spaceship. Let's just do a spaceship. We're in a spaceship and we're stuck right above the mountain. If you look down on the mountain, you not only, if you were to go from a cross section, see this, but if you look down, you would see the very top of the mountain as what? The center and then it moving out in rings with different zones And that ends up being significant too. We not only have the ascension or seeking to aspire to the highest places of life, but we want to be in the center of things. That human beings are been captured by these mountains and this way of viewing things, because it gets to the heart of what all human beings are after. to find their place in the center. Now some of you are thinking, what in the world has he been eating today? Is he microdosing? No, I'm not. If you don't know what that is, don't worry about it. Let me just even put it to you in this way, cuz I'm not getting weird When we see that Israel has not been established at a particular place, but is still wandering or still moving through the wilderness, they are given a tabernacle And that tabernacle is set up with a dead center, which is the Holy of Holies, and it goes out into different zones. And if I were to take that holy of holies and pull it straight up, do you know what I would have? A mountain. And you know what's on top of the mountain? Heaven. And God and his word. Just like Moses found when he climbed Mount Sinai. So there was really something to this. And other cultures were able to pick up on it. Not in the specificity that Yahweh had revealed to Israel, but this was something that is across different lands, as I even pointed out with the Aztecs. The Israelite tabernacle was a moving mountain. It had a center with the Garden of Eden imagery. I'd encourage you to go back and read and look at how it describes the garden. The way that the the ornate artwork that had been done. And it moves out into concentric rings till it reached an outer darkness and a chaos. Away from God, and you would fall off the face of the earth, so to speak. Now that continues today. I mean let me just ask you for a moment, are human beings still gripped by mountains? Are human being I don't mean you want to go on an expedition. I'm talking about as a way in which we fundamentally express ourselves as a species in order to get at what we find most important in life. We put things on the top and we put things in the center. We do this all the time. I'd encourage you, for example, this coming season to think about why is it that the Christmas tree has stuck? Why is it so popular? Think about this room architecturally. Let me ask you the question, is there a center? Is it there where the uh oh where you plug in the the lights? The sockets down down there on the floor, is that the center of the room? If you had to guess, architecturally speaking, what the center of this room is, where is the top of the mountain? Is it not where the word is preached and the sacrament given? You are all gathered around literally the center And it is the same thing in all of the other churches. This still continues here today. If you were to go to where I live, Saverna Park And you were to look out on all that had been built in Saverna Park, you will find a center, and that the highest point of any building in Saverna Park is a church steeple. marking for itself that this is the place where you would find, if we replaced all of their pastoral staff, this is the place where you would find the meaning of existence and life. This is the way, the truth, and the life. And that way of setting things up in a city has always been the case. And in Charleston, South Carolina, if you take the Southern Presbyterian tour, they still do not allow architecture, to my knowledge. to exceed the heights of church steeples. If you I've told you this before, when boats are coming into harbor, they would triangulate the steeples of churches and when they did they would be in perfect line to go down the uh right into the harbor without hitting any shoals. As another symbol for that whole culture to know, if you want to find your way into harbor, you must turn to Jesus Christ and his people. This has been around for a long time and it's not just used by Christians, secular religion Atheism is a kind of religion. Our secular society is a kind of religion. And they have their own mountains called skyscrapers. They end up decorating the center which is for them a city Or if you were to visit New York City, you'd see everything that's up high in Times Square, it's celebrities and status and fame, what in America is to what most people are aspiring toward. Power. That has become the top of the mountain. There's a reason why it's the billboards are not down low, a metaphysical reason. Now here's the thing that comes out of that when we start to put these things together and see this universal phenomenon and we understand why this happens among us. Is that everyone is seeking to get to the top? That thing that you feel in your heart, the reason why you get out of bed every morning, if you had enough self-awareness and insight. Theologically and philosophically, then you would discover that you are trying to get to the center. In a very similar way, that I found my mother at the center in that grocery store in my first story. That you want to find your home again. That you want to find where is the place of meaning? Where can I be safe? Where can I be productive? That's not just a Christian thing. That is a human thing. Now here's the thing. I want to take the next step with you. So those are mountains. Thank you so much for bearing with me. Everyone is seeking to get to the top and to the center. Now here's the thing that ends up happening. There is always in every single generation, you can look at this universally in every culture. There are going to be those who have been set aside by society who will tell you how to get to the center and how to get to the top. In times past, they would be called pastors or priests. In certain cultures, maybe they'd be called shamans or something like that. I'm not saying they're all equally true. I'm just letting you know that cultures have these figures in them In all of the different cultures. In our culture, we have pastors and priests, and we have also a priestly caste for the secular, which are going to be professors. And expertise within scientists, and I've noticed the rich tend to have a say. The rich And now the question here becomes, what you have to ask yourself is who is the right guide to tell you what the center is and how you get there? What I've tried to do is establish for you that we're all looking for a meaningful existence. We're all looking for the fixed sense of happiness We are all looking for eternal life in a sense and analogically, and I'm telling you there are certain people in this world that have been set aside to tell you how to get there, and I'm asking you now who's right. Who truly knows where the center of the world is? The center of your existence? Who knows where the top of the mountain is? And who knows how to get there? As Christians, you have a very specific answer to that. It is in large part your Christian profession. And that is what Paul is talking about here. When we begin to look at it spatially like this, perhaps we can begin to appreciate again what that initial sentence was about Jesus Christ being our salvation or center. and not religious practices. Because that's what Paul is up against. He's up against people that are saying, no, this is the center and this is how you get here. And you're up against those same things. Secular professors and scientists will say this is the center and this is how you get here. And now I want to talk the rest of the time of what does Paul say the center is, and how does Paul tell you to get there That's the rest of the time. We are going to look at what the scriptures end up saying about this question And that's another way of saying that in these 66 books of the Bible, there are a bunch of different authors, superintended by the Holy Spirit, who are all trying to answer the same question. They're all trying to answer what's the center and how do we get there. So I just want to look at a couple of the authors. If you want, you could pretend that we had a church luncheon and we're going to invite a few of the authors from the scriptures to come in and speak and tell us. Where do we find the meaningful center of our existence? Where do we find the top of the mountain? And how do we get there? Well, who would you like to invite? You actually don't get a choice. I already invited them. They are SVP'd. The first one is Paul, obviously. Paul tells us in this passage that you cannot get that you can the center of life. Is Yahweh. God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. That's what Paul says, number one And then the Apostle Paul goes on and he says, you can't get to him. You can't get to that garden. You can't get to that center. You can't get to that apex. Through religious practices. And you know his primary argument is I tried. I tried, and I found that my whole life was fake, was not real. It's his argument. He begins by pointing out that religiously, in order for him to be in the center and to know God, he was set up perhaps better than other people because of his family line. Take a look again at the scriptures at of the verse number five. He was circumcised the eighth day He was of the stock of Israel. He's of the tribe of Benjamin. He's not just a Hebrew. He's the Hebrew of Hebrews. Now that's it's one thing to have an inheritance, but what about your personal will and achievements and the voluntary uh efforts that you make? Well that's the next set of verses. He says, concerning the law, he's a Pharisee That's not something you just inherit. And then in verse 6, concerning zeal, he persecuted the church And now it's not only that he had a great lineage, and it's not only that he voluntarily decided to zealously seek to serve God, even though it was zeal without knowledge, he also became a master of these things Above his peers, he says in the last part, concerning the righteousness which is in the law, ceremonial law, religious, external religious practices, he is blameless. And after all of that, after all of those things, after an entire life of effort in that particular way, what is Paul's conclusion? Reflecting on human life, reflecting on religious life, he says, I cannot rejoice in this I did not get to the center and I did not get to the top, even with all of that religious effort Instead, I learned that I've got to put my confidence in Jesus Christ alone. Now that's quite, I I hope you're getting it. That's quite a thing for him to say. after a whole life of effort. Now the luncheon continues and there is the preacher from Ecclesiastes. He would say to you, you cannot get to the top or the center to human salvation through secular religion or money or pleasure or status or power. He had enough power, he had enough money to have everything, and he still found it all to be meaningless. relative to a life with God and then having those things. The preacher in Ecclesiastes had the power to explore money and pleasure and power and status to the fullest degree And he still finds those things in and of themselves as meaningless. And then we have a positive picture that is given to us in Revelation chapter 21, 9 through 11. I encourage you to look at this. You're all gonna kill me now because I'm literally going to read a passage and there's gonna be a mountain in it. Revelation 21, 9 through 11. This is the end of all things here. The world begins with a mountain, and it ends with a mountain. Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls filled with the seven last plagues came to me and talked with me, saying, Come, I will show you the bride, the lamb's wife. She's obviously made it into the center. And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain. And he showed me the great city. The holy Jerusalem descending out from heaven from God, having the glory of God. Her light was like a most precious stone, like a jasper stone, clear as crystal. Here we see John himself, one of the ones we have at the luncheon. We have the one who entered into this divine space and has Jesus Christ himself teaching him in this revelation. Takes him to the mountain and to the top. And he makes it to the center. And when he sees this picture, he's able to put into words: what does it take to get to the center? How do you get to be in that city and to be that wife, the wife of the Lamb? And the answer ultimately from Scripture will be The only way to make it to the center of human existence and to the top is if you are united to Jesus Christ as your husband. It's the same thing that Paul ends up saying, putting confidence in him. We, being united or married to Jesus Christ, receive all of the benefits of marrying him. Jesus gives us access to everything at the top. Everything in the center. And therefore, we put all of our confidence in Jesus as his wife. When I went to seminary, I went to seminary in Greenville, South Carolina. And the problem in Greenville, South Carolina was the problem. The uh difficulty in Greenville, South Carolina for a Presbyterian Reformed Presbyterian seminary was that it was largely surrounded by Baptist churches. So one of the questions that continually came up in their midst had to do with baptism. And Baptists having conversations with Reformed Presbyterians. That was a large part of my seminary experience. But that was a new experience for me because I hadn't had that conversation up here. I largely had conversation with Roman Catholics, which are far more prevalent, it seems like, in the North. I grew up a Roman Catholic. I was baptized in the Roman Catholic Church. I went to a Roman Catholic school and still have marks on my knuckles. Some do, yes. I was trained in the Mass. I turned away from the Roman Catholic Church and I've largely moved into what every teenager does, which would be a secular life, living for pleasure and living for status. And I found that meaningless, as the preacher of Ecclesiastes said. Eventually, as I've shared with you, someone who knew God shared God's word with me, and Jesus Christ revealed himself to me. Jesus sent me his Spirit to convict me of my sin. The Spirit gave me faith. Jesus in his words said, I have chosen you to be mine. And by the gift of faith I said, just like I would at a wedding, by God's grace I do. In union with him, I have access to life at the top and the center. And so do you. You have the way that we talk about this normally. You have salvation. But here's my question to you, and getting at why I've made all of these different arguments and going all these different places with you this morning. Here's the question. Just consider my life for a moment. Did I gain that salvation? Through pleasure and status and power. When I was living a secular No, if anything, that made me go further, further down into the depths and into a kind of L And I bet you those of you who have explored that have the same kind of experience. You didn't go to heaven, you went to hell Or a kind of hell. Let me ask you another question. So that's off the table. Hedonistic pleasure, power, status. That's not the answer. What about the Roman Catholic Church? and all of their religious rituals. Is that why Jesus Christ sent me his Holy Spirit? Because I was baptized in the Roman Catholic Church? Did he send me his Spirit because I had dutifully obeyed the Mass and was doing religious practices? No. That's not why. Jesus Christ did not give me his spirit because of my secular religion. He did not give me his spirit from just bald religious practices like within the Roman Catholic Church. He instead gave me his spirit out of pure grace and the own pleasure of his will. I gained life and you gained life because God the Father gives us to Jesus. And Jesus by grace gives us his spirit. And therefore, here's the main message of the sermon this morning. Namely, that we have established Paul's truth by two or more witnesses. We have the witness of Paul at the luncheon. We have the witness of Solomon from Ecclesiastes. We have the witness of John from Revelation. We have Jesus speaking to John in Revelation. We have my own experience and your own experience in the Holy Spirit. That this thing is true. True Christians put their trust in Jesus Christ alone for salvation and not in any religious practices. Amen. Let us pray