To the word seen, now as we just saw within the baptism, but now to the word preached in the reading of Scripture, please turn with me to Deuteronomy chapter 4. This morning we'll be considering Deuteronomy 4, verses 44 through 5. 7, although we will look just very briefly at each of the Ten Commandments. Deuteronomy chapter 4, beginning in I'll start in 41 actually, is where we left off last week. And I will continue through 521. Then Moses set apart three cities on this side of the Jordan toward the rising of the sun, that the manslayer might flee there, who kills his Bezer in the wilderness of Plateau of the Rubenites, Ramoth and Gilead for the Gadites, and Golan and the Now this is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel. These are the testimonies, the statutes, and the judgments which Moses spoke to the children of Israel after they came out of Egypt. On this side of the Jordan, in the valley opposite Beth Peor, in the land of Sihon, king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon Whom Moses and the children of Israel defeated after they came out of Egypt. And they took possession of his land, in the land of Og, king of Bishon Two kings of the Amorites, who were on this side of the Jordan, toward the rising of the sun from Auror, which is on the bank of the river Arnon, even to Mount Sion, that is Herman, and all the plain on the east side of the Jordan as far as the sea of the Air of Arabah, below the slopes of Piska And Moses called all Israel and said to them, Hear, O Israel, the statutes and judgments which I speak in your hearing today, that you may learn them and be careful to observe them. The Lord our God made a covenant with us in Koreb. The Lord did not make this covenant with our fathers, but with us, those who are here today, all of us who are alive. The Lord talked with you face to face on the mountain from the midst of the fire. I stood between the Lord and you at that time to declare to you the word of the Lord, for you were afraid because of the fire, and you did not go up the mountain. He said, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image, any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth You shall not bow down to them nor serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me But showing mercy to thousands, to those who love me and keep my commandments. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. Observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy, as the Lord your God commanded you. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall do no work, nor your sons, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your ox, nor your donkey, nor any of your cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates, that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you. And remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God brought you out from there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm. Therefore, the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day. Honor your father and your mother, as the Lord your God has commanded you, that your days may be long, and that it may be well with you in the land which the Lord your God has given you. You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery You shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness against your neighbor, you shall not covet your neighbor's wife, and you shall not desire your neighbor's house, his field, his male servant, his female servant, his ox, his donkey Or anything that is your neighbors. Let's pray. Lord God, we are in desperate need of your law. We are in desperate need of the work of your spirit within us. that we might personally appropriate your law and use it lawfully. We pray that you would lead us as your people. That you would set before us Jesus Christ, our great pioneer, and that you, Lord Jesus Christ, would lead us in worship of you, not only here in the singing and praises, But that we would love you with all our heart, our mind, and our soul, and that we would love our neighbor as ourselves. We ask these things in your name. Amen. When you travel on Route 50 east, at least from here, you eventually arrive at the Bay Bridge. The bridge acts as a kind of transition from the terrain of the western shore with the cliffs that we find on the Severn River to the flat landscape of the eastern shore. And if you're like me, all of the stress just goes out the window because I'm returning home to Kent Island. In our passage We are likewise arriving at a kind of bridge. I hope you noticed in 41, starting in verse 41, it really, the scene really changes here. You're really making a a a a a big transition in what we've been hearing for Moses in his sermon up to this point 41 through 43 is the main bridge. It acts as a transition, actually, from Moses' first sermon into his second sermon. We're making a major transition in Deuteronomy now, and you may want to mark that down for yourself. We're going to look at the content of 41 through 43 when we get to chapter 19. Which has to do with these three cities that are set apart for manslayers, those who hadn't been angry in the past. It gets into the details in chapter 19, so we'll wait until then. For now, just to take a look at the bridge uh for a second. These are a monument of God's grace, these verses. If someone accidentally killed someone, God had cities of sanctuary set aside so that they and their families could escape revenge killings. I'm not going to give any more detail than that. I simply want to drive over this bridge and get to the other side. And then we can come back and look at the bridge when we get to number to chapter 19. The other side of the bridge, or the second sermon begins in verse 44 through verses 48. This is a historical prologue, which was typical during this time period in the ancient Near East. The first sermon will begin in in um this first sermon begins very much like you saw the first the second sermon begins very much like the first sermon that we saw for Moses. If you flip back to chapter 1 very quickly Notice, I'll just read this very quickly. This is chapter 1-1. These are the words which Moses spoke to all of Israel on this side of the Jordan in the wilderness, in the plain opposite Suf, between Peran and She. Notice the the historical prologue and geography. The same thing is happening here in verse forty eight, on this side of the Jordan, in the valley opposite Beth Peor, in the land of Sihon, king of the Amorites. This is a historical prologue. I've included a map. You can find it in your bulletin. You can see where this speech was taking place. Beth Peyor, or if you want to translate it, it's the God of Peyor, the house of the God of Peor. That map can be helpful. There's a little flag there that marks out Bael Peor as to where he gave this speech and where that plane was. To help you through this historical introduction in your own reading, the geography can be helpful. No other ancient Near Eastern document or nation is like this. We are benefited by contrasting and comparing other ancient treaties with this treatise here, and none are like this exactly. It's very interesting. No other nation has codified or a constitutional relationship between themselves and God, but this nation alone. So far to our finding. And this makes what follows unique. Ancient Near Eastern treatises did, however, have some of the same formal elements In that day, if you were to look at other documents and find that they had similarities with these documents that are enscripturated, you would find the establishment of the greatness of the ruling king. You'd find a history of the great works of that king in relationship to this group of people that he's conquering or saving or whatever, and then you would find stipulations and laws being laid down on how they must be obedient to him as the king. Rules perver for preserving the documents that he would give to them. We actually have rules for preserving this document in Deuteronomy chapter ten. You can look at that at another time. They're to be kept in the ark, a copy of them Blessing and curses for the violation in Deuteronomy 28. We all saw that in ancient treatises also. And so what I would like to do is to benefit from the similarities that we see within other ancient Near Eastern documents. And I want to look and see the greatness of God, the gracious works of our God, and the gracious laws, because that's actually the order that we find here as Moses begins Setting down his sermon and in this document for these people. He mentions how great God is. He mentions the gracious works of this God, our God, and then of course his gracious laws. And so let's follow this together as we continue in this second sermon of Moses by looking first at the greatness of God in verses 1 through 5. of chapter 5. This is directly after the historical prologue. You'll notice that historical prologue was just a basic summary of everything you've heard before. He took all of those chapters that we spent all that time on and he put it into a paragraph for you. That's very nice. But now he moves into his second sermon. In verse 1, you should be familiar with this. Notice the hear, O Israel, the statutes and judgments which I speak in your hearing today. This is the Shema. Or the hear formula, we heard this in the first sermon also. Israel must listen and be careful to obey every word In the last sermon, Moses spent time on one motivation after another to inspire careful listening and obedience. He especially highlighted God's greatness. Hear, O Israel, the statutes and judgments which I speak in your hearing today, that you may learn them and be careful. The Lord our God made a covenant with us in Horeb. The Lord did not make this covenant with our fathers, but with us, those who are here today, all of us who are alive. The Lord talked with you face to face on the mountain. Notice how many times the Lord or Yahweh is repeated just throughout this first paragraph in the sermon. And notice what is attached to his name. It is his greatness. It is his outstanding excellencies We're used to this. Moses already detailed God's power and grace to give land to whoever he wants. Moses detailed God's power to conquer whoever he wants. That's listed in King of Og of Bashan, people like that. Moses detailed God's power and love at the mountain of fire in the Red Sea. You've heard that too, and that's present here also. It was good for them to remember the greatness of their God. Some about to enter the promised land were actually not the original generation that experienced the Exodus or the mountains of fire. If you think about how this book is progressing, it's not All of those who stood at the mountain and spoke with God face to face, so to speak, with Moses as a mediator, that generation wandered And at least those who rebelled, the mighty men, so to speak, at least they fell in the desert. These aren't eyewitnesses. And so it would be good for them to remember that eyewitness generation, a lot of them died in the wilderness. The fathers of this generation had firsthand experience of the Exodus and the mountain, but not them And so it would be good for it to be placarded before them, for them to set their eyes on it again. And in the same way, it is good for us also to remember God's greatness. We are like that. Isn't that encouraging to you I hear uh folks say, if God would have just spoken from the mountain to me, then I would give my whole life over to him. If he would have just split the Chesapeake Bay for me, or the Red Sea, or whatever it was. If he would have just, whatever miracle, multiplied the loaves and the fishes for me, calmed the storm for me, but notice that that generation wasn't in that position either. And they're just like us. We are like the generation in Deuteronomy. There's no one here who is an eyewitness to the Exodus or the Incarnation or the Cross or the Empty Tomb. Not directly like the apostles were But our fathers, the apostles, have recorded for us the greatness of our God, and our God still has those same expectations, giving us the spirit that they might, those truths might still be alive today, as if we were eyewitnesses. And so, therefore, we are to ponder, of course, the Exodus and to ponder the mountain of fire. But we are privileged above that. We can ponder the wonder of Jesus being conceived in the womb of a virgin by the power of the Holy Spirit. By faith, we might see him. We can see by faith Jesus controlling the wind and the waves before the apostles in that little boat. By faith, you can see Jesus raised from the dead. And himself raised the dead to life. Sometimes I don't feel very well. And I come up with I I have the flu or or I'm overstressed or I have this or I have that or if I'm in a really bad mood I have the Ebola virus or something from some apple But most of the time, you know what I need? Glass of water. I'm usually dehydrated. Dehydration, you know some of the signs are extreme thirst, fatigue, dizziness, confusion, just explains a lot of me, right? Those are the signs, and so if it becomes severe enough, you're hooked up to an IV and you would receive fluids very quickly. Otherwise, you can just drink your regular daily glasses of water and your body is restored. And you know that it's working because the countenance starts to brighten. Have you ever seen someone who's dehydrated and then to receive fluids or water? And the the countenance of the person changes. The health is restored. You can see it visibly with your eyes. Well, there's a kind of spiritual dehydration that this generation that had not eyewitnessed, or even if they were eyewitnesses, there's a kind of spiritual dehydration that we can undergo Where you can know God's voice inside your head. You could have heard it all of your life from the former generation of your parents and their faith, but it would have no power over you. The voice of the world becomes very attractive, and the voice of God is barely heard. And so Moses is encouraging us here, as this generation now. To place Christ, the one having been crucified before us. But to not just know it with our minds, but to remember in his word and to see his greatness. To ponder, to pray, until we are restored. If you were hooked up to an IV and you did drink a glass of water and nothing was restored, wouldn't you know that there's something wrong? That something else needs to be done, and yet we treat our time with the Lord differently. We pack all of His commandments, even, or His word, within our minds, and yet we don't see any changes. How would you know if you were restored, if you were actually receiving what he has said? If you actually did remember, how would you know? Moses is careful to point out that we would be careful to observe what the Lord has commanded to us. That we would be known as his disciples by our fruit and especially our love for one another. This is how you see that spiritual dehydration is over and that the body has been restored. That's what Moses is doing here by first placing before them the greatness of God. When you have a greatness of the evil of this world, the greatness and the distresses of your life, if they're bigger than your God, then you will just bear bad fruit. But by God's grace and the Holy Spirit, as the Spirit makes God bigger than our situations or the people around us We are restored and we are careful to observe. Moses reminds us of God's greatness for the sake of our loyalty. In other ancient Near Eastern documents, you know what would have been done by this time? The king would show his great works. And how he has conquered and made us slaves. It would have been a forced servitude, but this is different. God is looking for a loyalty not just to display of his military might in order to just make us servants. In verse 6, God shows us not just his great work of defeating the Egyptian army. But his great work of grace towards us as an enslaved nation, he took us out of one place and he graciously brought us into another place that we would serve him out of love and gratitude. That the greatness of our God becomes mixed with the gracious works of our God, and it determines the quality of how we carefully follow Him in the obedience. And that's the second point here. You have the greatness of your God in verses in these first five verses, listing again and again his great works and who he is. And then we move into the gracious works of God stated in verse 6. This is also something that we see regularly in ancient Near Eastern documents God took Israel from a house of bondage to serve Yahweh in freedom, from serving Pharaoh and building his house to building the house of God. This is the major thing that I want you to notice. Do not miss this. I want you to notice that this statement in verse 6 precedes all of the Ten Commandments. That is exceptionally important for us. The point is made again and again throughout Deuteronomy so that we can't miss it. In fact, did you know the book of Exodus is 19 chapters of grace and salvation before there's any mention of law. Now flip with me, if you will, please, as we consider these gracious works of God to Deuteronomy 7, verses 6 and 8. I just want to point out in this point here that His grace proceeds law So the way the document is set up, it's on purpose. We move from the greatness of our God to the gracious works of our God before we're given any law of God. Deuteronomy chapter 7, verse 6 through 8, for you are a holy people to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for himself, a special treasure above all the peoples on the face of the earth. Why? Why The Lord did not set his love on you, nor choose you because you were more in number than any other people, for you were the least of all people. But because the Lord loves you and because he would keep the oath which he swore to your fathers, the Lord has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of bondage, from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. The reason why he saved them is because of grace, because he wanted to. Because of his love, not because they were going to fulfill the Ten Commandments. Deuteronomy chapter 9, verses 4 through 7 states it again, and even More startling detail. Do not think in your heart after the Lord your God has cast them out before you, saying, Because of my righteousness, the Lord has brought me in to possess this land. But it is because of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord is driving them out before you. It is not because of your righteousness or the uprightness of your heart that you go into possess the land, but because of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord your God drives them out before you. and that he may fulfill the word which the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Therefore, understand that the Lord your God is not giving you this land to possess because of your righteousness, and so that he is crystal clear For you are a stiff-necked people. Do not mistake what he's doing here. He is stating before he gives the law his gracious works. And choosing his people and saving them because he wanted to. It ends up being the ultimate answer. I've taken the philosophy class. That's how it ends. Because he wants to, there's no better answer. This is vital to understanding the law correctly in this document. We obey because we have been chosen to obey. We obey because we have chosen to be His people from gratitude and thankfulness filling our hearts by the power of the Holy Spirit. And he will make no mistake. He will write his law upon our hearts that we may obey. You know, I was telling someone that in New England, wait till you hear this, in New England in the late 1700s, you would be fined by local police if they walked in and found that your family didn't regularly practice family worship. You'd be fined. Maybe your car or your horse would be booted and you wouldn't be able to drive away What was interesting is as I was speaking about this with this person, they said, wouldn't that lead just lead to resentful and superficial obedience? Because it was enforced on them. And that's the danger, even here. We hear promulgated this morning, I read to you all of the Ten Commandments, and you could picture them as a straitjacket or something that you must do, that it is not a privilege of yours. That's the temptation that we can fall into. But do not fall into the temptation and allow verse 6 to speak loudly to you, because it comes before all of the laws. It is by God's grace. And that he gives you the privilege to obey him in Jesus Christ and by his spirit. It is by grace that you would relate well to him and that you would relate well to your neighbor. It is all by grace. God's grace. Do not be tempted. It is power and grace mixed. You know, we see this power and grace mixed In John chapter 5, let me just read this to you. One of the men lying there had been sick for 38 years. When Jesus saw him and knew that he had been ill for a long time, he asked him, Would you like to get well? Jesus told him, stand up, pick up your mat, and walk. Instantly the man was healed, and instantly he rolled up his sleeping mat and he began walking. And then later, when they asked him about it, he said, the man who healed me, he told me, he commanded me, pick up your bat and walk. Here's a translation relative to the passage that you have before you this morning with grace before law. He saved me. And then I began to walk because he told me to, and I could. Now I could. God gave me grace, and therefore I obeyed him. The man who healed me told me a law. He said, You're healed. Get up and walk. And so I got up and I walked. The grace of salvation leads logically to the grace of obedience, as we see within this man's life. The same thing would happen comprehensively. Across all of the contours and landscapes of your lives, as Jesus Christ sends his Holy Spirit to you in his effectual call, leading you to repentance and to faith and to progressive sanctification. This is the context of the law. The grace for the Israelites was salvation from the iron furnace It was still just a symbol of a much larger grace, which they were apprehending, especially through the temple system. It was a shadow of the reality as revealed in the book of Hebrews. And the reality is that God the Father, through Jesus Christ and his Spirit, saves from the iron furnace of our sin and our misery, creating a new heavens and a new earth You are blind and lame and paralyzed in your sins, and Jesus says, stand up, and you say, I'll roll up my sleeping bag now. And I'll walk. I'll walk by the grace of Jesus Christ. It is the gracious works of God, and then it is the law. That is verse 6, and it is put here on purpose. God shows us his greatness that we should be careful to follow him. He shows us his grace, that we may be careful to follow him from gratitude and love. That's the point of verse 6. And these two points that we have so far, the greatness of our God and the graciousness of our God, have set the context for approaching how God wants to love us. Here's the question that raises though. You see that he's entering into a love, a personal love relationship with his people. He is their God and we are his people. But what does the careful observation or following look like? What does it look like to love God and to love others There are a million opinions out there in the world. How do we know? And that's the purpose of the next section in 7 through 21 of chapter 5. He shows us how to love again. These are the gracious laws that he gives to us. Now, there's no way that I can preach on every law this morning, but we will, over the next few weeks, start to go through them. I just want to give an introduction this morning. And then we'll end in a time of prayer. These gracious laws you find in verse 7 through 21, the ten words or the ten commandments. And I want to give a general introduction because of a misunderstanding and many misunderstandings about the law before we start entering in and looking at each one individually. I want to just say a few things about the law. Number one, from Romans 13, God graciously gives us his law as a sandbag. It is a sandbag keeping the waters of sin out of our storefronts. When the docks in Annapolis flood, Sandbags are delivered to store owners, and they stack them at the store entrances to keep the surge at the docks from destroying from destroying all of their inventory and allowing mold and mildew to set in. The law given to local, state, and federal government is a kind of sandbag keeping the surge of sin from entrance to our local, state, and national well-being. Romans 13 says that there are governors in place by God's appointment to keep a cap on sin that it would not overflow and go into all of our lives doing the damn full damage that it could do. And the picture that I have for you is a sandbag. This is a gracious act of God. Do you know, even though you watch the news, do you know how much of the human conscience is still in place? And do you know how gracious that is? And that these things are somewhat clear still in our society, at least at some level. Can you imagine if there were no cap on the surge, no sandbags? For your physical property that people could just walk in. I know some of you are nervous because it seems like that's what's happening, that sandbags are being stolen right from out front of your house Those of you who have been around for a while, you're noticing these sandbags being taken. In obedience to the philosophical dictates of Darwinism, the waters of sin are washing away our society. I recognize that. I see it happening also. And that's why, even as just a general introduction, I would encourage you to be praying for our governmental leaders. I just asked that you would pray that they'd have a conscience and they wouldn't violate it. The law has been written on the heart of man. I'd ask that you'd pray for them that they would continue to offer us Here, sandbags against the surge of sin. For it is one of the gracious reasons that God has given us his law. The second gracious reason why God has given us His law is seen in James chapter 1, Romans chapter 6, all through Galatians. The law is a mirror, and it is a check engine light. We look in the mirror to see what our face looks like or to see what is on our face. Sometimes there's mud on our face. Sometimes we have food in our teeth And thank God for mirrors. That's the point. I remember I I thought it was rude. I had a friend who ate a kale salad and they had a huge piece of kale stuck on their two front teeth. It almost covered the two front teeth to where they looked like they didn't have them. And I just felt so bad and I just never said anything, and they went through the whole day with kale on their front teeth. I wasn't a very good mirror. But the law of God doesn't act that way. The law of God is a mirror, and it always shows us what we exactly look like unless we bury the true image by searing of our own conscience. Through the hardness and the deceitfulness of sin. But when that is not present, the mirror shows us clearly who we are. The law does not fail us, it shows you who you really are. It shows you in summary that naturally you are an enemy to God and to those who are around you. Those of you who know yourself well, that is what you have discovered when you went to the bottom of your heart. That is what I have discovered. That is what you have discovered. That you need, therefore, the crucified and living Jesus Christ to hold you by the hand. And to reconcile you to God and to show you how to love your neighbor. That's the beauty of the mirror. The mirror shows you that you have mud on your face, and then through the gospel, the gospel offers you a rag to wipe off the mud. And that's the work of Jesus Christ through his Spirit, through the love of God the Father. It's also a check engine light Because it brings guilt. In our culture, to feel guilty at all is a bad thing. Guilt is complicated, though. It's not all bad. Sometimes you can feel guilty for the wrong reasons, and you shouldn't be feeling guilty. But sometimes guilt is a good thing. Guilt is a check engine light on the dashboard of your life. That's what the law does. Law can create guilt. And it works just like that check engine light. You should be looking into what's going on. If you are a non-Christian, guilt is the flashing signal on your dashboard that you need to run to Jesus Christ for salvation. That's the law. It's gracious. It's gracious as a sandbag for the for local and state and federal government. It is a mirror and a check engine warning for no matter who you are, but especially the non-Christian. But then lastly, it is also a light for living to God. It shows us what it means to be human again. The other night I was with some folks doing some work in a dark cornfield. Do not ask why I was in a dark cornfield. There were leftover corn stalks, and I it was in the dark and I kept tripping over them, and so did everyone else. And we couldn't see the work that we were working on. And so I took out my phone and I turned on the light, and as I shined in the midst of that darkness, one gentleman spoke up who was doing the work and he said, Ah, there we go. And that's what's going on here in these verses. What does it mean to be human? And God lifts his light of his law and he says, Now there we go. Now I know what it means to love God and to love my neighbor. Now I know what I'm supposed to be doing, and I'm not going to stumble in the same ways that I did before. What are we supposed to be doing? Jesus summarized the whole thing Love the Lord your God with all your mind, your soul, and your strength, and your neighbor as yourself. But how? That's very general. What are the particulars and the specifics in a way that is yet still timeless? And that's what we have before us, the ten words. How do you love God and the neighbor? What does it look like? The laws in your passage 7 through 21 will provide you with a very practical and timeless and timely answer, and yet they're not so specific that you can't personally appropriate them in your Western culture. It's brilliant. In verse 7, God is to be our priority. Remember what Jesus says about this. I don't care if it's your mother or your father or your sister or your brother. God takes first. In verse 8, we worship God as He instructs us to worship Him This is kind of like a bill of rights. God has the right to be worshipped in the way that He has instructed. God has the right to be your priority. God has the right to have his name in verse 11 treated, his sacraments treated, his works treated with reverence. In verse 12, God has the right to have the calendar under his control and for us to obey all the set times that he has given to us, particularly one in seven. In verse 16, we are to run our families, the church, and the government as God has told us to. And there's much instruction on that that we'll get in the future weeks. In verse 17, commandment number six: we are to help one another flourish. That's the positive of do not murder. The point is not that you would be murdering people. The point is that you would be establishing them. We don't destroy each other because life is sacred. Seventh commandment, verse 18: we are faithful to each other in thought, word, and deed, especially in our marriages. Eighth commandment, verse 19, we don't take each other's property. We have a right to our own property, if you want to speak in terms of the bills of right, and think of this as constitution for the people of God. The ninth commandment, verse 20, we preserve and we promote the truth. That's what we do. And the 10th, verse 21, which is the catch: we are to be content with what God has apportioned to each one of us, and not to covet what he has given our neighbor. No matter what it is. These are the beginnings. These are the seeds that are to drop into our lives, ten seeds that would grow up into full, wise, and mature trees. Bearing fruit in every situation within the life of man. Jesus summarized it as: love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And this is what it looks like. And we'll explore this over the next few weeks. You are reminded. You're reminded of the great works of your God who gives you these laws. You are reminded first and foremost that these great works are mixed with God's gracious salvation, that He has committed Himself to you in love to show you what it means to be in His image, to be truly human. It is in this and this great and this gracious context that God shines his law into our lives. The law will graciously keep the waters of societal sin at bay as we pray for those who are in government. It acts as a mirror and a check engine light that we would run to Jesus Christ for refuge and for instruction. And have you ever wanted better relationship with God and with other human beings? Have you ever wanted better relationship with Because that's the other reason why he gives it to us. God graciously gives us his law that we would know how to relate to him and those who are around us and how they should be relating to us. And when people have overstepped their boundaries. Jesus Christ by his Spirit shows us how to be human again. How to love the Lord our God and our neighbor as ourselves. The number one difficulty of giving an introduction of any sort, especially to the law, is that it just feels or can feel very dry. and detached from our human situation. But given the situation yesterday of 11 dead in the synagogue, Two police officers wounded, two SWAT team wounded. Doesn't something need to be done Our people, when you watch the news or you look on Facebook, do we know how to relate to each other? Is it not a grace that God would condescend in the incarnation of Jesus Christ and do everything possible to bring us back to reality? It is gracious. The whole context is grace, grace. It is gracious for our God to give this. It's not abstract. It's not dry. It hits home. It's exactly what we need. We think we need new technology. We need the new iPhone. What we need are people that know how to talk on the phone with each other. Or know when to give their mother a call. That's what we need. And that's a far greater problem. And that's what God is doing here. He's turned on the light so that we could see our work. He sent a light into our hearts that we could obey him. He's given us Jesus Christ for when we don't obey. I'm going to take a time now, and I'm just going to pray, and I'd ask that you would join me. I'm going to pray in light of the events yesterday, a pastoral prayer. I'm greatly grieved. I'm greatly grieved over what has happened to these people and their families in that Pittsburgh community, the Jewish synagogue, done in front of children. This is what happens when the oceans of sin break the shoreline and come in where they never were meant to be. And God is establishing in his kingdom a clear boundary again. And therefore, we as God's people must take this seriously. And we're going to begin by going Into prayer. I'll represent you as your pastor. I ask that you would follow along with me. If you would like to, in the quieter of your own heart, you may join me in prayer to God That he would be honored and that we as people would be honored again, made in his image. Lord Jesus Christ, it is a great tragedy when you are looked on and people turn away saying they don't need you. Lord Jesus Christ, as I read the news, I saw people listing all of the different things that we need, all the governmental reforms, the new leadership, the who needs to be elected and who doesn't need to be elected. What needs to be done? What educational programs need to be put in. But Lord, these all fall short. The problem that we have before us is of greater uh is greater than that Lord Jesus Christ, we hear of one mass shooting after another. We have churches and even this synagogue itself just received training on how to protect the people during the service and during their holy days. Lord Jesus Christ, we need your salvation. We need you to send your spirit. We need revival across the land. We do not want people begrudgingly obeying you. We want them obeying from a heart purified by faith. And we want them to consider those who are made in your image as worthy of dignity and honor. honor and that therefore they would not murder, no matter what justifications they have going on inside of their head. But what we see across the land, Lord Jesus Christ, is consciences being seared in educational and governmental institutions. supporting the searing of the conscience. We see those who are gaining power and persuasion who do not belong in that position. Lord Jesus Christ, my own zeal is a representation of the zeal of your people. We have anger towards this. We ask that you would lead us out of temptation and from sin, that we would be angry and that we would not sin. We ask that our anger would lead us into prayer again for our government and fasting. Lord Jesus Christ, please save us. We ask that you would protect your people, especially that they would be able to continue in quietness and godliness, awaiting for your return. We ask that you would make alive the conscience of those, even in just an external way, that this society would not continue to spiral. We ask that you would not give them up to the lusts of their own hearts. Despite the fact that they are worshiping the creature rather than the creator, we ask that you would have mercy on them, and we ask that you would send preachers to preach the word and that they would hear and that they would repent and that they would have faith. Show us what we can do. Show us what we can do to bring revival in the land. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would send your Spirit to your church not just to Severn Run, but across this county and across the globe. That you would raise up prophets, that you would raise up teachers. That they would speak and that you would give wings to their words, and that they would fly, and that they would make a difference. Lord God, we ask that you would be honored, that you would rise up and show yourself to be compassionate and merciful. Even to this nation that has turned its back on you, I understand the stench rises to heaven and enters your nostrils. But I ask, Father, that you would not see us except through Jesus.