Chapter 6. Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns Yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? Which of you, by worrying, can add one cubit to his stature? So why do you worry about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. And yet I say to you that even Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed like one of these. Now, if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you? O you of little faith. Let us pray. Amen. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would work through your preached word here today, that your congregation would grow in their faith and trusting you. I pray that you would make that happen right here on the spot. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. You may be seated. I looked up a statistic the other day for the sake of this sermon just to see what was out there on Google. If you want to fact check me, I don't care. Uh but it it it I typed in and I said, what is an astounding statistic about anxiety? And it came back with 31% of people by the time they hit age 11 are diagnosed with an anxiety disorder. Now there's a lot in that sentence that I, you know, we would need to talk about. But let's just go off of that as a basis for just the acknowledgement of our experience that worry is a major human problem. Some of you are even saying to yourselves right now, yeah, that's right, I'm worried right now. I've been anxious all week. And when we look even theologically at the scriptures, we go back to the beginning of human history. After they choose to depart from God, one of the first things that happens is they are anxious in the garden hiding from their God. And then because of the curse and misery that now enters into human life And they must work by the sweat of their brow, and the crops are no longer guaranteed. You don't know if you're going to have rain or sunshine or drought or whatever it is. It is really not eye-opening for me to say to you, human life is full of worry, and as humans, we worry a lot. Well, that is addressed here today in our passage. I have really been looking forward to this section. And I'm looking forward to next week also. I really think this is the heart of what Jesus is teaching in the Sermon on the Mount. He'll keep repeating these themes. throughout his teaching. Last week we had the opportunity to see that Jesus is on a theme like this for a while. Last week we said, you cannot serve God and wealth. in your heart at the same time. That's really impossible. And I gave you an example in just one of the traps of many for us. We could talk about status or fame or or whatever it is, but one of the traps that you have is that you could fall into the trap of really serving what I called quote unquote the American dream. Before we get into today's text, I wanted to clarify with that. I think it's really important with everything that's going on in the world that I clarify very quickly. When I said the American dream, I meant the corrupted American dream. If we're talking about the pursuit of happiness and liberty, I think you could get really close, if not exactly, if you talk to someone who's healthy, that that's the biblical concept of shalom. Of being able to live your life in a way where you're free to worship your God, where you're free to worship the true God. where you are free to be able to have stability with your your family. And all of those things are great. And I know that that really, if we wanted to talk about like a good American dream, that would be it And we see different movies. You know, my favorite movies, The Patriot, and and there's a little bit of a picture of that. And what I was referring to was more of the corrupt American dream where we reduce all of life and its happiness is reduced to just the idea of the accumulation of wealth and status. And you can't do that and serve God. We could put it this way, you can't serve the Almighty Dollar and the Almighty God from the heart. You got to choose one or the other. And that's what Jesus was teaching us last week. Now this week we get to move in and it's into this passage and it's intimately connected with What we have been learning from the beginning, if you take a look at our very first verse number 25, just look very quickly there, and then I'll give you some main points. You see the word therefore. You see the word therefore. So all of that teaching where he is talking about the I, and then he gives us the example of the two masters, we then move in in verse number 25 to this therefore. He's can is a continuation of that same teaching. And I want us to see just a few things here. The first thing is I want you to see that there is in verse number 25 the command to not worry. It's a command to not worry. Then I want us to see in verses 25 through 29 that there are two reasons at least that he gives us to not worry. So that's kind of him to give us some reasons. There are two reasons not to worry. And then the final thing I want us to go over in verse number 30 is the main issue with worry. You know, why do we all worry to begin with? And that's what he's going to address there in verse number 30, right there at the end. And so that's what we're going to do this morning. The command not to worry, two reasons not to worry, and the main issue with worry. So let's begin with the very first point, and it's this. Christ commands you, his disciples, to not spend your days worrying about things that are outside of your control. That's the way I want to put this. I really think that that's what Jesus is doing here, is he saying that you, as his disciples, you're not supposed to spend your days worrying about the things that are outside of your control. Now it's a really important way to put it. It's a very important way to put it. You can see this in verse number 25. He says, Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life. And now he's going to define what he means by that. So don't be fooled. He's not, you've got to look really closely here. Don't worry about your life. Well, what does he mean by that? He says, what you're going to eat. What you're going to drink, nor about your body, what you're going to clothe yourself with. You see those three things? Because those three things are going to keep going through the passage, the eating and the clothing. The the the uh what you're gonna eat or drink, we'll just say that that's food. And then there's the closing. So food and clothing in 625. And he doesn't want us worrying about these things, sitting around wringing our hands about things that are out of con out of our control. Now, why is it that I say that he's focused specifically on things that are out of our control? Well, the first reason that I put it that way is because of these items that he has listed. He listed the food, he listed the drink, and he listed the clothing. Now, in our society, it may not occur to you, but those things aren't guaranteed to you They are highly dependent, especially in that culture. You don't know if you're going to get the summer or the winter rains in order for the crops to be plentiful. You might very quickly move into a famine. Now, has anybody here actually experienced a famine? I don't think so, but that used to be a problem if you were to even look on the pages of the New Testament. There was revealed to them that there was going to be a famine, and so Paul starts taking up a collection so that the churches would be taken care of. Your next meal was not guaranteed to you. We don't look at things that way. We know that at any one moment we can swing into the drive-thru and just get some chicken nuggets. But you shouldn't You shouldn't do that. No. Maybe you should. I don't know. But the main point is that these are things that he's focused on that are outside of your control. We don't usually think of it that way, but really these were outside of their control And if you look at verse number 27, you can see that there's a there's an explicit notion here of that too when he says, which of you by worrying can add one cubit to his stature? Now that's an old-time way of saying Who could add to his lifespan? Who could add to his lifespan? How is it that this worry and all of the things that go along with your worry, wringing your hands and storing up things in your barn. How you these are things you can't control is his main point. If you were to devote yourself to that, you'd still be in a spot where sometimes things are outside of your control And that is the main teaching that Jesus wants his disciples to not spend their days worrying about things that are outside of their control. If you were to draw a circle, Uh you uh these two circles, I think it could be helpful for us as an analogy of what Jesus is saying here. There is a little circle here And we belong in that little circle. And there's all these different things that we should be concerned about to make sure that they are done. You know, for example, in 1 Timothy 5. 8, he says, But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. So what does it mean to provide for your own? What are the kind of things that you need to be concerned about every single day in order to make sure that ends meet? What are the specific things that God has given to you in his gracious sovereignty where you are able to Steward your life and actually have some sense of control over the things that He has given to you. Now we know ultimately God is in control of all things, but there is this way in which He gives us control. like a lowercase sea control over many different things within our life. If you had guests over during the snowfall One of the things within your control, at least for most of you, is that you could have shoveled and salted your path so we didn't die coming to the front door. God gave you that kind of control. And as the snow started coming down, and you thought, this is beautiful, everything is shutting down. Finally, I'm going to get a moment to just read a book or whatever it is And then you started to hear the ice accumulating, and you started to have some concerns saying, how am I going to get out of my house? How will people get here safely? I think those are all good and godly concerns and not the worry that Jesus is addressing here. Those are that little circle concerns that you're supposed to be concerned about Now there is another circle, and it is much bigger. And I would draw it like this. It's that big circle, and that are all the things that are outside of your control that you really can't do anything about. And boy is that a lot of things. And what Jesus is pointing out here is that you're not supposed to be worried about those things. And we're gonna have to get to why not by the time we get to the end. But it's all of those things. We like to go ahead and we like to go outside of our little circle and we like to worry about all of these other things and he's saying it doesn't solve anything. They're still outside of your control. You can't change one minute of your lifespan. And that's his main point. So I hope that you're catching a couple different things there. That one, that we are not supposed to be spending our days worrying. But specifically that we're not to be worrying about those things that are outside of our control. There is a distinction that's going on here. There is a we could call it a healthy concern. Sometimes people condemn worry, period, but there are distinctions that need to be made. We are supposed to be prudential and concerned about things I'll just define it this way. Worry, you know what worry is in this passage? Not trusting God. That's what worry is. You can be concerned about things and trust God There's actually a physiological response in us when certain things happen that the adrenaline kicks up, or people like to tell me my cortisol levels are way off right now, or whatever it is. And that God has made us a certain way to become a heightened response to where we can take responsibility and dominion over the specific areas of our life. And that's not the kind of worry that he's talking about. He's talking about faithlessness as a problem. And we'll go over that on the last point. But here you can see Jesus is concerned about worry, and he doesn't want his disciples worried about the things that are outside of their control stay within the circle. Now, he gives us two different reasons on why we are not to worry. And some of you will find these reasons to be the most unsatisfactory reasons ever given to mankind. But I think that that's part of the point. I think that's part of the point. Jesus is pinpointing and going right to the heart with us. showing us this really is, these are good reasons because I know what the real problem is. And the real problem will be the third point. So what are the reasons that he gives here? Jesus intends, number one, reason number one is that Jesus intends for our lives to be about more than chasing after possessions and food. It's an argument from the intent of the Creator. And you can see this in verses uh just starting off in verse So let's go ahead and look there together. Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. And then he says Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? In other words, the Creator didn't design you to only be worrying about those things That there are supposed to be other things within our life that we are supposed to be involved with. Now, we're not going over this verse this time, but if you were to go down the verse number 31, Jesus is going to say You should be concerned with my kingdom and my righteousness, not just about food and clothing. You're missing the point of life. In fact, food is for the sake of these other things. Clothing is so that you can do these other things. Let's not stop short of the ultimate purposes that God has given to us. He brings this out in Matthew 13, 22, especially. I really encourage you to remember that and being able to understand this specific passage. He says this in the parable of the sower. Please remember this. Jesus is teaching on the same thing. He says, now he who received seed among the thorns is he who hears the word. And the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful. Now, how is it that a person becomes unfruitful in that particular regard? It's because they are only focused on the food and the clothing and they're not producing anything for God. That's Jesus' point. The life is more than just hustling after the necessities of life. That's what the Creator intends. Now that's the very first reason that is given to us is that is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Well that's a really great point, our Lord. Thank you so much for making that Another reason that he gives is that God the Father is committed to taking care of us. And that's the one I expect us to find the most unsatisfactory. Now it will sound the most spiritual, but this is the one that we struggle with the most. God the Father is committed to taking care of us. And the main argument is if God feeds and clothes animals and plants, how much more would He feed you, His own children? That's the main argument. Is that simple? That's what Jesus is getting at here. Now you see that in the passage. You see his continuing this food and the drink and then the clothing. So let's look at the passage together. on where he says that. He says in verse number 26, number one, look at the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap, nor gather into barns. You see how he's concerned about the food, sowing and reaping? Food and drink. That's still the first point. Yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? So he wants you to look and he wants you to see that he takes care of the animals, just like we saw in the psalm from the bulletin, and then he's just making an argument to the greater and saying, How much more valuable are you as his children than them? But the main point is that you sh the the reason not to worry is because your heavenly father takes care of you. And then the second one that he gives has to go on with the clothing and then he brings in the idea of the flowers. He says So why do you worry about clothing? Verse number 28. Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. And yet I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Now if God so clothes the grass of the field, which is to which today is and tomorrow is thrown into the fire, how much more will he clothe you? So he takes care of grass. How much more valuable are you to him? Certainly he'll take care of you. So he points that out. And then I'd say going along with that, and you might want to add this as a third reason if you want, is Jesus takes the time to point out he is your father. You see the language that he uses, pulling again from the Lord's Prayer, he does point that out here in verse number 26. He says, yet your heavenly father feeds them. And that's the point. Is that if you look at how your father, what his character is, look at how he treats the animals. Look at how he treats the plants. How much more valuable are you to your father? Therefore, if he's going to take care of them, he'll take care of you. And if he's taking care of you, guess what? Don't worry. That's it. That's the argument that Jesus wants to give. Now When we hear that argument, if you are like me and you're a little bit crazy, then you think When Jesus gives those examples of the birds, you think, Well, I was just driving in my pickup truck and I hit one the other day, and boy it s net stat snapped and it flew off the side of the road and It doesn't look like birds are that well taken care of. So how am I supposed to be gaining any kind of comfort from this analogy? Anybody else ever have thoughts like that? The the chuckles said it all. The chuckles said it all. And you have to work for a while to be able to resolve that kind of thing. But here the the the lesson doesn't change with Jesus Christ. It's still you would need to trust him where he would permit even those kinds of things. That he's good and he's still taking care of you. Now that's really difficult. That's really difficult. But I will say, if you were to talk to any saint who has gained wisdom from God on who God really is, even if that saint would have been torn apart by wild animals. Afterward, and then looking back with an enlightened understanding, they would say even that was good, and it was right for me to trust in him the entire time. That's what they would end up saying. And that ends up being the really difficult part for us. Because there are some situations where we're happy to trust him, but there are many other situations when things become pretty difficult. And we don't trust him, and that's why we worry, and that brings us into the third point. But don't take away from the second point. Literally, Jesus just says to you, don't worry, because your Father takes care of you And that's really where he keeps it. So we have to wrestle with that as the disciples of Jesus Christ, just as they would. And that brings us to verse number 30, right there at the end with our final point. That the main issue with us, it says in verse number 30, is that we struggle with little faith. Oh you of little faith. Matthew six thirty. Our main issue is that we don't Now what does he mean by faith here? He just simply means we struggle in that we do not trust our Heavenly Father. We do not trust Him. We have little faith. Now there are different examples throughout the scriptures that are given to us where Jesus has said this. And you could think, for example, of when Peter is invited out onto the water. And the wind and the waves kick up, and Peter begins to sink, and Jesus says, comments on this, talking about his little faith. It's the same kind of thing. And that's a great example for us because you could really connect with Peter and say, well, of course I started to worry. Look at what's going on here. Number one, I've never walked on water before Only did that on AI. Number two, look at the wind and the waves and what's going on, but Jesus still doesn't see that as a situation where God should be doubted. Because Jesus' faith is strong. He trusts the Heavenly Father and our Heavenly Father. And there are other examples within the scriptures too. where Jesus diagnoses our main heart issue is that we have little faith. Now one writer says, faith in Matthew means the confidence that God can and will act on his people's behalf Without that, however much a person may believe intellectually, they are for practical purposes faithless. I'll just say that again because I thought that was so good. This one writer wrote, faith in Matthew means the confidence that God can and will act on his people's behalf. Without that, however much a person may believe intellectually, they are for practical purposes faithless. Now I mentioned earlier with regard to this problem that it began when we departed from our God in Adam and Eve in the garden. And ever since that time when we have been working by the sweat of our brow, and the world has become a miserable place Worry has entered into our souls, and by worry I mean not trusting that our Father will take care of us And that is our main problem. But what we end up seeing here within these disciples and the way that he has taught all of the Sermon on the Mount is that Jesus is specifically working on that problem within us. I would say that that's the main problem that Jesus is working on in us as his disciples all the way through our lives until we enter into glory. is that we would have belief in who God really is and act on it and not unbelief That we would not have little faith, but we would have great faith. And that is so important to our Lord that He puts you in situation after situation after situation to where you can learn. Under the superintendence of the Holy Spirit, that God really is good and He really is trustworthy. Now I know some of you who you have been through way some things that I have never seen. You have been through some real difficulties, and those who are indwelt by the Holy Spirit, do you know what the Spirit has done in you? The Spirit did not make you a person that trusts God less in the middle of that misery. The Spirit made you a person who trusts God more. And that's what Jesus is after here. That's why worry is so important. He's not concerned about just giving you another book on anxiety That's not his focus. His focus, as it has always been, ever since we began this sermon, is you as the congregation, your relationship with God. That it is meant to be personal and intimate and meaningful and full of trust. If there is not trust, then it breaks. And that's what he's working on here. Now there are other things you could trust in, aren't there? I've had it happen within myself. There are temptations inside of me where it would just say I have heard the old man say inside of my own mind, just give me a bunch of money so I don't need to rely on you. That's what what I would want at a certain point in time. And thank God, Jesus has not given me a bunch of money. You heard it here first And I know that those same kind of thoughts come through your mind. We would much rather b worship manon and have feel like everything is under our control with limitless kind of wealthy power. And God does choose to give some of you wealth. And there's nothing wrong with that. But the point here is that Jesus wants you trusting in the Father and not in these other things. And he wants you to do so in a way to where you're not skeptical about life. You're not bitter about your existence. You're not stuck in existential angst. You're not stuck in depression. You're not constantly anxious. He wants, because of your trust in God the Father, that though you are experiencing misery, you still have a holy contentment and joy. That's what Jesus is working on here, and that's why I find these teachings perhaps my favorite in the Sermon on the Mount He again is calling us to reflect on our relationship with our Heavenly Father. That's the theme on the whole thing. Jesus commands us, his disciples, not to worry about the things outside of our control. Why? Because God cares for us more than the plants and the animals, and we see Him taking care of those things, so He'll take care of us. But you know what is the main issue here? The main issue is that we lack trust in God. And yet, nevertheless, that is the very thing that he is continually working on, that we would be able to trust him, especially during the hard times and in our misery. Now, I have a I've had a I was under a mentor for a very long time, and I had the privilege of being able to hear his teaching on this. And see some of you this is going to sound trite. But I the more I have thought about it, and I've had quite a few years now to, well, over ten years now to think about it He he was really on to something. Uh when he taught this same passage one Sunday morning, he said a pretty good way to summarize what Jesus is doing here is was captured by a um a song written by Bobby McFerrin titled Don't Worry, Be Happy. You can look it up. Don't worry, be happy. At first I thought, wow, man, what a l that's lame. But over time, as the more I get the opportunity to meditate on what Jesus is doing here, that's really what he's saying to his people. Now I did you hear my little emphasis there at the end? That is what he's saying to his people. If you are not United to Jesus Christ and a follower of God, you have a lot to worry about. If you're not able to call him your Father who is in heaven, you have a major problem. You may not rest assured. That anything is taken care of. We do read in the scriptures that he sends his rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. So he has been very merciful to you. But I'm telling you right now, now is the day to where you're going to want to reconcile that to where through Jesus Christ you are able to call him. Father and not God, but my God. My God. That's number one But then number two, I really like the simplicity of the don't worry, be happy. I really Jesus did not give some long involved dissertation on the nature of anxiety or the nature of the uh the twisted necks of sparrows off of bouncing off of our cars. He didn't come up with an entire theodicy is what they would call that, a justification for the different uh difficult, miserable things we see in life, a justification of God. He doesn't give a whole theodicy here. Instead, he basically says to us, because your heavenly Father cares for you, don't worry, be happy. I think that can bring us back to a kind of touchstone on where are we in our own souls. What is going on in our own hearts? We like to complicate things. I'm worried because of this, and I worry because of that. And I Jesus is saying, let's just go, maybe some of that is true, but let's go ahead and push it all to the side You worry, and the way that we're defining worry right now, you worry because you actually don't trust God And that's where we need to stay. And if we can start to work in that area by way of our prayer and talking to our fellow Christians about the struggle we're having with trusting God. then we you will find in your own experience that when you move into a place where you do begin to trust him no matter what the misery is that you'll face you'll find You know what? Jesse was right up there when he talked about the Bobby McFarron song. It really is kind of kinda as simple as, don't worry, be happy. There is a kind of joy that the Holy Spirit gives us when we are trusting our Father that is not achieved or and there is no peace like it. Than the one that He gives when there is the exercise of faith. Now I encourage you, I mentioned to you, and this is going to be the final thing that I say, I encourage you to really talk to each other about your struggles. Now don't talk to somebody who's going to share all your stuff on Facebook. But talk to somebody that you know who has been through it and has come out the other side believing more in God. And there are plenty of you here. I call you veterans. There are plenty of you here. If you were to go and ask the Lord, who should you talk to? Who should you share your unbelief with? Go and share that with them. And then if someone comes and shares this with you, tell them the story of your misery and how God proved Himself through it that He's trustworthy and that He's good. Share with them the fruit that he brought out of your misery, how he reclaimed the years that the locusts ate. Do that, and may the Holy Spirit use the testimony of the people that are around you that planted you that planted in this were planted in this area for that very purpose. May he use that testimony for you to be able to grow in your faith. For you really to believe that God loves you more than the grass. That God loves you more than the sparrows. That God loves you as a son and as a daughter. whom he has adopted in Jesus Christ, who, while you were still in sin, sent his son to die for you. that your relationship would have you'd have nothing between you. Nothing between you and Christ Jesus. You could boldly approach his throne and say, Abba, Father. In your prayers to Him. And He is ready and He is willing to help you because He loves you. Don't worry. Be happy. Your Heavenly Father loves you. Let us pray