Together to Matthew chapter six. Our reading today is thirty-one through thirty-four I'll start at 31. You can follow along. Therefore do not be saying, what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For after all these things the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about its own things. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I ask that you would work through this preached word, that by your Holy Spirit, that you would teach your people. I pray, Lord, that they would grow, that we would grow in our trust of you, Lord, especially And Lord, that this would lead to a godly joy that would be a witness to the world. And we pray, Lord, that you would use that kind of a light to bring people to salvation in you. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. I imagine that if I was able to spend even just five minutes with you, I bet you that we all that I would notice something that you all hold in common. If I were to listen to you closely, or if I were to take a look and see, well, what are the books that are on their nightstand? Or what was the last YouTube video they watched or whatever it is, I think what I would end up finding is that all of you have this in common, and that is that you're all trying or striving to grow or to become better at something. And I think that that's a good impulse. I think that's natural to us. And it's an impulse that we really should pay attention to, especially Not just a kind of natural impulse to get better, say like at baseball or something, or to be able to knit the largest crochet blanket in the history of the world, whatever it is you're striving for. But what is it? Let's not do that. But when we're talking here today, there's an impulse that the Holy Spirit gives us And the Holy Spirit gives us the impulse to move away from darkness and to grow as children of light. And that means that there's something, there's a divine power, a divine person really working within you that you would be able to grow more and more in the image of Christ throughout your life. Well the good news when we come to especially the Sermon on the Mount is that that is Jesus' main concern. You'll notice, and maybe this is helpful to you, which is why I bring it up as an introduction, it was helpful to me You'll notice that in the Sermon on the Mount, the main category under which Jesus is operating is that he's seeking for you to grow as his disciple. and as his disciples. Think back think back on the whole Sermon on the Mount. Consider the Beatitudes and look at the ways in which he disciples you there. He tells you that it's actually a good thing for you to be meek of heart before God. And that we should encourage those things and stir that up within us. Or you could go on in the Sermon on the Mount, and Jesus is very concerned that you don't follow other religious examples Like we see in the scriptures of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Our righteousness is to exceed the righteousness of the Sadducees and the Pharisees. Well, in what ways? Well, Jesus brings out that we really need to make sure that we're growing in our understanding of what is God intend for his different commands. You know, for example, if you think that it's okay for well, you see the different examples that he gives that really at the heart of his his laws are that you would be able to love one another. And that you would not just love each other on the outside, but that you would love each other from the heart. And that really has been the biggest section of the Sermon on the Mouth so far, hasn't it? That Jesus is very concerned that we would grow in not being hypocritical. That we wouldn't just have a veneer of religion But that instead we would worship him and serve him from the heart. And now he's not asking you to just do that on your own. That would be impossible on your own What he's alerting you to here by in in this introduction, what he's alerting you to is that he has sent you his Holy Spirit, and as his disciples He is creating you more and more in his image, who uh is not a hypocrite, that you're actually going to love God because you really love him And your actions will be a sign of actually what is really within your heart. Now that goes for religious practices too, things like tithing. That's covered in the Sermon on the Mount. All this practical discipleship stuff, prayer, that's covered in the Sermon on the Mount. And here we have been going through another section in the Sermon on the Mount lately where Jesus is still concerned that we would not be a hypocrite but continue to serve him by not having our treasures here on earth where moth and rust destroy, that uh we would not be uh serving the wrong master And here lately he has been focused on a really practical subject, which is worry. So you see all of the ways in which he wants you to grow? And that he's calling you to grow by the power of his Holy Spirit in this last way is worry. I wonder how much you've worried this past week. I will confess to you that last night I laid down in my bed finally And I looked up at the ceiling and I said to the Lord, Lord, please help me with my worry. I was the one who gave the sermon last week. And I still really struggled with worry all week long. It seemed like it was just a a natural part of me But you know, I was able to offer that prayer, which tells me there's some progress that's happening. There's a little progress there in him helping me not to worry. Now what he's going to do here today in our passage is he's going to continue that discourse on worry and he's going to basically do so in two ways. What he's going to give us here is he's going to give us a summary of his commands and reasons So you can write that down, just a summary of his commands and reasons. So there is a main summary before us, and then there is going to be a main focus. And be praying for others around you and even for yourself that the Lord would really let you take these things to heart today, okay? In the main summary and in the main focus. So let's start together by looking at verses 31 through 34 first at the main summary. Jesus ends up summarizing here his main command. and the main reasons for his command. Look at verse number 31. He says, therefore do not worry. That's the main command. And then he continues the command in saying, saying, what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? And then the main reason is for all these things the Gentiles seek, for your Heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. So that's the main command and the main reason. You'll notice that the reason why I called this the main summary though is that the man the main command there about not worrying about eating and drinking and clothing. Do you notice that that's everything that he has talked about up to this point? Don't worry about the food or how you will clothe yourself. or what you will dr what your what you will eat, what you will drink, or how you will clothe yourself, does he not take care of all of creation in those specific ways? Does he not feed the birds? And does he not clothe the flowers? Right? So eating and drinking is feeding and then clothing clothing the flowers. So it's a total summary of what Jesus has taught us so far. So I don't need to go through that. You can just refer to last week's sermon. But that main command is, again, he's concluding here, and he's saying, do not worry about eating and drinking and clothing. And I just want to remind you from last week that an important way in which we summarize that is to say Jesus is calling each of you as his followers to not worry about things that are outside of your control. You o you ought to make that just something you write down or put on the refrigerator or something, and that is do not worry about things outside of your control. And that's not just an aspiration that is supposed to be a statement about reality, is that if the thing is outside of your crow control, God's not giving it to you to worry about If the thing is in the category of outside of my control, then he's not giving you to worry about that. And I gave you last week two circles. There are things that God wants you to be concerned about, diligent concern. He wants you really thinking hard and laboring over making sure his will is done with things that he's given you responsibility for. You need to take that seriously. But then there's this whole other world of things that are outside of your control where you're not supposed to be taking those up as if they're your direct responsibility. And that's where we run into problems is when we cross over the line of the little bubble over into the universe of omnipotence. We don't want to do that. Now that's the first part of the summary is that there is that main command. Do not worry about the things outside of your control. And then again, he just gives us a summary again of the reasons for which we would be able to adopt that, and that is this. The main reason was that was and still is that we can trust that our Heavenly Father gives his attention to us. Do you see that? You see it right there in 30 in 32. He compares to the life of a Gentile. So presumably Without God in your life, it is consumed with anxious worry, and you have to figure out all kinds of ways to try to take control of everything That would be the way of the Gentile according to this passage. But then he says, but there's a different way, and that's a way that recognizes that your heavenly Father already knows all of the things that you need. Do you see that? For your Heavenly Father knows that you need all of these things. He is already paying attention to your life and is committed to you as your father to make sure that you are taken care of. Now that's just a summary of what he had said earlier when he said, Has he not committed himself to the birds? And has he not considered himself to the flowers? And of how much more value are you than birds and flowers That's the main argument. Now I think it's telling that Jesus doesn't go into a tremendous philosophical detail here, working out every single case study that might come to your mind. I think it's an indication that we are to take Jesus' word for it, that he knows whether or not God is reliable. He says that he is and that he actually really does care about you, and he wants you to just believe him. As his disciples. And I think one of the reasons why he does that is because I think to entertain all of the questions we have about this would be unending. I find the questions never end. Eventually you have to just say Jesus is right, and I will eventually discover that by his word and experience. That the Father really has been paying attention to me the whole time. I will testify to you, just to I don't know, I've never said the word testify to you. I feel really iff right now. I will say to you that that has been my experience. When especially I look at hindsight 2020, when I'm in the middle of being miserable, I usually think God is evil. When he brings me out of it, he shows me he never was and this was always good. And I imagine you have those same experiences. So Jesus so far is right. Even in my experience. Of course he's right. Now, I wanted to give an illustration that I thought was really helpful with these different summaries of that we're not to be concerned of things outside of our control, and the main reason is that our Heavenly Father knows all the things that we need I wanted to give an illustration of just how God pays attention to us. There's a time in my life that I want, it seems like a time you have to go through as a child. Does everybody here have uh this experience where you as a child got lost in a department store or a grocery store? Does everybody have the same horrific experience of being like four and then lost in a department store? I'm I w this is really gonna like date me, but I remember getting lost in Caldor. Does anybody remember Caldor? Yes? Yeah, Caldor. Thank you. Uh I remember being lost in Caldor And I was in some aisle and I was happy because I was with my mom. And then all of a sudden, after I had been distracted for a minute, I started to look around and I couldn't see my mother anywhere Uh and uh eventually w what ended up happening, I'm here today, I wasn't kidnapped by a cartel or anything. The what ended up happening was I ended up looking and lo and behold she was down at the other end of the aisle and she had her eye on me the whole time. It was just me who wasn't aware of where she was. I wonder if you had a a similar experience. And more appropriately to this passage, imagine that you're with your father. Let's move it to Bass Pro. And let's just say you get lost in Bass Pro as a four-year-old and you think that you are lost and then you realize your father has had his eye on you the whole time That feeling you have of thinking that no one sees you, that no one is taking care of you, and no one pays attention to you, that is a feeling we have often in our lives and it is an experience that we have when we're like four years old and we get lost in a department store or in the safe way. But we find that our father was looking after us the entire time. And that's a similar message or an analogous message that's what's being what's being portrayed here by Jesus is that you may have felt lost, but God had his eye on you the whole time. He's always paying attention to you as his child. Always. Now do you know that he was actually revealed himself that way and it was re-a certain name was recorded for God because he's like that. Does anybody know that name by the way? The one who seized me? El Rui. El Rui. E-L-R-O-I. El Rui. And that comes from the story of Hagar where Hagar thought that she had basically been left alone in this world, but God reveals himself as the one who sees her. Now I was reading a counselor on the story of Hagar, and she ended up saying over and over again in the grand narrative of the Bible, God reveals himself as the God who sees us personally and intimately. But the first time he reassures a struggler with this truth, she, Hagar, uses a new name for him that seals this attribute as an unchangeable part of our understanding of God. El Roy. Through Hagar's story of pain and desperation found in Genesis 16, God revealed Himself to be the one who knows us intimately, seeing our sorrows and struggles and caring about the specific details of our lives in ways that actually move him. And then she raises these questions, which I think are excellent, that I've been taking to my own heart. Has God broken through a dark place in your life with his presence in a way that fuels you with hope, strength, and peace beyond yourself? If yes, take time to worship L. Roy. Who does this for our good and his glory? If not, talk to someone who can help you learn to know God in this way as El Roy. As El Roy. And I mentioned that last week that we really do need each other and our experiences with El Roy. to know that our God really does pay attention to us and therefore we don't need to worry about things that are outside of our control. That's the summary that Jesus gives us here. But then he moves from a main summary over into a main focus. And Jesus' main focus here is found in verse number 33. His main focus is this. His main focus is for you. Instead of spending time worrying, is to seek his kingdom and his righteousness. And that's the main focus. That's really the heart of the whole passage, because it's summarizing what he has given to us in terms of the rest of the passage, that we're to have not have two masters, that we're to have all kinds of uh our life is meant to live for him specifically. Jesus' main focus is for you to seek God's kingdom and to seek his righteousness. So let me just ask you real quick Do you find that keeping your focus and your priority as God and his kingdom, do you find that that is easy? No. All right. On the left it's a no. Although what about on the right the right's very quiet today? It actually isn't just like a personal problem or a personality issue that keeps us from wanting to prioritize God. It's actually something that is very deep within us. I imagine you've heard of things like original sin. Original sin is a teaching, and we're basically just asking the question, well, what is the origin of of my inclination to always be bent away from God instead of toward him. Where does that come from? And there's a story given to us in Adam and Eve where we're inheriting this inclination or a bent that is away from God. Anybody here ever read uh Martin Luther's Bondage of the Will? His main point in there is that the will isn't neutral. So it's not free in a neutral way. Rather, the the will is already bent in a particular direction, and therefore it's only free to move in that particular direction. In other words, it's bound, or there is a bondage that the will has to only move in a certain direction. So the fact that you find it difficult even after Jesus Christ has given you the Holy Spirit is evidence that there is that inheritance that has been received from Adam and Eve, that it's not easy for us. We're not naturally bent towards wanting to serve God, His kingdom, and His righteousness. And it ends up working out in generation after generation after generation after generation after generation after generation. You not only have the basic inclination and bent that is inherited from Adam and Eve You also have the actual ways that has been worked out by our genealogies In other words, you can look at your life right now in the ways in which you don't really consider God's kingdom and his righteousness, and you could explain it, of course, always by the choices that you make. But you have to also explain it by saying it's also a part of my family history. I love the image of the iceberg because there's these decisions that I make that are right here up on the surface, but then if you were to look closely Underneath of the water is this huge mass that has continued over time where you keep inheriting These habits that have been passed down to you from your great-great-great-great-grandfather that has made its way through the family all the way up into the present way in which you are today I would be willing to bet if we could somehow grab a hold of somebody from the Civil War with the last name Crutchley from Anaron County. I bet you if you hung out with him you'd say, you know what? He reminds me of Jesse with the off-putting humor that he just can't seem to shake. Or whatever it is. Or other crutch lace. I've gotten much better with my humor. Now it's just dad jokes that are clean, mostly. But there is that part of us that we struggle that doesn't make it easy. And the way that that ends up boiling down is that Jesus, as Jesus' disciple, he's calling you to live for his kingdom and for his righteousness But you have these other forces tugging on you where instead I will live in a different way, which will basically be for manon. That's the way the scripture gives it to us instead of for his kingdom and his righteousness. And what Jesus needs to do is Jesus is is doing and needs to do is he teaches us day in and day out how to take every single aspect of our lives. and bring it over into his kingdom and into his righteousness. I've heard people say about their families' past. And all of the habits that they inherit the bad habits they inherited from their grandfathers. I've heard exam uh examples an example um for example, someone saying they inherited a kind of racist disposition. I've seen that too. I've seen it just run through families where that uh is a habit that was established and then the person became a Christian. And they realize that Jesus is working that habit out of them, so that part of their family tree is going to stop now. Another would be the way in which booze was handled. Stops with Jesus Christ. That part of the iceberg is going to go away. And Jesus here is saying that in every single thing within your life, that's what we're going to focus on. We're going to focus on my kingdom and my righteousness in everything. That's what I want your focus to be. That's what I want you to be concerned about. And these other things are going to fall into place because your Heavenly Father knows exactly what you need. That's his main focus, is your his kingdom and his righteousness. Jesus is discipling us toward God's kingdom and righteousness. Now what does that mean if we were to get into some of the specifics? It means your intentions. I'm going to take some stuff from the Sermon on the Mount. Didn't he talk about our intentions? The way that we do th the reason why we do things? What about our mindsets? And what about our actions? Our intentions, our mindset, and our actions. Jesus is working in us and is calling us here in this passage that all of those things would be bent in a kingdom. direction. Now how did he cover that in his prayer? Every day we are to ask, your kingdom come and your will be done here on earth as it is in heaven. How did he put that earlier in the Sermon on the Mount? I want your righteousness to exceed that of the scribes and the Pharisees. You see my kingdom and my righteousness. Both of those things are already present in the Sermon on the Mount. These aren't new concepts And Jesus is calling us to focus on those things. The intention to make sure that our uh to work with the Holy keep in step with the Holy Spirit in the transformation of our hearts and motives. And especially in the form of hypocrisy. You know, that's a lot to say about that particular section, but One of the ways I think that is easiest to put it, if you wanted to just wake up every morning and try to remember, well, what does Jesus want me to focus on? It would be this. You would ask this question. What pleases my Lord? Ever since I became a Christian, I have asked the question, what does God want? I asked it from the moment the scales fell from my eyes. That's been my main question. I remember asking silly questions like, does God want me to drink Coke or Pepsi? And I was all part of it w just working out how was I supposed to relate to him. But I like this way of putting it, and this is after many, many years of wrestling with this, I really like just this way of putting it. What pleases my Lord? What pleases my Lord. That is supposed to be on our hearts and on our minds and in our prayers with absolutely everything within our lives. And I'm not talking about like the big things. Of course, if there are big things in your life, then God wants you to ask the question, what pleases my God in this big thing? But our lives don't really consist of those things. Our lives consist of all these small things every day. Just the normal stuff of life. And with every one of those things The question that Jesus wants us to ask based on this passage is, what pleases my Lord? What would bring his kingdom to earth now as it is in heaven? And as I mentioned, it will mean turnings from some of the ways that you have inherited from your family. One way that we sometimes inherit from our family is that the way that I am going to address this is by way of shame and anger. And Jesus will say, I want to call you to a new way. We're not going to do that anymore. There is a righteous anger, but I'm talking about an unrighteous one. And there are many other ways that Jesus is calling you to ask the question, what pleases my Lord? I wonder if there's anybody here who has had a problem with unrighteous anger, and the Lord has been working with you, and when you finally ask the question, Lord, what pleases you? He said, not this unrighteous anger. And then he helped you to develop over time a patience for things and for people. And I wonder if he did that by revealing yourself to you and just how bad you are. So that you could have patience for other people instead of being condescending to them thinking you're better than the rest. Then you realized, hey, we're all living by grace. We're all equal at the foot of the cross. You hear people start to say things like that? I think that's them. I think Jesus is teaching them all of those different lessons, at least for the reason so that they can say, you know what? Instead of just having an outburst of wrath again, like my dad did, I'm going to, in the name of Jesus Christ, please him and do something different. I'm going to be patient, I'm going to correct, and I'm going to be gentle. And then you were able to do that for five minutes and that was it. But that is what Jesus is talking about here. And I think that question, I really, I give you that question. I hope it really helps you. I actually got it from a theologian named John Frame. I was reading his ethics book, which is like this wide, and the one thing I got out of it was, what a great question, what pleases my Lord? And I've taken that away. There's another author that says, our goal is not obedience in the abstract when Jesus teaches us here to focus on his kingdom in righteousness. but participation in a specific historical program. So everything we do should in some way contribute to the progress of that kingdom program. Not only should our lives be righteous, but we should be seeking to establish God's righteousness on the earth. Well that's the main summary. Don't worry because your Heavenly Father sees you. And that's the main focus. bringing God's kingdom to our everyday in and day out decisions. I want to address the mindset in closing. I'd encourage you to write down on paper or to start practicing this to try to get into the habit, and I think habits are very important here. That you would start asking the question in order to get into the right the right mindset and the right framing of the world is to ask: will this please Jesus and advance God's kingdom? Will this please Jesus and advance God's kingdom? Now I don't mean just for the big stuff, like I mentioned. The clothes that I'm wearing Does this please Jesus and advance God's kingdom? The way that I spend my time. The people that I long to be in relationship with. The way that I respond to certain people in my relationships. The plans that I have for my future. This hot girl that I'm interested in. This handsome boy that I'm interested in. That's the question for all of those kinds of things and more. Should I get the Tupperware or the real glass containers? You think I'm joking around, but go ahead and ask the question, is this please God? and his kingdom and advance his kingdom. Now one of the things that is going to happen is you're going to have, I think, two different answers. This is my experience, I'm just trying to bring in. One answer that you're going to give to yourself is you're going to say, I have no idea. I have no idea what kind of tupperware or glassware I should have. I didn't know that there was a a difference. And I think that that's a place where Jesus uh gives us the opportunity to be able to grow. If we don't know, then we get to be patient as he teaches us, basically, to be able to grow in wisdom in every single area of our life. And I bet you that over time, as you walk with Jesus Christ over the course of your life, you will find that you do have legitimate answers to questions that are that seem quite trivial about like Tupperware. You'll be able to reason through that with wisdom and you'll know. And everything will be set up for his kingdom and for his righteousness, and you'll see how it's perfectly fitting for the life that he has specifically given to you. Another answer that you could get when you ask, is this for Jesus' kingdom and his righteousness? The answer will be no. And yet your heart is still drawn toward it. And you still make the decision. And this reveals to us our desperate need for a Savior who provides forgiveness for us every time we choose to not live for His kingdom and His righteousness. Which will happen a lot every single day. But you know, he doesn't want you to just stay there and say, you know, you didn't live for my kingdom and for my righteousness, and we don't need to talk about it anymore. It's you didn't live for my kingdom and my righteousness. I'm waiting now for you to start paying attention and realize how horrible of a decision that was, and that your happiness resides in you choosing my will So you can see that no matter what ends up happening, when you ask this question and you start to get those different answers over time, the one thing that is That is all the way through all of them, the thread that runs through all of them is that Jesus Christ is faithful and he's working to make you grow in his image. He's turning you away from the darkness, and he's giving you more and more wisdom in the light to where you know how every single thing within your life fits according to his will. Now everything fits according to his will. And that is a mindset that is supposed to grow over time. You're never going to arrive at the completion of that mindset, but that is our goal, and that's actually what is already happening to you Day in and day out. And the main question for you here this morning is, in what areas is Jesus calling you to follow him as your king? I just want you to think for just a moment as we're coming as we're going to end here in just like 30 seconds. What are the areas of your life where you have never asked the question? Let's start with some of the more serious ones. Where are you not even asking the question about Jesus' kingdom and his righteousness? This is not the time to beat yourself up. This is the time where Jesus is waking you up and saying, ask the question. What would please me? You're my new creation. You're created to please me. And I'd encourage you to start asking that question today. Let's pray