Riches, feed me with the food allotted to me, lest I be fool and deny you and say, Who is the Lord? Or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of God. Pray. Heavenly Father, I pray for your congregation tonight that your word preached would be faithful and true, that it would be like an arrow striking the heart. I pray, Lord, they would not just be hearers, but doers of your word. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we were in chapter 29 of Proverbs, or not last week, but the last time I preached, we were in uh chapter 29 of Proverbs. Or uh yes, chapter twenty-nine of Proverbs, verse number twenty five. It's a pretty familiar concept where it w it reads, The fear of man brings a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord shall be safe. I read to you a little section from Ryle. I'd like just by way of review to review that with you. From our last time together in the Proverbs, he said, the fear of man will indeed prove to be a snare. It is terrible to observe the power which it has over most minds and especially over the minds of the young. Few seem to have any opinions of their own or to think for themselves. Like dead fish, they go with the stream and the tide. What others think is right, they think is right. And what others call wrong, they call wrong too. The thought, what will my friends say or think of me? It nips many a good inclination in the bud. The fear of being looked at, laughed at, ridiculed prevents many a good habit from being taken up. There are Bibles that would be read this very day if the owners dared. They know they ought to read them, but they are afraid. What will people say? There are knees that would be bent in prayer this very night, but the fear of man forbids it. What would my wife or my brother or my friends or my companions say if they saw me praying, oh what a wretched slavery this is, and yet how common And then he goes on with uh where I left you off, which was a motto for us to adopt instead, in accordance with the proverb. I fear God, and therefore I have no one else to fear. I fear God, and therefore I have no one else to fear. Now we move on to a different proverb here in chapter 30 and if your Bible is like mine you'll see that there's a new superscription and a title The Wisdom of Agor And he is unfolding his wisdom first in verses 1 through 6, and then he's going to continue here in 7 through 9. And um and then we're going to keep going with him as he starts to list um two things, um, four things, things like that. that but tonight is seven through nine and this is the first time actually congratulations this is the first time where in the book of Proverbs you're actually reading So what we have before us is a prayer from uh this wisdom literature, and I'd like to just make a few observations with you and then we can we can see See how useful this is. First you'll notice just in verse number seven, quite obviously, that he is praying for two things. Two things I request of you, verse seven, deprive me not before. The very first thing he lists here in verse number eight, for which he requests from the Lord, is that the Lord would keep him far from lies and And from falsehood. Now that is definitely a mark of what we have seen among the wise within this book. Those who are wise end up going down a particular path If you think of the other Proverbs that we've already reviewed together, Proverbs 12, 22, for example. Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord, but those who deal truthfully are his delight. What a commendation! What a exemplar for us in terms of what life is supposed to look like in covenant with God. Or in Proverbs 6, 16 through 19, it says that there are six things that the Lord hates. And there we did sermons on these. sections. Yes, seven are an abomination to him. A proud look, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that are swift and running to evil. A false witness who speaks lies and one who sows discord among brethren. And though I don't expect you to remember that uh all the way back in chapter six of the preaching of this book, but But if you were to look at that proverb again, you would see and be reminded perhaps of the sermon where I mentioned that the proverb works from the center out. In the center of chapter 6, 16 through 19, is the heart. And from the heart proceeds all kinds of evil. And so if you go up, it'll be evil And it keeps going out like ripples from a stone in a lake that you would drop. Verses 16 through 19 continue the picture of what they would call a worthless person for society. society by listing seven abominable attributes which the Lord hates. And those verses having a center would ripple out from the center like a stone dropped in a pond. Verse 18 of that passage is the heart or the center, and ripple number one would be the hands and the feet. Ripple two, a lying tongue and a false witness. Ripple three, a proud look and discourse And thus the heart and the whole body of the worthless person is used as an instrument to plan and bring evil to this world, destroying God's plan and People. From this heart, he plans to devise ways to destroy God's created order continually. And he is pictured in chapter 6 of Proverbs as a farmer sowing seeds that destroy people, seeds of discord. The word soz is the same word in Proverbs 6 that is used of Samson letting loose the foxes into the Philistine fields, destroying by fire their national economy. And that of course should bring up James in terms of what the tongue can do. And here we see in the wisdom of our Proverb in chapter 30 in verse number 8: it is no wonder. That this wise man asks God for two things, one of which is, please, please keep lying away from me. Keep deceit and discord and falsehood away from me. That's the first part of the prayer that he has. And then he goes into a second part of his prayer here where he mentions that he's concerned. About what happens when people get into a certain socioeconomic status? What are the temptations that come along with being rich? And what are the temptations that come along with being poor? He's thought about it. He's really thought about it. And you can see there in his prayer that he doesn't want poverty. And he doesn't want riches either. Instead, you really could think of the Lord's Prayer here, couldn't you? Please provide me with my daily bread. Feed me with the food allotted to me. That's 8C. Now, this is interesting after he's given that prayer. There's two things. Please Please remove falsehood and lies far from me. Number two, please don't give me poverty, don't give me riches, but just give me my daily bread. We have truthfulness in the positive and modesty. Moderation. Present here in this wise man's prayer, requesting these things from God. And then in verse 9, he reveals to us the main motivations that he has. What is it that energizes him to ask for these things? What are his ultimate goals or his purposes? Well, he says it right here in verse number nine. The first is that he's concerned that if he does have riches, he would be so fool that he would deny and he would say, Who is God? Now, this is a not exactly super clear in the English, but if you get the opportunity to look at the at the original language that he's writing in, it's not just that he He ha would have some kind of spiritual amnesia in forgetting him. The denial here is more along the line of what we see in Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel 4. 30. Listen to the attitude present in Nebuchadnezzar. The king spoke saying, Is not this great Babylon that I have built for a royal dwelling by my mighty power for the honor of God? My majesty. There is an old word we could use here where there's a haughtiness that enters, where you no longer believe that you need God God, you're starting to eliminate a distinction between a creature and a creator, not seeing any need for your creator, which is following Folly and insanity to begin to think that way. Instead, listen to the psalmist who's in their right mind from Psalm 145, 14, and thirty sixteen, and one of a favorite set of my verses of verses that that I I love. The Lord upholds all who fall, and He raises up all who are bowed down. The eyes of all look expectantly to you, and you give them their food in due season. Verse number sixteen is such a picture coming up here. Verse number 16 is such a picture of our rightful place or our place with God and who He is. You open your hand and satisfy the desire of every living thing. Imagine being a human being where you don't think you need God to open his hand at all. That's what the proverbist is concerned about. So he doesn't want to get to the point where he's so safe So full that he begins to have those kind of thoughts like we see within Daniel 430 and deny the psalm of Psalm 145. That's his first concern is he doesn't want to make it look like God is unnecessary. That man is not Not dependent on God. That man is autonomous and independent. He doesn't want to do that. And then the second that he's concerned about here is in verse number nine, he says, Now if I'm poor, the idea is Then I would steal. And his main motivation there is if he does become a thief, then he'll start to profane the name of God. Profane is also actually a pretty old word. And what he's getting out there is literally in the Hebrew, do violence against the name of God. And you can think of the third commandment on how you would bring dishonor on his name. Because now his people are thieves. And a thief is a person who undermines societal order, destroys the economy. They're truly a troublemaker. Now, after all of those observations, you know, I wonder what sticks out to you on this proverb as the greatest wisdom. Man, there's so much. Here, if we were to kind of squeeze it like a towel full of water, there would be so much water that would come out that would be refreshing. The thing that stands out It looks to me, and it's kind of it's really emphasized here, is that uh perhaps the greatest wisdom of this man Is that he is not only concerned about his own honor and fame, but he's actually more concerned with the honor and fame of his God Do you see that? That's what moves him. It's not his own perfection that moves him. Then the congregation will see that I strive hard as a Christian. He's not in the picture at all being held up and glorified. What's concerning to him is whether or not his God is glorified, although that's the wisdom. The wise are truly motivated by God's glory, his honor, and his fame, and they would want nothing to bring violence to his name. That's the real wisdom here. And in that way, I think the way to go forward on a passage like this is to be able to just see the wisdom. Of Agor to see him as one of those saints that is that is an exemplar for God's people throughout history. Do you remember when we talked about in the Philip that in Philippians In Philippians chapter 3, verse 17, it says Paul says, Brethren, join in following my example, and note those who so walk, as you have us for a pattern. I think the argument here is this guy's a pattern. This is a pattern for humanity. This is a pattern of what it means to be This is one m major manifestation of what it means to walk in the fear of God. the fall that we should all be praying for. It is concern for God's name, concern for God's reputation. You know, we see this in the New Testament too, and that this is one of the concerns, and I think the major concern for Jesus that Jesus has. Concern for God's reputation, but his name would not be profaned. We see in Acts chapter 1, verse 8, he says this with regard to the giving us further insight into He says, But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the day. Let me just ask you, what does he mean when he says we're going to be witnesses? Does he only mean that we are a covenant community that has the right words? That knows the good news? Or do we see within the scriptures that we become a sign or a witness, not only in the good news that we publish and that we preach But also in the community that is formed, the society and the city that is made by the power of the Spirit. Is it that our words are the only witness? Or do our lives also become a witness? And then let me just ask you this a witness to what? We'd have to say if we kept climbing the ladder Matter in answering that question, it would be a witness to how good God is. The beauty of him as our king, the loveliness of him as our prophet, and the words that he speaks to us. Like honey. They're like medicine. He's the great physician, and there's no one in my life that has been able to heal heal me until Jesus Jesus Christ came along. And we get to be witnesses that He's the doctor everyone needs. Everyone else has been searching for a cure and failing. But here we are as a community gathered You want to know who a good doctor is? You want to know who doesn't commit malpractice? It's Jesus Christ, the King that has been anointed by God the Father. Certainly, we're a witness like that. If you were to turn back into your bulletin just looking at some of the scriptures, you are the light of the world. We're to let our light so shine before men, why? So that they would glorify our Father who is in heaven. Why? It's the same kind of thing. So we're seeing that wisdom that's given here in this proverb. By way of the Spirit. The Spirit carries it forward, the same wisdom, generation after generation after generation. And here coming out of the mouth of Christ. He's setting up a kingdom to where this could really happen. Where his people would be known as a wise people. And the top, the apex of their wisdom is seen and that they live their lives, that people would really know who God is, that He's excellent, and that He's good. You know, I had a little bit of experience with this. You know, just when you think you get somewhere with someone who doesn't believe in Jesus Christ, you you find you didn't actually get that far. But the I I remember when I first became a Christian And I had been discipled pretty thoroughly by this point. And I'm attending church regularly. I think I had become a deacon by this point. I started to see people that haven't seen me for a long time. In fact, I remember going to breakfast one morning with Mark and Marcy, and I ran into an old high school buddy And he said, What the blink are you doing, buddy? And I said, Well, you know, I'm a pastor now. And he said, No blink. People were surprised by that. And and then when they would hear who I was now, they would be surprised by that. And no person had more of a front row seat than my father I remember my father trying everything to change me so that I wouldn't destroy my life and destroy my family. And there was nothing he could do. I remember one time sitting outside of an office where I had been suspended from school, and then I hear him crying in the office with the superintendent. Because there was nothing he could do, no matter what he would say to me. He could lock me in my room, I'd climb out the window. Literally, climb down the trees and go do whatever I wanted to do. But then something happened to me. Someone grabbed a hold of me. And I told him it was Jesus Christ. Now he doesn't believe that. But it was the funniest thing to me, after several years of him seeing the changes that he could never make, he came to me one day and he said, he was struggling with my brother. And he said to me, Is there any way that you could get your brother to come to church? Now he was still looking at the church as like a social Institution that was working at the moment. But he was starting to see what all of us should see if we had wisdom. That the God who's changed Changing people, he deserves the kind of reputation where you would want to send people to him to see the changes you've always wanted for your children That's the kind of glory that he has. That's the kind of reputation that he should have. And even my father started to get a little bit of a glimpse of that. You know, what we see here in Agor is, I think, the wisdom that we also see within the Lord's Prayer. Doesn't it sound like he's saying, Oh Lord, would you lead me not into temptation? Would you keep me from lies? And would you keep me from from thinking too much of myself? And would you keep me from Becoming a thief to where your name would be profane. Would you keep me from those temptations? Would you protect me from the evil one? And that's what's in our head. Our Lord's Prayer. Of course, the Lord's Prayer starts with, Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. So that's the main concern there. The Lord's Prayer ends with, your kingdom, for yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. And I think the proverbist is giving some insight here. How do you hollow God's name? How do we make sure we pursue his glory? Well, we ask him to be delivered from temptation. And you know why we ask to be delivered from temptation? First and foremost, it's not so that you would look good with the people around you. It would be because you do not want to bring any violence to the name of your God. Wise people are primarily motivated by the glory of God. I think that's really the message here. When we start to turn it around, spin it, look at it in different angles. I think that's what's going on. What an example. Whether in how we use our mouth or the temptations of different financial situations, may you, the congregation Keep from doing violence to the name of the Lord. And instead, let it be our prayer that we would be able to show people just How good he is. Let us pray