20 through 33. Wisdom calls aloud outside. She raises her voice in the open squares. She cries out in the chief concourses. At the openings of the gates in the city, she speaks her words. How long, you simple ones, will you love simplicity? For scorners delight in their scorning, and fools hate knowledge. Turn at my rebuke. Surely I will pour out my spirit on you. I will make my words known to you. Because I have called and you refused, I have stretched out my hand and no one regarded, because you disdained all my counsel and would have none of my rebuke, I will laugh at your calamity. I will mock when your terror comes, when your terror comes like a storm, and your destruction comes like a whirlwind, when distression and anguish come upon you Then they will call on me, but I will not answer. They will seek me diligently, but they will not find me. Because they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord. They would have none of my counsel and despised my every rebuke Therefore, they shall eat the fruit of their own way, and be filled to the full with their own fancies For the turning away of the simple will slay them, and the complacency of fools will destroy them. But whoever listens to me will dwell safely. And will be secure without fear of evil. Let us pray. Christ, we will learn later that although there is woman wisdom here, Rightfully speaking, you are wisdom, and it is you who are constantly calling out through your various means. Even the means of preaching tonight. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to attend to your word. I pray that we would hang on it. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be conscientious hearers. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Please be seated. Well, it's been some time since we've been together in the evening service. It's nice to get that regular rhythm going again. Now, if you remember, in our last sermon, it was the first part of this first Proverb, and the main lesson from our first sermon in Proverbs Uh really the yeah, the second one maybe. The was from the world of birds. Even birds have enough sense to stay away from nets. They fly away. It happens over and over again. Ask hunters. But not so the fool. And the proverb that was unfolded for us in chapter 1, verse 19, was this: such are the paths of all who go after ill-gotten gain. It takes away the life of those who get it, which is tricky, because the reason why they're going after the gain is to have a good life. But the way they went after it gives them no life at all. That's the reversal, and that's the difficulty. That's the proverb. That's what makes it a proverb, the way that he says that. Those friends said that if you joined them in their scheming, you'd have the good life, but their path only brought death. Well tonight we make a different series of observations and we end up with some different conclusions and new proverbs to memorize I'd like to start with just a few observations and noticing a few things. I can't notice everything. I want to make sure we have plenty of time for prayer. But we will try to focus on the most important things. Here's observation number one. We are introduced to a powerful and active woman. It is woman wisdom. She's very interesting. She does not wait for you to find her She cries aloud for all to pay attention. She actually reminds me, funnily enough, although I haven't seen the whole movie. My children tell me there's a scene in the movie Pollyanna with a preacher who beats on the pulpit and is yelling down at everybody. She reminds me of that, raising her voice, making sure that she's heard. She cries aloud for all to pay attention She is not limited to the home, but if you'll notice in verse 2, and you can study this more and more, she shouts in the marketplace, areas of commerce and finance. At the city gate, she makes her speech, which is where judicial activity takes place. She voices her message in these various settings almost, or maybe like an activist Seeking for her understanding and policies to be adopted by that society. She's quite remarkable. And this brings us to our observation number two. Despite her voice going out, and I'm sure you heard this in the reading, despite her voice going out, we have a problem. People are not attentive to her. They are preoccupied. You can see in verse 22 an increasing degree of hardness of heart. It starts off simple. Then it moves to mocker. Then it moves to fool. They can all be the same people. But they it's a it's a increasing of hardness. Those are those are different qualities that could belong to a person. A simple is not simpleton is not as bad as a mocker and mocker not as bad as a fool But they're all present right there. None of them are listening. They won't pay attention. But the main emphasis seems to be on the simple or the gullible. This is someone, usually a teenager or college age, not all teenagers, not all college age. I'm just this is the age group that tends to struggle struggle with this, but it can be in other age groups The mark of this person is that they remain uncommitted to God and his ways. They know his ways. That is why she says in that same verse, how long will you love these sets of things? She's been patient and waiting. But they delay. And she points out why they delayed because in all honesty, they love being uncommitted There's something that they consider good and beautiful about staying in that uncommitted state of simplicity. Or you notice there it says that they scoffers love scoffing. It is fun for them. It's where they want to be. It's their desire. That is observation number two. Observation number three. Wisdom's main plea, and this is very important, wisdom's main plea is for the uncommitted to repent and commit. This is seen throughout, especially in verse 23, as to what will take place. Turn at my rebuke. The turning there is what repentance really is. Turn at my rebuke. And then she makes these promises. If you do, I will pour out my spirit on you. And if they don't repent, then she will, verse 26, strike them like a storm. This reminded me of I was trying to think of when I wouldn't pay attention and then all of a sudden I'd be in a storm. That's not a usual thing for me. I can usually see it coming and avoid it. Um but I have heard of this happening on the water. And I've spoken to several people who didn't pay attention to the surrounding cloud formations and before they knew it they were surrounded, there was no way out, and the squall was gonna hit and they were holding on for dear life. This is the kind of thing she's talking about. She mentions a tornado or a whirlwind. I imagine that many a sailor has said it is too late to escape. And those who ignore her will say the same thing. So when we end up pulling these things together, I don't need to make up a kind of summary statement. that reflects the content of the proverb because it's all right here for us in verses 31 and 33. The whole account is made into two opposite proverbs which are meant to be memorized. Proverbs 31 is stating it negatively as to what will happen and what happens to folks who do not listen to her. It says this, therefore, so she's coming to a conclusion about what she has said and what she wants you to gather from her They shall eat the fruit of their own way, and be filled to the full with their own fancies. Now, you can study those two things together, or you could just memorize the first part. It's easy enough. They shall eat the fruit of their own way. But then there's the opposite in verse 33. But whoever listens to me will dwell safely and will be secure without fear of evil. That is the message here, and those are the two proverbs that are meant to dwell in our hearts and to begin acting as a kind of lens through which we would evaluate our various situations in our life And try to stay in verse 33 and not enter into verse 31. I suppose another way to summarize these same things is you will reap what you. So. It is a lull of the cosmos. Even if we have to wait a little while to see people do that. Well, what I would like to do tonight with this is not so much application as just trying to understand this proverb a little bit better. Proverbs are condensed and they are profound. And honestly, it can feel like you're trying to see through a fogged-up window. And so I think a few illustrations should help, and I'm going to make these illustrations from the scriptures, and I would encourage you to take this scripture from tonight and to study them alongside of what I give you here from the New Testament. The first illustration I want to read to you is one we have already read. I want you to think of what we just heard from Woman Wisdom and Reaping What You Sow, and now hear this again. Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house on the rock. And rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house. Notice the storm. And it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock. But everyone who hears these sayings of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand and the rain descended The floods came and the winds blew and beat on that house, and it fell, and great was its fall. Do you see all of the same pieces? Christ is wisdom. And he has called out, even up to this point, in public, spreading his wisdom. He has done so in the marketplace He has done so among the financial and religious leaders of his culture, but they're not listening. And if only they would repent, if they would return, if they would turn at his rebuke. Then their house would not fall. So now we have a lot of examples on how this proverb would play out in real life, and what is it what it is a condensed summary of Every age, every age, we see this same thing. If they repent and hear him, then the house will not fall. If they love their foolishness, well, he says lawlessness If they love their lawlessness, then great will be their fall. And it was a great fall, especially in 70 A. D. That's the first illustration I want to give you that starts to flesh out this proverb, but there's another one too. And it's from Matthew chapter 23. Verse 37. That first one was Matthew 7, 24 through 27. Matthew 23, 37. And I find this one particularly interesting because the motherliness of Christ comes out in this, and we have woman wisdom in the passage. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the one who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her. How often I wanted to gather your children together as a hen, that's the motherly part, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you were not willing. Matthew 23, 37. You can see the proverb unfold here also. God sent prophet after prophet speaking wisdom. God sent his son speaking wisdom. The Son sent the apostles speaking wisdom. Every age the church is witnessing in wisdom. How shall we hear without a preacher? And so they are sent. How grievous when everyone remains unwilling to listen. Those are two excellent examples, I think, from the New Testament. They really helped me to get my head around it And I hope that that helps you as you work this into your own life. There's some obvious questions that you have to ask yourself at the end of something like this, aren't there? Aren't you listening? Do you have ears to hear? We can ask that in two ways, can't we? Has the gospel been going forth from the beginning, but you have refused to hear for repentance even unto eternity? Eternal life? That's one question. That's moving from a non-Christian to a Christian. But then those of you who are Christians, is it not true that you can refuse to listen for so long? That you can turn a deaf ear to what everyone has been telling you is the wisdom of Christ. It tells us that whether you're a Christian or whether you're a non-Christian seeking By the providence of God to enter into his kingdom, or whether you are still a Christian, repentance must be at the top of our list every day That we would listen for his rebuke and always be in a state of mind where we are ready to turn. That brings up a very important Christian attribute that we don't talk about much anymore, and I won't be talking about it much right now. I'll just mention it to you. It's called watchfulness. That you'd be watchful over your heart, watchful over your mind, that you'd be watchful of the temptation and the devices of Satan, where he wants to blind you, where you cannot listen to Christ, at least until it's too late. The whole account is made possible, or is is made, the whole account is made into two opposite proverbs, which we should memorize. Therefore, they shall eat the fruit of their own way, and be filled to the full with their own fancies. And the second is, but whoever listens to me will dwell safely and will be secure without fear of evil. If we have never repented, may we hear the words of Christ. If we have repented, may we keep our ears open to his voice. Please pray with me