This morning, the Lord is going to bless us through Deuteronomy chapter 30, verses 1 through 10. So let's turn there together as a family. And we have the additional privilege this morning to see the word displayed in his sacrament. Please follow along with me in Deuteronomy chapter 30. I'll read the first ten verses. Now it shall come to pass when all these things come upon you, the blessing and the curse which I have set before you, and you call them to mind among all the nations where the Lord your God drives you And you return to the Lord your God and obey his voice, according to all that I command you today, you and your children, with all your heart, with all your soul, that the Lord your God will bring you back from captivity and have compassion on you. And gather you again from all the nations where the Lord your God has scattered you. If any of you are driven out to the farthest parts under heaven, from there the Lord will gather you, and from there he will bring you Then the Lord your God will bring you to the land which your fathers possessed, and you shall possess it. He will prosper you and multiply you more than your fathers. And the Lord your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your descendants to love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul that you may live. Also, the Lord your God will put all these curses on your enemies and on those who hate you, who persecuted you. And you will again obey the voice of the Lord and do all his commandments which I command you today. The Lord your God will make you abound in all the work of your hand, in the fruit of your body, in the increase of your livestock, and in the produce of your land for good. For the Lord will again rejoice over you for good as he rejoiced over your fathers. If you obey the voice of the Lord your God to keep his commandments and his statutes, which are written in this book of the law And if you turn to the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, please join me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we pray that you would be our teacher this morning by your Spirit. And that it would lead to your glory and to love of one another. In Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated. The parable of the prodigal son depicts a young man wasting his inheritance. In those days, the inheritance was given before the death. When a famine hits, the young man is forced to eat pig food. Are we all familiar with this story? He comes to his senses and returns to his father's house. His father greets him with open arms. Oh my boy. It's a beautiful picture. It's actually a beloved story. Because whether you are young or you are old, if you are male or you are female, it doesn't really matter. Because it overlays our own story so well. It fits perfectly our own narratives. I mean, if you were to characterize your life for those whom you know that are restored to God the Father through Jesus Christ, tell me that these final words of the parable don't fit us all He was dead and is now alive. He was lost, but he is now found. Some of those were even incorporated into hymns. Has that story ever captured your heart? Maybe just reading it on the pages of Scripture, or maybe you heard it in a sermon when someone exposited the prodigal son to you But did it capture your heart? And when it did, did it capture your heart as a parent? Did it capture your heart as a prodigal yourself? Do you know whose heart it would capture? It would capture the hearts of the people in the passage. And it would capture the hearts of their descendants that we see here within Deuteronomy. Last week, Moses reminded the people and us that if their hearts turned from God, then they would be uprooted and taken into a foreign land. In essence, they would lose everything and they would be, to continue with this parable, they'd be forced to live like pigs. But the good news is that though God is that though they were dead, God would make them alive, and though they were lost, they would be found. That is the needed sunlight that we finally receive here in This Deuteronomy passage. We've been dealing with curses for some time, and now those are gone. There is a promise of forgiveness to the prodigals And there is even a transformation of the prodigals themselves, promised within this passage. And those are the two things that I want to take a look at within this Deuteronomy these Deuteronomy verses, the promise to the prodigals and the transformation of the prodigals. Prodigals. And this has everything to do with us as prodigals also. So let's begin with the promise to the prodigals. Let's just take a look at these verses together. There's a lot here, and I'm just going to point out a few things. Much of this passage here, specifically the first five verses, are a promise that God will regather his people after the exile. Now you can see that in different ways If you were to keep reading after the book of Deuteronomy, you will find that this same group of people and their children, and all their disciples descendants, they will decline. They will decline swiftly. There will be an uprise with some glorious kingdoms established, but then a great decline. And they will do so specifically in their relationship with God. By the time you hit 2 Kings, we are in a lot of trouble. When you reach the latter parts of 2 Kings, trouble surrounds us all. The curses of the earlier chapters that we've read in Deuteronomy are all worked out by the time you reach the end of 2 Kings. And there is commentary on that section of biblical history within the Psalms and the Proverbs and Lamentations. Song of Solomon, letting you know and seeing some of the details of what they would undergo, especially the Book of Lamentations. Israel loses their land and everything in it. Now here is a verse from Lamentations characterizing their experience. The whole book starts off as portraying Israel as a lonely widow, but then goes on to say these things. The parched tongues of their little ones stick to the roofs of their mouths in thirst. The children cry for bread, but no one has any to give them. The people who once ate the richest foods now beg in the streets for anything they can get. Sound familiar? Sound like the prodigal son? Those who once wore the finest clothes now search the garbage dumps for food. That is the spiral of descent that we see within these people. That was fulfilled It was brought to be. And so it is quite a relief that we finally reach these verses. Because in Deuteronomy 30, verse 3, this is the message that we hear if you want to follow along with me. That in the face of that, God knowing the end from the beginning, that the Lord your God will bring you back from captivity And have compassion on you, and he will gather you again from all of the nations where the Lord your God has scattered you. The promise is given even before it has happened, because the Lord knows what will happen. Or if you want to go even a step further to see how serious the Lord is in verse 4, If any of you are driven out to the farthest parts under heaven, from there the Lord your God will gather you, and from there he will bring you. Now, it almost requires no work on my part to make that timeless, to see the implications for God's people. The last verse must have been particularly comforting for them. I imagine this kind of scenario happening. When you become tired of eating with the pigs, and you cry out in remorse for your ways, I, a good father, will be waiting for you with my arms open, ready to receive. Just as we see in the end of Luke with prodigal son, you can imagine objections amongst the people. But what if I'm taken away too far? But God replies, even if you are driven out to the farthest parts under heaven, it is from there that I will gather you. It's the ultimate promise. And the last verse is not only comforting to them, but it must be comforting to us. When you or your children, or your brothers, or your sisters, or your mothers, and your fathers Become tired of eating like pigs, and that can happen in a thousand different ways. I've seen it happen on a person's deathbed. And they cry out to God, then God will find them no matter where they are. No matter what nation. If we were to colonize on Mars, you know what? God would find them there. Now, the passage, to be fair, deals with literal far-off lands. But it is not wrong for us to take this. And to see that it applies to a million different experiences that we have had that go well beyond that God will find you in some geographical location, no matter how far you are. If you were to think of it By analogy or metaphor, there are a lot of different lands a person can get lost in. And God finds them there, and we have a lot of experience of that. Sure, he has found people in literal nations and in literal geographies, but has he not also found those lost in the land of drug addiction? Where no one was able to influence or persuade, God Himself led them to cry out for mercy. We may be lost in the land of bitterness and anger and confusion. But there comes a time through the providential workings of God where He places a weight so heavy on them. And they recognize that it is the hand of God Himself that they cry out for mercy. And He finds them. We may be lost in the land of atheism or in personal peace and affluence, but it's so true and it's so common, really, to see atheists convert And those who gave up everything for peace to be able to sit in their recliner and watch TV or for affluence to realize and acknowledge the sins of their ways, to cry out for mercy, and God is there. It doesn't matter where you are, whether in geography or in the hardship or place of your life. God has a way of finding And bringing salvation. And that is what is promised to us here within this passage. When we cry out to God for salvation, we will be found. Have you witnessed God acting this way? Have you ever heard I mean it's almost ridiculous to ask the question. Have you ever heard a story of God acting this way? Uh yeah. How many people are here, you know, there's a whole bunch of stories right here. In different ways in which God has even worked with you growing up in the church. I've heard stories of you growing up in the church and these moments when God reveals to you how much you need his mercy. I've heard the stories of many covenant children. And God is right there I've heard of you not really knowing or caring much about God, and for some reason he shows up for you in Guatemala or whatever it is. We've all witnessed God acting this way. Just to put a point on it, who in your life do you know God has done this for? Who in your life do you know that cried out to God for mercy? Mercy and God showed up. I bet you you can either think of yourself or somebody else. But you know, we have here not only a promise to the prodigal in this first set of verses, but there is the transformation of the prodigal. God doesn't just find people. Changes them radically into a new creation. And so I'd like to look at that now with the transformation of the prodigal. We can see the promise to the prodigal, especially in those first five verses of chapter 30, but then there is also this transformation. The transformation of the prodigal is captured in a famous verse. I bet you you noticed it when I was reading it in verse 6 And the Lord your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your descendants to love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul that you may live. Now, I think most of you know what a literal circumcision is And to put it, this is actually a great time for euphemism. It is a removal. If you wanted to use another image from the scriptures, it would be an image of stone. And a heart that has hardened to its God. There's no flexibility. There's no impulse or inclination toward God. It lies there as dead and as hard as a rock. And that's what we are like naturally. And that's what he's communicating here, is that there's this prior condition of the heart, but that will be changed in the transformation. Naturally, we do not love God. Naturally, we are not loyal to God. And this passage tells us that those who cry out in repentance, God will graciously soften their hearts and restructure who we are at the very core of our being. And sometimes it will be so dramatic that you will look at a person and they will seem like a new creation. And really, with all of them to this which this happens, over time and progressively You see that they are more and more different than this creation. That they are a new creation, something different. The loyalties change, the heart is restructured, they are transformed. Now, you know what is really interesting placing a verse like this in this passage is the emphasis I find it astounding to find that this is the great truth of the passage. What I mean is this. If you were to look at the surrounding verses and if you were to look at the curses from last week, what would you expect him to say as the grand finale? When people are undergoing curses and hardships, what do they hope for? Less pain, restored wealth, restored security, right? But that's not what's at the heart of this verse. It means that there's something that is more important than all of those things. All of the pictures of a green valley that is fruitful, which shows an awesome economy, take second seat. To the center of this passage. Did you know this passage is set up in a form of Hebrew poetry, which you should be used to now called a kiasm? And guess what verse is at the dead center? Number six. And it's no mistake that X marks the spot here. The message is clear. All of the blessings. All of life, all of hope, all of love, all of security, all of restoration, and any chance To wipe away the tears of our lives all flow from a restored relationship with our Creator at the very heart of ourselves. That is what is necessary. It is the key and the center of the universe. Now, some of you have seen the reality of this truth Haven't you seen the reality of this truth? That unless this is in place, everything else is dead? You could read what is that woman's name that told everybody how to act? How to write letters and how to cross your legs like whatever her name is. Those are they have a good they have a good place in our lives. But we need more than manners And we need more than Delilah's love advice on the radio. We need a lot more. We need a lot more than technology. We need a lot more than the greatest technology that's being created right now. The human heart is a mystery in how we will cure its hardness and evils. And how it is continually and naturally bent away from God. But you have seen hearts changed. You have literally seen people move from old creations that were like zombies, but then God gives them a heart with love for God, and you progressively see a person Change before your eyes from a criminal to a saint The human race has always looked for the secret to life, but they have forgotten Deuteronomy chapter 30, verse. Verse 6. But I pray that you have not forgotten it. Because it should be your very experienced Christian. Some will seek The restoration of their cosmos and of their universe and of their life and wealth. Some will seek it with the key of power Some will keep it with the key of room, will seek it with the key of romance, but it will only be found when the Lord your God transforms your heart to love him. It is the only place where the heart can rest. And that is a truth that was true here And it was true before here, and it is true after here, and it is true for every one of us. And that is what we have before us in this passage in Deuteronomy. We have a promise, and we have a transformation of prodigals. We're in good company. This passage was written many years ago, and it addressed people whom God put into literal exile. Because they Had become prodigal. They had wasted what He had given. He handed them an inheritance called the land of Canaan. It was flowing with milk and honey, is the way they put it for a great place, and they wasted it. The great famine of the exile came and they were forced to live like pigs under Assyria and like Babylon and under Persia and eventually Rome. And this is where we start to get very close to where we are in our 29th anniversary. Behind all of those curses that those people of God were under was still a promise to remain. It was like a ring found at the bottom of a creek that someone finally discovered and brought back up. There's a story that has similarities to that But the promise remained. The promise to restore his people, no matter how far off. And do you know how they knew that it was getting ready to happen? There was a voice raised in the desert. There was someone eating locusts and honey, and his name was John the Baptist, and he raised up his voice, and do you know what he said? Repent. Why? Because when you turn your hearts back to the Lord It is, then he hears your cry and he brings you salvation. And it was fulfilled in Jesus from Nazareth As he came, and as we see in the beginning of Mark with the other gospels, he came preaching repentance and the forgiveness of sin or the remission of sins. For the kingdom of God is at hand, he says. And we have the apostles going forward as the disciples of Christ spreading this message of the promise. That's what the good news is: it is the promise coming to be. And you know what some people did? Who had their hearts, who were so hardened against Christ that they crucified him? Peter stood and he gave a sermon that's longer than the one that's recorded here. In Acts chapter 2, and when they heard what he had to say, they were cut to the heart. And they said to Peter and to the rest of the apostles, What are we supposed to do about this? Jesus is the Christ. And then Peter said to them, repent, which has been the message all along. Because that is the action that goes along with the promise. Repent and let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins. And you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. And what will the Holy Spirit do? And what has He already been doing within these people to be able to even repent? But to trans Transformed their very hearts. The day of the Lord, according to the prophet Joel, has come. And that is what Peter was saying. As many of you, now listen to this, as many of you as are far off. Do you see how this is the fulfillment? At least the beginning of the fulfillment. Because it is for as many as the Lord our God will call. And the call did not stop in Jerusalem. God gathered thousands from Jerusalem. The streets were filled with newborn believers entering into the kingdom of God. Generations that had been hardened, that grew up in the church. were now God's people. Their hearts were circumcised. And there were many that believed in Judea. And there were many that believed in Samaria to everyone's disbelief. And then it spread out to the Gentiles, and they just could not believe that God had a plan to re to gather those who had been exiled since Cain and Abel. And he is going to gather all he started gathering all of the Gentiles in Asia Minor and Italy and Greece, transforming all of their hearts to no longer turn to their gods and their versions of science at that time. But to Yahweh is the only true God. And that flame, that spirit, is poured out on every generation. And it has been poured out here in this area for longer than 29 years, but for us, 29 years. You are caught up in that story, brother and sister. That's your story. Those are your ancestors. Here we are today celebrating 29 years of something that has been going on for so long. It is the 29th year since we have gathered together as a church with one main thing in common. One main thing in common. Through the love of God the Father, who is Jesus Christ in his Spirit We have found through him rest for our souls. Our hearts have been changed to know that our very being and life itself exists In love for our God, which translates into complete and total loyalty over time. And we can think, when we are in our best minds, of nothing better than to glorify our God. When I was younger and somebody told me, well when you get to heaven you'll be singing to God all the time, I thought, well that sounds boring. How about a dirt bike or something? But as I'm growing older, and the more I see his grace and his glory, you know what? Singing to him all the time sounds great I do not have enough words in all of eternity to thank him for his grace that I have seen in my life and in your life. And there are more lives out there to whom he will be gracious. Now that's going to have to be a lot of singing. And it's beginning with us. And it's been going on for 29 years of singing. We did not find rest in drugs. We did not find that we had friends that, man, when they drank vodka, they looked well rested. But it didn't sit with us. We took it too far. The God the good things that God would give us, we would ruin We didn't find rest in affluence, having toys. We didn't find rest in status. We didn't find rest in power. We didn't find rest in any of our romantic relationships. The only rest that we ever found was when God came and changed us, and He restored our relationship to Him. At just the right time, he circumcised our hearts, and he gave us love And he gave us loyalty for him and for him alone. And so we stand here. For twenty-nine years, in a cloud of witnesses that seems to go on forever, because of how magnificent God's grace is. I have much more to say about his grace, but I think I should do so through bread and wine and grape juice. So let's pray, and we will then sing our invitational hymn as the elders prepare the table. Please join me in prayer God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, glory unto your name. Words fail us to give you true thanks. Lord, we thank you that even Before it all began, before we lived out even our lives, you had made a promise in eternity That you were going to reveal yourself to us, and that you were going to change our hearts, so that we, though once blind, could see. Lord, there will never be too many songs glorifying your name. I pray that we would be a singing people Lord, we are your prodigals. But you met us in our time of distress and friendlessness and sickness and addiction. And you lifted our chin, and you brought light into our lives, and we said, What are we doing here? When we could Be with the Father. And you drew us to yourself. And we saw you with open arms and you threw us a party. And tens of thousands of angels rejoiced at the repentance of one sinner. Oh Lord God, we thank you that you are the kind of shepherd that leaves the ninety-nine and goes and finds the one that you are like a woman who has lost a coin and searches the whole house to find it. That you care for us more than the birds and for the flowers of the field In the name of Christ, Amen.