Welcome to Evening Service, everyone. Great to see you all. Let's go into our time of worship with a word of prayer. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you have gathered us to worship you this evening. And also to lift up our prayers to you this evening. We pray that even during our time of worship you would be leading us into the time of prayer tonight, that we'd pray according to your will. as you have taught us. And that we would pray for things particularly that you have brought into our lives. And we pray that you would use those prayers. Lord, we ask that you would guide us in our worship now. Lord Christ, please, by way of your spirits, give us the gift of singing these songs in faith. of seeing you even acting now in the words of these songs. And also may we hear in faith. In the name of Christ. Amen. Our call to worship tonight, let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm 116. I will pay my vows to the Lord, now in the presence of his people. In the courts of the Lord's house, in the midst of you, O Jerusalem, praise the Lord. Let's sing together, we come, O Christ, to you. We call Christ to Jerusalem, Son of God and man. My good fall things can go all night again. Into one we live and know that You want a way to go on your daughter and something If you we space our judge and pay for You are the beauty girl, always dumb. The source of every spirit of one through a great higher In you need restore answer to forest. You don't think it part lies the knowing you wish to death We're not easy We worship you for the Tell you on you that spread codoringly we pray. Stone take your life in us and turns out. Amen. Our passage leading into a confession of sin is from John six. Jesus answered them and said, Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me, not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of Man will give you, because God the Father has set his seal on him Then they said to him, What shall we do that we may work the works of God? Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God, that you believe in him in whom he sent Therefore they said to him, What sign will you perform then, that we may see it and believe you? What work will you do? Our fathers ate the manna in the desert, as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat Then Jesus said to them, Most assuredly I say to you, Moses did not give you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven, for the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. Amen. You may be seated. Please join me in a time of confession. Lord, it is remarkable here to see this group of people seek to use your scriptures against you. Essentially claiming that you have misunderstood the situation and that you ought to show them a sign. Oh Christ. I start this confession off by saying. We thank you for your patience. For your patience with us. Lord, we also take the opportunity this evening to admit to you that either we do not believe that you offer us good things, says the bread from heaven, and therefore we seek our bread and life from elsewhere. Really, Lord, we'll just stick with that. It is our constant struggle. There are two paths. And you are the bread from heaven down one, and there is another path, and it leads to hell Oh Lord Jesus Christ, I pray that you would be with your saints tonight. Help them to see how this past week they have chosen the other path, how they are delighting in that which is death. And I pray, Lord, that you would use this time as a a means to call them back to the crossroads and that they would choose you, that they would choose your life, and they would see you as the bread sent from heaven. Ask Lord that you hear now your people as they pray to you in the silence of their hearts. Lord Jesus Christ, we are like sheep that often go through the wrong gate. We thank you, Christ, that you go and you find the lost sheep, and you bring us back to the fold. For truly we not only confess our sins to you, but we profess that you are the good shepherd. And we pray these things in your name. Amen. Your assurance of pardon tonight is taken from John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Amen. Let's stand and sing, Jesus, lover of my soul. She was the bird of my soul that means I will While the lucky water's roll, while the tempest high I he will myself thy Save it to the name O recibice Of the refuse, and my helmet so on me. All my trust on the save, all my help from the I bring. With the shadow of me Range of all energy love things, heal the spirit of God. Just then for me I have righteousness. Let's tell what grace with me is thou grace to cover all thy sins. Let the streams of doubt make that eat for Thou thy law doubt freely that we Spring thought with my heart rise to me Amen. Let's turn together to Proverbs chapter nine. And I'll read the full chapter. Wisdom has built her house. She is she has hewn out her seven pillars. She has slaughtered her meat, she has mixed her wine, she has also furnished her table. She has sent out her maidens, she cries out from the highest places of the city Whoever is simple, let him turn and hear. As for him who lacks understanding, she says to him, Come, eat of my bread, and drink of the wine I have mixed Forsake foolishness and live, and go in the way of understanding. He who corrects a scoffer gets shame for himself, and he who rebukes a wicked man only harms himself. Do not correct a scoffer, lest he hate you. Rebuke a wise man, and he will love you. Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be still wiser. Teach a just man, and he will increase in learning. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. For by me your days will be multiplied, and your years of life will be added to you. If you are wise, you are wise for yourself, and if you scoff, you bear it alone. A foolish woman is clamorous. She is simple and knows nothing For the door she sits at the door of her house on a seat by the highest places of the city to call to those who pass by. who go straight on their way. Whoever is simple, let him turn in here. And as for him who lacks understanding, she says to him, Stolen water is sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant. But he who does not know that the dead are there, that her guests are in the depths of hell. Let us pray. Oh Christ, I pray that this would be a time where you would prepare our hearts even more to be receptive as we continue in Proverbs. And also in our time of prayer, and really whenever we are in the presence of your preached or taught word, ask this in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we acknowledged that the Son of God, even incarnate As Jesus, he is our wisdom. We are to therefore be attentive to him. By him kings and princes rule. He formed the chaos into order. And we located the real center of Psalm 8, which is the apex of so many of the Psalms, in this statement. If you hate Christ, then you love death. But whoever finds Christ finds life and favor from the Lord. I'm going to make a few observations about the passage tonight, and then I have one of the briefest exhortations. since 2008. And then we're going to go right into prayer, which will be good. 2008 I gave a very brief exhortation, Natalie It just I'm explaining this will be short. So the first thing I want you to notice is I just want to step through the passage a little bit to make sure that you can see the structure and what's going on here. Woman wisdom is the first character that we see within the passage. She was introduced in the last chapter, and she is sending out an invitation to all of the gullible Now that's a word we've been using for those who are still not committed to Christ and his ways. The first invitation is from woman wisdom. You can see that in verse 1. And then you see all of this activity, she's a very diligent woman. She built a house, and this is probably here what you see is the dedication of the house. The ribbon is cut and there is a grand opening taking place. The house is a mansion and can hold anyone who expects her and can hold anyone who accepts her invitation. You know this when you look because when you look at the scripture here, it says that the house has seven pillars. Well, this is an indication of quite a large house and that the house exists in perfection. The largest houses in the ancient Near East, for example, I've read have Had three pillars. Look at this house. She has seven. It is both large and it is perfect. Verses two and three underscore her diligence. Notice the word she that runs through that section. She is repeated with verbs of action to show her diligence. This is really a Proverbs 31. woman wisdom here. She slaughtered, she mixed, she furnished, she sent out, she cried out. And you can also see here the exertion of her energy in order to accomplish her end, which is wisdom for the youth, all across the city. She even does the slaughtering. which was typically a man's job, but wisdom is an extraordinary woman. And just as all those women who follow her ways, and you can look in 31 at the kind of work that they that woman does, buying land and all kinds of stuff. Not only is she diligent, she is gracious, and she is hospitable. She mixes wine, meaning essentially, when you do a little bit of research on that, that she added honey, she added herbs, she added spices to make the wine more potent and enjoyable for her guests She furnished or prepared the table with bowls and plates and luxurious tableware. There's one scholar, Bruce Waltke, I'm not sure if you know of him, but he is uh just the uh I have found the best at helping us to understand the Proverbs. And he says this about the house and the meat and the wine and the table. He says that they're all crying out as symbols. He says the house is the first nine chapters of Proverbs at the very least. The wine and the meat are the meal offered in the rest of the book Chapters ten to thirty-one. The furnished and orderly table are the intelligent arrangement of these proverbs, set out just right, with perfect balance and poor The messengers sent are the mother and the father of other teachers and the other teachers in the covenant community. And that would apply really to you entering into the whole canon of the scripture. not just the Proverbs. What a beautiful picture of the table that Christ has set for you in His Word. And even in His church, the teachers being there also. So that's the first observation that I wanted to make is there is this feast for banquet and invitation that woman wisdom is offering, who we know would lead us Here's the second thing I want to mention is that there is a second invitation. And we all have experiential awareness of this. There is a second invitation, and it is from woman folly. I want you to notice a few things about her. You can find her down in verse 13. 7 through 12 in this Proverbs is his own little section. But 13 and following is going to get into woman wisdom. And this is the second invitation. I want you to notice first something about this woman. And this is key for making it through life. The foolish woman counterfeits herself as the woman wisdom. To the undiscerning eye, both the path of life and the path of death look the same. They smell the same. They taste the same. And it is when it is too late that they notice the difference. They're already caught in you know all the language in the proverbs about the snares and the traps. It is when the trap has been set that the She imitates her. Since the imitation is not complete, she fails at essentially every point in being the real woman She really is a counterfeit. However, this alerts us immediately to the ambiguity potentially present in our lives Wisdom promises discretion, the ability to choose between seemingly similar paths, but until wisdom is gained by the uncommitted, the choice is difficult, which is why woman wisdom is constantly on the top of the hill. Calling out. Do come to me. Do not go to her. Come to me. I know you can't see it yet, but come to me. Basically, when we look at the woman folly, her technique is similar to calling out, but it is calling out in the sense of to distract the undecided. And since they are undecided, it is possible to distract them That's the key component here in the youth is they're undecided. It makes all of what she does possible because they are undecided. decided. She gains advantage by gaining their attention. Just as Eve was safe until the serpent fixed her gaze upon the forbidden tree. Her meal, you'll notice down that she offers a meal, just as in verse 17, stolen water is sweet, and bread eaten in secret. Is pleasant. She offers a meal just like woman wisdom. But her meal pales in comparison to the noble woman's meal. The two meals are set in opposition to each other. The meat and the wine from woman wisdom are set against the stolen water and the bread. You can see here that the fact that it is stolen shows that what this woman is doing is outside of God's lawful appropriation and way about going about things. We've already heard about stealing in the last three Proverbs. An adulterer steals one's wife away. A lazy and deceitful person steals money from others through get-rich quick schemes. And the belly owl or the wicked person And that last section of Proverbs 6 steals the community of their peace. Well, she is a stealer too. And you can see that her bread is eaten in secret. But, as you can see in verse 18, but he does not know that the dead are there, that her guests are in the depths of hell. The two paths, the two banquets, and the two presentations. This is a picture of all of life. If we wanted to pull the doctrine out of this, it would be something along these lines. Blessed are those who attend the banquet of woman wisdom. That's how we want to think about that. Blessed are those who attend the banquet of woman wisdom. Now I'll just give a brief exhortation and then I'd really like to go into a time of prayer, and I'm going to mention a few prayers that I'd like to engage in tonight with you. you uh after we sing our our final song and hear the benediction. This whole thing reminded me of chapter nine of Proverbs. It reminded me of a silly little story I'll tell you. Where Holly and I have been uh really excited to get to this local restaurant that just opened. It used to be called Cafe Breton. We loved the place, and now it's called Garden or Garden. And it is a German beer garden. I would do everything that I could seeking to have a reservation. And I became more and more excited about being able to go into that place and the feast as I saw on social media pictures of the chicken schnitzel and whatever else it was. Oh man, these uh pretzels covered with this beautiful cheese. and the drinks that they were going to have there and what did the inside look like? Did they done a bunch of um remodeling or is it like the way that it was when it was a French restaurant? uh cafe breton. We wanted to try the drinks. We wanted to try actually the chicken schnitzel. We wanted to try the garden outside and we wanted to see the rustic French interior. This is a very similar picture, and the desire that is inside of me is the kind of desire the desire that Solomon wants you to have inside of you as you picture entering through the doors from Proverbs 9. into 10 and you can even apply it into the rest of the collection of the scriptures. The lessons, as I've mentioned to you, all of the lectures that have been leading up to this point have been meant to prepare you that you can't wait to get into the restaurant and to enjoy all that of the meal that woman wisdom has prepared for you. Christ ultimately has prepared the meal and the drink. The feast waits for us in the palace of his scriptures, and for us in the evening service, especially in the Proverbs. What awaits you in there? What delicacies? What atmosphere? And this is just the general exhortation to you tonight that you would take the time that we have during this holiday season and and that you would become even more prepared. Let us pray, even tonight, for open hearts and receptivity to the wisdom that is in Proverbs. He has taken nine chapters to prepare you. Let us be prepared as we enter into the tenth to the thirty-first. And let us also be warned. Take a look at the Look at verses 7 through 9. 7 through 9 is here in chapter 9 for a couple different reasons. It is written with reference to a teacher, first and foremost. If you're a teacher, you need to watch out who your students are. are if you're seeking to give them moral formation. That's one of the first lessons that's going on here from verses 7 to 12. But it is also a warning to us, the students. 7 through 12 has two characters present, and we are warned, do not enter Proverbs as a scoffer. Do not enter Proverbs in chapters 10 through 31. as being unreceptive and unteachable. You must enter in with docility. And we saw a perfect picture of that with Mary Accepting God's word for what it is, and submission to his will. Those are the two ways in which we want to enter into his word in the evening service with Proverbs, especially as we enter into these chapters. We want to enter as wise, and as 7 through 12 teach us, by Christ and His Spirit, we shall become wiser still. Amen. Let's stand together and we're going to sing, Blessed are the sons of God. They are watching Christopher. They are ransomed from the race like eternal. With the number weer and eternal They are lost by grace, they enjoy lost in your speech All the exam washed no way. They trust that in God rate With an opernity here and in eternity They are like our near children of the birth One with God with Jesus one for being gone Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. Amen. You may be seated for our