Let us open God's Word together to Matthew chapter 21, and we'll stand for the reading of His Word beginning in verse 28. Jesus rides into Jerusalem beginning in the chapter 21, and when we arrive at verse 28, we see that Jesus is giving a parable. But what do you think? A man had two sons, and he came to the first and said, Son, go work today in my vineyard. He answered the son and said, I will not. But afterward he regretted it and he went. Then he came to the second and said likewise, and that son answered and said, I go, sir, but he didn't Did not go. Which of the two did the will of his father? They said to him, The first. Jesus said to them, Assuredly, I say to you, that tax collectors and harlots enter the kingdom of God before you. For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him. But tax collectors and harlots believed him, and when you saw it, you did not afterward relent and believe him. Please pray with me. Lord Jesus Christ, your light to this world is a great blessing. But if we are stuck and we refuse to leave the darkness, it is very painful. It is something of which we are offended and that we lash out against. But I pray this morning that we would not take offense, but that instead we would receive your truth and that it would set us free. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Amen. You may be seated. Children, what will you receive after the service is over today? Not a sandwich. Hopefully not a spanking. Palms. And why are we receiving palms today? Because it's Palm Sunday. Thank you very much. I appreciated that tone of voice also. Because it is Palm Sunday If you have even a mild Christian religious education, you have heard of Palm Sunday. You have heard of the triumphal entry. It's right there in the beginning of 21. We've skipped down a bit and we're in a parable. We have I'm sure you've seen pictures and maybe perhaps you've even grown up coloring pictures in Sunday school of Jesus the Christ riding into Jerusalem on a donkey We have memories of palm branches handed out and sometimes, like you'll see here after the service, turned artfully into a cross. And yet, when we hear the drama of the story, and it is dramatic actually, of the great king riding into his city, what is the significance of the story? It is so easy to reduce stories like this to just religious feel-good stuff that grandma's proud about if I know. What is the significance of Palm Sunday? What is the significance of the triumphal entry and uh uh the the triumphal entry in true Jerusalem. This morning, I want to look at a parable that helps us to understand at least one major part of the significance of Jesus riding into the city. It ends up being very, very personal. We can't leave him riding into the city Over 2,000 years ago. He will show up here today, and he will speak to you through his word. The parable in my Bible is called The Two Sons. That's what I just read. And the name comes from verse 28, obviously. But what do you think? A man had two sons. So let's take the parable step by step. I just want to look at the first son. We'll then take a look at the second son. And then let's return to that initial question. Let's use the parable to understand Palm Sunday. So the first Sun, the second sun, and then the parable and palm Sunday. Let's just try to understand this together. The parable begins: A man had two sons, and he came to the first and said, Son, go work today in my vineyard. If you were to read around, you'd see that obviously in this case, the Father is God, God the Father. He commands the Son to go to work in the vineyard, and the vineyard is a common metaphor for God's people and for their work. Notice how Jesus uses it in another parable in verse 33. Just skim down two paragraphs. Here, another parable: there was a certain landowner who planted a vineyard and set a hedge around it. The vineyard is used quite often. That's the parable called the parable of the landowner. A landowner, God the Father, leased his vineyard You know what it means to lease a vineyard or a farm? Any of you from the country, like myself? Well, there's a property in Lothian, which I hunt with some friends, and the landowner owns the property. But as long as he can remember, I just spoke with him, as long as he can remember, he has leased all of the farmland to the Hopkins family. The Hopkins family tills the soil, they plant the seed, they collect the harvest, they remove debris if it falls on the field. He owns the farm, but the Hopkins family does the farming. Jesus is giving us a Middle Eastern picture of a similar land leasing in verse 33. And if you jump down in verse 41, you can see that he fills out this picture of vineyard and understanding it in verse 41. They said to him, He will destroy those wicked men miserably and lease his vineyard to other vine dressers who will render to him the fruits in the their seasons. It's just a bit more information for us to be able to see what's going on here in this first verse in 28 with the vineyard. Apparently, the original farmer leased the land, and he was set on receiving a return from his investment. God invests in his creation and expects a return on that investment, would be the meaning of that part. And in the metaphor, it is a harvest from the land. In real life, it is the goodness, the truth, and the beauty that He expects from all human beings. All mankind has always been meant to produce fruits unto God's glory and the benefit of their fellow creature. And that is how we are to understand the vineyard, at least in this parable. This is where the sun ends up entering in. With all that is said before, the first sun. The first son is to go and to bring God glory and to bear fruits. God is to receive a return on his investment in the first son. Notice what the son says there. Does this sound familiar? God making it clear what the duties are of mankind and the Son says, I will not. Now, if you go down to verse 31, we all realize this initial truth about the first son is about the tax collectors and the harlots or the prosper. That's who he's thinking about when he gives this parable. That's the first son. It's the irreligious. It's the ungodly. It's the secular. They all realize that they are supposed to live for God, at least their conscience Speaks that out. It is clear from creation that he deserves all glory, as Roman one says, but they say, I will not. That's what the first son does. That's the characteristic that Jesus brings out in the first son. And this is really familiar. You don't need to live in this society to hear the words from the first son or daughter, I will not One young lady was raised by her mother to live for God, but when this young lady turned 14, she said, I will not. I know a young man whose grandmother told him about God his whole life, but then in high school the young man said, I will not. In fact, no matter who I ask, and this is very interesting for me being a Reformed Christian, although I think it fits just fine No matter who I ask, if they think hard enough, they can think back to a time in childhood where there was a crossroads Their conscience appealing to them to give glory to God through Christ. And at some point they said, I will not. You can think in your own life. Your own story was there a moment when you said, Can you remember that moment when you hardened more concretely than ever before and said, I will not? It is as if when we are children we are more open to God's bidding in some sense. But then a turning point comes and we say, I will not. At some point, I wonder within your own life, did God come to you and say, Live for me? He would have done that through his people the church and through his word but you said I will not It happens all the time. That's not really where the parable ends. It's not even the climax of the parable. Jesus is going to keep going with the first son. This is the most interesting thing about the first son. Look at verse 29. But afterward, he regretted it and he went We're also very familiar with that part of it also. But afterward he regretted saying, I will not, and he went Formerly, what they had said with their mouth they ignored and they decided to go and start living for God, the God of the Christian Bible anyway. Do you know what a Christian calls that? You know what a Christian calls I regretted it and I went? That's called repentance. That's our fancy word for it. This first son repented. The first son regretted and repented. Jesus doesn't here in this parable develop all of the specifics of repentance. If you were to look through the scriptures at the teaching on it, you would discover that those who said, I will not, regretted it, and out of a true sense of their sin And an acknowledgement that God is actually offering forgiveness and mercy through Jesus Christ, they with grief and hatred of their I will not. Turn from their old lives onto God, and they are fully purposing now to live for Him. That's the full picture of repentance. And so now there's stories and memoirs being told in the countryside and in the city and across countries. It's spreading like wild fire where people are saying, I once was lost, I once said I will not, and now I have been found. I regretted that. And I went. I once ignored God's view of sexuality, but I regretted that, and by God's grace I repented and believed. I once said no to God's view of money, but I regret that, and God is my treasure now. I repented and I believed. I once believed what my atheistic universities professors taught about the universe, but I regret that, and now I profess the Christian scriptures to be without fault. I regretted it and then and I went. Have you ever heard a story like that? We're hearing stories like that all across the land, whether you're a Christian or a non-Christian. Haven't you heard stories like that? Jesus is telling you that there's a lot of first sons out there, equally applicable to daughters. Are you a first son? Answer that. Are you a first son or daughter? Did you say I will not, but then later regretted it, and by God's grace, you went Well praise God. Praise God for his work within you. But I do have to tell you that this parable is not really about you. It's about the second Son. And that's what we come to now in verse 30. That's the first son. We're just trying to understand the first son, and now we're going to move and understand the second. Then he came to the second and said, likewise, everything that we just heard about the first son. Son, go work today in my vineyard. But the second son answers in a different way than the first one did. He says, I will. That sounds great. Anything for you, Dad. But notice what happens right after these words. These next words characterize and are showing up in the statistics of Christianity about Christians in North America. Notice the next words. First, he says, I will. But then it says, but he did not go. The second son said yes to God with his words But his heart and consequently actions did not follow. It's a story that we also hear today. The tragedy of the second son is amplified the more accurately that you can see the context. Do you know who the second son is? I told you who the first son was. It's the irreligious, the secular, those who are tax collectors, harlots. Who's the second son in the parable? To whom is he speaking? The religious authorities of his day. Not just the church, but the church leaders He is speaking, in other words, to pastors and seminary professors. The pastors and the professors said, I will Go to the vineyard. I will. I will serve your people and I will help them to bring goodness to this earth in your name and for your glory. But they never began living for God That's who Jesus is addressing here, the scribes and Pharisees who clean the outside of the cup, but never the inner part. That's what he'll get to in these upcoming chapters when he starts talking about woe to you. They said they did. Their public life may have looked like they did, but really they did not, because they did not go I was listening to one pastor from London, and he reminded me that the scenario that Jesus paints here is very similar to taking office in the church. Church officers, if you're not familiar with the PCA, they take vows. You just heard some vows this morning. Well the officers themselves have vows. They would stand up here if they had Been nominated and elected as as uh elder or deacon and they would take bowels before us and before God Do you accept the office of ruling elder or deacon, as the case may be in this church, and promise faithfully to perform all the duties thereof, and to endeavor by the grace of God to adorn the profession of the gospel in your life? And to set a worthy example before the church of which God has made you an officer, I will Do you promise to strive for the purity, peace, unity, and edification of the church? I will And yet, although some leaders say I will, they never do. Isn't that a part of the story of the church that we read about and that we see within our lives in the lives of our friends. Leaders that say I will and then they don't go. I think that's an easy one. Because leaders get all of the attention. They get the spotlight in it. And I think some of you are saying, yeah that's right, let them have Jesse? Down with the man. Church leaders need to get their act together. But let me ask you, what about you? As we're sitting here talking about the second son, didn't you take church membership vows? If you're in fact, I'll just speak to seven run members for Do you now resolve and promise in humble reliance upon the grace of the Holy Spirit that you will endeavor to live as becomes the followers of Christ? I will Do you promise to support the church and its worship and work to the best of your ability? I will. Do you submit yourselves to the government and discipline of the church and promise to study its purity and peace? I will. You say to the Father. And yet we all know that some never actually go. And so just as some of you were very happy about me smashing down the man, others of you are very excited now that I have both covered religious leaders and church members. because you think they're all hypocrites and they should just be all stuck in a room together and never allowed on Facebook But whether you think that or you don't think that if you're kinder than me, what about you who's not a church member? You know, statistics say that whether you're a church member or not, that you're if you grow up in America, still you have some belief in God and in right and wrong. When people ask you if you believe in God, or when they ask you if you believe in right or wrong in living morally, don't you say, in essence, I will. And don't we find within your own life that you did not go? Some of the time, at least, if we look at your priorities, that you have in fact made God an afterthought You see, none of us can escape what he's saying here because he's addressing the fact that we can say things with our mouth And then never do them. And the ultimate question that stands here in this parable is, which one did the will of the Father? You see that? You see how Jesus just cuts through it all? I don't care what kind of con artists you are here today. Jesus cuts through it all Are you a second son? That's the first son. That's the second son. And now what I want to do is take that understanding of what's going on there and seeing how Jesus is cutting through in examining these two types of people, and I want to show you why he's doing this in relationship to the Triumphal entry. Or Palm Sunday. You're going to receive a Palm, and it's supposed to help you to remember everything that was said today. Here's the question that we have to ask. Ask. How does this parable of the first son and the second son help us understand the triumphal entry and Palm Sunday? What is the significance of Jesus riding into the city on that donkey? I want you to look at what Matthew wants you to see in this context. Take a look at Matthew chapter 21 in verse 12. This is after the triumphal entry. What we see in chapter 21, verse 12, is that then Jesus went into the temple of God and drove out all those who bought and sold in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold doves. And he said to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of thieves. The very first thing that we see him do is bring in justice Justice and judgment to a corrupt temple religious system, as I said it before, he cuts through it all Somehow they had justified in their minds that this is what the temple is supposed to look like. If you're unfamiliar with the temple, it doesn't matter. You get the idea here Here, manipulating and disadvantaging people through a religious system. Aren't you familiar with that? But Jesus is able to step into that temple and people cannot hide from the truth. He brings justice and he brings judgment as the king. Now take a look at Matthew 21, 18. Now we get done the temple. We now move on to the next editorial comment in verse 18. Now in the morning as he returned to the city He was hungry, and seeing a fig tree by the road, he came to it and found nothing on it but leaves. This is obviously a metaphor for the leadership and of his people. And he curses this fig tree Jesus is bringing justice and judgment to a corrupt and fruitless leadership. A corrupt and fruitless people. Now look at Matthew 21:23, our last paragraph before we receive we go into our parable. Now, when he came into the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people confronted him as he was teaching and said, By what authority are you doing these things? In other words, Jesus is questioned as to who gave him the permission to be the one to render justice and judgment. You see, they didn't understand the significance of him riding in on the donkey. Do you see the significance of him riding in as the king on the donkey? The significance that Matthew wants to see is that he arrives As the king who is bringing justice and who is bringing judgment, you cannot hide from him. That is the purpose of Palm Sunday according to Matthew. The context is judgment and justice And that is what Jesus is bringing. Let me clarify for you, just to go a step further, on what I'm talking about with judgment and justice, specifically in this context. I think I've covered it a bit, but I want to Go just a little bit more. In all societies, people see others that are doing wrong. Do you see people around you that are doing wrong? Do you know of human beings that do wrong? And here's a second observation. We all see that some of them, and maybe even a vast majority of them, get away with it. Do you have people in your life where they do one harmful thing after another to you and the people around them, but you can't ever seem to put your finger on it and catch them in the act or red-handed? And though they're able to just continue. No one can stop them. In all societies there are there are those phenomena. There are people that are great at lying and getting away with lies, people that can control the courts and be let off by the court. People that are great at having power and using it to protect their evil behavior. People that are wise with their words, like a snake is wise with their words, to deceive the people around them and never be held responsible for anything. Do you know people like that? People that everything they say to you, you know it's wrong, but you just can't s you just can't prove it When Jesus arrives as the King, he has an ability by the power of the Holy Spirit beyond measure that we do not have, and that is, no one can hide. From his judgment. Everyone else can spin a tail, but he cuts through the tail more so than Solomon did with that baby in the Old Testament. Jesus Christ has the ability to cut through it all, all the wise, and he has the power to overpower the powerful. He makes everything that people make gray, and he makes it black and white, and he tells you exactly what the truth is, and there is no escape. He paints you into a corner where you have to recognize the truth of what he's saying. And that is exactly what he meant to do as he comes in here as the king. That's exactly what this parable is meant to do. As we see what his primary purpose here is as the king in Matthew. And so, therefore, if you really want to celebrate Palm Sunday according to one major purpose of Palm Sunday This is what you need to do. You need to let this parable judge you. But are you ready to do that? Or are you already thinking of excuses on why you don't need to listen this morning? Though uh maybe you are, but those excuses won't be Won't last forever. You can hide the reality of your guilt from those who are around you, can't you? Let me ask you a very personal question. I don't want anybody In here to answer this question. What are you hiding right now? What is it about you that you have kept In the dark. If you were to reveal it, it would be too shameful. I'm not talking about what other people have done to you. That's one sense of shame. I'm talking about guilt. What have you done that maybe you have never shared with anybody? This morning, Jesus sees you. Do you know that even though you think you have kept that in the dark, Jesus has seen it all along? That's the point of Palm Sunday. Even the smartest of university professors, even the most popular pastor in his land were unable to hide from his gaze. He was able to cut through it and get right to the heart. He knew exactly what was going on with them He shines his light on all your dark places and you cannot escape. I have to quote this just because it keeps coming to my mind. He is like a Lidless eye wreathed in flame, but for good purposes and not bad. Ask yourself the question of verse 31 Which of the two sons or daughters did the will of the Father the first? Do you see how exposed you can become under his gaze? If you are the second son or daughter who acknowledges God with your mouth but denies him with your life, then you need to become like the first son. But how? What is the key phrase for the first son this morning? You regret it and you go. You repent. Out of a true sense of your sin, an acknowledgement that God is offering mercy through Jesus Christ. You, with grief and hatred of your sin, must turn from your old lives on to God, fully purposing to live for Him. That is what you would do this morning if you want to move from being the second son to the first son. Church leaders all across the land should Be saying, I will. The ones who never lived for God, they should repent and they should believe. If you're a leader here today and you find that you're a second son, you need to repent and believe in the gospel The gospel of Jesus Christ, that there is forgiveness for you, but you have to take the things, leader, out of the dark and let Jesus and bring it into the light Church members, especially those of you who grew up in the church, you said I will, and you have been faking it the entire time. You faked it through the elder interview, perhaps. This passage is for you. You can take what you have been keeping in the dark and you can bring it out into the light. You can repent and you can believe. You can move from being the second son into the first son. You can regret and you can go and you can live for God because He sends you His Spirit. Vaguely religious and moral people who acknowledge God with your lips, who, when you see something wrong done in society, you raise your moral flag Standing up for right or wrong, declaring that there is a God. But when it really comes down to it, God has become an afterthought an afterthought Recreational sports themselves are a greater God to you than God Himself. God is no longer your top priority. You said you would, but you don't go. But you could be like the first son. You could regret it. Today is the day that could be your salvation that is offered to you in Jesus Christ. That is what the triumphal entry in Palm Sunday teaches us. This is Palm Sunday. And when you receive those palms, I pray that you would allow the judgment to continue on. On to your sanctification. That you would remember that you always need Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. And that you always need Jesus Christ in the progress of your sins. That you need Jesus Christ to say, uh to help you, to give you the gift of being able to say Say I will and I will go. One man told me I hope this is true to you. When I listen to people tell me their Christian memoirs and their testimonies, here's one testimony from a gentleman. And I just wonder if this is stereotypical of what your experience has been like, or what it's like maybe even right now My whole life, he said, I either covered over my guilt or I avoided it through drugs, alcohol, and lying Even pretending to be religious to myself and others. That's how he characterized his whole life. But over time God pressed the reality of who I was on to me, and eventually I found myself one day with no escape. Has that ever been your experience? I had to look God in the eyes, and he says this because of how personal the interaction was between Between him and God, who is a spirit. He had to look God in the eyes and say, I have sinned against you. And I I need Jesus to die for me so that I can start living The question of Palm Sunday. And I've noticed that this is how God works in America quite a bit with Western People, what reality is pressing upon you? What in God, what has God in his providence brought into your life? That is a continual pressing where you must face the truth of his reality. What does he want you to do with this continual press How is it supposed to be an aid to you to move from either being the second son to becoming the first son or just going through the process of the first son themselves? Look him in the eyes. Take the things that are in the dark and bring them into the light Repent and believe. If you have not been baptized, be baptized in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, learning to obey Christ in all that He has commanded you. If you are in this room this morning, God is saying, through Palm Sunday, son and daughter, go work in my vineyard Do you hear him saying it? Go live your life to my glory and the benefit of your neighbor. You have the opportunity through Jesus Christ to say, I will, and by the power of the Holy Spirit, to actually go. Happy Palm Sunday. Please pray with me. Lord Jesus Christ, you are our great teacher, and I wonder what is in our life that we have used as a cloak for our sin? We ask that you would remove those cloaks. We ask that you'd cut through the gray deception that we create, the spinning of tails to justify The things that we do, telling ourselves that there's really no there's no such thing as guilt. It's just everybody's opinion for themselves. Lord, we ask that you would cut through those things in our own life And that it would lead us to repentance and belief in the salvation that is offered to us, that you give us in your Son, and through your Holy Spirit. I ask this for this group of people And for those who have received your salvation, I ask that your judgment would come on us and that we would confess and we would repent and that we would proceed. proceed and progress in our holiness. For that is what you have called us to. You are our king. You ride in to Severn Run this morning, and you bring Justice. You bring forgiveness when we find that we are unjust. And we thank you for these gifts. We ask these things in your name. Amen.