James chapter 3 for the word preached. And this evening we're continuing in James 3, 13 through 18. If anyone needs a Bible, if you raise your hand, I'll have one brought to you. Okay. Beginning in verse thirteen Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show by good conduct that his works are done in the meekness of wisdom. But if you have bitter envy and self seeking in your hearts, do not boast and lie against the truth. This wisdom does not descend from above, but is earthly, sensual, demonic. For where envy and self-seeking exist, confusion and every evil thing are there But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, willing to yield, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. Now, the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. Please pray with me. Father, we ask that you would give us this wisdom. That you'd show us, in fact, what it is, that you'd give us an appetite for it, and then you would sanctify us. We ask these things through our intercessor, Jesus Christ. Amen. Last week in the beginning of chapter three, we had the tongue. James insisted that we take the tongue seriously. That was the basic message. Take it seriously. Come on. That was his message. The tongue may be used powerfully for good or evil. And therefore, we must take care in the use of the tongue. However, remember that part of that passage says that as hard as you try, O man, man cannot tame the tongue. And so we must remember also from that message that because the tongue is fueled by the very fires of hell, you need Christ to send you the fire from heaven. Which is the Holy Spirit to tame you, to tame your heart, and to tame your mouth. Tonight the teaching continues from the tongue passage, actually The focus is specifically drawing from 13 to 18, which connects to verse 1 of chapter 3. We dealt mostly with two through twelve last week, and now I believe thirteen picks up from where one left off. So let me just read that to you. Chapter three, verse one. My brethren, let not many of you become teachers And I believe he picks that theme back up now in verse thirteen. Who is wise and understanding among you? He think he's speaking of teachers there. I don't think it's just teachers, but it is it is definitely teachers at the very least, I'm sure more. Verse 13 emphasizes the teacher. Actually, obviously in an occupation which uses the mouth all day, taking the tongue seriously as a teacher is serious business. I think it's appropriate for all of us. It's not exactly in this context like the teacher that we think of here at the academy or in our college classrooms or elementary schools It would be more like someone who has teaching as a part of their work, but overall they're a church leader. They're exercising moral authority amongst the community, and they're doing so with their mouth, but they also have a a uh kind of authority about them. They they don't just come in and teach in a classroom and then leave. There are some that are like that, for example, at the community college that have hardly any authority over your life except when they teach you about mitochondria and biology. We're not exactly talking about that here. Apparently there were some church leaders amongst James or teachers And they struggled with controlling their tongue. They struggled with having true wisdom. And so we know James in chapter 5 is seeking to bring those who have wandered from the true Christian way back He's seeking now to correct them in what true wisdom is. James seeks to correct them in three thirteen through eighteen. The teachers, because of expertise, knowledge, and authority, were thought to be wise and understanding as verse. Verse 13 says, it's not necessarily derogatory. There's not a tongue in cheek here. Rabbis in the literature of that time were considered wise and understanding. And that may have just been an honorific title for those in that community. He poses a question for us, which actually acts as a challenge and as a test. In verse 13 as well. And let me just read that for you. Who is wise and understanding among you? I'm asking the question seriously now of you. Who is wise and understanding among you? If you could please congregate over here at the organ, I would love it. No, of course. You didn't do that because you are wise. But it does bring up a question when you begin evaluating yourself like that: who is wise in understanding among us? And if you look at it the culture at large and you ask the question, who is You have to have some set of criteria within your mind to be able to answer that question. What does it look like for someone to be wise and understanding? How would you judge if you were wise? How would you judge if you should come over to the organ here? Would it be that you had letters behind your name, such as PhD or THM, or that you have a diploma. In James' congregation, some went to, some thought themselves wise for whatever reason, and he had to correct them here. And I'm wondering if we could use some correction also. I wonder if we have misevaluated ourselves and those in culture our culture. That we consider wise, and that'll be up for you to tell for yourself between you and God. The answer that James gives, in short, is that wisdom is practical godliness. And there are those who were not demonstrating that. Appropriately, James gives the standard to know if you have passed the test or not. And that comes Next here in our verse. He says, after the question, he answers it. Let him show by good conduct that his works are done in the meekness of wisdom. That's the standard that he uses right off of the bat, and of course he'll develop that more fully. But I do want to bring out here what James is doing. This should sound familiar to you. Let him show by deeds his wisdom. This should remind you of chapter two when it says But someone will say, you have faith and I have works. Show me your faith without your works, and I will show you faith by my works. He's using the same kind of criteria and standard here, saying that wisdom should always be accompanied by other things, just as faith, living faith, is faith that lives. And same thing with wisdom. True wisdom is seen or displayed within godliness. Just as faith is seen in good works, so too wisdom is seen in good works. That's the way that James is structuring this. What an excellent James in chapter two, when he was talking about faith, he went further with faith, and he said not only that there were good works, but he gave us the kindness That was the whole context of helping those in the community, especially those who were destitute That's what faith would look like. And now you have to ask the question: does James go further with wisdom? Does he not just tell us that it's good deeds, but does he show us what wisdom would actually look like And the answer is yes. And that really leads us into the bulk of the content of the passage. James gives us a definition and a display of wisdom, or rather says that it is a display. displayed. And so those are really the two parts of this passage. And I'd just like to look at the definition of wisdom and then the display of wisdom. So hopefully this won't be too tedious. I'd encourage you to take notes if you can But we're going to look at the definition of wisdom. You can see in verse 17 that he goes through a number of words, and I am literally just going to go each through each one of those words. Important. And so uh let's go ahead and begin. Wisdom in verse seventeen. Let me read the whole verse for you. But the but the wisdom that is from above is verse pure than peaceable, gentle, willing to yield, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy Now the fruit of right, and that's well I'll get into that in a minute. So that's 17, and let's take a look at each one of those. First of all, wisdom in verse 17 is first of all or foremost, it is pure. It's interesting that this word pure is used within Philippians chapter 4, verse 8. It says, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is honorable, whatever is right. And right before that. The Apostle Paul speaks about those things that make us anxious, and then he moves on to things that we should actually have our minds attached to, not things that are causing us anxious. The idea is of unwavering. It is to be uncontaminated. It's unwavering in devotion to God. It is a life lived before God. Take a look at James 12 twenty seven. The word is here used also, just one page back there. Pure and undefiled religion before God. Before God and the Father is this. So it is a religion that is before God, its unwavering devotion to Him, and it's uncontaminated, but uncontaminated in what? To be pure in Philippians would be to be to focus on those lovely things, the honorable things, not the things that you're focusing on to become anxious. What's the thing that could contaminate the wisdom here? It's all of those things that we see in verses 14 and 15. Bitter envy. Self-seeking or selfish ambition in your hearts, boasting and lying against the truth, earthly, sensual, demonic, envy and self-seeking, confusion and every evil thing Those are the things that where wisdom would be pure. It would not be contaminated by such things as selfish ambition and envy and confusion. If those are the things that are going on with inside of you, then you're automatically disqualified from cause. The rest are a description, I believe, of pure wisdom. You want to know what pure wisdom is It's these things. Pure wisdom is first, is uh is pure, but it also wisdom is peaceable. Peaceable in this context is obviously contrasted with what's going on in the churches that James is addressing. Controversy, contention, and division. To be peaceable is the opposite of those things. Take a look at James 4. 1. Notice that this is in fact happening. Where do wars and fights come from among you? Do they not come from your desires for pleasure that war in your member? You lust and you and you do not have, you murder and covet and covet and cannot obtain, you fight in war, yet you don't have because you don't ask And when you do ask, you ask amiss that you may spend it on your own pleasures. And there is again that self-ampitious, the self-selfish ambition. ambition. To be peaceable is the opposite of those whites, those fights and those wars. Peace up peaceable people say that three times fast, do not cause such things But rather, they heal the fractures and the wounds of the Christian community. They are not the cause for contention or division. They heal it. That's the way that wisdom is portrayed here. Proverbs 12, 18 says this. The words of the reckless pierce like swords But the tongue of the wise brings healing. Wisdom is also gentle and willing to yield. Here, to be gentle and willing to yield, the person, the wise person, is deferential to the lawful concerns and goals of other people. This person does not assume a combative stance, but seeks for you to flourish in your endeavors that you might glorify God. One commentator says that the willing to yield and gentle speaks to a person who yields to persuasion. meaning that you as a wise person would be willing to listen and that you can work with others Now there's a distinction here that was brought out by another commentator and says that if you want to be wise in terms of gentle and willing to yield, then you need the different you need to know the difference between knowing your knowing your mind and having your mind made up And another one says, it does not want to be stubborn, the wise person who yields, but's open to what is right and what is best. Probably we all know of situations where we have entered into a meeting, supposedly for discussing discussion and the discovery of God's will, but we have been determined beforehand not to change our mind. The wisdom from above makes us open to proper persuasion on the grounds of truth. And that's the difference between knowing your mind and having your your mind made up. And the wise person knows their mind, but is willing to be flexible upon the grounds of scriptural truth. In addition to the gentleness and the willing to yield, wisdom is full of mercy. Mercy is the feeling A sympathetic feeling by contact with the difficulties or sufferings which have come upon others, especially when they are in some measure undeserved. It does not stop at feeling, however, but moves into helpful action on behalf of those in need. In practice, it means being utterly faithful and attempting to meet the needs of others The standard for wisdom is really stacking. And is staggering And thus you can see why there would be so many good fruits in the rest of the passage. It's full of mercy and good fruits, and that it wouldn't be par impartial or hypocritical for the This mercy is so full and so practically helpful that it does not discriminate, but is without partiality and it's without hypocrisy. Do not show partiality against the poor, but show mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment, it says there in chapter 6. 3. And then right after that it talks about a person who is willing to pray for someone but not give them the resources that they need, although they have them. And that's the hypocrisy here. Hypocrites are those who act like they are being helpful in prayer, but not giving what they in fact can, right there on the spot. But wisdom isn't like that. is impartial and wisdom is without hypocrisy. They will meet the need because they are wise. This is what it means, this definition. It's the way that uh he frames it. I'm sure it's not an absolute definition, it's tailored to his specific congregation. But this is what James means when he gives the definition of wisdom that it's pure, that it is peaceable That it's gentle and willing to yield, that it's full of mercy. And this is the wisdom that we have to ask if we have, or if we're trusting in those who have true wisdom. That's just the definition. There's also here a statement that it must be displayed, and that's in verse 18. Now the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. Now, before I move on to that second point, let me just say: after giving you that list, please remember those terms in verse 17 and the definitions that I gave, because that's really what I want to bring into prayer. At the time of prayer, I want us to ask for this kind of wisdom: that we would be a community that disadvantages ourselves to advantage other people without impartial without partiality. without hypocrisy, willing to yield and gentle, peaceable, that we would be that kind of community. And that we would We would have leaders that are exactly like that, more and more so. And now there's this, all of this is supposed to display the fruit of righteousness, is sown in peace by those who make peace. Now, this is difficult phrasing It's strange to us the syntax, but I think that James is saying something similar to Proverbs eleven thirty. I honestly need to keep studying this proverb that James gives in eight. But I think he's saying the same thing that's in Proverbs 11:30. Now let me read that to you. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life And he who wins souls is wise. Now in the Proverb 1130, the w the wise are a tree of life, and people eat of his fruit or her fruit, and therefore he blesses the or she blesses the whole community because sh she or he is feeding good things to the community. But the first part is really the focus for James, the fruit of the righteous is a tree of life. The fruit of righteousness, it says in James. James, or of the righteous one, or of the righteous, I think is a metaphor for all of the wise deeds that we just heard. About. It's a summary of everything that we just heard. And for example, you would see this throughout the Proverbs in 31-31, you'd see the fruit of the hands You see in 1214 the fruit of the mouth. And these are these are the the fruit of the mouth are the deeds or the speech of the mouth. Fruit of the hands are the deeds or the accomplishment of the hands. hands. And this, since it just says the fruit of righteousness or of the righteous, is talking about all their deeds. It's not locating them as hands or mouth or eyes. Eyes, it's the deeds from wherever. Everything that they produce, their deeds, whether of hands or mouth, are like seeds sown in the community which sprout and produce peace and healing in the community. That's what a wise person is in a community. All that they do benefits the community through the lens, through a covenant lens, benefit as Defined by God. Thus true wisdom is displayed, therefore, for all to see and for all to benefit. You would become like a tree that people like to eat off of. You're so good and good for them. That's the idea. I actually know some people like that. And that's what the whole community should be striving for here, according to James, especially the teacher. And so you could ask again, could all the wise please gather again over at the organ? And I think there's a there's a sobering that has taken place Place. There might have been some hope of going to the organ at the beginning of the sermon. But now I don't think anyone would head over there. I mean to be truthful, the answer, if we were to say who could go over, the answer is that Jesus has given us wisdom. There are different measures of wisdom amongst the congregation. But we also have to say that we are still in much need of wisdom. You think of how the wisdom that you need in relationship to your children And bringing these set of attributes, these definitions to the relationships that you have with your children, that they would think of you as a person who is willing to yield, who is gentle and peaceable. And not impartial or not partial. You can think of that in returns to your spouse or your friends. But I'd also like to just mention that wisdom should also be demonstrated on facial on social media. And so when I see Facebook posts that don't have any of these attributes, it tells me that there's no wisdom on Facebook amongst Christians. We're seeing very little of it. I think wisdom would criticize our political leaders less and pray for them more, to be quite honest with you. True wisdom, true wisdom is um not around much these days. And so we need to pray for that. And the reason why I say that is because I have to ask The question, where do you think we would gain such wisdom? The answer is given in this passage, which is why we're going to go into a time of prayer. Take a look at verse 17 again. It's the one thing I skipped over. There's a contrast in this passage between demonic wisdom and heavenly wisdom. And in verse 17 it says, But the wisdom that is from above. The wisdom that we need is not going to be gained here from on earth. To be wise on social media or in any of our relationships, to be even politically wise. It's not going to come from here on earth. It won't come from Yale. It won't come from Harvard. It won't come from diplomas or PhDs. It will only come from heaven. Jesus Christ, the resurrected one, has ascended and is exalted to the right hand of God and has, in his exaltation, sent his spirit to his church to give his church wisdom. To disadvantage themselves as he has done, to carry your cross that others might be fruitful and be advantaged. In fact, if you take again a look again at James chapter 1, verse 5, notice what it says. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God. And that's what we need. We really do need the ministry of Jesus Christ in our lives so that we can have wisdom. And so we need obviously to go into prayer. So that's what I'd like to do now. We'll go into a time of prayer as a congregation, asking for wisdom that looks like this. I'd encourage you to keep