We're going to look at Mark chapter 6. We're going to look at the first six verses of Mark chapter 6. And I would ask you to turn there in your Bibles. Mark chapter 6, verses 1 through 6. And if you've turned there, let's stand. And we stand for the reading of God's Word. We stand out of respect for our great God whose word this is. This is his word. Not not Seven Run EP's word, not my word. This is God Almighty's word. Mark chapter six, verses one through six. Jesus went out from there and came into his hometown, and his disciples followed him. And when the Sabbath came, he began to teach in the synagogue, and the many listeners were astonished. Saying, Where did this man get these things? And what is this wisdom given to him, and such miracles as these performed by his hands? Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James and Joseph and Judas and Simon? Are not his sisters here with us? And they took offense at him Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor except in his hometown, and among his own relatives, and in his own household. And he could do no miracle there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them. And he wondered at their unbelief. And he was going around the villages teaching. Please pray with me. Our God in heaven, this is indeed your word. I pray, Lord, that as you have promised us, your word will never fall away. Your word will never fail. I pray, Lord, that you would plant this word deep in our hearts right now, that it would grow up to bear fruit for your kingdom and your glory in Christ. Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. There's an old science fiction television show that I used to like watching with my grandpa, with my Jadic It was called Lost in Space. Anybody familiar with Lost in Space? I had a favorite character. Now, my grandfather passed away when I was eight years old, so I was a little kid when I was watching this with And there was one character in that show that stood out to me more than any other. Can you guess what it was? Dr. Smith. It was the robot. And do you guys remember what the robot's catchphrase was? There's that one. There was one other one that always stuck out in my mind. That does not compute. That does not compute. Words from a robot, a robot with a purely logical mind, a robot that relies entirely on reason. And rational thinking. And the robot would say that does not compute whenever it encountered a human situation filled with paradoxes and contradictions that it just couldn't understand. It would say that doesn't compute Now whatever humans tell ourselves, there are plenty of things that don't compute for us. And our society is uh actually striving to be a lot like that robot, isn't it? It's trying to be purely logical Our culture wants to be entirely rational. We call it empirical, or empiricism, or naturalism, or rationalism. There's all these different words for it. It exalts logic and reasoning. But at the drop of a hat, human beings, even in our society, will throw that out the window Let me tell you what I mean. I was having a conversation with some friends at work not too long ago, and as is the case in this day and age, it usually turns to the uh Impending threat of fascism in our land. And when we started talking about that, one of my friends decided to enlighten us And he said that the only way to protect freedom is to protect the freedom of everyone's conscience. And when he explained that, he said that you have to protect everyone's right to their opinion. Whether that opinion is right or wrong, we must tolerate it, and we must accept people for who they are, not who we wish them to be. Sounds kind of smart, but if you give some thought to it, uh it's easy to poke holes in that and I was able to demonstrate that he didn't quite believe that himself. I began to tell him of my opinion about abortion. And how I thought and believed that abortion is murder, and that the people who commit abortions are murderers And then I said that because of the sheer quantity of abortions that happen in this country, every abortionist should be treated as a serial murderer and should have the just desserts of serial killers, execution. That did not compute. It didn't work He quickly and rather loudly abandoned his reasoned and rational position because of my belief. He was not tolerant of my opinion. He was not afraid to tell me that I was wrong. And this is not abnormal. What we believe about a thing can quickly be overshadowed, or can quickly overshadow what it is we think about a thing. If what we believe is contrary to the truth, most likely we are going to follow what we believe But there is a time when that is a good thing. There is a time when belief and believing absolutely must overpower our fickle and fallible reason And that time is when we are confronted by the truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ. When we are confronted by the gospel, we are confronted by something so other, so completely apart from what we're able to understand. That if we only rely and trust on our minds and our reason, we will stumble and we will fall. And I hope that we are going to see from our text tonight that when considering the gospel An over-reliance on human reason causes unbelief, which inhibits our experiencing God's awesome power. And I do apologize for the world's longest proposition sentence, so I'm going to repeat it again. When confronted with the gospel, An over-reliance on human reason causes unbelief, which inhibits our experiencing God's awesome Power. And we're going to look at this under four headings tonight. The first heading is setting of the stage. We're going to see this in verse 1. You can see it right there. If you don't already have your Bibles open from before, please please open them again. You're going to want to follow along in the text. We're going to look at the quandary of unbelief in verse 2 We're going to look at the cause of unbelief, verses 3 to 4, and finally we will see the consequences of unbelief. So we'll set the stage with verse 1. We have the quandary of unbelief in verse 2, the cause of unbelief, verses 3 through 4, and the consequence of unbelief Verses 5 to 6. Let's jump right in. Let's get on it. We have the setting of the stage in verse 1. Right there it says, Jesus went out from there and came into his hometown, and his disciples followed him Well, this sets the stage for this event in Jesus' life. Jesus went out from there. He went out from Capernaum. And if you would just glance over at chapter 5, you'll see what had happened while in Capernaum. He healed From the affliction of death, a 12-year-old girl, the synagogue ruler's daughter. And on his way to Gyrus' house to raise his daughter from the dead, He healed a woman who had been bleeding for as long as that little girl had been alive. And before that, he was in the land of the Gadderenes. A group of people had asked him to leave because he had healed a demoniac. He had cast out a demon that could not be cast out. And before that, on the way to the land of the Gadderings, do you remember what our Lord did? While he was sleeping on a boat, something happened. And his disciples, fearing for their life, woke him up. And he commanded the winds and the waves, and they obeyed him. This is where Jesus came from. In this setting of the stage. Now, Jesus came into his hometown, literally the place of his father. That's what it is in the Greek. Now, if you turn back to Mark chapter 3, verse 21, you'll see a very interesting statement from his family. His family says, it says in Mark 3:21, when his own people heard of this Speaking of the things Jesus was saying and all the miracles he was doing, they went out to take custody of him, for they were saying he had lost his senses. So Jesus is coming out of a place where he had been doing great miracles and wonders into a place of his hometown, the place where he grew up with his family, who were Not exactly thrilled with what was happening in his life. They said he was out of his senses, out of his mind. And when he was there, just the verse after verse 21 in chapter 3, verse 22, the scribes that were there from Jerusalem, in response to the things Jesus did, said that he had Been possessed by Beelzebub, or he was possessed by a demon. So Jesus went out from a place where he was doing great miracles into a place of hostility, albeit a place of familiarity. And in Luke chapter 4, it records that after Jesus' baptism and temptation, he came into the synagogue in Nazareth to teach. And the people there, in Nazareth, his hometown, were filled with rage, so much so that they drove him out of the synagogue and wanted to cast him off of a cliff. Okay? Are we getting the picture? He did not go into a very uh friendly atmosphere. This was not a a group of people that all shared exactly what Jesus uh was teaching. But Jesus was not alone. He had his disciples with him. We can assume that it was at least the twelve. Um I believe that verse seven in chapter six indicates that it was probably more than twelve. It says he summons the twelve to him. If it had been just the twelve, he probably probably could have said just the disciples, so that's not a big deal. These are the twelve devoted and committed followers that have been with him since the beginning. And they would have known about this earlier hostility that was shown toward Jesus in Nazareth, and yet they came anyway. I think it's important that we know that. It shows their commitment and their devotion to Jesus Christ. And so they followed him. Why? Because where else would they go? John chapter 6, verses 68 to 69, they say, To whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. But even more than that, in the section immediately following this section, they're going to be sent out to do the work of the ministry in Jesus' name. And they need to see what it is that they're up against. Now we need to notice from just this verse of setting the stage, we need to notice Jesus' humanity. He's going home. Despite the hostility and despite the way that his family treated him the last time he was in Nazareth, he's going home because he loves his mama, because he loves his brothers and sisters, and because they need the gospel as much as anyone else I want you also to take note of Jesus' courage. I pointed out that he was in the hostile situation, that they were not exactly amenable to the things he was saying and teaching the first time he was there. And so the fact that Jesus came here when he didn't have to. To again preach the gospel shows his great courage. So the stage is now set. It's ready to unfold a very specific event in Jesus. Jesus' ministry, an event where we are going to see people in a situation where they must consider the gospel. Yet these people, as we will see, will overrely on human reason reason and wisdom and they will become ensnared in unbelief. And this unbelief is going to inhibit them from experiencing God's awesome power. So we're going to look now at the quandary of unbeliefs in verse 2. Verse 2 says. When the Sabbath came, he began to teach in the synagogue, and the many listeners were astonished, saying, Where did this man get these things? And what is this wisdom given to him in such miracles as these? performed by his hands. I chose the word quandary because it's a $5 word. It's an amazing word. It's just uh if you ever play Scrabble, you're gonna want to remember the word quandary. But the definition of a quandary is a state of perplexity or uncertainty over what to do in a difficult situation. So I want to look now at the difficult situation of the quandary that these people are in. The difficult situation for the people of Nazareth are the claims about Jesus. The claims are what they'd seen him do, what they had heard about his ministry in these surrounding towns and these villages. But the difficulty of that situation is not just that there are claims about Jesus. The difficulty is the reality of Jesus. He had now come to him, and he had actually Taught the things that they may have only heard about. And what they say here, when it says uh What is where did this man get these things? In the Greek, it's actually a derogatory kind of way of saying it. And saying, this man? Where does this guy get these things? It's a very generic this guy kind of statement. And the reason they're saying that is because Jesus, this Jesus is still the man that they knew that had grown up in this hometown. It's not like he was magically transformed into something else, like some people think. Some some heretics believe that Jesus received his divinity at his baptism. That's not true. Jesus was always divine and always human. But something otherworldly does come out of his mouth, something that they can't comprehend. Great wisdom. Such wisdom given to him. And the word in Greek actually is granted. It's got a better, it's better to take that as granted, meaning, what is this wisdom granted to him? Not just that it was given to him, but that it he was allowed to have this wisdom in a special place. And these mighty acts These wonderful miracles. All of this that they had seen led to one response in these people. They were astonished. Literally, they were struck with astonishment. In our common parlance, we would say their minds were blown. The people of Nazareth had heard something they could not even possibly comprehend. And they especially couldn't comprehend that it came from this guy. Which is the perplexity of their situation. If they rely on human wisdom, how does a person like this get all that we just described? How does a person like this get such wisdom or such ability to perform these miracles? How does a normal man, like any other man, have the ability to do this? And so they're looking at it with human wisdom, yet if they had been looking at it through divine wisdom, perhaps if they had known their Bibles a little bit better, they'd have known Isaiah 53. That says that the Messiah has no form or comliness. That when we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him, and he's despised and rejected by men. This is exactly what Paul is referring to in 1 Corinthians 1:27: that God has chosen the foolish things to shame the wise and the weak to shame the mighty. God is not forced to conform to our reason or our wisdom. Now, this is the quandary of their unbelief, the difficult situation, the perplexity of the situation. And every single one of us will be in this same quandary at some point, weighing the claims of Jesus Christ against the reality of Jesus. And they will either use human wisdom or divine wisdom that's been granted to them from the Almighty Father. So, brothers and sisters, when you're speaking to someone, a stranger or a relative, do you keep that in mind? Do you keep in mind that this is a difficult situation for people, that this is perplexing? Do you keep in mind that it is a quandary? It isn't plausible from a materialistic, rationalistic, empirically observable sort of worldview. And so, brothers and sisters, we must have patience. We must be patient with those that we share the gospel with. Yet we must be like Jesus and be persistent. See how Jesus returned to them again and taught them again. And once again we should look at Jesus' humility. We should see that when he came into the town, he waited for the Sabbath to come. If you look at the other Miraculous events in Mark and in the other gospels, often Jesus shows up with a huge multitude. He doesn't have a chance to wait for the Sabbath. He just sits down on a mountain, they follow, sit down, and then he teaches. But when he comes home to his hometown, that didn't happen. And so he didn't he didn't show up at the gates of Nazareth and say, hey guys, I'm home. Are you ready for some good preaching? He waited for the day when they would have already been preparing their hearts to receive God's word in the synagogue, and he goes there, as was the custom, and began to teach. So Jesus Christ was humble and he should be an example to us in his humility. And brothers I encourage you to think about what it is Jesus did here to Nazareth. He preached the gospel, he preached the Word of God. And you, Christians, you're in a similar quandary at least once a week, right? At least once a week, you are confronted by the claims of Jesus Christ And the gospel, and you have to make a decision. When you meditate and wrestle with God's word in your own time, you have to make conclusions about God And you can either do that with human wisdom or with divine wisdom. And so I ask you: do you come to church expecting the teaching of Jesus Christ? Do you come to church here on the Lord's Day expecting Jesus Christ's own words to be delivered to you through his chosen servant? Is that what happens when a rightfully ordained man of God and I gotta point out I'm not one, I am a licensed intern, I am not yet ordained There's a big difference, and we can talk about that later. But when an ordained, rightfully ordained man of God, like your pastor, is in this pulpit speaking, this is Jesus Christ talking to you and teaching you. And you have to make a decision. You're in that quandary and you have to choose how you will respond. Or you don't have to believe that. And we'll see what happens if you choose on the belief in a couple minutes. So this is the same exact situation for us as it was for the people of Nazareth. Jesus was there in their synagogue delivering God's word and they were in the quandary, the perplexing, difficult situation. Now, how can this be? How is it that we are to take this stupendous wisdom? What do we do with this account of God's mighty works and his words and his teaching? When we start asking questions and we start thinking about this only from a human perspective, a rationalistic perspective, this is when the dangerous trap of unbelief is set before us. And let's look at it. We're going to look at the cause of unbelief, verses three and four. We've looked at, we've set the stage, we've seen the quandary of unbelief, now the cause of unbelief. And verses three and four says These are the words of the people of Nazareth. Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, brother of James and Joseph, and Judas and Simon? Are not his sisters here with us? And they took offense at him. him. They took offense at him. That word take offense is scandalizo. It's just But you might be able to uh gather from that Greek word, what English word might we get from scandalizo? Scandalize, scandal. That's right. In the Greek it means to to ensnare or uh cause to stumble. It's the same word that's used in 1 Peter 2. 8 when Peter is quoting from Isaiah 8. 14 and he calls Jesus the rock of offense. People will be caused to stumble, and this is what happened when they took offense at Jesus and were led into unbelief. Now how how is it that these people who grew up with him would be led into unbelief? They knew Jesus. They were astonished Well they thought that they knew Jesus. And because they thought that they that knew that Jesus was one of them, it did not make sense that Jesus could be teaching them these things, having this wisdom and doing these mighty works. It did not fit with what they thought. Well, Jesus' statement in verse 4 He says, A prophet is not without honor, except in his hometown, and among his own relatives, and in his own household And this seems like a proverb, but actually if you look in Luke chapter 4, you'll see that Jesus had said these words before, that last time he was in the synagogue in Nazareth. Something very similar, I should say. In Luke 4. 24, Jesus says, Assuredly I say to you, no prophet is welcomed in his hometown. Now, not all the prophets were like Samuel. You guys remember Samuel? His mother prayed and prayed and prayed, and then she had a baby, and she delivered on her promise to God and gave him to the work of ministry from the moment that he was weaned. Not all the prophets are like that. Some prophets are like Amos. They're shepherds for most of their life and then the word of God comes to them. Now I want you to just imagine, what do you think the other shepherds thought about Amos? When Amos received the Word of God, what kind of shepherd is a prophet? I believe that some people might have said, Amos, you're getting a little uppity. You're just a shepherd. Who are you to give us God's word? But God can pick anyone. And God chooses to use, as I said before, the foolish things to shame the wise, and the weak things to shame the strong. Now this is as the cause of unbelief The stumbling block of familiarity. They thought they knew Jesus. They thought they knew everything they could possibly know about Jesus And this did not fit with what they knew, and they stumbled over it. But there's another cause to unbelief: the stubbornness of our pride. Pride and human reason. We trust it and we rely on it. How can a man like this A tecton, a carpenter, a manual laborer. How could he have this power, this wisdom, this authority? Men can't do these kinds of things. Men can't teach it like this. And he is just a man. So their pride Made them unable to see that Jesus was what he claimed to be. There's only one answer if a man can't do the things that a man is doing: either He is what he claimed to be, Jesus was the Son of God, or he was possessed by a demon, like the scribes from Jerusalem had said No other man has ever done the things that Jesus did. And therefore, it stands to reason that if Jesus really was a man and really was doing these things, there might be some critical information we're missing Now I wonder if you guys are familiar with uh Thomas Jefferson's uh Bible, where he took out all the supernatural parts of the New Testament. And the Gospels. Just the Gospels is what he worked with. He took out everything supernatural, every reference to a miracle or to the resurrection, and he replaced it. And he called it the life and morals of Jesus of Nazareth. This is the same thing that modern academic biblical scholars are trying to do. We're trying to render Jesus Christ impotent. By calling him just a man, just a mythos, just some mythological creature. So we have pride in human reason that will cause unbelief. And there's pride in ourselves, isn't there? Brothers and sisters, we don't know half as much as we think we know. And yet we'll walk around like we're experts on a subject because we read two or three articles on Facebook. We don't know what we think we know. And the people in Nazareth didn't know what they thought they know. They thought that they knew Jesus' family. They thought they knew his origins. And in fact, the way they say it here is kind of insulting. They say the son of Mary. In the Jewish culture, then they would have said the son of Joseph. They always would have referred to the father, even after the father had died, if indeed Joseph were dead. And this can be taken as a dig, as an insult, because the incarnation can be insulting. It's a mystery. This is a mystery, an absolute mystery of the faith, that God, the Almighty God, could become a human being That he would put himself in this place of suffering and pain. And I wonder if the people of Nazareth would have received Jesus differently if he had somehow come back different. If he didn't have the same kind of d dirty carpenter's clothes on, or if he had maybe if he had more servants, if Jesus showed up with a hundred people waiting on him, maybe they would have taken him differently Or if he had showed up with uh with a bunch of temple silver to pass out and make everybody's lives easier, maybe they would have received him differently. But no, Jesus had not changed. He was the same, exactly the same as he was before, and this was their argument. He was the same. And because he was the same, what he delivered to them in his teaching did not make sense to them. Just did not work. Well, brothers and sisters, there is nothing more important in all of life than that you believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, and that you believe everything that is recorded about him and his life in the Holy Scriptures. If you don't, you will fall into unbelief. You will fall into the pride and the arrogance of thinking you know how things work. You will fall into the stumbling block, or fall over the stumbling block of familiarity Well, now I want you to see that unbelief is not harmless. It has some consequences. And we'll see the consequences of unbelief in verses 5 and 6. Where it says, and he could do no miracle there except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them. And he wondered at their unbelief, and he was going around the villages teaching. The first consequence of unbelief I want you to see is self-inflicted harm. Jesus could do no miracle. Now I want you to just think for a second about this. Jesus was not able to do miracles there because of their unbelief. Think about those people who had been healed that we had seen earlier in Mark. Think about Jairus's The daughter, Jairus' faith. Think about the woman with her the flow of blood. Jesus says in verse 34 of chapter 4: daughter, your faith has made you well. He said to Jairus, do not be afraid. Believe Now it's not like Jesus needed belief in order for him to have the power to do miracles. No, it Jesus is is capable of performing the miracles. But think of it this way. If an ice cream man comes into your neighborhood and you don't go to him to buy ice cream Is it reasonable to say that that ice cream man was unable to sell you ice cream? That's pretty reasonable It doesn't mean that he was incapable of ever selling ice cream to any person ever again. It just means that he was unable to sell it to you because you did not go to him to get the ice cream. Well, no one in this town came to Jesus. No one came by faith. No one came seeking to be healed. They didn't come seeking answers to their questions about what he taught. Should he have healed them anyway? Yet we do see that Jesus' power is unchanged. A few people were healed. He healed, he laid his hands on a few of the sick And he healed them. Now, Jesus, in his humiliation, has willingly limited himself. He has given himself into submission to his father. And he says in John chapter 5, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself unless it is something he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in like manner. So Jesus came to Nazareth and did not see his father at work in the Nazarenes. It doesn't mean that Jesus is not powerful or that Jesus wasn't who he claimed to be. It means that God did not want the Nazarenes to be Now, the other consequence of unbelief is we are inhibited from experiencing God's awesome power. Jesus goes around to other villages. He passes by the unbelievers. He didn't meet them where they were. God didn't stay in Nazareth trying to answer every single one of their objections. He didn't even argue with them about the things that they were saying. Jesus left them where they were because they would not believe. And Jesus was amazed at their unbelief Does that not set some of you off when you see that Jesus was amazed? The creator of the whole universe is amazed at something Do you know there's only one other part in the Gospels where it says that Jesus was amazed? Do you know where that is? It's when he's talking about the centurion who says that Jesus could heal his servant without even being present. He's amazed at the faith of this centurion And equally amazed at the unbelief of the people he grew up with. This is very significant. Who do you think experienced God's awesome power more? The Gentile centurion or the Jewish people of Nazareth? Now I hope this is making you think. I hope that it is making you think long and hard about whether or not you believe Jesus Christ. Like I said before, I think Christians are are often confronted by the truth of the gospel, and that on a very regular basis we should ask ourselves, do we really believe it? And I want to say that because familiarity, as we see here, familiarity can lead to this unbelief. And sometimes I think we become so familiar with Bible stories that we just cease to believe them. We become so familiar with Jonah being swallowed by a fish that we don't actually believe it. It's just a nice story. We become so familiar with the mighty acts of Jesus Christ, but do we actually believe them? Now, when we say Jesus Christ died on the cross for my sins, Jesus Christ rose from the dead to new life. We can say that, but can we say that without being astonished at what he'd done? Can we say that without believing it? I mean, Jesus Christ died for your sins on the cross. That's true. That's real. I think sometimes the familiarity with gospel truths causes us to stumble No, I ask you, is your experience of God's awesome power being inhibitive? If it is, then perhaps there's unbelief in your life. And I want to point out an area of our lives where unbelief is really prevalent. And it's pointed out by Jesus' response when Jesus was amazed. Now, Jesus knew the hearts of man far better than you or I can ever know the hearts of man. He knew the depths of their depravity and their sin. Yet Jesus was amazed at their unbelief. Does that not strike you? He didn't expect their unbelief. He was amazed by it. He was amazed by their unbelief. I don't think that we could honestly say that we would be amazed when other people don't believe the gospel. Are you amazed that your relatives don't believe Do you marvel at coworkers and friends who don't believe in Jesus Christ? And if you're really honest with yourself, I think most of the time you expect people not to believe. And if I'm honest with myself, I think most of the time I expect people not to respond to my witness of Christ. We expect people to be the Nazarenes in the quandary of what to do with Jesus and relying on their own reason, they're just not going to believe. Do you know what that's called, brothers and sisters? It's called sin. Cynicism. Cynicism is an attitude or state of mind characterized by a general distrust of others' motives. We generally just don't trust people. To be reasonable. We just don't trust people to actually listen to what we tell them about Jesus Christ. We just don't believe that people are gonna really be transformed and changed. And the reality here is that our cynicism is not against people, it's against God. We are being cynical against God's plan and God's motives. Because God has the power to make anyone believe. God has the power to transform any life. So Jesus, who was amazed at the unbelief of these people, was not cynical with regard to his Father's will. And brothers and sisters, I would caution you from being cynical. From not thinking or believing that God can change people's hearts. When you share the gospel, remember that an over reliance on human reason is what is going to cause the unbelief that it's Inhibits experiencing God's awesome power. And when you're confronted by Christ in your own life, that the temptation to sin swirls around you and life just keeps going on. Don't trust in your own mind. Don't trust in your own reason. Don't trust in your own experience. Or else you will be inhibited from experiencing God's power. As well. May our great God be amazed at all of your belief and not at your unbelief. Let's pray Gracious Heavenly Father, when we look at your Son, we must admit that there are times that it is just un Unbelievable. It seems to us so contrary to the way that we think the world works and the way that we think you work and the way that we think Things have to be that we fall, we stumble, we're attrapped by unbelief. Now, Lord, we we trust you for our salvation. We seek to follow you and your will, yet, Lord, this unbelief is going to get in the way. It is going to keep us from experiencing your power. It's going to keep us from sharing your gospel. Expecting you to transform lives. So I pray, Father God, that you will allow us to understand And to desire you, to be in your word, meditating on your law, and delighting in it day and night, that we can be true believers of the gospel. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.