So Ruth the Moabitus said to Naomi, Please let me go to the field and glean heads of grain after him, in whose sight I might find favor. And she said to her, Go, my daughter. Then she left and went and gleaned in the field after the reapers. And she happened to come to the part of the field belonging to Boaz, who was of the family of Elimelech. Now, behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem and said to the reapers, The Lord be with you. And they answered him, The Lord bless you. Then Boaz said to his servant, who was in charge of the reapers, Whose young woman is this? So the servant who was in charge of the reapers answered and said, It is the young Moabite woman who came back with Naomi from the country of Moab. And she said, Please let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves. So she came and has continued from morning until now, though she rested a little in the house Then Boaz said to Ruth, You will listen, my daughter, will you not? Do not go to glean in another field, nor go from here, but stay close by, my young women. Let your eye be on the field which they reap, and go after them. Have I not commanded the young men not to touch you? And when you are thirsty, go to the vessels and drink from what the young men have drawn So she fell on her face, bowed down to the ground, and said to him, Why have I found favor in your eyes, that you should take notice of me, since I am a foreigner And Boaz answered and said to her, It has been fully reported to me all that you have done for your mother in law since the death of your husband, and how you have left your father and your mother in the land of your birth, and have come to a people whom you did not know before. The Lord repay your work, and a full reward be given you by the Lord God of Israel, under whose wings you have come for refuge. Then she said, Let me find favor in your sight, my lord, for you have comforted me and have spoken kindly to your maidservant, though I am not like one of your maidservants. Now Boaz said to her at mealtime, Come here and eat of the bread, and dig your pe dip your piece of bread in the vinegar. So she sat beside the reapers and passed parched grain to her. And she ate and was satisfied, and kept some back. And when she rose up to glean, Boaz commanded his young men, saying, Let her glean even among the sheaves, and do not reproach her Also, let grain from the bundles fall purposely for her. Leave it, that she may glean, and do not rebuke her. So she gleaned in the field until evening, and beat out what she had gleaned, and it was about an epath of barley Then she took it up and went into the city, and her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned. So she brought out and gave to her what she had kept back after she had been satisfied. And her mother-in-law said to her, Where have you gleaned today? And where did you work? Blessed be the one who took notice of you. So she told her mother-in-law with whom she had worked and said, The man's name with whom I work today is Boaz. Then Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, Blessed be he of the Lord who has not forsaken his kindness to the living and the dead. And Naomi said to her, This man is a relation of ours, one of our close relatives Ruth the Moabitist said, He also said to me, You shall stay close by my young men until they have finished all my harvest. And Naomi said to Ruth, her daughter-in-law, It is good, my daughter that you go out with his young women, and that people do uh and that people do not meet you in any other field. So she stayed close by the young women of Boaz to glean until the end of barley harvest and wheat harvest And she dwelt with her mother-in-law. Let us pray. Oh Lord Christ, we thank you for this Beautiful picture of covenant love. We pray, Christ, that whatever we are taught by your word today. That it would go straight to our hearts, that we would be formed and shaped and realize the dignity that you have given to us by working through our work. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well this is shaping up to be quite the story. Last week, we acknowledged that we make it through the dark days not just by loyalty from God, but our loyalty to each other. In fact, as we focused in on Naomi, we saw that just like her, those who are empty and bitter are restored by the loving loyalty of those in your life. I'll begin with making just a few observations today, and then I have some brief application. The first thing I'm sure that you all noticed is that a new character has entered the scene. We've been waiting for him. Boaz. The narrator is intensely focused on two main features of Boaz. Every time I go back to read, I find that the features are even more and more prominent. The first feature is the family line. Did everybody catch that? It just kept being repeated even there at the end. Oh, he's a part of the family line. Oh, he's a part of the family line. You can see that right away in verse 1, where Boaz is located with reference to the family line of Elimelech. This is repeated in verse 3 and in other verses. Do not miss the point. Naomi is empty and bitter. And the question that should be hanging over the whole story is, will she ever have a family? And from that family, will Israel have a Messiah? What about Ruth? Will she have a family? Well, these little hints throughout the story are letting you know where we're headed. We're on a story arc, and what we witness here is a possible match. Boaz qualifies, or in the words of that movie, Oh brother, where art thou, Boaz, he's a suitor. The other focus that we have here besides the family line is his character. That takes up just as much space at this part of the story. He is the embodiment of Torah living and Hassed. He is like the Ten Commandments on two legs. He really is. Look at how he treats the workers in verse 4. When he shows up to work, he blesses them. They don't just uh you know ignore them, they bless them right back. They're happy to have him as a boss It is the same thing that we'll see in other verses. Look at how he treats Ruth. And it is pointed out by the narrator just how unusual this is because she is a foreigner. I'm sure you saw that parenthetical remark. But his goodness is seen in verse 8 toward her. It is seen in verse 13 toward her. She gains access to food and water and protection. He enacts a kind of sex non-sexual harassment policy within the workplace for her. And you can see the same thing in verse 17. Ruth and Naomi are amazed at the amount of food that they have, and it is stemming from the character of Boaz. He even invites her to have a little lunch with her. He's a good guy. Now that's the first thing I wanted you to notice is the new character on the scene, Boaz, his family line and his character. Here's the second observation. The narrator focuses also on the Torah living and the Hasid of Ruth herself. That's brought up. And this is seen especially, I'm sure you noticed, in the speech of Boaz, when he was speaking not to his employees, but to her. She's asking, what is it that I have done to deserve these things from you? And he is answering, well, what I have in mind that makes you deserve these things and God wants to repay you is the way that you have worked with your mother-in-law. He commends her in verse 11 for her loyalty to Naomi, and then blesses her, essentially praying that the Lord would cover her with his wings. And such a many have noted how beautiful that saying is, that she would find refuge under the wings of the Lord. That really should be an aspiration for us all. In a way, Naomi already sees this taking place. She sees that they both are going under the wing of the Lord. And you can see this in what is really a kind of um Orienting verse is verse number 20. Verse number 20 is letting you know how we really should be looking at all these details. And what you witness here is the bitter Naomi. Then Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, Blessed be he of the Lord who has not forsaken his kindness to the living and the dead. You see what she's referencing there? She's living along with Ruth. And there is kindness also not just to them who are alive, but a limelech in a sense, and her sons, Melon and Kileon. The bitter Naomi, even in this phrase, you can see that her countenance is starting to come back. She's becoming pleasant again because the Lord has stretched out his wing over her. And The Lord is recovering her and Ruth with the wing of Boaz. Now what's interesting When you look especially at verse 20 as a lens by which we would understand all of the verses in this chapter, is that we're seeing a couple pieces together with really important questions we're supposed to be asking and answering with the book of Ruth. The first question that I raised, and really is the main question of this entire book, is this. How do we make it through our dark days? When we are empty, when we are bitter, when we have been afflicted, how do we make it through the dark days of our life? That's the main question of the book. Because we're coming out of the dark days of the judges. The answer that we first gave in the first sermon was: well, God's loyalty. He'll take you into a place of light. By his light, you will see light. The answer in the second sermon was, well, in another sense, our loyalty to each other. And now we see how these two end up relating by way of verse twenty. Blessed be he of the Lord speaks about a reality of how those two realities of the loyalty of the Lord and the loyalty of each other work together. How the sovereignty of God and the free will of man comes together to accomplish God's purposes. And it is actually in the form of our doctrine this morning, and I'll state it this way. As we experience emptiness and bitterness, God ordinarily fills us and he makes our lives pleasant again by working through the work of those who are around us. The way that the two questions come together is God works through your work. And that's what we're going to unfold a bit more today, but let me state the doctrine again. One question you can ask the kids on the way home is: what was the doctrine this morning? Kids, here you go. As we experience emptiness and bitterness, God ordinarily fills and makes our lives pleasant again By working through the work of those around you or the shortened version, God works through our work. Well I want to look at just two, I want to unfold this in two ways, the mask of God, or God's mask, and our work. Let's start with God's mask. Have you ever heard that kind of terminology before? That God wears a mask? Nope. Okay. Well, the first time I ran into it was from Martin Luther, who is a German theologian and pastor from the 1500s. You've sang his hymn, A Mighty Fortress Is Our God. Well, he talks about God having a mask. And he does so by laying out a couple different verses for our consideration, but I'm just going to focus in on one. He lists Psalm 145, verses 15 and 16, which say this. Actually, some of the children here have this memorized. The eyes of all look expectantly to you, and you give them their food in due season. You open your hand and satisfy the desire of every living thing. In those two verses, we hear that God gives food to every living thing. We hear that, and he also quotes another verse from Psalm 147: He makes peace in your borders And fills you with the finest wheat. Luther quotes that also. We see God giving food to every living thing. We hear that peace and not war is present because of God. These are observations that Luther has made. Now I want you to picture those scenes just for a moment. And I wonder if you were to come up here and just share. Well what does that look like? What does it look like God opening his hand and feeding every living thing? What does it look like? What would you describe? What picture would you paint if you were in the art class I imagine it something like this, which I think we all have experienced. You could imagine driving and looking around and seeing God feeding every living thing That is easy to do on the countryside. On our way to the church camping trip or to Deep Creek Lake, if you have any of you have taken that travel route and you go through where the rock is cut where you can kind of drive through the mountain. After you pass through that area, if you keep your eyes open open, Megan Clark. If you keep your eyes open, you pass through that area, the whole scene opens up. And from the highway you can look down into the valleys and you can see all of the trees, you can see the grass, you can see the cattle, sometimes you can see sheep. And birds and deer, and if you could get down there to look at the streams, there's fish in there. And they're all being fed by God through the natural ecosystem. There's nobody out there tossing grain. They're just all taken care of. And we have witnessed that We could look, we could stand there on the edge and look out on the valley and we could say, look at how God has opened his hand and he feeds every living thing. Within that ecosystem, those animals have peace at their borders also. The stream is not bursting her banks and flooding the pastures where the cattle graze. Truly, we see God opening his hand. And blessing every border. Now, I wonder, is that the kind of picture that you have when you think of God taking care of every living thing? That is not the picture only that Martin Luther had when he talked about these verses. He considered these verses as a part of a small town or a market. or a city. And so if I were to go along with just my own imagination, I'm going to picture Saverna Park because that's where I'm from. If my family and I walked into town, we'd find someone selling flowers out of a restored 70s pickup truck. We would find a coffee shop with fresh roasted coffee beans and many kinds of coffee drinks We'd find a pizza place and there's always the smell of garlic knots tempting me to dispend my discretionary income. We find a fruit and vegetable stand in the summer months and a Christmas tree and garland stand in the winter. And we could keep going and we could find a library, we could find a veterinarian. There's even a place where they keep trains on a track that they open for Christmas time, and you get the picture. In this painting of Saverna Park, though, let me ask you the question again. Do you see God opening his hand and filling every living thing with blessing? Technically, what you see is human beings serving each other in various vocations. That's how we would normally describe it. Maybe the word God would never enter into sentences in the description of Saverna Park. But this is where Luther can really help us in understanding what's going on here, even in the book of Ruth. Luther views the town of Saverna Park and sees God working through their work. That's the whole point. He says that all of those men and women and children engaging in civic responsibilities, and here's where the language comes from, they are a mask. That God wears to do his great work in the world. And this was really important for him to say Because of the dignity that immediately rushes into the most commonplace activities that we engage in as human beings. When you set the table and you put bread and butter in the center, and if you're lucky, and you get some meat on there too, maybe some salad. God is working through your work to feed your family. He opens his hand through you, Mom, filling every living thing with blessing What a beautiful picture of life. Luther said, and I love this little saying, he says, God milks the cow through the vocation of the milkmaid. Isn't that just a great representative picture of how we should be looking at all of our work? God melks the cow through the milkmaid. What a precious scriptural teaching of the Protestant Reformation. Essentially, it's the same doctrine that we have, and that is that God is working through our work. Now I want you to consider one more example, and that's the example that we have within our bulletin today. Where you heard Jesus talk about himself wanting to be a mother hen, longing that they would come and find refuge under his wing, but they keep refusing. We've included that passage where Jesus stands above Jerusalem and says what I just said Now Jesus would go on to be crucified, he would rise again, and he would ascend to the right hand of the Father, and he'll have all authority, all authority to open his hand and fill every living thing with blessing After his ascension, just in terms of thinking about that scene in your bulletin and then fast-forwarding to the book of Acts, how did God through Christ bless Jerusalem? What are the specific ways in which Christ would act to make sure that people are covered with his wing as a mother hen covers her babies or her chicks? How did he practically bring that city under his wing? He worked through the work of the apostles and the disciples more generally. That's what he did. In Luther's dramatic language, the apostles were masks which God wore. God, therefore, preached peace. The peace through Jesus Christ through the vocation of the preacher. Again, what a beautiful picture of how God works. Well, that's God's mask, but there is also our work, and you can see where this is going. This really gives dignity to our work as everyday people. I want you to ask yourself, how will God open his hands and feed every living thing in our day? How will God offer his wing of protection to those who are oppressed within our communities? Who is it that is going to protect our children Who will morally shape and raise them up to be the leaders that take over from us when we die? Who will sustain the sound and orthodox faith of the church? Both in belief and practice. How will God protect his church? How will our children eat? How will our neighborhood streets be kept safe How will more children enter into the world? How will the vulnerable be defended? How will the oppressor be curbed? How will people enter into eternal life How will they enter into the ark of God and be saved from his judgment? The answer is through all of your vocations. This is how serious your agency and your responsibility as a worker is. As mothers and fathers, and grandmothers, and grandfathers. As fellow church members, as citizens who have small businesses, those of you who are soldiers or police officers or preachers. God will accomplish His work specifically through your work. Here's the main question for you this morning. Do you believe that your work and your agency actually carries that much influence under the supertendence and sovereignty of God. If you were to flip over in the Westminster Confession of Faith, you would see that God's sovereignty does not violate our free will, but rather upholds it and makes it possible. Without him and his sovereignty we would have no power to accomplish anything. But since he has decided that the nature of reality shall be constituted wherein he will work through our work, we have the ability and power to accomplish things. One thing that I become concerned about Among evangelicals especially, is eschatological views. That means views of the end time Views of the end time show up in all kinds of different ways. People want to know about how long this is going to take and when is this going to happen. Or another major question that is asked in end times view is. How is it that the world will be brought to its completion and restoration? Sometimes as evangelicals, we decide to answer that question that God is just going to show up and he is going to do everything. And I understand and appreciate that point. But he has also communicated that though he will, by his power, need to bring everything to completion, he will work through the work of us How will they hear if you do not send a preacher? How will there be any preaching if it does not preach the word? You see what Christ is doing. Whatever it is, whether it be an eschatological end times view or just stark laziness, we cannot allow Anything to get in the way of how God has made this world and the responsibility that He has given to us and how He will bring about His kingdom. What we end up seeing here in the book of Ruth is representative of that reality. Let me just ask you a couple basic questions. This is really simple. How is it that God is going to bless Ruth? Is it not him working through the work of Boaz And how is it that God will bless Naomi? Is it not God working through the work of Boaz, working through the work of Ruth to bless Naomi? The picture of reality that we see on these pages is the picture of our reality. And so I ask you this morning: what is the work that God will work through you? Right now, today, this week, what is the work that God will work for you? In what ways are you God's wing to those around you? As we experience emptiness and bitterness, God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit ordinarily fills and makes our lives pleasant again by working through our work. Amen. Please pray with me