And he left them, and getting into the boat again, departed to the other side. Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread, and they did not have more than one loaf with them in the boat Then he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have no bread. But Jesus, being aware of it, said to them, Why do you reason because you have no bread? Do you not yet perceive nor understand? Is your heart still hardened? Having eyes do you not see? And having ears do you not hear? And do you not remember? When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of fragments did you take up? And they said to him, Twelve. Also, when I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many large baskets full of fragments did you take up? And they said, Seven. And so he said to them, How is it you do not understand? Then he came to Bethsidah, and they brought a blind man to him, and begged him to touch him. So he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the town. And when he had spit on his eyes, and put his hands on him, he asked him if he saw anything. And he looked up and said, I see men like trees walking. Then he put his hands on his eyes again and made him look up. And he was restored and saw everyone clearly. And he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town nor tell anyone in the town. Please pray with me. Almighty God, you have recorded this word, your revelation of yourself. You have preserved it throughout the ages, pure. We know, we trust, that your word cannot fail. You have given it to us in your great love for us, and you know that we need it. And so, Lord, we ask that you would feed us on this word, that your spirit would lead us into the truth. Oh God, be with us now as we examine this picture of the ministry of our Savior. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Well, I'm sure all of you have heard a very common saying. Because it's true. It's a very true saying. And that saying is that we don't want to be so heavenly minded that we're no earthly good. It's true. It's a true statement. But I wonder if you've considered that the opposite of that statement is equally true. Have you ever given thought that you could be so earthly minded that you would be no heavenly good? You may be familiar with the English poet William Blake. If you are, then I trust you will not take my quoting him as any kind of endorsement of his theology or his lifestyle. But he was a fantastic poet, and he said something that Boy, if it doesn't perfectly illustrate this passage tonight, he says in a poem, this life's dim windows of the soul. Distorts the heavens from pole to pole and leads you to believe a lie when you see with and not through the eye. So far in Mark's Gospel, we have been ascending the mountain of Mark. I was very grateful for Pastor Jesse for reminding us about the mountains in Scripture. If you're familiar with the Gospel of Mark, you know that it's kind of like a mountain. There's a mountaintop, a pinnacle. And we are approaching that pinnacle, the very center of the Gospel of Mark. The ascent up this mountain has been the Lord Jesus' public ministry, his public healing. He's been doing so many wonderful and miraculous things for his people. All the things that he has done, Mark has recorded for us to prove to us what he set out from the beginning to prove, that Jesus Christ is the Messiah, the Son of the living God. And the descent on the other side of the mountain is going to be Jesus heading toward the cross. Mark has been proving to us that Jesus is the Son of God, the only one who can save us. And then from the pinnacle, which will be next week's passage. To the end of the gospel. It's the path of redemption for God's people. Beloved friends, brothers and sisters. I don't want you to miss the work that God is doing in your life. I want you to be able to truly see What is happening around you and to you, to truly know what God is doing And yet, all of us, every one of us here, will miss what God is really doing. If we see only with our eyes. If we don't see through our eyes, we And let the understanding of God Almighty, the transforming grace that softens our hearts, if if we're only concentrating on the earthly will be no heavenly good. We will not understand what God is really and truly doing. Do you feel lost at times in your life? Do you feel hopeless? Do you feel like you just can't tell what God is doing with you? Or why he's doing all these things around you or to you? If that describes you, then this passage, this passage is put here in the Bible for you. And I posit that that describes all of us, you and me both. And so God has put this passage here for us that we would see tonight. That you must beg God to give you that understanding sight. You must beg God to give you not just sight, not just eyes to see. But the understanding that you would truly know what he is doing and why he has given you the sight in the first place. We're going to look at this in two ways, two main divisions. It's broken out very neatly for you if you have the New King James Version. We're going to look first at understanding. We'll examine understanding in verses thirteen through twenty-one, and then we will examine sight in verses twenty-two through twenty-six. So let's jump right into it, starting at verse 13 in this section where we explore understanding. Look at what happens here. And he left them, and getting into the boat again, departed to the other side. This seems very familiar. Seems like something we've seen before, doesn't it? Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread, and they did not have more than one loaf with them in the boat. What's happening in these two verses is an occasion. It's a setting for a test. We're given this background information so we know all of Jesus' disciples and him are on this boat. And we know that something has been missed by the disciples. They've forgotten something. They forgot that it's a long journey across the Sea of Galilee, and they're all going to get hungry. And they forgot to gather bread. That's the occasion for a test that Jesus is going to give to his disciples. And it's a test of their understanding. I wonder if you noticed that test in verse 15. Look at what Jesus says. He charged them. That means he commanded them to listen. Saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod This is a test of the disciples' understanding, but it's also a wondrous way for us to see Jesus' understanding. Do you see that there? Everything that had happened before this point, Jesus is understanding in a very particular way. If you recall, the the last thing that happened is that there's the Pharisees. They've Jesus has fed the multitudes. He crosses over the Sea of Galilee. The Pharisees come. And do you remember what they did? Do you remember what they were looking for? What is it that they wanted to see? They wanted to see a sign. They wanted to see a sign that would prove to them once and for all that Jesus was who he claimed to be. And do you remember what Jesus said to them? If you have your scriptures open, it's right there. Why does this generation seek a sign? Assuredly I say to you, no sign shall be given to this generation. They are looking for a sign because they want to see proof that Jesus is who he's claimed to be. And yet Jesus demonstrates by this test that he understands exactly what their problem is, doesn't he? Because he says, take heed of the leaven of the Pharisees and of Herod. In other passages of Scripture, we see a comparison between Herod and the Sadducees. The Pharisees, they were the Jews of the Jews, as we were reminded this morning. They kept the law as closely as they could. In fact, they kept the law so well, do you remember what they did? They made extra laws. And Jesus had already dealt with them. And he he showed them that just all these cleansings that you want, that doesn't actually cleanse you That's not what's going to actually make you pure. And so he says, beware the leaven. In other passages of scripture, we see that leaven is compared to sin because of its pervasive influence. A little bit of leaven. In a large loaf, and that whole loaf is going to be spread with the leaven. This is what sin can do in our lives. And specifically, what is the sin of the Pharisees and the Sadducees? Which are basically Herod. The Sadducees were kind of naturalists. We we have Sadducees nowadays. Do you know who they are? We call them liberal Christians. And I don't mean that in a political way. I mean that in the theological way. They use words like Jesus and salvation and redemption and atonement and expiation and propitiation and all those fun wonderful theological words But they don't mean them in the same way. They mean them in a purely naturalistic way. That's what the Sadducees did. The Sadducees didn't believe in spirits, they didn't believe in angels. They didn't believe there was a resurrection of the dead. They believed all the terms that the Old Testament had given, and they used them, but they really didn't understand them. The leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod and the Sadducees was that they looked at God Almighty only with earthly eyes. The Pharisees, they saw that there could be forgiveness of sin, but their earthly eyes only saw that that was what they could do for themselves by keeping all the law. The Sadducees saw that there was a God who had made all these things and who was wondrous in his power. And yet they only saw that God with earthly eyes. denying that that power was miraculous. They tried to explain everything away, as liberal theologians do today. That's the test that Jesus gives to his disciples to see whether they had understanding. Now did they pass that test or did they fail that test? Look at verse sixteen. And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have no bread. I hate how similar I am to the disciples. Working on my own understanding, thinking I've got it figured out. Okay, all right, here's where it goes. Jesus says, What's leaven? Leaven's like bread, bread happens bread. What has what what did I do? How have I screwed up? I forgot to bring the bread. That's what God's doing. He's trying to point out that I forgot bread. No. That's not what's happening here. That's not why he gave that to test And so Jesus, in his great mercy to his disciples, reveals to them why they failed the test, why they do not understand But Jesus, being aware of it, this is verse 17, said to them, Why do you reason? Because you have no bread. Do you not yet perceive nor understand? Is your heart still hardened? Having eyes, do you not see, and having ears, do you not hear? And do you not remember? Jesus knows how they think. He knows what they're thinking. He's aware of the limitations of their reasoning. He says it right there. And he knows that they are going to think just like everybody else. And this is just it boggles our brains, doesn't it? Because we've ascended the mountain that Mark has laid out for us. We're on the upward slope. We've gotten all the way here to the very middle in chapter 8. And we've seen that not only is Jesus doing wondrous things, he's doing them through the disciples. He works in them. He works with them. He gave them the bread to distribute amongst the multitudes. And yet they were so earthly minded. They forgot what they had experienced, what they had witnessed. And this is why he used that statement as the test for them. This is why you and I also must beware that kind of leaven. We must beware a worldliness that would have us see what's happening in our lives only with earthly eyes. Because if that happens to you, brother, sister, when things are not going well and you only see with earthly eyes, what is your only conclusion? God must hate me. God must have abandoned me. God must have forgotten me. Because I'm very uncomfortable. And things are not working out very well. I don't know what I'm supposed to do next. So where is God? Those disciples, they had seen and done far more than you have, and yet they still fought that way. And they forgot. How could they forget? If we're honest with ourselves, it's pretty easy to forget, isn't it? It's pretty easy to forget how far God has brought us. Do you remember where you were before the Lord grabbed hold of you? Do you remember how you thought? How you understood things? Do you remember the sins that dominated your days? Or perhaps it was your nights? Do you remember when he finally broke through? Do you remember when he finally delivered you from six people living in one bedroom? Do you remember when he finally delivered you from being a slave to sin? When you could finally, at long last, say no. Do you remember the first time that W dot Christiansdontgo There dot com was not a temptation to you If we're looking at our life only with earthly eyes, those things will seem like just a momentary lapse in our foolishness. rather than a sign of God's everlasting love and favor and blessedness. So Jesus' question to them is also to us. How is it you do not understand? We see that they remembered everything accurately. Do you see that in verses 18, 19 through 20? He asked them, how many baskets did you take up from the miraculous provision that I had? They got it right, twelve. And then as if that wasn't enough, there's a second time I did this. How many baskets did you take up? Yeah, they got it right, seven. They remembered accurately what God had done, and yet they did not understand what he was doing then. And so they could not understand what is happening now. And he asks, how is it you do not understand? And the answer is for us. It's because that doctrine, that teaching of unbelief from the Pharisees and the Sadducees. It's a hard thing to shake off. Because that's how the world has dominated our understanding since we were born. And so the Holy Spirit, in his great mercy and wisdom, he had Mark include something for us. That we wouldn't miss this lesson. He had Mark include this miraculous healing that comes next as the perfect illustration for what is going on. The perfect illustration for what we need. And it comes directly after his testing of the disciples and their understanding. This next section, this miraculous healing, is all about sight. It perfectly illustrates what must happen to you, what must happen to me, if we are to understand and fully experience the abundant life that God has planned for you. And so we look now at this account and we examine sight in verses 22 through 26. The first thing we see is in verse 22 that there is a man who lacks sight. Then he came to Bethsaida, and they brought to a blind man to him. And they begged him to touch him. This is a very familiar situation, isn't it? If you just flip the page, we could read almost the exact same words in the healing of the deaf and the mute man. They bring to him someone who's in desperate need. Someone who's completely helpless. Someone who can't in there's no possible way that he could fix the problem of his life, is there? And so this should be very familiar to each of us. This is our situation. This is your situation. You are so desperately broken, so desperately hopeless and helpless. That you need to be brought to the only one who can do anything about it. And that's the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you notice again in this familiar situation a very operative word? What do these people do when they bring this hopeless, helpless, desperate man to Jesus? Do you see what they do? What's the verb there? They beg him. They beg him. How often do you beg Jesus Christ? If I'm honest with you, my begging is poor. I have I'm a very poor beggar. Most of the time my begging sounds more like kindly demanding. At best, it might be humbly requesting. But to beg is to fall flat on your face before God. Knowing that you are worth less than the dust you're facing. You are worth less than the dirt you lay flat upon because of sin. That dirt hasn't sinned. You're the one that sinned. Begging him, begging God to do what no one else can do. Begging him to have mercy. And in so begging, what do we see? We have a familiar situation, and we see a familiar Savior, don't we? So he took the blind man by the hand and he led him out of the town. Just like he did with the deaf man. He brought him away from the crowd. He's a personal God. He's a personal savior. This is not a group event happening. This is an individual whom Jesus Christ loves. Whom Jesus Christ has mercy and compassion for, and he leads him away from the crowd. And then he does something wow I I don't know any other way to put it, but he does something kind of strange. Do you remember what was strange with the healing of the deaf man? Jesus put the ears, put his fingers in his ears. He spat? He groaned. He did a whole lot. And there it was to help that deaf man understand whom he needed to look to for his hope. It was his father in heaven who could open his ears. And so now we have a blind man. Well, Jesus could have just told him, right, and explained it to him. Have you ever been explained something and it didn't quite sink in? Somebody told you what you needed most and it just didn't take root. Sometimes we have to be shown, and sometimes it takes a very strange way of showing it for it to finally make sense. I don't know about you guys. I hate things on my eyes. I've had glasses most of my life, so I'm pretty, you know, there's like a shield for me. But even when I go swimming and I don't wear my glasses, I don't know about you guys, I can't have my eyes open underwater and then come out of the water And not rub my eyes. Is anybody else like that? I can't do it. I've tried. I feel like I'm gonna forget how to breathe and live. I have to rub my eyes. And so imagining that Jesus would spit. On this man's eyes. Golly, I if I were this guy, I I don't know how I would have not immediately just just out of reaction An unconscious reaction wiped away the spit. And yet sometimes when God is going to be completely restoring your life, It's going to be messy. Perhaps your knee-jerk reaction will be to wipe away what God is doing. In fact, it may feel worse than the nonsense you've been dealing with. If you only understand it from a worldly perspective. The personal savior leads this individual away from a crowd and he does something strange. He puts this spit on his eyes. And he doesn't wipe it away. He submits to Christ. He submits to Christ who knows exactly what is needed to solve the problem. And you and I must also submit to Christ, who knows exactly what we need to solve our life's problems. It may seem messy, it may seem strange. Trust Him. He knows what he's doing. Do you not remember what he has done since the beginning of this gospel? Driving out unclean spirits, forgiving the sins and healing the paralyzed, cleansing lepers. Remember what Christ has done. Trust him. Trust him. He knows what to do with you. There's something really unique here though. It's a familiar situation with a familiar savior, but there's something unfamiliar that happens. Do you notice what that is? Jesus asks the man if he sees anything. He hasn't done this with any other healings. He declares it and it's done. So why would he do this now? I believe it's to show his disciples exactly what's going on. Look at verse 24. And he looked up and he said, I see men like trees walking. Something has happened here. Something miraculous has happened. This man who could not see is seeing. He sees something. It's a miracle. And what does that reveal to us? That his eyes are fixed, and yet what he sees doesn't make any sense. It's not just the eyes that were the problem. It's not just the organ of sight that needed to be restored. For there to be true sight, clear sight, restored sight, Jesus had to do something else. Says in verse 25, then he put his hands on his eyes again and made him look up, and he was restored and saw everyone clearly. It is not enough simply to see. Perhaps this man had never seen a day in his life. I could imagine tears in his eyes that he saw anything But he couldn't make sense of what he saw. Imagine if Jesus left him like that. What good would that sight do him? What good is it to see shapes, mists, and have no idea what it is? Well, Jesus doesn't leave him there, does he? Jesus heals him completely. Whatever Jesus does, he does completely. But it might not be immediately. The work that Christ is doing in you, He will finish it. He's the author and the finisher. He who began the good work in you will do what? He will complete it. That doesn't necessarily mean it will happen all in one split second. Because Jesus knows that for you to be restored and have clear sight, it's more than just your body or your physical, earthly, worldly life, being comfortable or being fixed. That's not what you need. You need a much deeper and a much more complete healing. You need your whole understanding to be rearranged. You need a hardened heart to become soft, a heart of stone to become a heart of flesh. You need understanding sight You need sight that understands. You need to see w with your eyes And with your mind, together, cleansed by Christ. And he's doing this for his own glory, for his own purposes. I believe that's why he's included for us, verse 26. Then he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town nor tell anyone in the town. This man was not, God's plan for him was not that he would become the amazing seeing man and go set up a booth and let everybody pay two drachmas so that they could see the amazing seeing man. He wasn't to go into the crowd and work them up into a fervor that they would all bring every single person with some physical malady to Jesus Christ. Why? Because it's not an earthly thing that Jesus is doing. That's not what everyone needs most. I would draw your attention very quickly to Luke chapter seven. You don't have to turn there if you don't want to. I'll read it for us. Luke chapter seven, verses eighteen through twenty-three. Then the disciples of John reported to him concerning all these things, and John, calling two of his disciples to him, sent them to Jesus, saying Are you the coming one, or do we look for another? When the men had come to him, they said, John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying, Are you the coming one or do we look for another? And that very hour he cured many of infirmities, afflictions, and evil spirits, and to many blind he gave sight. And Jesus answered and said to them. Go and tell John the things you have seen and heard, that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised. The poor have the gospel preached to them, and blessed is he who is not offended because of me. To John the Baptist, that is better than a simple, yep, I'm the Messiah. He restores and does all that the Old Testament said the Messiah would do. He fulfilled all that the prophets had said would happen through the one who is the anointed. Who is God in the flesh? Who is Emmanuel, God with us? Jesus has done this. And he can do it for you. Perhaps he already has healed your eyes. Did he plan for you to grow up in a Christian household? Did he plan for you from the day that you were born to be hearing the name of Jesus and hearing the gospel? Have you gone to Bible study after Bible study, and you've seen the good things, the wondrous things that God has done? Or are you being like the Israelites when they were in the wilderness who forgot how they were brought into the wilderness, out of Egypt? Because they turned around and said, actually, uh if I remember correctly, things are much better back there. They'd forgotten what God had done? Brothers and sisters, have you forgotten what God has done for you? If he's done all those things, if he planned for you to have believing parents, then what are you waiting for? Do you know what you need to do next? You need to beg the Lord Jesus Christ to give you understanding. He's already given you sight. He's had you there. Beg him to give you understanding and to heal you completely. Little ones, if it's more important that you would do the crossword puzzle than to listen to the sermon You need to ask yourself, are you looking for the wrong things? You're looking for God to do the wrong things Do you want some miraculous healing of your sin, brothers? I'm speaking to you now. No matter what, you might get married. You might not get married. Either way, you will never be free from the temptation of flesh. Never It's never going to go away. But how will you be able to understand what God is doing in your life even though that temptation is still there? He is driving you to Him because you can't do it. Only He can fully cleanse you of your sin. And it won't happen while you're still walking around on this earth. And so I exhort all of you, especially you young men, you teenagers, don't have a worldly perspective on everything. Yes, your hair looks great. It really does. But one day that hair is gonna go away. I promise you, I promise you And if you are resting on how great your hair looks for your happy life, fill in the blank there If you're resting on how strong you are, if you're resting on how smart you are, if you're resting on how talented you are, all of those things will go away, and they can go away in a heartbeat. If you think sports are what God is doing with you, a car accident can stop that real quick Have heavenly eyes. Have a heavenly perspective. Understand what God is doing. He is saving you so that when He returns, you will be one who returns with Him. That where he is, you will be also forever and ever and ever. And so whatever it is that's holding you back from fully falling on your face before the Lord Jesus Christ and begging him to give you understanding and sight Throw it away, no matter what you think. Get rid of it. It's not worth it It's not worth it. Beware the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees and of Herod, those who would say, you don't have to believe that Jesus Christ is the Messiah. He's just a great example. for you to follow. Try to be like Jesus and that's enough. It's not enough. Don't be so earthly minded that you end up no heavenly good. Please pray with me.