Lately I'm finding it m uh more and more difficult to sleep through the night. I remember being young and I would hit the bed and I would just be out. And then I would wake up the next morning and have a full day of energy and hit the bed and be out. And that is no longer the story of my life. I toss and I turn and I wake up at three and then I have trouble getting back to bed and then sometimes I just decide decide to do work and so what this has resulted in is me having trouble getting out of the bed in the m in the in the morning sometimes which means I'm running a little bit late uh to get in here to the office or into the tutorial to uh teach the the rhetoric class uh or to prepare for that rhetoric class and so it was such a joy to my heart when I came out from the back hallway rushing uh knowing I wouldn't have any time for breakfast or to even get a cup of coffee to find that my daughter had made me a bacon egg and cheese sandwich sandwich and put coffee and cr with the perfect amount of creamer in my travel mug waiting on the island for me to grab and to head out the door What a gift. It was very unexpected. Now that's just a human example. I'm sure that you can think of lots of ways in which you have been surprised by other human beings, particularly your family. You know, another uh an even more profound question is to ask, how has God surprised you? Has God, as you have journeyed as a pilgrim uh through this land, some of you have been around longer than others, how has God surprised you? How has he brought unexpected things into your life? When you first met God, is he like you This whole gospel of John that we're looking at, we're watching Different groups in a trial where you as the jury are watching. The Pharisees will say one thing and Jesus will say another, but you're not off the hook. Do you believe what the Pharisees and the Sadducees are saying, or do you believe what Jesus Christ is declaring? So we've entered into this trial. Judas, and I think we learned a lot there. We're going to continue that this morning. But what Jesus Christ has to say is very, very unexpected. In fact, not only what he says, but his very person becomes An unexpectation, if that's even a word. King Jesus, it is revealed to us this morning in this text from the triumphal entry, King Jesus must die for your sins Now you've heard that so many different times it doesn't sound unexpected, but I hope a little bit of the unexpectedness comes out as we move through this text in three ways. The converging crowds, the unexpected di Direction and then the response for us to consider. What response will we have? Will it be the same that we see within this text? The converging crowds, the unexpected direction, and the response. Response. Let's begin with verse twelve with the converging crowds. I want you to piece these passages together so that you can see See exactly what's going on here. There's a very strong verb that happens right in the beginning of this passage where the the they in verse 13 took branches of palm trees. And what the author wants to bring out, what the Apostle John wants you to see, is that there are uh things leading to this. And so in verse 12, you see the next day a great multitude having come to the feast. Having heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, they took branches of palm. Basically, what he's laying out here are seemingly two causes for why all of a sudden a group of people would lay down palm trees. If you were to ask yourself the question, what would it take for you to lay down palm branches in front of somebody? That's what he's exploring here in verse twelve. He's saying, well, they laid down palm branches because they had come to the field. And they laid down palm branches because they had heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. But the problem with that, with those two reasons for why they would lay down palm branches, which has uh an uh uh a great significance, which we'll explore in a minute, it's not a sufficient cause for why they would do so. Are you familiar with sufficient cause? I know I have some logic teachers. in the room. So arguments from sufficient cause and all of my rhetoric students, I hope, are aware of sufficient cause. And speaking of my rhetoric students, one of the things that has actually happened over the the years is someone has actually told me that their dog ate their homework. It really happened. Their dog ate their homework. Now why is it that I did not believe Time management. Very rarely the dog. And so we see the same thing here within this text. Although they have arrived at Jerusalem, and although they did hear that Jesus was coming, these are not sufficient causes for them to lay down palm branches Which has a much greater, greater significance. And so we turn to verse 17 and it picks back up. And I want you to see two diverging crowds here. You have a great multitude in verse 12 and 13 that are coming to the festival. To pass to celebrate Passover in Jerusalem. But then when you get down to seventeen and eighteen, my argument is that there is a separate crowd that will then meet up with them, the great multitude. You have the people or the crowd And then you have the great multitude, and they're going to meet up, and this group of people here is going to tell the crowd something else. If you look at verse 17 and 18 eighteen. Therefore the people who were with him when he called Lazarus out of his tomb and raised him from the dead bore witness. They gave testimony to What was it? For this reason the people also met him, because they heard that he had done this sign. And it's referring to as the text had just said, the raising of Lazarus. And so you have two groups of people. Not only were they coming to Jesus To Jerusalem. Not only have they heard that Jesus was going to be there, but a crowd came and told them, Guess what Jesus has done? We watched with our own eyes, and we witnessed and testified to you that Jesus Jesus has raised a man who was four days dead and actually smelled, and he came out of the tomb and we could touch him. He actually is amongst us this day. You could shake his hand. And immediately, immediately, we now have a sufficient cause for why they would take palm branches and place them on the road as Jesus enters into Jerusalem. Now that's a sufficient cause. The way that they interpreted that, as soon as they heard that there was the raising from the dead, and if you remember the reading that we did earlier from the bulletin, they had heard a great many report a great many reports of the great signs that Jesus has done. And this was the consummation. And so now they are all convinced, at least for a little while, until we get to the uh later on in this chapter, they are all convinced that Jesus is the Messiah. That he is the king, and they begin declaring it so. And so therefore they take the palm branches and they lay it as he enters in in this young donkey. Now the palm branches are a national pastime for Israel. It would be similar for us on our day of independence from the British Empire, where if you were to uh wave your flag on the 4th of July You would know exactly what that means. You you don't need to ask any questions. And the waving of the palm branch, there would be no questions in Jerusalem as to what that had meant. In fact, it's connected with the Jewish holiday of Hanukkah. Did you know that The Maccabean revolt against the Greeks. When the second temple in Jerusalem was looted and the services stopped, Judaism was outlawed, actually. And one uh in 167 BC, Antiochus ordered an altar to Zeus erected in the temple, and he banned circumcision Among the Jews, and he ordered that pigs would be sacrificed at the altar of at the altar of the temple. And then when Simon the Maccabees drove the Syrian forces out of the Jerusalem Siddharth Citadel, he was honored with music and the waving of palm branches, which had also been prominent at the rededication of the temple. And it is in this instant that these palms signaled nationalist hopes that a messianic liberator was arriving on the scene. And you could see this again in chapter six if you look back in John. They tried to make him king once, and now Jesus is allowing it. He's not withdrawing. He understands that this signal of the palm tree means nationalist hope. for a new king to take us out of the grip or the iron teeth of Rome. Imagine if you want to put yourself in there in your shoes, although we struggle with patience Patriotism these days, so some of this might fall flat for you. Imagine all of a sudden being overtaken by China and instead on Academy mornings of having the American flag here or seeing the American flag raised At any of the places that we would uh visit, we would have the the flag of China raised. And you would give allegiance to the Chinese flag. Now, well whether you're patriotic or not, I think that you would struggle with having to do that. And then if it were recaptured by American forces and the American flag was going back up the pole And the Chinese flag was coming down, you would not just see the symbol as a discussion about a flag. You would see the symbol to embody all of your hopes and your aspirations and your memories and your traditions. and the restoration of your family history. That's how you would view it. And that is what they are seeing here. The palm trees, the palm branches. Waving are their national hope that the king has arrived and that they would be out of the iron teeth of Rome. And Jesus knows that this is going to happen. It is what he has anticipated. And he does not disagree with them. If you see here in Verse thirteen. Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, the king of Israel. And then Jesus mounts the young donkey. confirmation that yes, that is who I am. And in the other account in the bulletin, what we saw is that the The Pharisees rebuked him for allowing the crowds to say this of him. And then Jesus says, If I tell them to be quiet, then the stones will begin to say it, because this is an undeniable fact about me I am the Messiah. I am the King. Now I just have a quick question for you. Is Jesus your King? And I don't want to belabor this. I'm just going to ask you another question, and then we're going to move on. Move on. If I asked your friends and your family who or what is King in your life, would they say Jesus? Why or why not? So the very first thing we see in In this passage, the converging crowds, and when these crap two crowds come together, there's a great truth that is spoken in the midst of the trial. Jesus is the Messiah. Messiah. Jesus is the Christ. Jesus is the King. But in the action that Jesus takes, it takes us to the second point, which is an unexpected direction. This is where the surprise starts to enter. In for all of these folks. Jesus accepts the declaration that is made about him, but he takes the living lesson in an unexpected direction and he sits on the young donkey And you see that again in verse thirteen. We already looked at uh looked at that, or verse fifteen rather, fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt. They connect the action that Jesus done has done in verse fourteen with Now if you read different commentaries, everybody has something to say about this. This is still He's not saying I'm too humble to be a king. He's still saying that he's a king. And in fact, if you looked at 1 Kings 1. 33, David insists that Solomon would enter his kingship by being melt. And so we see the same thing here. It's just that there is a different quality that Jesus is bringing out about his kingship than the Maccabean revolt, which is in the past. Which is a part of their history and their nationalistic hope. He has to separate himself from a Maccabean revolt that I just let you know about. This is not another Hanukkah. Jesus does not enter Jerusalem on a war horse, which would have whipped the political aspirations of the vast crowds into insurrectionist frenzy. But he chooses to present himself as the king who comes in peace, gentle and riding on a donkey. Zechariah 9. 9 But Zechariah 9:9 doesn't begin at or end at 9, it goes to 10. And this is makes it even more expected. Not only is he gentle in riding on a donkey, but this is what he means by that. to read this Old Testament quotation again. I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and I will and the horse from Jerusalem. The battle bow shall be cut off. And he shall speak peace to the nations. His dominion shall be from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth. Jesus is not bringing the sword in this way. He is bringing peace, and all the nations will be streaming and gathering to him as he unites the entire world in a ministry of peace. And so as a sign of the kind and quality of king he is, he rides in on a donkey, showing that he brings peace. And not war. He in fact will incorporate Romans into his family. Some of them have already received the Spirit of God. Now you have to ask the question in this story: how is it that Jesus is going to bring peace. If he's not going to bring war, and if he's coming in on this donkey, how will he bring peace? And that's where we can turn our page in our Bibles, or I'm not sure how you Yours is set up, where we move past the Pharisees complaining about Jesus and this strange question from the Greeks. Now I didn't read this to you beforehand, so I'm going to pair At this point in the story, the Greeks come forward and they want to meet with Jesus. And it is perhaps some of the most mysterious words that come out of Jesus' mouth in response to this. One Greek comes and says, I'd like to meet with Jesus. They tell Jesus, the Greeks would like to meet with you. Then Jesus starts talking about his death. It seems like a non sequitur. But if you understand what the prophets have been saying, Isaiah and Zechariah. And Micah, then you would understand that the way in which Jesus, the great humble, and gentle and peaceful King, will unite all nations is through his death. That is what he's communicating. That's the link, that's the association between hearing about the Greeks and connecting how he will bring peace, is that the means by which that will be done for everyone is that he must That's the great unexpected revelation that he gives. Jesus responds by talking about his death. you're talking about. Why would the king die? Why would we raise up a king and put palm branches down? You can begin to see them almost start to take the palm branches away Because now he's talking about not an eternal kingdom, but he's just going to be raised up and now he's going to die. This doesn't make any sense to them. They're not understanding the scriptures that had been placed before them. Their eyes are unable to see. They are puzzled. And then we have this lovely verse to confirm what I'm saying to you in verse 38, which we've read. Take a look at verse 38. By this time, you wonder if they've taken all the palm branches back and said, heh, fool us once, foolest twice, shame on us. Because in verse 37, but although he had done so many signs, all of the signs that you read about in the gospel, they now think are a hoax. They don't believe any of them. They did not believe in him. That the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he And this is from Isaiah 53. It's the very first verse in that whole section. Does anybody know? Isaiah 53. It is the song of the suffering servant. It will declare in that psalm what is already on the mind of John here. That Jesus will be wounded for the transgressions of his people. For your sins he will be whipped and flogged That is the direction that this story is going. It is not just that he's humble and peaceful and like a Gandhi figure coming in on On a donkey. It's that the peace that he brings will have to be accomplished in a way that is the ultimate act of humiliation and that he must die for his people. And then he brings it to this consummate point. That he must die for the sins of his people because of their transgressions, because of who they are as a people, that the only way for the nations to return to him For him to have victory as the king is for the king to go to the cross. That's the story that's unfolded here, and they their minds are blown. No one understands this kind of messiah, but I think it's a little bit more profound than that I don't think that this is the right impression that you should have. If they were in school and being tested on biblical history, Then what's the big deal? So they missed this exam question. They didn't know that the Messiah was supposed to die. Well now that if you give a lecture on it, they'll all see it from the prophets and now they would understand. They put B on the scantron instead of C. Do we even have scantrons anymore students? No, we don't. I'm so sorry. But you uh you see what I'm saying? It's not just that they missed an exam question here John is bringing out as he's done for this entire gospel that there is a profound blindness that is within these people, that is within you. Without the regenerating work of the Holy Spirit, where you would not be able to see or acknowledge that the king must die for you. And I want to get into this in the third point, which is the response. So we have seen That there are these converging crowds, that Jesus is the King. No one debates that. But then when the King takes it in the unexpected direction. That he must be the king of the cross. They all leave him. Or they are unwilling to confess him, as we see later, in fear of being kicked out of the synagogue. It is this universal human response that we have to take a look at to understand really that it wasn't just an exam question that they missed in biblical history. or the understanding of the Messiah, that there was something more profound going on in here. And it begins in verse 40. It's another quote from Isaiah, but it's from the early chapters in chapter 6. He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, lest they should see with their eyes, lest they should understand with their hearts and turn, so that I should heal them. This cannot be read in a fatalistic way. You may not put the blame on God for why their hearts are hardened. Yes, He has a role in this It's a complex role. No, I do not deny his sovereignty. But you have to understand the way that this kind of thing unfolds. And you see it very clearly in the beginning of Romans. When he gives people over to their sinful desires. He holds people back from what they really desire, which is sin, so that they would not run into ruin. But at one point in time he will say, Enough is enough. I'm going to let them go, and there is no turning back You could picture a young man trying to hit me and I'm holding his head and he can't reach with his arms. And then I finally would let go and he would hit I'm saving him from the sin of hitting a superior or his father or a teacher. I'm saving the young man from the sin, and then I eventually let him go. He's the one that is responsible He's the one that is intent upon swinging and being angry. And it is the same thing here. He has chosen To give Israel and to all the world to give them over to their sin. They kept desiring and panting after their lustful desire. All which were against God. He was holding their head for so long. And then he decides to just give them what they want. It's an act and form of judgment. He gives us over to our sinful desires, and those sinful desires realized end up having great consequences. It results in blindness and deafness And the blindness and the deafness goes deeper and deeper and deeper. And the problem that ends up arising here, the problem that has kept this whole train locomoting down the tracks. Both for them and for us as a people, is that we refuse that Jesus as a king must die for this one fact, according to Isaiah. You refuse in your natural self, not your supernatural self, that the king must die for your sin because you outright refuse to believe that your sin is bad. I'm going to say it one more time. You will refuse that Jesus is the king that must die for your sin, because you outright refuse to believe your sin is bad. It is the story of the entire human race. They cannot accept the dying Savior in the way that He defines it. He says, I am dying for your sin, and they say, No, you're not, because I haven't done anything wrong. So you're just dying for some fantasy tale that you have in your imagination. And now this is true for Christian or non-Christian. That this is the universal human problem that we at first do not acknowledge that we have accumulated God's displeasure. That we are sinners with a sin nature. Whether you're Christian or you're a non-Christian, this is your problem. That you refuse to see the true meaning of the death of Jesus Christ. I want to illustrate this for you. Let's bring this down to earth a little bit. It's been very stressful, acclimating. And I'm sitting at the dinner table and I'm expecting to have a calm, civilized meal. But Addison keeps falling out of her chair, and Nora likes to eat standing up, and and Jack wants to use potty humor, and then somebody spills their milk And then they start bickering. And so I turn to Nora and I say, sit in your chair, we are going to have a peaceful dinner. Oh doing well, right? Yeah. Oh dear. I thank God for his grace. I thank God for his grace. So my loving wife, after everything is done and I have ruined the dinner, she takes me aside privately and she says Perhaps there was another way we could have addressed this. And I say, no, someone has got to bring some order into this house. Now I'm just taking it to a whole nother level. And what am I saying there? I want you to look at the human heart of what Jesus is communicating here and why he must try why he must go into Jerusalem Why everyone leaves him. It's the exact same thing that is happening in my heart at that moment. I will not admit that I could have done that in a different way. If I look strangely at Nora, she corrects herself. I did not need to raise my voice at the dinner table. But I'm fighting it. I don't want to admit that I am a sinner I want to justify myself. I want to be self-righteous. I do not want the righteousness of Jesus Christ. I do not want to need his death. I want his death to be irrelevant. I want to work it out all on my own and be independent. That's what that phrase meant. No, we need to bring some order around. here. It was a self-justification. I could have said this. I could have said, Holly, you're right. I'm so god that I'm so glad that God has place you in the garden with me to bring me back to reality. At this moment I am realizing that I have not trusted God at all this week in his sovereignty. I am trying to play the role of the Holy Spirit and And do everything myself here at Severn Run. And she would have prayed with me that I would understand God's sovereignty. And I could begin to feel some of the stress falling out. And then I would have to admit to her that I had sinned. And there's a whole nother train of thought that now happens. I now understand why Jesus sat on that donkey and And why he talked about death because I so desperately need it at my dinner table. I need the death of Jesus Christ. In the first option, with me self-justifying, there is no need for the death of the king. There is no need for Palm Sunday. Let's do something else. Because I would outright refuse to acknowledge that I am a sinner, and it is the exact same thing that you do every time you self-justify yourself. But the second option is that Jesus needs to die You have sin in your life. And you understand why Jesus must die. The second thing that ends up happening here, you see and continuation in the passage going from 41 and 42 and 43 is that it is that this begins to this begins to build. You have this first option where you justify yourself and therefore no longer need the death of Jesus Christ, or you acknowledge your sin and now you understand why he must die and you greatly Need it. If you choose the first option and choose the short circuit, the whole spiritual dynamic that Jesus Christ puts into effect through his Holy Spirit, then this is what's going to happen. God will not have the opportunity to show you how much he loves you. If you do not need his sacrifice And his sacrifice is his ultimate form of showing you his love, then you will never have your imagination captured by the love that he has shown you. Because you do not accept the sacrificial love. God's love and acceptance of you will be small and irrelevant, and so you will love men and societies. And civilization in this world far more than the love of the Father, because he really hasn't loved you that much. We love doctors that save our lives and the lives of our families. But if we're completely healthy, we don't think of doctors. And it's the same thing here. It's the second option that we want. We want to embrace the death of Jesus Christ. And if we do, if we embrace ourselves as sinners, then God's love becomes big because He dies for you, an undeserving sinner. And it's just like the song that we sang earlier. Alas, and did my Savior bleed, and did my sovereign die? Would he devote the sacred head? For sinners such as I was it for crimes that I have done he groaned upon the tree? Amazing pity, grace unknown, and love beyond degree Do you know that love beyond degree? If you do not, it is a great sign that you have not acknowledged the great sin that you have that is in need of the death. of Jesus Christ. You are in need of Palm Sunday and the rest of this holy week. Here's what I'm saying. Here's what I'm saying. We have the converging crowds, and Jesus is declared and is embraced as the Messiah, but he takes it to an unexpected turn. We must realize that the Messiah is not coming with a sword and a war horse, but he's riding gentle on a donkey, and then immediately moves into the greatest humiliation. That's on his mind, and that we see within Isaiah and Zachariah is that he must die because of your sin. That is who you are. That is what you must embrace. He is the king, but he is the unexpected king, that he must die for your sin, and you must embrace this king of the cross. Children, if you have not been following the sermon, it can be boiled down to this. I actually had to watch a YouTube video to make this sermon. thing, but they begin by waving their palm branches and saying that he is the king. And the entire sermon has been about you understanding that this palm branch, if you truly want to understand his kingship, it must be turned into a cross. He must die for your sin. Eternal Father, strong to save. Your eternal love expressed in the commission and the life of your Son Jesus Christ Oh Lord Jesus Christ, we see you seated on the young cult and riding into Jerusalem. But it is unexpected what must be done The unexpectation, the surprise for us is to discover not only you, but to discover ourselves that we are far worse than we ever thought But in the midst of that, Lord, and we pray that that would be our confession, that we would never forget it, that we would stop our self-righteousness and our self-justification. We pray, Lord, that we would embrace our sin and thereby then turn to you as you are presented to us in the Gospel of John as the dying king. And that you would die for our sins. Like last week, Lord, we take the shovel and we understand that there must be a burial. And we scoop this first pitch of dirt. And we ask that you would save us. We ask that this would be true throughout our sanctified lives here as we run and sometimes walk and stumble as pilgrims, and we pray for anyone here who has not made that decision. Lord, that they would come closer to you. Keep them not far from you. Call them by your spirit. Let them see their sin and their misery, and let them see your death as the great and grand solution We pray these things in Christ's name, Amen.