The north wind brings forth rain, and a backbiting tongue, an angry countenance. It is better to dwell in a corner of a housetop than in a house shared with a contentious woman. As cold water to a weary soul, so is good news from a far country. A righteous man who falters before the wicked is like a murky spring and a polluted well. Let us pray. Christ, you are so gracious in preserving your word here that we would understand what it means to live according to your Torah. To live in eternal wisdom and to be like you. It brings us great pleasure to know that you're not just saying a bunch of words that you thought of for the first time. But that you are communicating yourself, that you have the ultimate experience in being wise, for you are wisdom itself. Therefore, we have great confidence in your word, because of you who has given it. And we ask that we would not just be hearers, but doers. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, we did not have a sermon on Proverbs last Sunday. I remember standing in here and doing calisthenics with you. Uh if you remember, uh the in and in the out, and uh that was great. I could never get you to do that on any other Sunday. Oh, that was nice. But when we did hear from Proverbs, it was a couple weeks ago And the wisdom that we were receiving was, like tonight, given in several different images to help us learn our social responsibilities to each other. The book of Proverbs is largely, if not entirely, about how we are to relate to God and to each other, mostly to each other, though God, of course, is always a part of that. There were a few images, if you remember, for example, there was the image of honey. And the point there was that we need to be careful that we don't make our neighbors sick with us. If we lack social boundaries and we don't know when we wear out our welcome, then they can become tired and we can become a burden. The point that he was making with the honey is that friendship is sweet just like honey, but too many sweets can make one sick. Another image that was given to us had to deal with being very careful that we don't bear false witness against each other. And he gave us the image that we're like a club or an arrow or a sword. And the point was quite dramatic, actually, to get our attention, and that is that if we do bear false witness against each other, we end up being like a club that can crack the skulls of our neighbors Bashing them to death. Instead, we are to avoid these things and to be at peace and to bring peace as far as is within our power to do so So we have a new passage in front of us this morning or this evening, 23 through 26, and there's a new set of imagery that Christ gives to us here that We might start on our adventure towards wisdom. And so let's make a few, let's just make a few observations here and then work it out together in an application. The first thing I want you to Notice is that in verse 23, the image that we have is the image of a north wind bringing forth rain. He's then going to liken this to different things, but I want to give a little bit of background on what he's getting at with this north wind. For this particular geography where they were farming, Wind and rain did not come out of the north during growing season. If it did, it would destroy all of the crops. It would bring frost and you could if you wanted to you could imagine doing all of your plantings, you worked cautious, you waited till after's m t after Mother's Day, for example. But then in the middle of July you got a hard frost and you lost everything. That's part of what's going on here with the proverbist wants to point out because the the proverbists point. Is that this is exactly what happens with those who talk secretly behind your back. Or if you talk behind another person's back maliciously, This is what you are like. Since it is a secret to talk behind somebody's back means they don't know you're talking about them. Since it is a secret, you do not have time to protect or put frost blankets on. It comes out of nowhere, and so you will in fact lose all of your hard work The result of the gossip and the backbiting, it just arrives. You come to find out you have a whole group of people that have been talking about you and making fun of you or whatever it is. It just arrives unexpectedly, and in certain ways, it takes away your life. You can feel like you got kicked in the gut at the very least. Verse 24 is um often misunderstood. It sounds just like um Solomon wanted to be demeaning to women for a moment, but that's not actually what's going on here. Verse 24 heightens this same wisdom. And his main point here, in the NKJV, it says, Then in a house shared with a contentious woman, the Best way to translate this would be a uh a contentious wife. Verse 24 heightens this image by saying that the the worst way The worst kind of backbiting that can happen is with those who are closest to us. And here is a particular example in this proverb, like a wife. One who is you've you've um you're vulnerable with, who is your confidant A wife turning against a husband and secretly destroying him is the first example to the nth degree. In fact, it would actually, the part of the point of the proverb is that it would actually be better to be outside on the roof, stuck in a north cold north wind and rain, than to have your wife turn against you. You have to be careful with the verse, therefore. It's not an argument trying to get at the nature of women, that all nature by women are nags. That's not what he's trying to reveal to you here. That's not even what he's saying. The point is that when those closest to you betray you, then that is the most grievous thing that can happen. That is truly when the frost damage will be its worst. That's his point. And so you could begin to spread that out into many other relationships, a ton turning on his father, daughter turning on his mother, husband turning on his wife. Grandchildren turning on a grandmother? It's all applicable here in this. That's the point. So that's the first observation. There's this unexpected destruction that happens. When we engage in gossip and backbiting. Second thing I want you to notice is the next proverb pair. The next proverb pair uses the images of water. Now you have there in 25 and 26 two different kinds of water. You've got cold water that's refreshing, and then you have muddy water because it's a spoiled well. It says, as cold water to a weary soul, so is good news from a far country, and a righteous man who falters before the wicked is like a murky spring and a polluted well. Verse 25 gives a kind of picture, like we were more familiar with the idea of a sailor's wife standing and looking out over the horizon, waiting for his ship to return. On the widow's walk, for example. If someone was with her with binoculars, looking out on the horizon beyond what she could see with her naked eye, and she says, I see the ship. That news would be like cold water for someone who is about to die of dehydration. That's the point here As for the second water image, which is really the emphasis, the proverbist wants you to imagine someone who is a benefit to the whole community, someone who has been bringing life for a while People rely on that person. And then that same person who used to be faithful gives into the temptations of the wicked. Instead of the fear of the Lord, they develop the fear of man. Although they were like a well where you could find refreshment, now based on their choices, they are useless and they actually have become a source of disease. We would say the well has been poisoned. Now our doctrine this evening is uh is very important. This these Proverb pairs have been very important to me. They've really sobered me quite a bit in studying them. But here's our doctrine for this evening. Christ helps us adopt true relational wisdom By helping us to take certain sins seriously. Christ helps us to grow in wisdom by taking certain sins seriously. That's part of what's going on here with the imagery. And I'd like to develop that a bit with you with two points: north wind and poisoned well. We all know that these proverbs are written primarily to those about to step out into the adult world. Though they're applicable to all of us. Well, one of the marks of that group, and if you're in that group, one of the marks of you Is that you have a rough, a tough time estimating life accurately. When you size something up in your life, you tend to get it wrong. Because you lack experience and you're kind of naive and gullible. It's what it means to be young. I mean, we've all been through it Often when we are young or immature, we are willing to spend too much, thinking, no, this is worth it. And later in life, you'll look back and you'll go, man, I can't believe I spent that on that. Or we we see something and we say, that's not a big deal. But in reality, when you get older, you look back and go, actually that was a big deal. And that's what I mean. You size things up inaccurately. It's part of being young. What these proverbs in part are doing are giving us images that help us to see things accurately. To see the truly grievous nature of certain sins, for us to see the seriousness of certain societal paths And so you can, if you want, you can say, you can ask yourself, is gossip that really really that big of a deal? I mean, I hear people talking about it all the time. I see it in the lists in the Bible, but is it really that big of a deal? Who does it hurt anyway? We're just joking, aren't we? And it could be true that some gossip is not as bad as others. But what Christ wants us to realize here is that when we speak destructivement about people behind their back, then we have stepped into an arena and a domain where things can go terribly wrong and really, really hurt people and God's reputation. Now this is especially true among the high school and college age. We all know that that stage of life is filled with drama. And I wonder, I don't uh I don't know, I actually don't know anything real private about any of the students that are here, but I wonder, just you can think inside your own mind, I wonder If any of you students have felt the pain and destruction of people talking behind your back If you have, then you realize through experience that Solomon is right to choose images like the North Wind, for example, and all that that implies that I explained earlier. So that's what Christ is doing for us. He wants to help us avoid the sin, the grievous sin of backbiting. And so he gives us images so that we can estimate our actions accurately, even when we're young. And perhaps you could become outraged at backbiting and even have the courage to stand up for other people when it's happening instead of going along or remaining in silence. I want you to imagine just for a minute this idea of the backbiting. Because there's an authorized image that's given to us here for us to engage our imaginations. Imagine that a farmer has worked diligently to tend the soil at just the right time. And they plant the crops at just the right time to make sure that they have an abundance Now this isn't for fun. This isn't like recreational gardening with your raised beds. This is someone relies on this. This is how they're going to eat. This is how they're going to barter with other people. This is their income And then, despite all of the efforts and the hopes, an unexpected cold front comes through and brings a hard frost, and they lose the entire crop. I want you to see the faces on the children. Can you see the despair of the farmer? He and his wife have dirt under their nails from all of the hard work that they put into it. And yet just like that, their work now means nothing. That's the authorized image that is given to us from Christ Himself through His Word for us to be able to get to the point of the kind of damage that our words can have. If you are someone who talks destructively about people behind their backs, then you are like a north wind. And if you are someone who lets it happen, then you are complicit. It would be good, I think, for all of us to ask the question: is that really what I want to happen to people or what are around me. I find that when I talk to people and they've been talking about each other or people behind their backs, it's largely because they are hurt themselves. As human beings, we get hurt all the time. But is that really what you want to do with your pain? Is burn down the village, so to speak? There's got to be better options than that. Really, we need to ask ourselves, is that who we want to be? Jesus Christ, by his Spirit, inspired the imagery in this passage to push you away from such a life so that you could see it accurately and not play around with fire. He wants you to bring life. He doesn't want you to take it away. Gossip, backbiting, talking maliciously about someone who is not present is grievous. In fact, and this will be my last word on this, got a chance to do a little bit of research just with backbiting today and the different names that people call it. And it is one of the main causes why young people commit suicide. It can be devastating. It's just multiplied because backbiting can happen in a different way on social media. And so that's the first thing that I wanted you to consider here: this image that Christ provides for us so that we can estimate our actions accurately. And that is about the north wind. Well let's let's just stay away from that. And now he also gives us this image of the poisoned well. What a delight to have a cold drink when you need it. I remember growing up and when we were at the 4th of July party with my grandfather, how exciting it was. to get a Coke out of the cooler that was full of ice. It was like nothing else. I don't think they make Coke the same way today. It doesn't taste the same anyway. But what a delight to have a cold drink like that. And this is what the book of Proverbs in the hands of Christ is seeking to accomplish: is that Christ, through his word, wants you to be a refreshment to each other. We are here to help each other flourish. It becomes a real tragedy then when we decide to listen to the wicked and become a poisoned well instead. Think of all of the work that Christ has been pouring into you and those around you. And think of how tragic it is when all that work becomes poisoned. Again, I'm sure that many of us could say, what's the big deal if I do such and such or take a certain path in my life? It's not hurting anybody. What's the big deal if I choose this course? Well, in actuality, what we choose may not have much effect on us, at least not immediately. But I think that in our immaturity, sometimes we can forget that we bring real hardship on our community, that our actions are communal actions, not just individual actions, and they affect people. And that's part of wisdom, isn't it? If you were to draw a story arc of the human life from immaturity to maturity, isn't consideration of others in the making of our decisions in the mature part? And that's part of his point here, steering us away from just individualistic decision making, not considering or reading the room. I wonder if you see the picture clearly on this one. In this context of the passage, each village has a well. Perhaps you could think of some village in Uganda that has a well And everyone relies on it so that they and their children and the elderly can stay healthy. Imagine going to one of these villages and purposely spoiling the well for the entire community. And again, we have to ask the question, is that the kind of person or is that the kind of people that we want to be? Is that how we want to be known socially? All of those kind of considerations are supposed to come up when you're conducting your life Let us take our decisions more seriously, therefore, is part of Christ's message to us here. As a follower of Christ, you are called to act not as simply an individual, but as a contributing member of the community. In one way or another, we are all village wells. And the question that Christ poses to us is what kind of well do you want to be Jesus Christ here in this passage is such a good shepherd. I can't think of anyone else who would have the wisdom to put life in images like this. It has been more helpful than any other teacher I've had. He is truly the greatest teacher He knows we all struggle socially and how to relate to one another. And so he helps us to see the reality of our actions Christ helps us adopt true relational wisdom by helping us to take certain sins like backbiting And moving from faithfulness to unfaithfulness, he helps us to take it seriously. He is working with each of you that you would not be a north wind and a hard frost. but that you would be a refreshing breeze to your neighbors. And he is making us into not poisoned wells, but into life-giving water. Amen. Amen. Let us pray.