Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit If any affection and mercy fulfill my joy by being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem others better than himself. Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Lord, you have given us, you have preserved these words. For us here this morning. And I pray that by your Spirit you would deliver them to your people. Pray that you would mold and shape them by your word, moving them towards glory. We ask these things in your name. Last week we considered the paragraph just prior to this paragraph. That of course makes sense. There were a number of different images that Paul was giving to us in order to make his point. They were primarily taken from an understanding of a Roman army in battle The image that perhaps should have shown the brightest for you was the phalanx. It's the image of what Philip of Macedon had d partially developed and his son Alexander the Great had used a military formation wherein the soldiers were shoulder to shoulder and shield to shield Paul, using that imagery, calls us in the name of Jesus Christ to battle. That we are to be united, that we are in our battle to be striving for the unity of the faith That's what he called you to just last week. Now that was meant to be done in two main ways. It's meant to be done inside the church. We're not to permit or consign people to their sin We're not to let the infection of heresy or ideology to just run its course. And the same thing with outside the church. There is a ministry that we are to have. We are meant to be witnesses. Really, both of those things came together in last week's sermon as we I ended up focusing partially because of some of the crisis that is happening in our culture, particularly with men, I ended up focusing on the ideology of feminism. Now feminism can not only be in the church, it can also be in the world. And one of the things we learned is where it's not supposed to run rampant on the inside, as we confront it on the outside, our confrontation does not look like killing all feminists That's not what we're after. What we're after is for them to adopt Jesus Christ and his vision for reality and his place for men and for women. That's the battle. That's the phalanx that we are to form as we strive for the faith of the gospel. Now this week, and this uh we're just going to consider verses one and two, but there's a continuation really of the same image, and it is the image of unity. If you were to just if we were to keep reading, you would just keep saying to yourself, oh yeah, this is about unity. And we'd go on to the next paragraph, you'd say, unity still. And we go again, you say, still unity. In fact, verses one and two, we're going to talk about the motivations of unity, then there's the marks of unity, then there's the means of unity Then Jesus Christ is the model of unity. You could do it that way if you want. There's there's uh one teacher that has categorized it that way, but unity, unity, unity. And in fact, the way that Paul is going to capture the kind of unity that you are meant to have as the body of Jesus Christ is right there in the first paragraph, though we're not going to cover this this week. This will be next week. You'll notice there in verse 3. He says that, I'm sorry, in verse number two, right there at the end, he says that you are to be of one mind. Verse number two. Now look at verse number five. Where if we're going to talk about if we're going to start talking about Jesus Christ and His work, you know we're getting really serious. And that's what happens in verse number five. And notice how he phrases it. Let this mind So we have one mind in verse two, we have this mind enabling Jesus Christ in verse five, and that's how he's he's approaching you and seeking to frame this for you. In terms of you having Christian unity, you are meant to have one mind. But before we get to understanding that There are some steps that we have to take. And the first step is what Paul delivers in verses 1 and 2 is he wants you to see the motivations for you to be united in one mind. Now, why would you need motivation to do that? Doesn't that just sound great, to be of one mind? Have you ever said that? Can't we just Get along. Can't we be or in different words you say can't we just be of one mind? The reason why he has to give us motivations is because although we all do desire that, it is very difficult for us to attain. There are so many different we're supposed to be fighting one battle as a unity, but there's so many battles that divide us. Battle of the sexes, battle of generation. So many different battles. And so that's what we're looking at here today. The Holy Spirit is calling each of you in the name of Jesus Christ to be of one mind. And he's saying that you need to do so. The highest way in which you can do so is from motivations of love for Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit. Christ calls you to be of one mind from motives of love. Christ calls you to be of one mind. From motives of love. Now, what I want to do is I just want to talk about motivations in general for a second, and then we'll go into the specific motivations that are in this passage, and then we'll tease out a few applications. in hopes of applying his word to your heart. Now, motivations in general, I've showed you in verse number two that he really is seeking for you to be of one mind. I've shown you from verse number five that that mind theme is continuing as a way to talk about unity. Now take a look at verse number one. Verse number one, therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, if there is, we're going to talk about these verses in a minute, but if any comfort of his love, now we move from Christ to the Spirit, if any fellowship of the Spirit, If any affection and mercy, so that's the Spirit, then we move into the Apostle Paul himself, appealing to them to love him, fulfill my joy by being like-minded. So he's what he's doing here, and I'll point this out in in the next point, he is seeking to show them the proper motivations for them to be united. I just want to make sure you know that we're all talking about what the scriptures say here. Now motivations in general. We've all heard I think I even heard it last week. We've all heard that there are two main kinds of motivations. There's the carrot, and then there's the stick. Has everybody heard that? I don't know if that's from horse training or what. But there's a carrot and there's a stick. Have we all heard that? Stewart, some are saying I still don't know what you're saying. Carrots are great for eyesight. You're right. But I'm using it differently. The carrot and the stick. The stick means that there's some kind of external coercion that's going to go ahead and move you forward You keep saying to me, I will not move, and then I take my stick and I go, yes you will, right on the back of your thigh. That's where it hurts the worst. And then you start to move. That would be the stick. The other form of motivation that comes also in different kinds and species and forms would be the carrot. And that's where I'm dangling something that you want in front of you and you're like, oh yes, that's where I yes. And I moved you Right? Or you were moved because of your desire. Those are the two main ways to talk about motives in general. You could talk about it as the carrot and the stick, or you could talk about it as the external or the internal One teacher uses an illustration of marbles. Let's say that you wanted all the marbles to be gathered up into a unity. And that's what we're talking about here this morning. You are, let's pretend you're all marbles for a moment. And we have to gather you up into unity. There would be two main ways of doing so, in the way I'm going to tell the story The two main ways first is that we could just find a marble bag and sack and externally hold you all together. But if as soon as someone were to cut into that marble bag, you would all disperse and be diversified and you'd be separate. That would be an external motivation illustration. An internal would be as if you all had magnets inside of you and you were all and it was aligned with the pluses and the minuses. Don't get me into physics. And you click together. That's what you do. You're always drawn towards each other. And that would be a kind of internal motivation. And that's the kind of motivation that the Apostle Paul is seeking from you this morning. Is that Christians are not just to have any old kind of motivation, but that the highest and the greatest motivation that we can attain is an internal motivation that we are moving towards each other. I'll just give you this word, voluntarily. That we are doing so voluntarily due to not just an attraction to each other, but an attraction to one who stands as our Lord. and one spirit and one father. And for them here, it was also because of a love for the apostle. So that's motivation in general. Now, he he mentions that for us so that we can begin to understand how he wants us to move towards unity in a voluntary mode. Now what are the specifics of that? That's what we need to get into. What's going to be the magnetic attraction to start moving you forward. Well, here it is in verses 1 and 2. There's basically three main parts in this section. You are to be motivated by your love of Jesus Christ, if there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love. You are to be motivated by your love for the Holy Spirit and what he has done for you. And lastly he was calling them specifically because they had a relationship with each other, and he was like a father, and they were like children. Then do this for me. Be one-minded, out of love for me. And there are the three internal motivations that he calls upon. Now I want to look at I want to look at the motivation towards Christ in the Spirit as one point, and then we'll look at one for the Apostle Paul in another one. This is the first thing you need to know. To be able to look at this verse, not only with me, but by yourself, to be able to see these motivations and what he's getting at here and how you are to be motivated out of love. And the first one is a bit of a technical point. When you are studying the original language and you come across a sentence like this, go ahead and look at these sentences in verses 1 and 2. Any seminarian who's already taken Greek 1 and 2 is going to notice if If, if, if, if. And they're going to say, oh, I learned this in class that there are three different kinds of ifs. Isn't that cool that there's three different kinds of ifs? These different ifs could mean different things, and you know what this one means? It means that it has in fact happened. It's not, I wonder if this will take place. This is a first-class conditional where if really could be translated as since or because. So look at it again. Therefore, since there's consolation in Christ, since there's the comfort of his love, And since there's this fellowship of the Spirit, and because of his affection and mercy, oh, be moved to be united in one mind. What you're dealing with here is not a doctrinal abstraction, but personal experiences. He's calling them to remember Ways in which they have heard of the eternal Christ working through history in the lives of other people, but then also in their own lives. That it has actually happened. It has, in fact, they have had the consolation of in Christ. In fact, they have had the strengthening and the encouragement of his love. And in fact There is a fellowship with the Spirit, and they know his affection, and they know the mercy of God. Now that should immediately start to move you in a particular direction where we're We're not primarily being motivated through a system being coherent. We're now being motivated because someone has entered personally into our life They have treated us in a particular way, and it has been so kind, and it has been so good, and it has been so wise, that when it dawns on us, all that they have done for us, namely Christ and the Spirit, The proper response, guided by the Spirit, is that we would show gratitude and thanksgiving and love. That would be the motivation. Now I'm sure you have different images of your mind of people that have stepped towards you instead of stepping away from you. That they've shown you love, they've shown you mercy, they've they've shown you all these different things, they've sacrificed financially for you. And sometimes the sacrifice is so deep that you feel indebted to them for the rest of your life. I have a few people in my life that discipled me very early on who made a lot of sacrifices and invested in me. And even at this moment as I begin to think about them, I think I owe my life to them. I wonder if you have people that are like that. The reason why I'm bringing that up is because Paul is tapping into that, that feeling, that affection that you have. That's something that Jesus Christ has given to you, but he doesn't want you to just stop short with your earthly discipleship experience. He wants you to see that even those whom you greatly honor, who have given you so much, that they themselves are sent from Christ. In fact, that all of it, when brought together, they're gifts from Christ and from his spirit. And we're to begin to see this, and there should be this holy and godly affection that rises up. And we say, out of all the things that I could do in this world, Lord, I want to serve you. That's my motivation. It's because I love you. Now, what were some of the actual experiences that we've seen And that we will see actually in just in the book of Philippians. I don't want to dart all over the scriptures this morning, but if you were to just look through some of the actual experiences You could begin to see why Paul and why the Philippians would be motivated. Well, if we went back to chapter 1 of Philippians and we just looked at verse number 9, this is a prayer. The Apostle Paul honestly believes that he is going to pray in the name of Christ And he has hopes that this same Christ will effectually grant these prayers to this particular group of people. And he is already, if you go up one more paragraph, he's already seen it begin to happen because while he's in house arrest they're sending him apaphroditus and ministering to him and he knows that those things if you keep looking at the paragraph in verse number eleven of chapter one that they are filled with the fruits of wrath. We know that the fruits of righteousness are from the Spirit. We know that the Spirit is from Christ. Written all over these pages Is Christ working particularly and actually and affectionately with this group of people? And he needs to remind them of that So that they can be motivated by love. Well, that's one example. Another example would be what we had considered about the Imperial Guard. The entire point about the Sermon on the Imperial Guard and God being the great alchemist is that God didn't just stand aloof on the other side of the cosmos while Paul was imprisoned. Jesus Christ knew every hair on Paul's head. It was never out of control. He had planned it. To where this would be the opportunity for those in Caesar's household to learn the gospel. And so Paul is able to look at that and he's able to say: Christ has never left my side. I was given a calling, and here I am in prison, and Christ is still here supporting me and strengthening me. I know the consolation of his love. I know the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. That would be another example. You could go on to the next example of how he was able to withstand criticism that even those who had poor motives, Christ still had that under control. Paul saw Christ acting personally with him in each thing. The universe, I've mentioned this to you before, the universe was enchanted for Paul. It was enchanted by something called love. And it is the love of Christ. He's asking you to catch on to this. Now, let's bring this out very specifically. that Paul sees Christ acting in his life specifically, and the same with yours. Some of you have quoted this verse from chapter 4, verse 13. Take a look at that. Who of you have quoted this verse for yourselves? Did you know what you were saying? Chapter 4, verse 13. I can do all things Through Christ who strengthens me. Not I can do all things through Christ who wound me up like a clock and then let me tick all by myself for the rest of my years. It was Christ who strengthens me here in this moment because he is with me. And if you were to keep going down, you'd see the thought continuing in verse 19. And my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus This is Paul seeking to get at specific motivations for you. And he's doing so by using a kind of conditional where you realize, no, we're not talking about doctrinal abstractions or something that might happen. He's talking about actual ways in which Jesus Christ has already entered into your life and shown you consolation and encouragement and fellowship and affection and mercy. And that you are to draw upon these experiences as understood by the Word of God, and you are to be moved by His love for you, and in return, love. That's the way that he believes is your greatest motivation. Now there's one more on here. We looked at the that's Christ and we looked at the Holy Spirit and how we're to be motivated in love for them by their love for us. But there was also his appeal to them in chapter 2, in fulfill my joy. In chapter 2, verse 2, there's one love left, and that's the love of the apostle for them and their love for him. Fulfill my joy by being like-minded. You know, it makes me wonder is you see all these different ways that they were seeking to contribute to Paul. They would send Epaphroditus, it looked like they were sending funds, perhaps they were sending meals. And then we see when he has received those things in prison, he says Because they're worried about him. He seems to be saying in that first chapter, listen, I get your worried worried, but you don't need to be worried about me. Let me tell you what happened with the Imperial Guard You don't need to worry about me. Let me tell you about how I'm thinking about this preaching that's tearing me down but still preaching the gospel. If you really want to fulfill my joy, Then you don't need to worry about those things. If you really want to fulfill my joy, if you want to return the love that I have given to you and the natural affection, then be of one mind. And it's the same logic and the same reasoning that we should carry over into the Holy Spirit and into our Christ. We are all being called. We're all being called to see the affection and the mercy and the love of Jesus Christ toward us. And by the Spirit to have a supernatural affection back at him. And it is the energy by which we do things. It is the carrot and not the stick. It is the internal and not just the external. Both have their place, but Paul is focusing specifically on one Now, I hope that you can understand the general motivational theory, and then we're looking at Paul's specific motivational theory for you, as you would seek to be of one mind as a congregation. Let me just ask you a main question that is a part of this conversation. What are the different ways? I mean, this church, you know I love all of you. And all of you are doing so well. I'm in a position where I hear a lot of different news about different things that are happening in the church. When kids were younger, and then I would find out about the things that they're doing, and then I would say it to them, and they'd say, How did you find that out? And I said, Well there's this little bird and he comes and he sits on my windowsill. I open the window every morning and he tells me about everybody. And I'll tell you that I'll tell you the bird's name later, but just kidding. I am in a position where I do hear not everything, but many things, and I hear things that happen that rise up that I know that Satan could grab a hold of. That he could get a handle, and he could get his foot in that door. And then I watch the Holy Spirit work through each of you, and it doesn't happen. You forgive each other. You confront each other. You teach each other the word. It's very much like the way that Paul is affectionately dealing with this group of people. We don't see him calling them out like the Galatians. We see a very healthy church. I see a very healthy church. But within that healthiness There's always a moment that can erupt where there's discord and disunity. We see it in every one of the letters of the New Testament, so it's very important for us to consider this question Why are you working hard for Unity? What have been your motivations? If I were you, I'd take some time today before the Lord and try to catalog how you have been motivated. I gave you some different categories, external, internal, carrot, and stick, but there's many different kinds of each of those. Let me just ask you, this happens within the reformed world, so I have to put that put it this way. Is it perhaps the case that you are primarily motivated by the coherence of an abstract system of thinking? Some of you here are saying, yes, I am, but I'll never don't want to admit that because I'll look too nerdy. But that really is something that motivates you. Or here's another one, and this is the one I see most often. This is probably at this time in history, I don't know the percentages or whatever, but it just looks from a kind of folk knowledge. That the number one motivation, even among us, is status. Status. That I would in some ways have a higher and higher status. There can be people that are called to the eldership, and that's all of our elders. And then I've also seen some in other places where they're not really, they're just seeking status. And that come that can come out in different ways. But we can work hard primarily because of our own status and our own name. And we talked about that two weeks ago. But then there is the third one that the Apostle Paul is giving, and that's love and gratitude to Christ and the Spirit. And in a way, even to the Apostle. This is a higher calling. Being motivated by coherence in an abstract system of thinking is not wrong. I actually think it's a good lower motivation. Being motivated by status is not inherently wrong. Read the book of Proverbs. Social esteem is constantly appealed to. I'm fine with that also. But these are lower forms and the highest form above them all. is love and gratitude to Christ and His Spirit. And I just wonder how often do you see that that is your motivation for doing things within the church, particularly of becoming of one mind? You'll need to do your own heartwork there. Now, to try to understand that, I just want to say something briefly. in terms of being motivated specifically out of our love for Jesus Christ. And I want to do so under this concept of love or care. And I'm going to give you an example that you can even play along with me here for just a second. I did this in the Sunday school the other day. If you were to take your finger and put it out in front of you I'm not going to ask you all to do that. But if you were to take your finger and you put it out in front of you, and then you keep looking beyond your finger at me, then the finger will be blurry. My finger is blurry right now. But if I change my focal point and I look at my finger, you all become blurry. And this this little perception experiment from psychology is very helpful in understanding the nature of moving forward in love. Those things upon which you focus. Those things upon which you care about. Those things which you most love will determine what is in the foreground and what is blurred in the background. That's why what the Apostle Paul is so saying is so important to say to you this morning. He is having in a very real way a metaphysical conversation with you. He's talking about a fundamental reality all the way at the bottom of what it means to walk with God and to be His creature. And here it is If you do not have His Son, Jesus Christ, as your primary focal point, then there will be another focal point. There will be things that are foregrounded and backgrounded, and your life in many ways will be a confusion and illusory. But it is when we are able to make Christ our love by the power of the Holy Spirit to set our care for Him and His concerns. that everything that is supposed to be in the foreground, everything that is supposed to be seen, for us to have the good life and to be able to glorify God is in its proper place, it's in its proper order. And that's the deepest way to put why he's so concerned that your loves would be right, that Christ would be first. And so he publishes before you how Christ has loved you, so that by the work of the Spirit a supernatural affection would rise up in you, and Christ would become the center, and everything would find its place. And of course, that's sanctification. You're not going to get that all today. But that's the ultimate goal that Paul has here for these people, and that is the goal that the Spirit has. for you. So I just want you to think about it. Let's just let's just imagine for a moment that your heart is filled with the love of Jesus Christ. I know that it is in part, Christian. What are Christ's longings and desires? Does he not give that to us in John chapter 17? when he prays to the Father that we would be united. And do you know what he says? This vision that he has, the one who has loved you, do you know what he wants from you? He said, you will know my disciples by this, how they love one another. He just wants you to be one-minded. He wants you to be unified. Is there any consolation of love? Is there any comfort that you have received from Jesus Christ? Is there any fellowship of the Spirit? Is there any affection or any mercy that you can remember where you would want to do that for Christ? Now, think about the Holy Spirit. Oftentimes we think of him as an abstraction. He is a person. He is the third person of the Trinity. And from the beginning, he puts things in order. He hovered over the face of the deep, and those things were discordant, not habitable, not brought together. He brought together at the word of the eternal Christ. And eventually he brought us together. He breathed life in us. And though after the fall, now with Christ and his plan of salvation, the Spirit seeks to take those things. Which are decomposing in your transgressions and your sins and your curses, and he is seeking to breathe new spiritual life back into you again. So you just ask yourself the question. Have you received the affection and the mercy of the Holy Spirit? If so, what does he how can you love him at the center? It's to be of one mind. That is his universal contribution and aim in the church is for us to be one. You know, it says in the scriptures, I I know you've heard this, but maybe in this conversation it'll be highlighted just a little bit more. It says in the scriptures that it is possible to grieve the Holy Spirit. I'd encourage you to take a look in the scriptures on where the Holy Spirit is grieved. And you will see that it happens when that which the Father sent his son for that which the Son has died for, that which the Spirit has been sent for, namely the unity of the body of Christ, when it is being decomposed. Like a dead body. That's when he's grieved. He's grieved when false prophets speak to accomplish it. He's grieved when we don't test the spirits and we accept things that tear apart instead of bringing together. James says he's grieved in a way when we accept that spirit from down below and not from above. Envy. and pride. Same thing that rose the knife for the two brothers in the beginning. And his blood was spilled on the ground. I wonder if it's surprising to you to think of it in those terms. I hope it's not, since we've been talking about love. That you would not grieve the Spirit, that you would not grieve Christ. But that you would instead love because He first loved you. My encouragement to you this morning is to be of one mind. That's next week's sermon, however. What does that look like? This week's sermon is, well, f from what motives? And the main message for you this morning is out of love and gratitude for Christ and for the Holy Spirit. Amen. Amen. Let us pray.