To the book of Philippians, chapter two. We'll be examining the first eleven verses of Philippians chapter two today. Philippians two, starting in verse one. Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and mercy, fulfill my joy by being like-minded. having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem others better than himself Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus who, being in the form of God, did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bond servant, and coming in the likeness of men And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross Therefore, God also has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven, and of those on earth, and of those under the earth And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Please pray with me. Almighty God, you have given us your word. You have given us this word, that we would know what we are to believe about you and what duty you require of us. We pray that by your Spirit you will open our eyes and our minds to what this passage is saying. We pray that you will give us submissive hearts and spirits that we would obey you. That we would heed what you teach us this morning. We pray most importantly that we would not be hearers of this word only, but that you would enable us to go out into our lives and be doers of this word. Word. Father, along with your servant, we pray that the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart would be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. I just want to ask: how important is unity to you? Is this something that you're giving your thoughts to on a daily basis? How often do you think about whether or not the complex and complicated things in your life are united? Well, I bet you were very glad that your car was united on your way here. If you ever have the occasion to fly, I'm sure it's very important to you that all the components of the airplane Are indeed united, right? In Matthew chapter 12, verse 25, Jesus is confronted by religious leaders who claim that he cast out demons by the power of the Prince of Dons, Satan. Do you remember his answer to them? Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and every city or house divided against itself will not stand. The reasoning of our Lord Jesus Christ is indisputable. Now it's important that we see a distinction here. Unity is not uniformity. Your car is made of many, many parts and pieces, and they're all very, very different. Each part performs its design function, allowing the successful fulfillment of the car's design If all the parts were uniform, if they were all exactly the same, it wouldn't be a car. No matter how uniform those pieces, it would simply be a pile of parts. And this is also true of human beings. We are not uniform. We are diverse in many, many ways. No two people do one thing in the same way. No two people think exactly the same way. No two people are going to be in agreement on absolutely everything. Yet, it is human beings who are called to live as one body by the gospel. How then can we, sinful human beings, be united into one body, the body of Christ Now, I think it's good to remind ourselves that Paul is writing this letter while he's in prison for Jesus. He isn't writing as someone ignorant of the steep costs associated with living out the gospel. This is not some theoretical exercise for Paul. He is intimately aware of the suffering and the difficulty that is in store for every true convert who's been made alive in Jesus Christ. And he is aware of the only way in which the body of Christ, the church, will stand firm and persevere, fulfilling her purpose as a witness to all the world of the truth of the gospel. That one thing is unity. To fulfill her purpose, the church must be united How is this unity possible for the church that is comprised of such different and diverse and sinful people? Well, rejoice. Give thanks to our great God for He has given us the answer. That's exactly what this passage this morning is telling us. Because, brothers and sisters, in this passage we will learn that Christian unity is achieved through humility in conformity to the example of Jesus Christ. Christian unity is achieved through humility in conformity to the example of Jesus Christ. And I'm going to examine this in three parts this morning. We'll first look at the foundation of unity in verse 1 and the first Part of verse 2. Then we will look at the means of unity in verses 2 through 4. And then we will see together the model for unity, which is verses 5 through 11. So let's jump right in it. Let us see what Paul gives us, what the Holy Spirit gives us through Paul as the foundation of unity. In other words, why should we be united? Well, the church should be united because of the reality of redemption. We truly believe that we are redeemed. We are receivers of the grace and mercy of the Lord, just as Paul believed Just as the Philippians believed. Paul's experience in ours is that redemption is real. Look there at verse 1. Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and mercy We need to know what that therefore is there for. And that therefore is dramatically referring us to the entirety of the first chapter of Paul's letter. And in that letter, Paul recounts his experiences with the Philippian Christians. We need to understand that there is nothing conditional in these if statements. There is absolutely no doubt in Paul's mind about the things he is writing and saying These statements serve as the foundation of what he will then command the Philippians and us to do. Let's look at these one by one. It says: if there is any consolation in Christ, Well, of course there is consolation in Christ. We see this in Paul's personal experience. Though he was in prison and suffering, he says in chapter 1, verse 20 that whether he lives or dies, he counts it all worth it. He counts it all a joy if by it Christ will be magnified. If any comfort of love. Well, the Philippians had clearly showed their love for Paul. They received his ministry to them. They sent physical support to him. Recall last week's sermon that Pastor Garcia enlightened our minds with the love that was in Epaphroditus. If any fellowship of the Spirit, it is the indwelling Holy Spirit who mysteriously and metaphysically connects us to each other, as Paul was connected to the Philippian church Despite separation of time and space, Paul speaks of them as partners, right there with him, working along with him. He calls them partakers with him of grace. If any affection and mercy, this is the great love of God and the mercy that He lavishes upon us in saving us from our sin. This is the very thing that he did for Paul, the very thing he has done for the Philippians, that he's done for you and for me. There will be conflict. There will be suffering and difficulty in our personal lives and in the life of the church, but these are never insurmountable. The Lord really has redeemed his people, and he shows us that what we require to persevere through such adversity is unity. Brothers and sisters, this is the foundation of our unity here in this church We believe with all our hearts that Christ has saved us. He has spared us from the eternal punishment due to us for our sin. Redemption is very real to us We know that the Church of Jesus Christ is real. We are bound together by the truth that we know. None of us deserve it. We're all in the exact same situation. Yet every one of us saved by Christ is destined to glory. We know the end game. We'll have new resurrected bodies and everlasting life with our God. This is our consolation. This is our comfort, our bond of fellowship and affection. We love Christ's church because we know that He loves His church and has redeemed her Do you know that God loves the person right next to you? If you love God, if you love the Father, then you'll love his child. So you better love them too Christian, if you have experienced and believed the reality of our redemption in Christ Jesus, then you need to realize that what Paul says next didn't only apply to our long-ago brothers and sisters in Philippi. It applies to you and to me. Look here and see what Paul says. He's saying, Since you all know and have tasted of the reality of redemption in Christ, fulfill my joy. That first part of verse 2 is a command. And we should note something. We should note that Paul is extremely confident. He doesn't say, make me joyful. He doesn't say, if you want me to have some joy, he already has a measure of joy. He already knows that the Philippians have received the gospel and demonstrated evidence of the reality of repentance and redemption. He recognizes that it is God who began that work in them, and that it is he who will complete it. And this helps us understand Paul's concern. Paul is not preoccupied with his own joy. The way that he's constructed the Greek sentence indicates that what follows that command are descriptions of what it would look like. For the Philippian Christians to heed his command, to fulfill his joy. Paul's concern is not for himself. But for them, this is the only way that they will stand firm through the suffering and difficulty that will come from the attacks of the enemy. Those attacks may have already come. If you read further in the book of Philippians, you'll see the statement from Paul to Sintici and Yodia, and that could indicate that there was some kind of controversy in the church, perhaps some kind of division. And according to Paul, in this divinely inspired scripture, the only way for Christians to stand firm in the faith is the same thing that will fulfill his joy: unity. They must be united. And so, having laid the foundation of Christian unity, the reality of our redemption in Jesus, Paul teaches the means by which that unity is achieved. So, what is the means of unity? How can Christians be united? It is through a mindset of humility. We must be united in our mind. Look with me at what verse 2 says. It says, Fulfill my joy. That's the command. By being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind This phrase being like-minded, there are other words in the Greek language which could have been used if the Lord had wanted us Only to understand this as thinking the same way or judging the same way about things. But this word that is used, froneo, specifically indicates that he wants us to have the same mindset. In this letter, Paul uses that word 11 times. He uses it twice in this verse We are run by our minds, aren't we? We're mental creatures. If we are to be united in any way, then logically we must fundamentally be united in our mindset We must be united in how we understand the world and how we interpret the reality that is around us. Well, Paul adds to this: having the same love And that's because we aren't just mental creatures. We aren't just mental beings. We're also emotional beings. And our emotions can often seem to override the mind and take control of our lives. Can people be united if they do not share the same love? Can we be united if our emotions are not ordered and directed to the same end, the worship and glory of God Almighty Paul next says being of one accord, and this is one of those Pauline terms. It's found nowhere else. It's created by adding, uh taking two words and putting them together, as Paul frequently does in his epistles. It's best translated literally as one souled or one lifed. As I said before, Christians' lives are all on the same trajectory, aren't they? We are all sojourners. We are all people of a different kingdom, a kingdom not of this world, and we are foreigners looking forward to the promised land that awaits us, a land that is common to all believers. Paul then reiterates, of one mind. It isn't up to us to have our own way of thinking about God. There cannot be unity if the scriptures teach what we are to imagine. about God or what stuff we think he may not have that much of a problem with. To be united, we must have the same mind. And this highlights the importance of sound doctrine Sound doctrine which is solely and entirely rooted in the Word of God. This is sola scriptura. It's why it's so important. It is also why we in this church subscribe to the Westminster Confession of Faith, larger and shorter catechisms. We are united. In agreement that it faithfully demonstrates the system one must use to rightly understand the Bible. To be united in mind, we must also be united in our motivation. Look at verses 3 and 4. These verses are speaking to a Christian's motivation And we'll see first that we are to be motivated by a redeemed view of ourselves. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit. Selfish ambition, this is the same word that Paul used to describe those preachers in chapter 1, those wrongly motivated preachers who were only preaching out of a self-interest or selfish ambition. Conceit? It's a fun word, kinodoxion. It means empty glory. It is literally translated vainglory. And if you've ever looked up that fun word in the English dictionary, it means excessive or ostentatious pride, especially in one's achievements, a vain display or show. Brothers and sisters, we do not put ourselves on show. We do not put ourselves in the center of any situation. We don't even put ourselves in the center of our own lives. This is the redeemed view of self. Well, we are also to be motivated by a redeemed view of others Look at what he continues to say. He says, In lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. Christian, do you realize that the Word of God says that you must be prejudiced? You must make a judgment about your fellow believers even before you know them. You must look around you at God's people, and no matter what you think you might see, You are to assume that they are better than you. You are to esteem others as superior to yourself So I have to ask, is that true? Is that true in you? Only you and God know how you think about other people. This is one to ponder. It's not one to forget. If you have a high opinion of yourself and your own abilities, I'm going to go out and say that's not necessarily bad. But you have to remember, if you have a high opinion of yourself, you better have an even higher opinion of others Well, Paul wraps this up for us in verse 4. He says, Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. A Christian cannot put their wants and desires over and above anyone else's. To act this way indicates a wrong view of oneself. Christians do not trample on others to achieve their personal goals or desires. And this is for all Christians. We cannot justify ignoring the interests and needs of others, even if we feel that someone else is ignoring our interests or our needs. To summarize what Paul is saying so far, if the Church of Christ is to withstand the persecution and the suffering that will rise against it, we must have unity. A unity founded on the reality of our redemption. A unity rooted in the real supernatural experience of salvation. This unity is not pretend. It's not artificial. It is a true unity of mind, heart, and soul, one that pervades every aspect of the Christian's life It's a unity that can only be achieved through sincere humility of mind. Such humility will motivate us to regard others as better and more important than ourselves Now, the Holy Spirit knows all things, and He knows especially the question that's arising in all of our minds. How in the world do you expect me to do that? He knows that this isn't easy. In fact, he knows that this is supernatural. And he shows us exactly how supernatural this kind of humility is by giving us a model. He gives us the model for humility, the model for unity. And this is verses 5 through 11. If you want to know what this mindset of humility looks like, look to the Lord Jesus Christ. The model for unity is the mind of the Messiah. He says, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. It is that mindset of humility, which is the only means to produce the unity the church requires. It's the same mindset of humility that is perfectly demonstrated by our Lord Jesus. We see it in his humiliation. It says therefore us in verse six. who being in the form of God did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant, and coming in the likeness of men. The Son of God is God The same in substance, equal in power and glory. He is God. Yet he did not consider it robbery to be equal with God. And some of you may have different translations. The ESV, I think, puts it this way, it did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. Now the the Greek here is just goofy It's hard to understand exactly what is being said. So I want to examine those two just because it's it's easy for us to see that both of them can be true. Robbery indicates a thing that's taken without right. So the Son of God did not see his equality with God as something that was his, that he had taken. that he didn't deserve. He as God had every right to be equal with God. He is God The Son of God, as God, was the entitled to uninterrupted glory, yet he did not hold on to it, as though his humiliation could somehow take from him his divinity. It was not something he needed to grasp. Or to hold on tightly, to be afraid that he would lose it. Since no one could take this from him, since it is his right as God to be equal with God, We see the fullness of his humility. And that Jesus chose, the Son of God chose, to set aside that uninterrupted glory. He made himself of no reputation. He made himself insignificant. And a misunderstanding of this verse is the source of a Christological heresy called knoticism. Which claims that Jesus emptied himself of his divinity. I would ask you, is that even possible? If he had, he would not be the redeemer of God's elect, for the redeemer of God's elect. Is God and man two distinct natures in one person? It all stems from this Greek word kana'o, which means To make of no effect, or to make empty. And all the New Testament uses of this verb show that there should be a figurative understanding, not literal. If it were meant to be literal, again I ask, what would the Son of God empty himself of? It could not be the form of God because then he would cease to be God. It could not be his equality with God because then again he would cease to be God. The Son of God's humiliation is one of addition, not subtraction. The idea of emptying or taking away is not found in the rest of this verse Look at what it says, the Son of God did. It says, taking the form of a bondservant, he added to himself the essence of servanthood. He was in no way worried that by becoming as a servant, he would somehow lose his divinity. The Son of God came in the likeness of man, setting aside his divine rights and glory that he could be sacrificed as the perfect Lamb of God, atoning for the sins of his people. Well, Paul continues in verse 8, saying that he had been found in appearance as a man. This is the incarnation. That word appearance is the word schemati, it's the word from which we get our word schema. It is what may be known from without about a person or a thing. Well, looking at Jesus externally, there is nothing to suggest that he is God. By all outward appearances, he was just a man. But do you remember when he was transfigured on the mountain? Peter, James, and John, they were terrified because the schema of man was removed And all they saw was the perfection of Jesus into all his awesome splendor. The scripture says he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. This is the ultimate humility. Obedience is important. A good servant obeys. The perfect servant obeys perfectly For the Son to be obedient to the Father, it does not require that the Son be unequal to the Father. Christ's voluntary submission to his father in no way diminishes his divinity and equality as the second person of the triune God. And he was not only obedient, but he was obedient unto death. There is no greater test than that which Jesus Christ endured. The death on the cross. It's a shameful death. It was the death that was designed for rebels, a death that was designed for traitors. It was designed to cause the most pain a human can endure, the most agony, the most suffering. It's a cursed death. And yet Jesus bore it, though he did not have to. We must remember Paul's focus in giving us this marvelous picture of Jesus' sacrificial love. All that has been said is exhorting the church unto unity through humility as demonstrated by the great model. Which is the Lord Jesus Christ. By nature, he had every right to remain in unimaginable splendor and glory forever. But possessing the perfect love, the perfect mindset He would not leave his beloved people to perish in the pains of hell, though that fate is exactly what we deserve. The Christ, in perfect humility, took upon himself our nature, but without sin, and completely withstood the temptation of the sin that Paul warns against: the sin of selfishness and vainglorious pride. This is what it looks like to be a true human, to be perfectly made in the image of God without the tainting presence of sin. Do you see Jesus' mind? Do you see how far he will go for the needs of others? Do you see the tremendous depth of his love and his willingness to give up the highest glory to take on the lowest servanthood? The most humiliating form, that of a bondservant. This is how the Christians' minds should operate. This is what our thoughts should be like Perhaps it's now easier for us to see why Paul is writing to the Philippians and telling them that by being united this way, in their minds, they would fulfill his joy. Imagine what the world would look like if every human alive had this same mindset that was in Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, that is the new heavens and the new earth. That is what we eagerly wait for. Every mind will be united, all will have the same love and be united in life and soul. That is paradise, true paradise. And these last verses show that Paul indeed has paradise in mind. Paul did not set out to prove the divinity of Jesus Christ, nor did he set out to argue the perfection of his sacrifice. All that he says has been to direct our gaze to the mind of Christ and his willingness to humble himself, even unto the vicious torture and death, for you, for his beloved bride. So Paul does not end at Christ's humiliation. He cannot, because the account of Jesus Christ and his perfect mindset of humility does not end there. Paul's final motivation to us in this presentation of Christ as the model for Christian unity is to show the wondrous result of his humiliation, which is his exaltation. Look at what it says in verse 9. Therefore, God also has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. of those in heaven, and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. The Father, in response to that which Jesus, the Son of God, accomplished in his humility, highly exalted him. He is overexalted. There is no higher exaltation. Jesus is now seated at the right hand of God the Father. He is our prophet, our priest, and our king. There is no higher place. The Father has given, He has freely bestowed upon him the name above all names. He is Lord. He is to be recognized as Jehovah, the Almighty God, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. All of creation responds to the humiliation and exaltation of Christ. See what he says there? Every knee will bow In heaven, that's all spiritual beings. On earth, that's all the physical beings. And those under the earth, that's all the things that have ever been and have already come and gone. This threefold description is intended to demonstrate the universal response to Jesus Christ, to his great act of humility. There is nothing which will withstand the glory of Jesus Christ. All will bow and will worship him. Every tongue will confess. The recognition of Jesus Christ as Lord of all things is the ultimate end for all creation. Some will confess out of a transformed heart, and others will confess out of helplessness. Unable to maintain their suppression of the truth in unrighteousness as they hear the name of Jesus Christ proclaimed in power and in majesty Christians, we must be united if we are to fulfill our calling to act as Christ's ambassadors, witnesses of the good news of salvation through the love and the mercy of God. If we aren't united, we'll be working against each other by making it extremely difficult to recognize a Christian among everyone else in the world. We are united by this, and should be recognized by this: a common mindset of humility. The same mind that is supremely evident in our Lord and Master. And based on this passage, Christians should be the most humble people in this whole world, the most humble people you could ever meet Is that true in your experience? Do you think most people outside the church would agree that Christians are the most humble people that they've ever encountered? We must consider this personally. Each one of us is to desire and to cultivate this mindset of humility. We're all guilty. We've all been the source of strife and conflict. We've all looked down on others based solely on our assessment of them, whether it's accurate or not. We've all grasped tightly to what we call our rights and harshly judge those who disagree with us simply because they are disagreeing with us. In most cases, if all of us are honest with ourselves, we think we're right. We're usually right. It's mostly everyone else who's wrong. Yet even if we are right, even if we have the right way of understanding something, we don't have the right to belittle or condemn or look down upon anyone for whom Christ died. We must be willing to lay aside our own agenda, our own pursuit of glory or recognition, our own desire for validation and affirmation, and to put the needs of others above our own. Even and especially if we don't have to, even if we won't receive any reward at all for doing it. If any of you have experienced caring for a newborn, or even a loved one with Alzheimer's or with dementia, you know that truth all too well. Sometimes those who need the most mercy, sometimes those who need the most tender care from us, can also be those least capable of showing gratitude and appreciation. Think about Christ. Think about the mind of Christ. He who had every right To remain in uninterrupted glory, thought so highly of you that he became a servant, willingly obedient to horrendous torture and death. And he was not waiting for you to show that you would appreciate it, or that you would have something to give him in return. Oh, that we would have this same mind. Brothers and sisters, realize that you too can afford to put others before yourself. Your glory is coming Your condemnation and bondage has been broken by the redeeming blood of the Lamb, and by the grace of the Holy Spirit, we can be united. We can be united with the same mind of humility. As each of us is traveling along this life, being conformed into the image of Jesus Christ our Lord. May God grant us that kind of humility here at Severn Run. May he give us this kind of humility in the PCA, and may we see this kind of humility that forms a unity in the visible church across the world Because if you look out at what's happening in this world, it's pretty clear: the world is not united, except around one thing: they hate God and they hate his people. May this humility be in us by the power of the Holy Spirit. Please pray with me