Two twelve through eighteen. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who works in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. Do all things without complaining and disputing, that you may become blameless and harmless, children of God without fault, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. among whom you shine as lights in the world, holding fast the word of life, so that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain or labored in vain. Yes And if I am being poured out as a drink offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all. For the same reason you also be glad and rejoice with me. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we ask that through your Son and by way of your Spirit, that your word would go out. That it would change us, that it would illuminate our minds, that our mo our wills would be sculpted by you like clay in the hands of a potter. We pray that you would conform us to your image by way of the preaching of your word. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week we ended with two verses that I read to you. I want to reread by way of review just one of the verses. It was from Luke chapter 14, verses 13 through 14, and it really captured well The main point of last week's passage. But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the maimed, the lame, and the blind, and you will be blessed. Because they cannot repay you, for you shall be repaid at the resurrection of the just And it was an example for us, as well as the other one that I had read, it was an example for us of yet another verse, which is this: for whoever exalts himself will be humbled. And he who humbles himself will be exalted. Now I have seen within our culture that verse taken out of context. And whenever we do that, we get ourselves into trouble. This is not a profession that Christ is calling you to be a doormat. This is not a profession that Christ is calling you to pacifism. This is different than both of those things. This is about what is it that we are willing to do in service to God for his kingdom? We give up our lives so that we can gain them. That's the main point. And that in that includes his kingdom just in terms of us uh not being being scattered by way of division, but remaining unified, you can ask yourself the question. How far are you willing to go in order to make sure that the church stays healthy? I think that's the the question that Paul wants you to ask And then he's giving you different tools throughout these different passages for you to be able to say, I want the body to be like a body, knit together in love with the head as Jesus Christ. And therefore he wants you to be unified. Well, that continues today. You can look in your bulletin that we're in unity five. I got fancy and used a Roman numeral. And now I want to talk about this next part of unity. And in order to do so, I want to make a couple observations with you just of this passage in 12 We won't talk much about 17 or 18 until next week, but I do want to make a couple observations with you beginning in verse 12. So let's get our scriptures open. And we know that the basic theme is unity, so let's see what Paul has to give us this morning by way of the Holy Spirit. In terms of us being unified. So let's begin in verse number 12. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. That should sound, those of you who have been sticking along here with this this series in Philippians, that should sound quite familiar to you. Because the Apostle Paul has, in different words and a little bit of a different sentence structure, has said the same thing, that first part, in chapter 1, verse 27. He said in chapter 1, verse 27, that whether he is present or whether he is absent, that we would conduct ourselves or we would walk worthy of the gospel. And here he is, after he has given us the grand example of the dissension and the ascension, or the humiliation and the exaltation of Christ, he returns back to the thought. That whether he is present or he is absent, we are to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. It is meant to be coextensive at least with that thought in 127, which has to do with walking worthy of the gospel, whether he is present or whether he is absent. Now That should already help us in understanding a verse that is often quoted that people are confused over. That second part of verse 12 is Not just in my presence only, but much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure, is the next verse I'm sure you've heard that quoted in discussions on man's free will and divine sovereignty It certainly is not out of place to bring this verse into that conversation. But Paul is hardly dropping into an in-depth conversation about free will and divine sovereignty Though that may re be latent in what he's saying, he has other purposes, which is to motivate you in order to keep striving for the faith. To keep striving for unity in the body. And so these two sentences are meant to be motivational to that specific end. Now, what I believe is going on here. that oftentimes we miss is that he's using when he says, work out your salvation, we struggle with that also because we think, wait a second. Every time I go to the Reformation service, you all tell me that I don't achieve my salvation by works. I don't work out my salvation. My salvation is by way of grace. But here we have to realize that the word salvation is bigger than just one small cross-section or part of salvation called justification or sanctification. that this word here is including all that God is doing in his deliverance. In fact, I think what is behind Paul's words here, and I'll demonstrate this throughout the rest of the sermon, for us to be able to understand Work out your salvation, for it is God who works in you. The model that is underneath of it and the lens that we should be looking through is the model of the Exodus I'll go over why that is the case as I go on here. But Paul is using the Exodus when writing this section. And it's good to remember that because God certainly does deliver, He saves, and He brings salvation for that group of people out of the slavery of Egypt Now the qu the the thing is then in that context, just start with that easier case, in that context, what does it look like for them to work out their salvation? If you were just delivered through the Red Sea and someone showed up and said, work out your salvation, do you think it would be appropriate that they're bringing up some metaphysical philosophical discussion about free will and hu and divine sovereignty. What they mean in that specific context is Look at everything that God has done for you in releasing you from this slavery. And now let's work out what it would mean to be his people. That's the same thing that's going on here. And that's that's why I'm saying it's coextensive or or synonymous even with chapter one, verse twenty-seven, that you would walk worthy of the gospel. Walk worthy of having been Taken out of Egyptian slavery would be a more narrow view of that. But that model is meant to be here, and we're supposed to look at that model first because it's easier to understand. and ask the question, how should we work out our salvation? And the answer is that you would devote yourself to the Lord in the wilderness journey and your life in the promised land. That's what it would look like to work out your salvation. Paul uses work out your salvation just like he does in 127, walk worthy of your salvation. Now that's the first observation is to try to clear that up a little bit. And we're doing that in two ways. We're defining the word salvation to include the entire process of deliverance. And number two, we're using the model of the Exodus to simplify and understand what Paul is after. We're not having a philosophical discussion. Now, observation number two. This brings up two main questions. Question number one, is God still involved in working out my salvation? Yes, He is. Of course. In fact, let's just stick with the book of Philippians and say, has has Paul put this in any other way in this book? And he did in chapter 1, verse 6. And he does elsewhere, but I'll just read to you verse 6. He says, being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. So in your deliverance from slavery and your continuation in working out in your devotion and loyalty to God Yeah, there is an exercise of our will. And there is also God there who has been accomplishing all of this for you to be able to exercise your will in this particular way. And when he started in you, he's never going to stop But the whole point is for you to be motivated, that you would be dedicated and loyal. You'd be looking back at all that he has brought to you, and out of gratitude and love, you would be serving him as the new people of God. Well the first question then is, is God still involved in working out my salvation? Yes. And there's different ways to explain that. Question number two, well, how do I work out my salvation? How is God working in me and the changes that He has made in me, even in my nature? How is that supposed to show up in private and public life? How am I supposed to work out my salvation? Well, there's not every answer here in this passage, but there is a couple answers, or there are a couple answers. And the main answer is given to you in chapter 2, verse 15. And it is this. Number one, you're to work out your salvation in being God's children. That's what he says there in 2. 15, that you may become blameless and harmless children of God without fault in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. That's the first thing. Paul here, in saying you are God's children, is quoting Deuteronomy chapter 32. And he is also picking up on Deuteronomy chapter 4. And we'll go over that in just a little bit. But you are to be a counterculture. The culture around you is crooked and it is perverse, and you are to be as light in the world, showing forth what God intends for human culture and society. You, as we talked about in Sunday school, you are to have dominion under the Lordship of Jesus Christ, which is what we just discussed last week in his exaltation. That's what it would mean for you to work out your salvation. Now, could you become a little bit more specific for me, Jesse? I get it, Dominion working out this out under his lordship. Anything in mind specifically with regard to unity? Well yeah, I'm glad that you asked. Yeah, definitely. Take a look at the uh the rest of our passage here where he says in verse 14 Do not complain and stop the disputing Do all things without complaining and disputing. That is specifically geared towards the unity that we have been seeing all along. And then there's one other thing that you could look at here Besides the complaining and the disputing, he goes on, and this is a quote from Deuteronomy chapter 4: Hold fast the word of life. Hold fast the word of life. So if you were to put all of these different things together in our series on unity, unity number five, we could state it like this. You are called to work out your salvation by living as children of God. You are called to work out your salvation by living as children of God. And what we're going to do now is we're just going to unpack a little bit, well, what does that look like? What does that look like? We're going to do that in two main ways. I want to look at the pattern and then I want to look at the practice. The pattern and then the practice. You are called to work out your salvation by living as children of God. So here's the pattern, and I had made these promises to you That there's all these different verses that are being quoted in this one section, particularly coming from Deuteronomy. So I want to unfold these examples for you. The passage has many examples. or many similarities to Deuteronomy and to Deuteronomy in light of Exodus and even Deuteronomy in light of numbers. And it appears that Paul is picking up on a pattern in the Pentateuch, really, and he's bringing it to bear on this group of people that have been reconstituted or translated from a kingdom of darkness into a into a kingdom of light, and now they are no longer aliens to the covenant. They are now made heirs of the promise, which means they have a new sort of national identity. That's what I mean by reconstituted. Even a new national anthem, if we take Deuteronomy seriously. And so I want you to see these different patterns that are a part of Paul reading Deuteronomy and then giving it to us for further instruction. Here's the first example. of the pattern. In Deuteronomy chapter 32, I'd encourage you to talk about this over lunch, God gives Moses a song which acts as a national anthem for Israel. And as a part of that song, in contrast to the goodness of Yahweh, he speaks about the struggles of God's people. And this is in verse number five. He says, They have corrupted themselves. They are not his children, because of their blemish, a perverse and crooked generation. It's the same language that Paul is using, but he's encouraging the Philippians not to be a perverse and crooked generation, and to be blameless and not have the blemishes. That the people of God ended up having that Moses anticipated in this song, or that God really revealed to Moses in this song. That's the first thing I want you to notice is that in Deuteronomy 32, 5 We see Paul picking up the same language from Israel's national anthem in the song that God gave to Moses about perversion, crooked generation, blameless, and blemish. That's the first example of the pattern. You need more than one example for a pattern. So example number two. In verse 16 of our passage, Christians are to hold fast the words of life. The same phrase is used in Deuteronomy chapter 4, verses 2 through 4. It says this. This is when the people of God are being constituted after having been delivered from slavery. They are made a unique people unto the Lord, and they are in covenant with him, and it says this. You shall not add to the word which I command you, nor take from it, that you may keep the commandments of the Lord your God which I command you. Your eyes have seen what the Lord did at Baal Peor. For the Lord your God has destroyed from among you all the men who followed Baal of Paor. But you held fast To the Lord your God, you who held fast to the Lord your God are alive today, every one of you. And holding fast to the Lord your God today is synonymous in that paragraph with holding fast to his words that you're not to add to or take away from. You are to believe what God says and the promises that He gives. And those who did not, their bodies l lie dead, and those Who did hold fast are there alive today. That's the second pattern. And that holding fast idea, Paul's picking that up out of Deuteronomy 4. So now we have d Paul a pattern is forming in Paul using Deuteronomy to help us understand who we are and why we should be unified. The first is Deuteronomy 32. The second is Deuteronomy 4. And then here's the third example. In that same Deuteronomy passage, God calls his people to be a counter-culture. He doesn't use the word lights, but if you were to go ahead and follow the cross-references, you're going to find that he does use the word light. That we are to be a light to the world But in Deuteronomy 4, 5 through 6, the same concept is there. Now let me read this to you. Surely I have taught you statutes and judgments. just as the Lord my God commanded me, that you should act according to them in the land which you go to possess. Therefore be careful to observe them, for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples who will hear all these statutes and say, Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. Surely you can see just even in that example that though he doesn't use the word lights, that Israel or the people of God are being set aside among a perverse and dark generation to be a light in the wisdom that they demonstrate and their their intimacy with God, the the passage will go on to say. And Paul is lifting that and using it as an exhortation to those whom God has gathered together, even the Gentiles in this case, calling them to be the light of the world. Really, you could say what is happening in this passage is that Paul is pointing out something that Peter had a real hard time with. And that is that both Jew and Gentile are being united. by faith to be constituted as the true Israel and the people of God. And therefore, since God has called you to those things, there comes certain responsibilities. certain ways in which you must walk to be worthy of that particular gospel. And with that pattern and understanding who we are and who God has chosen us to be. That we are the elect. Out of that flows certain practices. And so we come to practice. I want you to think of the practices that flow out of our identity as the people of God. And practice number one, which is really I think the only thing I'll have time for. I already pointed out to you in verse number twelve is don't complain and grumble. Now, why is it that I just took you on that long journey in looking at the patterns of Deuteronomy? One of the reasons why I wanted to do it this way is because when we look at the words grumble and complain, we automatically have our own definitions for what that looks like. But what I'm trying to get you to do is to use the scripture to understand the scripture. So if what I said was true, that there is in fact a pattern, that Paul is lifting up language out of Deuteronomy 32 and Deuteronomy 4. Then if we have that specific context, what does it mean for the people of God to grumble and complain? And how would you understand that It certainly means that you would go back and you would check to see, are there any examples in the history of God's people where they grumbled and they complained? And you would find, well, not only do we have examples of them grumbling and complaining, we have the Bible literally saying they grumbled and they complained. And so we know we're on the right track in really trying to understand what is Paul getting at here that goes against our unity. Well again we would turn back there to Deuteronomy or to Numbers, and we would find that there is a grumbling and a complaining that took two main directions. The first is that they would there were a group of people, and Matt had brought this up, that though God had done all of the things that we have read about that he had done for those people, They still complained against God when difficulties arose. Do you remember some of the things that they said about God? I know that they were directed sort of immediately toward the leaders, and we'll get to that in a minute, but it was ultimately against God. That's how God understood it. It was as if they took a lawsuit up against God and they were bringing witnesses forth to prove that God is guilty. And that he has brought us out into the desert. What does he say? You have brought us out into the desert to die. When God specifically had promised that that's not why he brought them out into the desert. Or do you remember when they grumbled and complained when they finally sent spies out to view what they were like in the other land And then the spies came back and melted everyone's heart. And then they stopped believing the promises of God. And it's mentioned specifically that there was grumbling and complaining. And so those who were going to enter into the promised land Now must wander until that entire generation was killed off and we read earlier their bodies lied or laid in the desert, dead. That's the first example that we see of this kind of grumbling and complaining. And if there is that kind of spirit in a congregation, there will be disunity. There'll be disunity in part because those around you grumbling and complaining in their trials and in their tribulations They will sow seeds within other people that God is not trustworthy. And if you start to lose the foundation of God Himself, then you start to lose all of your motivational structure on why you would want to work through anything difficult with this group of people. If you lose the center, then everything that was united on the center falls apart. And actually you'll pick up a different center. And that'll become idolatry. It is a great way for you to break apart a congregation is in your trials and tribulations, start to spread distrust and doubt about God. Because the people around you, in the words of the Old Testament, their hearts will melt out of the f out of fear of the difficulty of life. And they'll believe that God is not with them. And so they will find a different God. That's what humans do. That's just the first example, and it's not the one I really want to focus on. The second example is more uh is a little closer uh in in um what Paul is pointing out, and that is that we grumble and complain about leaders. I don't say this because I have a um what's it uh a soapbox or axe to grind, that's what it was. Yeah, an axe to grind. I don't say this because I have an axe to grind. I say it because when I look at the different examples in Deuteronomy and Numbers and elsewhere in the Pentateuch, the grumbling often becomes located on leaders not just each other towards each other but i against leaders. Certain members of the congregation undermine leaders and that ends up leading to great division within the body. Now can you think of a couple of examples of that? We went over that in the Timothy series, when we were looking at the rebel the rebellion of Korah and other rebellions. And we saw that one of the ways that that played out is that when they started to grumble and complain against leaders that God had appointed, that other people would become involved. And all of a sudden the congregation was no longer one under a leader, but it would become two, and they had two leaders. And there were factions, therefore, no longer a body working in unity. And you could go back to that sermon series and you can you could hear about that. But that's something that Paul brings up for the Philippians and that the Holy Spirit gives to you this morning, that grumbling and complaining against your leaders in a way that is illegitimate. is a great way to go ahead and destroy unity within a congregation. I remember specifically Uh I don't know how many years ago. It was a while ago. But I remember a man in a different church strategically planting seeds among the congregation and the staff of the church against one of the pastors. The man would strategically do it. He would set up coffees in the cloak of discipleship when really what he was doing during those meetings was what seemed like just innocent questions, but the questions would be v verbalized in just the right way for the person to begin to have questions about the character of the other pastor. Or of that pastor. And that ended up leading into staff leaving, children crying, Congregation splitting and going in many different directions. I watched it happen. I remember being called to coffee. And the seeds, him seeking to plant the seeds in me. That's how it all began. And Paul is saying something like that here, that you could do that. You could be, maybe not strategically, but you could be planting seeds in each other that will, if they grow up, if you give the devil a foothold, they will in fact start to bring division in this congregation. So we must be careful about our complaints and our grumbling among each other. Proverbs 16, 27 through 28 says this: an ungodly person digs up evil. And it is on his lips like a burning fire. A perverse person sows strife. And this is a good one because it shows you that even if it looks like it's at a low level, it can do great harm. And a whisperer separates the best of friends. A whisperer separates the best of friends. You could have people in the congregation who are really benefiting from the ministry of a leader. And all it takes is for you to whisper a little bit and you could separate them. Like a whisperer separates the best of friends. Those are some of the lessons that we could draw out just from knowing that this is really Paul's continuing to teach. the scriptures that he had. I wonder if he had the scroll of Deuteronomy open. He probably just had it memorized. But this is what complaining and grumbling can look like. It can look like complaining and grumbling and dividing the congregation by attacking the leaders. I want you to imagine with me, this is always a fun imaginative project for me. I want you to imagine that you're on the, let's say it's like a shift that's like the Mayflower, but there's no disease. And we're we all know that we're a part of something great. That we're we're gonna become something new. That the problems that we saw in the past, we're going to have agency, we're going to be able to do something about it, and we're going to be able to unite and be constituted as a new group of people Who strive for the good life and for flourishing and in worshiping God and freedom of conscience. And you show up, your boat hits land softly. And you get off and you start to establish that life together. Let me just ask you, how would you make sure that you don't break out in war? And then let me ask you this. If you did want to break out in war and not have one colony, but have many colonies because you can't live with each other, what would be some of the ways that you would accomplish the division? I think the same truths are present here that we see in the passage. God, by way of Jesus Christ and his Holy Spirit has made you a unique Group and a peculiar group of people. You are his people, and he is your God. He has reconstituted you. And Paul is saying in the in the same as that imaginative project that we must be careful that we don't divide and break, that we remain unified. And if we want to remain unified, then we need to remember the generations of Deuteronomy and Numbers and Exodus. We need to remember that grumbling and complaining tore them apart. It made them distrust God, and it made them distrust each other. And the Lord judged them for that. And that is the question that's before you this morning. How will you stay together as God's people? What are you willing to do to remain unified? Proverbs 6, 16 through 19 says this. This will be something for you to remember to remember. It says, There are six things that the Lord hates. Do you want to know what they are? There are seven, actually, that are an abomination to him. A proud look, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood. A heart that devises wicked plans, feet that are swift and running to evil, a false witness who speaks lies, and write on the top of the pyramid. The one who sows discord among brethren. It's the same lesson that the Apostle Paul is giving us. You are called to work out your salvation by living as children of God. And children of God do not walk in perversity and darkness. but instead in relational wisdom, having themselves by the grace of God under control, and therefore not continually grumbling and complaining against God or against his leaders. In fact, Ephesians 5 summarizes this very well as an end. Therefore, be imitators of God as dear children. And walk in love, as Christ also has loved us and given Himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling aroma. Amen. Please pray with me.