Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, being in the form of God, did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation Taking the form of a bondservant and coming in the likeness of men. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. Therefore, God also has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of those in heaven and of those on earth and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, for your namesake, we pray that you would glorify the Father and the Son, the Holy Spirit. I pray, Lord, that you would build up this congregation and the preaching of your word this morning. that you would make the word effective. I ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. The main lesson of last Sunday's sermon was that we are to have the same mind that Jesus Christ has. Now, we were not to be lost in abstractions or in philosophical pursuits, but in verse 5 of this same chapter The mind that Jesus Christ has is that he does not only consider his own interests, but he considers the interests of others Well, that that way of putting it really doesn't capture the f full-bodied notion of what uh it means for Christ to give himself up for you, does it? So the Apostle Paul went on to describe that for you We talked about it as Christ, the eternal Christ, being at the highest rung of the ladder. And we stepped down the different rungs to see how low Christ would go in service to us, and we found that he has. travel to lower rungs of the ladder than we ourselves have traveled. For he became a criminal in our stead and was even crucified in our place, the lowest of the low And we are quite simply to have that same mind as we seek unity within this congregation. It's actually not that complicated of a thing to talk about We are to think about the interests of others as Christ thought about the interests of others. That's the imitative quality of the passage. That we would be willing to go every bit as far as Christ went. For the sake of the people that are sitting right next to you, that are a part of the Christian community. That we would go that extra mile, that we would turn that other cheek, that we would not just give one cloak, but also other clothing. All of that is a part of the same kind of teaching of Doing for others what Christ has done for us and having that same mindset. We put it last week in terms of a verse from 2 Corinthians that we would be like Christ. in this way that in the same way that he became poor so that others would become rich, so too would we. These are all different ways of saying the same thing. And now we move forward here with a new section. You can see there's a an obvious split between five, where we started with five. We could categorize everything we did last week. under the uh Christ's humiliation. But you can see there in verse 9 there's a switch, and I emphasize that word therefore, and we're now moving into Christ's exaltation. And so the lesson of today's preaching is uh is this. I'm actually going to just quote to you from Luke chapter 14, 11. I love it when we can just learn from the teaching of Christ what Paul says elsewhere. And this is the main lesson that we're to take away. It is this. For whoever exalts himself will in fact be humbled. And he who humbles himself will be exalted. And you could add, because of what we're doing here in Philippians, just like Christ. Just like Christ. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Because don't forget that Paul is seeking to give practical application. He's not interested in you getting lost in trying to comprehend the incarnation at this point, though there are many fruitful doctrines that are part of this passage that we could talk about. His main purpose is practical. And he wants you to realize that you're still to have this mind of Christ and the same thing is going to happen to you that happens to happen to him. If you do, and that is, whoever exalts themselves is going to be humbled, but like Christ, whoever humbles himself will be exalted. Now, that's the lesson, but what I want to do is prove that to you. That's the first step, and then we'll we'll move into how is this useful. So let's just make a couple observations here. We'll look at the scriptures together, in other words, and we're beginning in verse number nine. Now you have that in your bulletin, and you also have your scriptures out on your lap, perhaps. But we're going to begin by just looking at verse number nine and that word therefore. The word therefore is showing you that it's connected to the pat the paragraph that just happened before. And what Paul is seeking to do is he's saying, listen, this is, because he did this, therefore this is now going to be what God does for him. So you could go ahead and you could categorize these two paragraphs as action or obedience and then reward for obedience or for the action. And that's really what we end up seeing. That the action is that out of obedience to the Father and for love of his people, Jesus Christ humbles himself. That's very clearly what the prior paragraph was pointing out. And then the reward is, therefore, God has highly exalted him, just like we read in Luke 14, 11. And it's many other places in the scripture also. So we are to be like God in that way, and God will make us like this in this same way in exalting us, not in all of the same ways as Christ. But there will be an exaltation. That's the first thing I want you to notice is that connection. The second thing is that there's a a a moment of Suspense, at least if you're a nerd like me. This was very suspenseful for me. Verses 9 and 10 and even into 11. I was just sitting on the edge of my seat and biting my nails reading this. There's a the level of suspense as the Apostle Paul describes the exaltation of Jesus Christ. There's a funny little thing that he's doing. In English, if you were to take maybe an advanced English course, they would say, you know what, there's many different kinds of sentences. One kind of sentence is the periodic sentence. And the periodic sentence is when you, at the very end of like a 75-word sentence, you finally tell them what you were going to say, or you close it off with the verb. And there's something similar going on here where Paul just keeps drawing us out in the description of the exaltation, and we're just waiting. could get into the sentence like a nerd like me, then you'd you'd feel that suspense. And he's doing it with the word name. You begin in verse number nine. He says, Therefore God also has highly exalted him and given him the name. And you're supposed to say, what name? And then It's still not there. What name? He has given he has given him the name. And then he goes on, keeps go keeps going on in verse number nine, and then you could say He has given him the name, verse number nine, which is above every name. Oh yeah, but what was the name that's above every name? And then you could go on to verse number 10. He's given him the name which is above every name that at the name Of Jesus. Oh, it's the name Jesus. No, no, no. It's at the name of Jesus. It's whatever name is given to Jesus. That's the name. Well, what's the name? We you haven't told you the name, you see This is just me this is what I do in my office by myself. Right? You see what I'm saying? Still waiting for the name. Well what is this And we get all the way down and we keep reading. Give him the name which is above every name that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven and those on earth. He still hasn't given it to us. Those under the earth, and there that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is, and then here's the name, Lord. That he's Lord. There it is. There's that periodic sentence and he waits all the way to the end. to give you that name, that he is Lord. Now, when I have said that Jesus Christ is Lord, were there other scriptures that popped into your mind? Well, there should have been. Talk to me afterward. One of them that should have popped into your mind is it's almost an exact imitation of Peter's sermon. On what's going on here. Peter draws together all of those different Old Testament passages, especially in the Psalms, and then he he preaches an inductive sermon, by the way, and he gives the main point at the end. I'm not good enough to do that, but he gives the main point at the end. And he says, therefore, he says in Acts 2. 36, therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. That is a consummation and an apex and a pinnacle for these preachers that are preaching from similar sermon outlines, by the way, as we read in 1 Corinthians 15. So you should definitely be thinking of when we get to the finally he lists what the name is in the periodic sentence, you should definitely definitely be thinking about Peter's sermon. But I wonder if some of you referenced in your minds Romans. Because the same thing is said in Romans, the same way. It says Romans chapter 14, verse 10 through 11, but why do you judge your brother? I don't want to get into that. dispute they were having in that church. We'll talk about that another day. But he may he raises this question, but why do you judge your brother? Or why do you show contempt for your brother? And then he goes on For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ, for it is written, As I live, says the Lord. And then notice the same language, every knee shall bow to me. And every tongue shall confess to God. You see that? So we've got Peter, we have Paul elsewhere in Romans. But interestingly, both of them, and if you were to look both of those passages up in your Bible, you would find them indented as stanzas Or in quotation marks, because whether it's going to be Peter or if it's going to be Paul, and Paul in several places, then you're going to find that they're quoting from Isaiah. And they're quoting from Isaiah 45. Isaiah 45 goes on to talk about the Christ in exactly this way, that every knee shall bow, that every tongue shall confess, just as we see here within 9 through 11. That at the name Of Jesus every knee shall bow, of those in heaven and those on the earth, and those under the earth, and that every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Now Jesus Christ wasn't written in Isaiah, but they're connecting the dots for you. And they're saying the one that was talked about in Isaiah 45, here he is, and it is Jesus who is the Lord, who is the Christ. It's important that you know that. And so I give it to you as an observation. And it's important mainly because of what Paul is doing here in this passage. They cite Isaiah 45 because their intention is always to show their audience that God has exalted Jesus to the position of judge. Very important. If you trace these passages back to Isaiah 45, you will find that God will elect or appoint someone to be judge of the whole world. And that is Paul's point here, and that point will even be developed over into next week. When you are to work out your salvation with fear and trembling, it is because Jesus Christ is judge. But this week we're not focused on that passage. This week we're being introduced to the idea that Jesus Christ, in his exaltation, the Father, has in fact made him judge just as he said he was going to in Isaiah 45. And therefore, since Jesus is judged, Jesus will evaluate everyone. Jesus will give judgment In the words of Paul from Romans, this is from that same passage, Romans chapter 14, right after that quote from Isaiah 45, Paul says this, each of us will give account uh uh will give an account of himself to God. That's always the main point. And it's Paul's main point here in and bringing this up the way that he has with the quotation from 45. To show you that God has made this Jesus who humbled himself, he is now judge over all things. High and low. Now the the last observation. Paul is not content to just give you information. He's not interested in just giving you some facts for you to memorize so that you can pass Bible trivial pursuit. Is there such a thing? There is. Yes, there is. He's not just saying, please be informed that Jesus is the Lord and as such we will give account. Fact one Remember that this whole section of humiliation and then exaltation is still governed by verse number five. Let this mind be in you, which is in Christ Jesus. So we've learned about one part of that mindset, which is the idea of the humility. But there's this second part of the mindset. And if you know to look through Isaiah 45 at this particular passage, Then this passage, there's certain points of it that light up like brighter stars than other stars in a sky. You ever look at a sky and then there's stars, but there's some stars that are brighter than other stars There are some stars that are brighter than other stars in this particular passage. And it's some of these things. In verse number 8, here's a bright star. Jesus Christ became obedient. Very bright. Verse number 11, very bright star, to the glory of God the Father. Are you starting to see what's going on here? Is we have a servant who has gone out in obedience to the divine decrees voluntarily to the glory of God the Father. And as such, he is then exalted or vindicated by God the Father. God the Father showing him that he is pleased with him and his work, and he is therefore given all authority in heaven and on earth. He is made the judge and the savior of the world. Christ sought to please the Father. He lived for the judgment of the Father. The Father did judge and shows his judgment by vindicating Christ in exaltation as the Lord. And here's the practical part, not just to give you more doctrine, but here's the practical part. Jesus has been made Lord who judges all men. Jesus will judge how you live your life in this specific congregation. Do you start to all see it funneling down into the application here? Jesus Christ has been made judge In a same passage that talks about what he requires of you in terms of unity, the one who humbled himself will judge you as to whether or not you were humble. Those of you who decide to elevate yourselves at the expense of others and at the destruction of his community, he will in fact lower you. And he is in a position to do so. Those of you who humble yourselves for his sake, out of obedience, for the glory of the triune God, like he did, he will exalt you. God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. When we look at the Pharisees, And then we look at the poor widow and her might. Who is it that went home justified? But the one who humbled themselves in obedience to God for the glory of him and his kingdom. Those are the ones that shall be lifted up. Or in a word, blessed are the meek. Blessed are the meek. It's all right here in this passage, and it takes us all the way through these observations. We come all the way down into a single point. Just like we read in Luke 14, 11, for whoever whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will in fact be exalted. And we know that the main focus really of this passage is that there is an agency involved, that the Lord Himself is doing this That he will exalt you if you humble yourself now for the sake of the people that are around you. And you have here in this passage, therefore, a promise. That just as Christ went into his state of humiliation for the sake of the kingdom and then was exalted, so too, if you humble yourself, the promises that he will exalt you. Now, this ends up having far-reaching applications, which I've already started to touch on in the way that I've phrased this, but Paul's main concern is unity in the congregation. And so I want to constrain the applications to that, but what I want to do is I want to review two main points that we looked at last last week in terms of what does this unity look like, and then we'll take another step together in conclusion. The first thing I want to remind you of was perhaps a little bit surprising that this unity, that we're supposed to humble ourselves to accomplish the unity, not for sacrifice in its own sake, as Mark would point Mark was pointing out. And one of the ways that we can become disunified, I pointed out, was through indifference to each other. Now This sometimes happens, but it did happen last week. Last week, after I uh gave that sermon, someone came up to me and they said, Hey, someone wrote a book about what you said. And they weren't talking about the Bible They were talking about the indifference point. And I don't remember the name of the book, and I don't and I don't remember the specific name of the author, but if I remember correctly, that it was a Jewish Holocaust survivor. And a Jewish Holocaust survivor had said this, the opposite of love is not hate, it is indifference. And I don't remember where I got this image, but someone else adding to this, I don't know if it was the same person or somebody else, but someone else gave me a picture that someone else had given. This is a puzzle. I'm just collecting a lot of data. Let's just put it that way. I'm collecting a lot of data and somebody told me a story uh about the Holocaust and gave me a picture of indifference. Which is really what this point this person's argument was is that it's the opposite of love. So here's the story. The picture that they described for me was that there are Nazi soldiers gathering Jewish families like cattle into a and uh stuffing them into a stock car. A little train that you can put cattle in. If you go to the Holocaust Museum you can see the the actual c um stock cars that they you can stand in one of the stock cars. It's not pleasant to do so. It really brings everything more to life than I want it to. So they stuffed them in these stock cars and uh in this image it was winter time and they were telling me these details that when they were in these cattle cars that that uh and it's very very cold where they lived that those they would people would try to fight their way to the center because if you didn't if you remained out on the outer rim of the the cattle car then it would be so cold that you're you're most likely going to freeze to death out on the outer edges. So people would be trying to work their way in towards the center. And then you you have to remember that this is going to be a very long ride. There are no bathroom facilities. So we're going to they're going to go to the bathroom on each other. in different ways, and if they get sick, they're going to get sick on each other. They will urinate and they will defecate on each other within the cart. Really, isn't that a good description to say cattle? It's just like cattle. And then here's the other part of the picture. I just gave you a snapshot of what it's going to look like for that cattle car to head off and what their fate will be. But let's just go ahead and rewind the whole image. We're still at the train station. The cattle car hasn't left. They're just loading up human beings as if they're animals. And here's the image that contrasts that there is a a German teenage boy standing leaning up against the train station in his private school clothes with sh shirt tucked in, very nice, and he's having a hot chocolate with a peppermint. And he's not infuriated with them. He's not screaming at the Jews. He's leaning on the wall, having a hot chocolate with a peppermint. And there's no emotion. He just watches them trained into the cart And this ends up being a picture of why this person, I think, I haven't read his book or her book. I haven't read the Jewish Holocaust Survivor's book, but when they say the opposite of love is not hate, the uh the opposite of love is indifference, it makes you wonder if they had a scene inside their mind when they were writing the manuscript of the teenage boy leaning against the t uh a train station sipping his hot chocolate with a peppermint stick while they were herded onto the cart like cattle. And one of the lessons we were supposed to learn last week is something similar that Indifference is very dangerous because your heart can reside there because you're only taught not to hate. That's why I think this phrase is so effective. The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference Or if we wanted to not camp out on that statement as if it's absolutely true, we could say the opposite of love is hate. But you better watch out for indifference. It might be worse. And that was my argument to you last week that one way in which we could seek to be unified as a congregation is that if we are indifferent to each other and indifferent to the plig that each person has around you. It is very easy to think that we are unified as a congregation when we haven't done the hard work that will require humility for there to be true unity among people that are very different in personality type, for example And so we are encouraged to have the young not be indifferent to the old, and for the old not to be indifferent to the young. We're encouraged to, through humility, to go ahead and cross the line and make the sacrifices, with the possibility that you'll never be repaid for your work. Until Jesus Christ Himself repays you. Do you see where we're getting at with this? See how all of this lines up for the Christian? I don't want to cross the line. The youth should be coming to me. I'm older. They're supposed to honor their elders. I get it. But we do not live in a world like that. So then you would have to humble yourself and you'd have to cross that line making those invitations. And that would require humility. And it may and it may you may not be repaid for that kind of work. But Jesus Christ, the whole point of this passage, sees what you're doing, and he humbles those, he exalts those who have humbled themselves for the sake of his congregation and his kingdom. We must move past indifference if there is to be true unity. The other example would be those who are healthy should move towards the sick. And it would be an act of Jesus Christ Himself for the sick to move towards the healthy. For the sick to move towards the healthy. But if a sick person has Jesus Christ as their Lord, they have every motivation. to go ahead and make the effort, even though you could say properly, we should be moving towards the sick. But imagine the sick moving towards the healthy. That's what a follower of Jesus Christ would do. And so one of the lessons from last week is this indifference idea. Indifference, in other words, is one obstacle to congregational unity. But there is another obstacle, and that is the obstacle of conflict. That's the obstacle that is all over this letter. When we want to look for problems in the letter, we don't find exactly doctrinal problems if you want to categorize things this way. What we end up finding are interpersonal problems. And that's why Paul keeps bringing these things up. And when we get into this next paragraph and chapter 3 and chapter 4, you're going to find that conflict keeps coming up. You'll see that Paul is very concerned with interpersonal and congregational conflict. And so I just want you to think for a moment. Still hearkening back to last week, what are the conflicts that you have? Theory time is over. I'm done giving you new theory. I'm now dropping into asking you personal questions. What are the conflicts that you have? With whom are you at odds? Perhaps you could begin in your own family. Behind closed doors. Are you at odds with your children? There's a uh a secret that not many people say in public, but many parents grow to hate their children. That's a kind of conflict. Siblings. Are you at odds with your brother or your sister? And what about your marriage? How does that look? Are you at odds? Now what about your relationship with other families at school or wherever? If your family's not at home, what about those who have left your home home or or um your in-laws or whatever it is the whole fa family sphere what are those relationships like and I'm still really focused on if they're Christians And now you could go ahead and you could move into the church. With whom are you at odds in the church? Here's a good question for you. Who gets under your skin? They don't even have to try. They're just naturally talented. It's like they went and they got a PhD and getting under your skin. And what I'm hoping is that I ask as I ask you these questions, who do you find yourself talking about with other people to get some of the stress off of your chest about how at odds you are with them? That's called gossip usually. But as I'm as I'm asking these questions, I'm praying that the Lord is placing different people on your mind. So that you would know that there's a a relational tension that's not resolved. And that tension can get pretty high to the point Where perhaps maybe you even hate the person. Now, I wonder if you have a couple of those people in your minds and in your hearts. I wonder if the Lord gifted you with a face. Or a name. Here is what I want to ask you next. How could you take today's passage and what you have learned? And apply it to those specific situations. How would you bring this week's passage into contact with your life in those particular areas? Another way to put this even more specifically, just to give you a hand, is What does the Lord Jesus Christ think about how you are handling those relationships? Does that sound too simple to you? That's the main point of the passage That's the main point of the application. For the last couple weeks, do you remember when I kept doing the stupid illustration with the finger? I'm going to do it again. I had the finger out in front of me, and if I look beyond the finger at you, then the finger is blurry. If I look at the finger, you become blurry, and it ends up just being an illustration by way of uh a perception. That that thing which we focus on automatically determines what is foregrounded and what is backgrounded. And we have to ask ourselves as human beings, in all of life, what is to be our focus? Because if you get that wrong, then you will have the wrong things foregrounded, and you will have the wrong things backgrounded And we did not have to get lost in philosophical abstractions, according to Paul, to be able to answer that question. Paul what Paul does here is he places Jesus Christ immediately in front of you and he says, Jesus Christ is that one. That's the whole point of the exaltation. Let me put it a different way. To whom should you look up to? And if you do, all the right things will be foregrounded and all the right things will be backgrounded. Here, Paul himself, with visual spatial metaphors, tells you that God the Father Himself has exalted Jesus Christ to be the highest above all, that the focus And the perception of all beings would be on him as our center, as our unifier, and we are to look to him. And in application to your specific disunity that you experience You could simply, since you're not dealing with a philosophical concept, you could simply ask this question. What does Jesus Christ think about how I'm handling my relationships? And he's given you the terminology to try to answer the question. You could say, well, Jesus thinks I'm looking out for my own interests. And I'm tearing down other people, because I'm having a self-pity party, or whatever it is, that makes us tear down other people, or you could do a true evaluation by way of prayer and the counsel of other people, and you could say, actually. I'm not only looking out for my own interests, I'm looking out for the interests of others, and I'm seeking to humble myself in these specific ways, not as an end in itself but for the building up of the kingdom, particularly here at Severn Run, all the way to the glory of God the Father. And that's the work, that's the application that we are to be doing here with this specific passage. So now you have lots, maybe you had several faces that came to mind when I brought this up. Maybe you can think of many different kinds of relationships. And now you know the question to ask and you know the person to whom you must look. In a word. He is your Lord. That is the name above every name. It is the name that has been given to you. And that is the best way forward. All of you who humble yourselves to bring health and peace to others and the community as a whole, you will know that you are doing so because you will have You will think Christ's thoughts after him, and he will exalt you. Those of you who cause trouble, Who seek only your own interests, who are consumed in your own hurt, who therefore have dropped into a state of unforgiveness, please know that Jesus Christ will lower you. I want to leave you with two simple passages this morning, and I encourage you to read these throughout the day and discuss them, and then we'll go ahead and close in prayer. The first is one that I already gave you one from Luke chapter 14, verse 11, but I want to give you now 13 through 14, and this would be a verse that backs up the indifference idea. What does Jesus Christ think about indifference? How does Jesus Christ want us to humble ourselves and relate to each other? And the way that across lines, whatever lines they are. Listen to this from Luke 14, 13 through 14. But when you give a feast, invite the poor. Invite the maimed, invite the lame, and invite the blind And you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you, for you shall be repaid at the resurrection of the just. There it is. You shall be repaid at the resurrection of the just. By who? Jesus Christ Himself. Now, in terms of conflict, listen to 1 Peter 5, 5 through 6. This is a specific application in where you could humble yourself as a young person toward an officer in the church or an elder. Likewise, you younger people, submit yourselves to your elders. Yes, all of you actually be submissive to one another and be clothed with humility for God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Now listen to this very carefully. Therefore, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God. that he may exalt you in due time. You see it? It's all over the place once you know what to look for. And it's quite simple this morning. As we seek to be unified as a congregation, shoulder to shoulder, and shield to shield. So that conflict does not break out continually in the ranks, you must humble yourself for each other. You must move past indifference. Even if they cannot repay you, knowing that at the day of the resurrection, Jesus Christ Himself will give you your pay. Amen. Let us pray.