Chapter two, and I'll read this morning five through eight. I'm sorry, I'll read five through eleven, but I'm only going to go to eight. In the actual preaching. Chapter 2, 5 through 11. Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God. did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bond servant and coming in the likeness of men. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. Therefore, God also highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven and of those on earth, and of those under the earth And then every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Lord, we thank you that you are present with us here this morning, and we ask that your Spirit would illuminate our minds and change our hearts this morning. Lord, you have called us to be your kingdom on earth as it is in heaven, your presence among the nations, and therefore your witness, especially of love. We pray, Lord, therefore, that you would work mightily through your word today. Let it go out with great power. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated There may be no more pressing question than the kinds of questions that we're asking these days in our series on Philippians. There are questions about church unity. If you were at a dinner party or at a sport event or whatever it might be And you're overhearing those who are not a part of the Christian community, but they are talking about the Christian community, what would you most likely hear? Usually I hear the disturbances that they have in watching how Christians treat each other and treat the world. It's not always a fair representation. You have to take what they say with a grain of salt. There's a lot of ignorance mixed in. But we all know when we're overhearing the conversation that there is some truth to it also. And that works against what our presence is supposed to be in the world. So these are very important questions that we're considering here with the Apostle Paul. We began in looking just at, well, what are the motivations that would move us toward church unity? And that's going to be an important question to ask Because church unity requires a lot of sweat and honestly blood. There's a lot of difficulty for us to actually be united as a loving body. A lot of effort. And so you're going to need to have motivations that say to you in the deepest parts of your heart, this pain that I'm experiencing is worth it. While those motivations were the love of Jesus Christ, the way that He has actually loved you, the love of the Holy Spirit your actual experiences of his love. The love even of the congregation, any experiences that you've had in being discipled. having someone shepherd you throughout your life. Paul calls upon those experiences that you've had and said, they're all from Christ. And therefore let us, out of gratitude and thankfulness and love, be united. That was the first part that we looked at here in terms of why we would want to be unified or fight for it. The second was not just the motivations of unity, but the marks of unity We looked at that last week, that there's a special word that's being used within this passage where we are to be one-minded and one-souled and have one love. The idea of being one-minded is not that we uh all have the exact same hobbies or habits, but that we would have a certain mindset that that expands all the way out into how we conceive of the world and our place in it, and what is worthy of our worship and our efforts. You know, I think each time the the offering is brought up here of this picture of unity, because the offering plate is meant to represent all of your sacrificial living throughout the week Gathered up and then brought forward to the one that you're doing it all for, and it's everybody's special sacrifice We're all unified and looking all at the same direction, and we're all striving for the same purposes. We all have the same vision of where we want this world to be taken by our Lord Jesus Christ. And so we're to be marked by that one mindset, that one solidness, instead of what comes quite naturally to human beings, such as selfless ambition. vain conceit and looking after only our own interests. We ended our last uh paragraph with don't just consider your interests, consider the interests of others Well, we hear that and we think, well, that's a nice polite way for us to get along. But Paul means that in a much thicker sense And today we're finally going to get to that big sense of what does it mean to put someone to not only consider your own interests, but the interests of others. It brings us then from the motivation to the marks, and now this morning we're going to look at the model of church unity or Christian unity. And our model is in fact Jesus Christ. We look at the model of unity who is Jesus Christ. The main lesson, I'm going to give you the main lesson right now because I believe, uh I don't think I'm mistaken in this, but at the church camping trip, I think they have a live TV or computer going and they're all gathered around in the humidity watching this sermon. And I I know the kids are going to start screaming soon, so I just want to make sure they know what the sermon was about in case they miss the rest. So here's the main point of the sermon is that you are called, and you we'll get over we'll get to this in verse five, but you are called Christian. to have the same mind as Jesus Christ. We've been awaiting this verse 5. I told you it was the main focus all along and we're finally here. that you are to have the same mind as Jesus Christ. And now what is that mind? In the bulletin we gave you, I think, a nice picture from 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 9. I'll give you a second picture just in the exposition of our passage. But this is the mind of Christ. Though Jesus Christ was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. That you through his poverty might become rich. And that is to be the mark of your life also, since he is your model, that you would become poor for each other, that you'd make each other rich. That's our main lesson. Now I want to look at this under the humiliation of Jesus Christ and then also the subversion of his model. And then next week we'll take up the second half of this passage. Christ doesn't stay in humiliation. He moves into exaltation. And it's the same thing with you. You're not going to stay in humiliation as you give up your rights and those types of things. You don't stay there. At the right time, Christ will exalt you also. But today we'll just take up his humiliation and the subversion of his humiliation. You are to have the mind of Christ Though he was rich he became poor, that through his poverty you would become rich. Now let's take a look at his humiliation. That's what is is pasted right there in front of us, beginning in verse number five And I want you to picture in your minds a kind of ladder, like Jacob's ladder. The ladder could start down on the earth, that's fine. And then you're going to follow the rungs of the ladder. The rungs are the things that you step on if you don't know And you're going to go all the way up the ladder and it's going to disappear up into the heavens. That's how tall this ladder is I want you to picture that ladder, and then at the top of that ladder is the the place of perfect happiness. the most exalted state possible. And that's really where this passage begins. If you take a look at verse number five, it says, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, and then there's a word here that says, Who? Now what he's going to do is he's going to go ahead and start describing to you what the mind of Christ is like, and in order to do so, he has to start at the top rung of the ladder, which is in the heavens in terms of the that state of bliss in which Christ is. He says, who being in the form of God? Right there in verse number six, who being in the form of God. We have the topmost rung of the ladder in heaven, and we learn that before the conception of Christ in the womb of the Virgin Mary, by the power of the Holy Spirit, as our confessions say, that Christ was in the very form or the nature or the essence of God himself. This is a a major Christological passage for Christians. This is used quite often to try to get at uh the nature of uh Christ being the God man and there are certain dilemmas that people try to work through called the kenosis and that kind of thing. But really the main purpose here is not for you to get lost in the essences of his nature, but to begin at this top rung and to see what he do he does from there, that though he be in that form And speaking in our way of understanding as human beings, that his way of living was a top-rung living. But then as we continue on to the rest of verse 6, it says that Jesus did not consider equality with God, something to be grasped. Now that's an NSA NASB translation. The NKJB uses the word robbery. It's just it's the same idea. It's just a little bit more confusing to talk about robbery. It puts you in a negative frame of mind, and that's not what's going on here. Now we're not talking about robbery. So just take this as a good translation that Jesus Christ did not consider equality with God something to be grasped. Or perhaps better, uh something to be exploited. That Chase already brought that up. He didn't see it as something to be exploited. He didn't see it as something to be employed for his own advantage. He was willing to let those rights and those privileges go in order to do something else. So we see that he's on the top rung. We see that Paul is saying to us, he's not He's not set on staying on the top rung, that he'll do something different out of obedience to the Father and love of his people And that's where we continue on then into verse number seven, coming down this ladder, he says, but he made himself of no reputation. Now that's one thing. Now, how many rungs on the ladder? This is why I have a ladder in your head today. How many rungs in the ladder does he come down when I keep reading the sentence? He makes himself of no reputation taking the form of a bond servant. He didn't even take the form of a middle-class North Grumman engineer. He took the f he took the form of a bondservant. He just skipped a bunch of rungs. And he came in the likeness of men. This is Christ's humiliation that we have confessed even this morning. Christ did not insist on staying. at the top rung, he descended the ladder. He didn't just descend the ladder to the level of a king, for example, or an emperor that would have been lower than him Uh he didn't end up descending to be at the same level as the angels and their authority. He descended even lower and he became a servant. And yet that's not even low enough. We have to keep going down the ladder Honestly, we have to take the ladder all the way down to the lowest possible rung within Roman society. If you keep reading, he says he humbled himself And he became obedient to the point of death. But it wasn't just death, it's the death of the cross, which means he's the lowest of the low because he's pronounced a criminal and he is pronounced cursed. And he has basically declared the virus of society. Now what do you do with viruses? You kill them. And that's how they viewed him. And that's how far he went down on that ladder. Now, it's important at this point, because of the weird things that we can start to think, is that Christ is not entering into this humiliating state just for the sake of humiliation. He did not he he did not voluntarily enter into humiliation for its own sake. He did it, and we'll get to this next week, in order to raise human nature to glory. For obedience to the Father and his plan of salvation. I want you to think of a person who must bend down Bend way down. I mean get really low in order to get their arms under a very heavy burden Jack and I had to move a very large refrigerator into our house. We're the kind of people that don't have um people do that for us. Somehow we end up moving things. And I remember saying to Jack, We're just we're gonna have to get lower to carry this burden. Uh we're gonna we're gonna die And it's the same kind of picture here as Christ has to get down so far to get his arms underneath of this great burden. But the point was not just for him to bend down. to get his arms under it, but it the point is for him to straighten the back and use the strength of his legs to lift it. This is an image that is given from C. S. Lewis in his book Miracles under the Gra the Grand Miracle. is the chapter. I think that's a an excellent image and he gives more there, but the point here is that he would lift us. That he would lift us and that's the point of going all the way down to the bottom and the farthest rung to get all of the burden back up. But today we're focused on his humiliation. We'll get to the glorification next week. And that steps us all the way through these particular passages, starting really, you can summarize the passage as starting on the high rung, and then you can see Christ descend all the way to the point where he is not just a servant. That would be one thing. But he's a criminal. He's become a virus of humanity. He is a byword, and he is a curse. That's his humiliation. Now, I want to transition into the next point, which has to do with a different concept, subversion, as I mentioned to you. But before I do that Let me just ask you if you find the picture that has now been given to you by way of a ladder, consummating in the crucifixion. Do you find that shocking? When I was talking about this just now, I didn't hear anyone gasp. I didn't see anybody have a shocked face. It looked to me like you've heard this a thousand times, and I'm going to politely hear this again. That's what you look like. But do you know that when they first heard this at Philippi they would have been greatly shocked? In fact, the whole culture was shocked by the message of Christians. Now let me ask you why. Now, what we've been taught, especially from this passage, is that we must be shocked because God has become man. We're shocked in the sense of we stand in awe and wonder at the incarnation. Well that's true, we do stand in awe and wonder at the incarnation, and there should be a kind of shock. He's what? God and man? Which is clearly taught here. It will go on to clear keep making it clear. Where Christ has given the name above all names from Isaiah, the chapter 40s and in the forties And it's the name of Yahweh. So he is God, man. But the real shock here actually is it's not even Paul's main purpose for you to understand the ins and outs of the incarnation. Well, the shock would have been here is how subversive this was to the mindset of the Philippian culture. And that's why we have to talk about subversion now. You don't feel it because our culture is Christianized. We take a lot for granted that did not used to be a part of the known world. But this is highly subversive. This is a this is subversive of Paul to say, and this kind of subversion will keep showing up, like in Ephesians chapter 5, on the role of the husband with the wife and the husband with the children and the husband with the servants. All of those things are subversive. It is subversive specifically of a Roman mindset. Now what is that? You know, we look on our movies and we look up to the Romans. If you were not of a high status and you lived in Rome, I don't think you would like them very much. The shock should primarily be how subversive the passage is to that mindset at that day. It was subverting or undermining a Persian mindset A Greek mindset and a Roman mindset. We don't realize this because our world has been influenced by Christ We take a lot for granted. Christ has entered into nation after nation, but the Romans did not view humility and humiliation in the same way that you do today. You look at Christ as a great hero who has been crucified. You look at him as a great hero in his humiliation. That would not have been the case. That is why so many in that society would not associate with Paul or Christ. Well you can think of this for example with social status. You're born into a certain hierarchy and those Uh oh uh and there are those who are on higher rungs of a ladder, and in Roman society there would be no empathy. I just want you to imagine this for a moment. It would be very difficult for you to imagine for you to see this because of the culture that you live in. But I want you to imagine that the higher those who are in higher status had no empathy for you in a lower status That those in a higher status had many, many things going for them, and they had no empathy for you if you had nothing going for you. They considered it your dessert and what you were owed, your place and your station in life. That they, in fact, because you were of a lower station, you were an instrument to them. And you were to be used like a dog. Do you remember any moments in the Gospels or in the teachings of Scripture where, for example, leaders talked about other races as dogs? Gentiles being lower, ontologically, even. Fathers within the Roman society, according to uh one Oxford uh historian, Roman Fathers could use their wives and their children as they wished. They could stock their house full of young men and young girls and use them as they wished. In fact, if they didn't want to have children, instead of stocking their house full of children, if they didn't want to have children, then they could just leave them out to die. Or they could bash them against walls With no legal repercussions. You could then turn from fathers and you could take a look at emperors, and what were they permitted to do to those who were not as high in status as them They would use each person as an instrument or a pawn. We have these images of Christians becoming criminals because they would profess Christ. We have these images in that society where Christians would be taken captive, for example, like Nero And then Nero would light the Christians on fire so that there would be a pleasant ambiance to his garden party. And we look at that and we think, oh I have empathy. I have compassion. But I'm trying to get across to you that the mindset during that time was that no Since they were criminals, they did not mean anything, and at least we could put them to some kind of good use by lighting them on fire And now we have light in our garden party so that I can eat cheese and crackers and see what I'm eating. Is it the Havardi or is it the Gouda? If you were to have sympathy, if you were to look at the burning Christian and to have compassion, it's not the mindset that I'm talking about. It's their own fault. And you're weak if you do have compassion. They're criminals And this is what they deserve. Now, where would they get these kinds of thoughts? Well, it is resonant within the human heart. We do read that Adam and Eve themselves long to be like God. And and Once they decided to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, it's a story that looks very similar to what we're seeing here in the Roman Empire. But Chase gave us a really good hint and that the Roman gods themselves were like this Apparently, if you need to know about those gods, you just talk to his children. They know better than I do. But if you were to just look through their stories of how they treat humanity, they sit on high having feasts and they use humans as play toys. And they laugh at their misery. And they use them not just as play toys but as objects for desire. Zeus himself was known for raping women. And it was his right to do so. I read an account that people are in considering all of the myths and I think the implications, some estimate that he had raped dozens. Others have estimated that Zeus raped hundreds of women. So even their gods, if they were to be divine, which they sought to be, then they would have this particular kind of mindset. And then we look at this passage here, which is quite subversive to that particular mindset within that society, and we see the mindset of Christ. And it's into that culture that this is read. Jesus Christ arrives as Lord of Lords. He's always been on the highest rung. Above the pantheon of Zeus, and yet he did not maintain his rights and lord it over the population. In fact, we know many teachings where Christ looks at his disciples and he says, You may not lord it over. like the Gentile lords do over their population. And it was for them to be like Christ. He became their servant, lowering himself to the lowest. in his crucifixion. He became poor that we would become rich. And this was to turn the mindset of the world upside down. And you're still benefiting from it. And as a church, as we talk about unity, you are to perpetuate it and not allow the Roman mindset or the Persian mindset or the Greek mindset to enter back in into our midsts. The mindset of fallen humanity. It subverts it. Now I want to give you another example because talking about Rome, though it could be exciting. There are more recent examples of this kind of mindset showing back up on the face of the earth, and I think it could help you to realize that you you really do need to actively maintain And actively seek to have this kind of mind like Christ. Otherwise, another mind will form even in your own myths, and you will devour each other. Now the more recent example, that is the most extreme example, is the example of Hitler. Hitler When Hitler began, this might be a little uh con confusing because sometimes we see pictures where the Nazi Party had uh uh adopted the church. And they look sometimes in pictures like they're friends or like they were working together on certain things. And that was true in the beginning. It was true in the beginning from my reading that Hitler as a strategy used the church in order to swallow up more people and to gain more power very quickly. But the usefulness of the church as an instrument in his hands. uh soon faded and the church became an enemy for him. It stood in his way. Now this is Hitler's mindset. Hitler's mindset grew over time and became a very Roman mindset. When Hitler began, he adopted Christianity for a usefulness, but then began to despise it. And the reason why he did was because Christianity, in its deepest teachings that sought to be maintained by the true church, was contradicting what he wanted to accomplish with the world. Through Darwinian science, through the philosophy of Nietzsche and the will to power, and the Uvermensch that is to rise above traditional morality, Hitler came to believe that his own race was the master race. They had worked out in academic journals and scientists had worked it out, had had an intricate cosmology showing hierarchy of races and who was on the bottom rung. Now the Christian mindset stood in his way because Christianity stood against us. A plain reading of Scripture would show anyone that compassion was necessary for those who were weak, empathy Those in higher social status are to use their power for the sake of the good and for the sake of the weak. And Christ Himself, here even in a Philippians chapter two, was an example setting aside his rights and his privileges Of superiority in order to give those who were inferior to raise them up into glory. That he would become poor, that they would become rich. All of this stood in the way of Hitler's Roman mindset. By 1937, Hitler knew this vision of Christianity, and he decided to destroy it, one historian says He formed an elite paramilitary organization that served as the most efficient instrument of Hitler's will, and they sought the destruction of Christianity. They sought it as their main job, and it was placed within the hands of Heinrich Himmler, the commander of the SS, and he plotted a 50-year program that he trusted Would see the re re the religion of Christianity utterly re-erased. Otherwise, Christianity might once again prove the bane of the blonde beast. Now, I want to give you an excerpt from an SS magazine from 1939 of Hitler's mindset and what they were seeking to accomplish and the same mindset that threatens to enter in here in our congregation and in our communities, and it is our job to make sure that it does not, but that instead the mindset of Christ is maintained. It says this. Harping on and on that God died on the cross out of pity for the weak, the sick, and the sinners. They then demand that the genetically diseased be kept alive in the name of a doctrine of pity that goes against nature. And a misconceived notion of humanity. The strong, as science has conclusively demonstrated, had both a duty and an obligation to eliminate the weak. Now, this is straight out of thoughts from Nietzsche also. Hitler, then, is a re-establishment of an ancient mindset inherent in Persian, Greek, and Roman society, and our passage this morning, though you may be shocked with wonder and awe over the incarnation because God in fact has become man. The real shock that Paul wants to happen to your system is the mindset shock The mindset shock. He's subverting the mindset that says you are to lord your power over others. and use them as your instruments for your indulgences. Christ, in fact, calls you to a different mindset. He calls you to become poor so that others would be rich. He calls you not to cling to your own interests, rights, and privileges. but to be of the mind to give those up for the sake of the good of others. And one of the ways that that can be done is a little sneaky. I don't think any of us in here have Nazi aspirations. If you do, see me immediately. Or maybe best, just don't admit it and please leave. No, just kidding. We can work with you. But one of the ways that this can act out, you don't need to have Nazi uh aspirations where you would say those same kinds of things that That we see in that SS magazine from 1939. None of you would say that about people. But one of the ways that we can reflect the mindset, perhaps in its infancy, is indifference towards each other. Indifference. I mean imagine If Christ were indifferent to your plate, He didn't hate you. He wasn't trying to make it worse. He wasn't trying to devour you. He was just indifferent. Is that much better? Is that the mindset of Jesus Christ? I bring that up because I think when we examine ourselves, when you're listening to my words, this is what's happening. You're listening to my words. Your conscience is working over time, taking it all in, and seeing if this has any relevance for you, or if I'm shining any light on your heart, and we're picking up on any kind of thing that needs to need some work And your heart is saying to you, well, I'm not a Nazi. I don't want to destroy people like that. I'm not predatory. I don't have a vision of the world like that. I wish people the best. But when you say I wish people the best, it's the same kind of wishing that James talks about when he says, be warm and well fed. There's a kind of indifference where they came to the door to receive clothing and food and you prayed for them and they left cold and hungry. That kind of indifference is a different, it's a way that we could get ourselves off the hook, which we're s we're, that's what I'm saying. I think we're in the infancy of that kind of mindset. Where we're staying in our place on a certain rung, and we were unwilling to step down into their place in order to bring good. And I think it happens over and over and over again. The other thing that can happen within our minds when you hear things like this is you think, oh This is cool. This is like um like strategic compassion. I'm totally into strategy and techniques. That's not this message This message, at its essence, is that Jesus Christ is saying, if you want to be like God, Then you need to look like this. Because this is who he has always demonstrated himself to be, and it has the revelation of who he is. has in its consummate glory arrived in Jesus Christ, who is God in the flesh, and when he reveals himself to you most clearly in taking upon himself human nature He does not reveal himself to be anything like Persian, Greek, or Roman gods. He is quite different than them. He, as he revealed to Moses, is full of mercy. And he is even willing to come down off those runks to not consider those things To not grasp onto those things or that status, but instead to enter into your misery and to change it. In the book of Proverbs, this is called righteousness. The righteous person in the book of Proverbs is a person who, technically speaking, has no obligation to you, but because they are righteous, full of mercy and love, they They enter into your life, they step towards you, and they make a difference. For example, with Boaz and Ruth, he had no specific obligation. But he said, despite that, I will in righteousness I'll do this down the road. And then he made sure all of the legal technicalities were taken care of and somehow there was a sandal involved. In that story. And that's who God is revealing Himself to be, and He's saying that you are just to have the same mind as me. You if you want to be in my image, this is what it means. And it's quite subversive to other nations and the mindsets that they have inculcated within their men and their women and their children. It's not just a technique and it's not just a strategy. This is a way of being. It is divine. Our God has never used you. He never has taken his power to use you for his own benefits. It's not even a thought on his mind because he doesn't need any of us. Our God does not use his power just for his own interests, but for others, and he is willing to humiliate himself, if necessary, to restore humans and their society. Quite different than the Greeks. So I think it's important for you to ask the question, are you like God? And we could put it, I want us to be more positive around here. Do you want to be like God? Because he's saying that to be like him is the picture that we have here in our passage, that rightfully you may consider your own interests, that's fine. He's not neglecting the I. of you. He's just saying you must also consider those who are around you and what are their interests. Are you considering the interests of others? Are you indifferent to the elderly? Are you indifferent to widows? Are you indifferent to the mentally ill? Are you indifferent to the disabled? Are you indifferent to the drug addict and the alcoholic? Are you indifferent to the prostitute? And what if uh here's this positive vision, what if all of us with a clean conscience could say and back up with experience, no we're not Do you know how beautiful that community would be on the face of the earth right now? To be able to say with a clear conscience, no, we're not indifferent, and we have a lot of experiences. Where we have left our rungs and made a lot of sacrifices in order to bring good to these people And don't forget, we're talking about unity. I'm not just talking about benevolent care. We're specifically talking about unity. So let's get back into that frame of mind and begin to ask the question, have you maintained the unity of this particular congregation? Or have you been indifferent to certain people that are here? You've never really even tried to connect. There are just certain people that are beneath you So far, when we looked at the book of Philippians, the main problem I kept bringing before your face was conflict. And how conflict breaks the body apart, and therefore there's no unity. And now I'm giving you a bit of a different picture, that we can also not have unity Because we are not willing to move toward each other or to cross certain lines in love. And the most obvious way in which that happens is that if you're young, you tend not to cross the line and speak to the old. So the elderly feel invisible and you're preoccupied in a circle with just your friends. And here Christ is calling you to open the circle and to step forward because unity is godlike and it is accomplished by you being self-sacrificial and moving out just not just considering your own interests but the interests of others. And it would be the same thing with all of the different kinds of people that we have here. I think I've mentioned this to you before. And I hate to say this because well, before I was here Before this church building was here, before they met at a different church building. This church started in a living room and a basement. And it began with a set of prayers. And the prayer was basically this, and I've told you this before, and I don't want you to feel bad about yourselves now that you're here. But the prayer was, Lord, send us all the people that the other churches don't want. Now I know that other churches love you and they want you. I don't find you that disagreeable. You're all very lovely. But you see the spirit of that prayer? As that there was a particular community that they had in mind. And it's the same kind of spirit that we're talking about here this morning is in order for us to attain that level of unity that is divine. We must be willing to have the same mindset of Jesus Christ. Now let me just give you one final picture and we'll close. This is from John chapter 13. I just want you to let this wash over you. Jesus had just gotten, had just finished washing the feet of his disciples. It makes me wonder if some of the feet were old. Some of the feet were dirty. And so he says: so when he had washed their feet, taken his garments, and sat down, he said to them, Do you know what I have done for you? You call me teacher and lord, and you say well, for so I am. If I then, your teacher, your lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. Most assuredly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master. Nor is he who is sent greater than he who sent him. If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. Amen. And behold the great mission of unity for the church in our model. Amen. Let us pray.