Yes, and if I am being poured out as a drink offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all. For the same reason you also be glad and rejoice with me. But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, that I also may be encouraged when I know your state. For I have no one like-minded who will sincerely care for your state. For all seek their own, not the things which are of Christ Jesus But you know his proven character, that as a son with his father, he served with me in the gospel. Therefore I hope to send him at once. As soon as I see how it goes with me. But I trust in the Lord that I myself shall also come shortly Yet I considered it necessary to send to you a Paphroditus, my brother, fellow worker, and fellow soldier, but your messenger and the one who ministered to my need Since he was longing for you all and was distressed because you had heard that he was sick. For indeed he was sick almost unto death But God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. Therefore I sent him the more eagerly, that when you see him again you may rejoice, and I may be less sorrowful. Receive him, therefore, in the Lord with all gladness, and hold such men in esteem, because for the work of Christ he came close to death not regarding his life, to supply what was lacking in your service toward me. Amen. Let us pray Lord, we know that it is you by your Spirit that makes your word change us. And so I pray this morning that your Spirit would accompany the preaching of your word. O Lord, be with me and be with your congregation, for our lives depend on it. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Last week, the main lesson for each of us Was that you are called to work out your salvation by living as children of God? That phrase, children of God Tied us back into the language of children of God that we find throughout the scriptures, particularly within Deuteronomy Both the later chapters and the earlier chapters end over into Exodus. So let me put it this way. You are called to work out your salvation by being children of God. Then we can ask the question, well, what do you mean by children of God? And then my answer to you was Well, let's take a look at Deuteronomy. And specifically, Paul brought up from those different examples from the Old Testament Church that we are meant to be the people of God by maintaining unity as a family. Well then you could say to me, well how are we to do that? And I could say to you a thousand different ways. But one way in particular that was mentioned last week was that we are not to be a group of people that are stuck in complaining and grumbling. That is not the spirit in which we approach the world. Well, what do we mean by those words? Those words you could look them up in Merriam Webster's Dictionary or if you're fancy, the Oxford English Dictionary. And maybe you'd be on the right track, sort of. But if you want to make sure you're on the right track, we try to understand those words from the scriptures themselves. And those words, complaining and grumbling, are major centerpieces or features of major stories within the scriptures. That we are to be a group of people that don't engage in complaining and grumbling, like the wilderness example. The wilderness people, for example. They complained and they grumbled against God Himself. By way of complaining to Moses. What did you do? Drag us in the desert so that we would just die? Remember the delicious food we used to have with the Egyptians? And Moses would point out to them, You're not complaining about me, because I'm not your Savior. You're complaining against God, and that's how God took it too. And we're not to have that kind of spirit. And in addition We see examples where they're not only complaining against God, but God's representative leadership. You see this in various rebellions against Moses, for example, and God needing to stand up for Moses. And so, as we work our salvation by living as children of God, may we avoid a grumbling and complaining spirit and actions. This week we continue with the theme of unity. Quite honestly, the theme could have been broader, but I still think Paul is quite concerned, and therefore the Spirit is quite concerned, about unity within congregations. So we have some more lessons to learn about unity and what it's going to take for us to remain unified as a congregation. And that's what we're going to look at this morning. I want to start by giving you a few observations from the text that I read to you, and then I have a couple applications for us. this morning. So let's take a look at the scriptures together and seek to discover what the Spirit has to teach us about what does it take for us to be a unified congregation. We're going to begin in verse number 17. I hope your scriptures are open with me. I'm going to be stepping through these verses. So the first thing I want you to notice is in verse number 17. We've moved from the image of the children of God wandering in the desert and the difficulties that they faced and the example that they set. And to Paul using sacrificial language, he says in verse number 17, Yes, and I am being poured out as a drink offering. on the sacrifice and service of your faith. And he's not upset about that. He's not complaining that he has to make sacrifices for the congregation. If you look at the next verse, he says I am glad and rejoice with you all. He is happy to take up the mantle of being a drink offering poured out into the service. of the faith of these group of people. He couldn't think of something better to do than to serve his master in this specific regard. That's the first thing I want you to see, this observation that we're going to start off with the Apostle Paul himself. Hinting to us, remember we're talking about unity, as to what it took for him, and that was that he needed to be like a drink offering. He's pouring himself out for them and sacrificed to their faith. Now that's the first example. of someone who knows how to keep a congregation unified in what it takes. And Paul is telling you, guess what I needed to do? I needed to be a sacrifice, and I'm not upset about it. I was glad to do it. That's the first observation. The second observation, this should be pretty simple for us this morning, because it's really just three different examples: Paul, Timothy, and then Epaphroditus. So the second example then, or the second observation, is Timothy. So let's then drop down into verse number 19 and see what Paul says about Timothy and how it relates to unity. But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, that I also may be encouraged when I know your state For I have no one like-minded who will sincerely care for your state, for all seek their own, not the things which are of Christ Jesus. Now this next verse in 22 is very telling as to what Timothy is like and why Timothy ends up being an example for us. There's a sort of syllogism that is forming in Paul's reasoning. Take a look at verse number 22. But you know his proven character. This is in contrast to those who have selfish ambition. Timothy is different than them, and he has a proven character, and then he goes on to describe his character like this: that as a son with his father, he served with me in the gospel. Now that might be a little confusing to you, but what Paul is saying here is that Timothy is like a son to me. And he's not saying that in the sense of I have familial affections for him, although he does. He's referring to a kind of ancient relationship that existed between son and father. If the son was going to go out and represent the father, the son had an obligation to make sure That he didn't smear or disrespect the Father's name, but carried out his father's wishes to the glory of the Father. And you see that here, remarked in their relationship, that Timothy has the same heart that Paul has. That Timothy has the same ambitions, godly ambitions, that Paul has. And that Timothy is willing to put the same kind of care, therefore, and the same kind of sacrifice we could imply as Paul had. We see this second example with Timothy serving his father as a true son in the gospel. And therefore, Paul, verse number 23, hopes to send him at once. As soon as I see how it goes with me, but I trust in the Lord that I myself shall also come shortly. So that's your second example of what it's going to take. To be unified. The first example says there's sacrifice with gladness of heart that is necessary for the unity of the congregation The second is that we must, insofar as Paul imitates Christ, we ought to imitate Paul, just like Timothy imitated his father. Timothy did not get consumed with selfless ambitions, but he was always after the care of the congregation. And now we have a third example. For three heroes of the faith, according to Jeremiah's portion of the service, and if again, we now move into Epaphroditus. Yet I considered it necessary to send you Epaphroditus, my brother. Now notice the language here from the Timothy series. Epaphroditus has not just become someone who's like an Amazon delivery person dropping off the things that Paul needed. Apaphroditus was sent from the Philippian church, but Apaphroditus now is one who has become a co-worker with Paul in the deepest possible ways. Well, we see Paul recognizing that with this next bit of language. Notice it. Who is Epaphroditus? He is a fellow soldier. He is a fellow worker. He's my brother. He is a fellow worker, still in verse 25. He is a fellow soldier. But your messenger and the one who ministered to my need. Since he was longing for you all and was distressed because you had heard that he was sick. Well, the truth is that he was sick. He became greatly sick, almost unto death, according to Paul. But God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but also on me, unless Paul would have to suffer even more with Apaphroditus dying He calls it sorrow upon sorrow. And now I'm at verse 28. Therefore I sent him the more eagerly that when you see him again and may rejoice, and I may be less sorrowful. How should they receive him? They should receive him, therefore, in the Lord with all gladness. And there is one fine point that he puts on the matter that really starts to help us to see this third example. Apaphroditus, his brother, his fellow worker, his fellow soldier, is to be held in high esteem. It's hold these in esteem. Hold ones like this in esteem. It's in the plural. Why would we do so? And actually the word you could you could say it's legitimate for me to say this one that you sent to me epaphroditus, I'm sending him back to you. And I want you to hold people like this as precious. So that lets you know we're really dealing with a jewel and a pearl of the kingdom, and we want to pay attention to when these kind of things are said, because we ourselves want to be precious. All of us do. And he says here that we are to hold these ones as precious. Now, why is he considered that? Let's get to the root and the core of the example that will really bleed through into the other examples. Because for the work of Christ he came close to death. And then we have another phrase, not regarding his life. To supply what was lacking in service to me. You see that? It's almost like we have bookends, isn't it? We have the Apostle Paul saying that he is a drink offering and a sacrifice being poured out for the faith of this congregation to keep them together. And by the time we get to the end, we find yet another person who is pouring out their life for a congregation. In the center, we find that Timothy, the son, acts just like his father, so it's reasonable to assume that he poured out his life for the sake of the congregation. And we now therefore have a pattern in each one of these examples, and it's the exact same pattern that we saw in Jesus Christ Himself in the earlier passage. when Jesus Christ entered into his state of humiliation and then by the Father's power and vindication of the Son moved Jesus Christ into his state of exaltation. Here you see in three different examples that in order for the congregation to remain unified, it will take people that are willing to be like Christ. Giving up their lives for the good of others. Now, your sacrifice is not going to have substitutionary atonement value. But what we're finding in the passage is that God is in the business of taking the sacrifices that you're going to make in order to bring good things to this world. And that includes a more narrow topic, which is the good thing of the unity of the congregation. Those are our lessons and those are our examples. You could put it in a single phrase like this if you wanted something to write down You are called to serve the congregation even at the expense of your own life, just like these three examples. And we want to talk about that in terms of well that could be applied in a lot of different ways, but we're saying even for unity, if you want to serve the congregation for the sake of unity in the congregation It will cost you something. You could say it that way, just like these three examples that are given to us in this passage. Now, what I'd like to do to unfold this for our remaining time together is I do want to look at very quickly, we're going to turn to two separate Bible passages to flesh this out a little bit. And then I have a picture and then I have a motivation. So it's going to be two stories of sacrifice, a picture of sacrifice, and a motivation for sacrifice. And I'm really hoping that I can rock and roll on this so I'm not too long. But good luck to that So the first place I want you to turn for us to understand this even more and to be inspired, Lord willing, is for us to turn to the Gospel of John chapter 21 verses 15 through 19. If you just want to listen, I'm going to read it. But if you want to follow along, some of you are visual learners and it helps to see the text. So John 21, 15 through 19. There are two stories here that I believe are archetypal. That means that they are stories that are meant for all of us to learn from. And there are two stories about what God does with sacrifice and his expectations. John 21, 15 through 19. So when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? Now we remember, just a little bit of background, that uh Peter was the one uh after the institution of the Lord's Supper, who was the most courageous in his statement, saying, I will never essentially, I will never betray you, Lord And then the next part of the story is the rooster crowing three times, and then Peter denying Christ. And here we see in this passage that Peter is being restored, or Christ is restoring Peter to the ministry. So when he had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. I want you to picture yourself in this spot of the Lord asking you after you just denied him if you love him. And he says, You know I love you. And then Jesus says to him, feed my lambs. He said to him again a second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. And Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. Now that's three denials. Now there's three affirmations. There's grief at the third denial, and there's grief at the third affirmation. Peter knows exactly what Jesus is doing. So Jesus then continues and he says, Most assuredly, I say to you, when you were younger, you girded yourself and walked where you wished. Pay close attention to this. Well when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will gird you and carry you where you do not wish. This he spoke, signifying by what death Peter would glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he said to him, Follow me. So there is the first example that I want you to see, or the first story of sacrifice, where the way that Jesus Christ has set up his kingdom is that there are going to be people that move from being deniers of Christ, like Peter, to those who will not just not deny Christ, not just affirm him, but they will be carried where they do not want to go, and they will die for Jesus Christ. In the first case, we have Peter only looking out for his interests. But by the time that Jesus Christ is done with him, and Paul stepping in a little bit under the authority of Christ, Peter will be the servant of Christ who lays down his life for the sheep, a true shepherd. Now that story is meant for you to take on also as the kinds of expectations that God has for you You could picture yourself, just like I had to at my ordination service. Arch read this verse. And then preached on it as I was entering into the ministry. Now do you know how I took that? As direct, these questions to Peter as directly to me. And now I've been around for a little bit, and I get to take the questions and I get to give them directly to you. Because we are all servants of Jesus Christ in different ways. Do you love him? Then feed his sheep. Do you love him? Then know that he will ask you to make sacrifices for him and his kingdom. The second story I have for you is from Acts chapter 9, verses 10 through 16. So we looked at Peter and his story of sacrifice. And you see that the end was determined from the beginning. That's what God likes to do. And then in Acts chapter 9, 10 through 16, let me read that to you, and let's take a look at Paul's story. Now there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias, and to him the Lord said in a vision, Ananias! And he said, Here I am, Lord. So the Lord said to him, Arise and go to the street called Straits, and inquire at the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus, for behold, he is praying. And in a vision he has seen a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hand on him, so that he might receive his sights. Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard from many about this man how much harm he does to your saints in Jerusalem, and here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who could call on your name. But the Lord said to him, Go. For he is a chosen vessel of mine to bear my name before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel. For I will show him how many things he must suffer for my name's sake. There it is. It is in template form the same story as the Apostle Peter. Is that Jesus Christ is calling people? He didn't say it in here to Paul, but eventually he will in other words: Do you love my sheep? We're going to find out that you do because I'm calling you even from the beginning to suffer for my name's sake Now, will you suffer because you're going to the Gentiles, or because you're going to kings, or you're going to the children of Israel? No. But I'm trying to point out to you that there's a deep reality in being members of the kingdom of God, that what it means For you to be a follower of Jesus Christ is that you ought to count the cost of your discipleship. Jesus Christ is not above planning out your life and calling you to a life where you will have to make great sacrifices in order for his kingdom to advance. In fact, I'm actually making the argument to you here this morning that you should expect it. You should not expect a life of ease. You should instead, I understand that there is some peculiarity to Paul and Peter. But I'm saying there's something to learn from them, and that's this. You ought to be expected, even by way of the lesson of these two stories, that you will have to carry across And you will have to carry a cross in relation to all kinds of things in your life, and one of those things is that if you want this congregation to be healthy and unified, it will require That you sacrifice even your own life in some ways. Behold the kingdom of God and how God providentially unfolds. Our service to Him. Now, those are two stories of sacrifice. I want to give you a picture of sacrifice and then a motivation for sacrifice. Here's a picture. This has stuck with me and helping me to get back get oriented in my service to the congregation, and I hope that it is helpful to you. When we were just starting off, Holly and I, when we were first married, actually when we were first married we had no place to live, we stayed in a friend's guest room for two weeks until an above garage apartment became available. And our lives began. It was a studio apartment in the sense that it had a it was all on one floor, it's an above-carived apartment, it had a bedroom, bathroom, a little living room, and the kitchen all connected You could it's standing st standing in the apartment you could stand in all rooms at one time in some sense, uh or at least see all of them Well, we eventually were blessed by the Lord to have our first child, and she spent her time in a bassinet. We didn't have a separate room for her to have her own whatever. And so we bought a little bassinet and we placed her in that bassinet, and this is symbolic for the the way that I now conceive of my life and I believe what Jesus Christ is asking you to conceive of your life. Is that this little bassinet ended up in the center of the entire living space and that was representative, it was a reality, but it was also representative Of the fact that she was now, this was Ellie at this time, was the center of Holly's life and the center of my life in a very real sense. As we were washing the dishes, we're paying attention to what noises she's making. As I'm trying to sleep, I'm really paying attention to the noises that she's making. As we're planning out our day in every single component, that representation of the bassinet being in the center of the living space showed forth a reality that our lives have changed and they we can no longer just live for ourselves. We have someone else to live for. And do you know what would happen if we didn't live for her? She would die. That's how fragile babies are if you don't know. She would die. And so by the grace of God, we were reoriented. Now, here's the thing. There required a great deal of repentance, especially on my part. If you wanted to have another representation, the way I used to live my life, let's keep the bassinet in the picture. The way that I was living my life prior to that was that if you walked up to the bassinet that was in the center of our living space and you turned the corner and you looked down, the baby had my face. It was me. I lived for myself. I had a bunch of selfless ambitions, and life was all about me, and the good things that I could experience and the adventures that I had missed out and the money that I want to make and the things that I want to do. But then when this one look little one was born, the orientation shifted. And I was now serving someone else. And that's a picture that I've held on to to help me to know what I'm supposed to be doing with my life in any sphere, but especially with the congregation. I'm not supposed to be in the center of the room. I am a servant to the congregation, and Jesus Christ expects me to give up my life very similarly to how a parent must give up their life in order for the baby to survive and to thrive. And the same thing must happen to the congregation. So if you want for fun, you can picture a bassinet in the center of your life and put all the congregation members in there And just know what it would take in the name of Jesus Christ for you to make an impact. It will take parental, a kind of analogy to parental sacrifice. That's what Christ is calling you to in order to have unity here at Severn Run. And then the last thing I want to say to you is the motivation for sacrifice. We've had two stories of sacrifice. I've given you a picture of sacrifice And now I give you a motivation for sacrifice. I've given you this analogy before, so please bear with me. Don't get bored, okay? Brad and I were just talking about this analogy this morning, though he didn't know it. We're both influenced by a phrase from a writer. And he says that there are two things that are necessary in working rhetorically with people. There is both the truth and the good. The truth and the good. So bear with me here for a moment. I'm leading up to this point. There's the truth and there is the good. Now let me give you an example. And I remember giving this example to Noah Donovan a long time ago and he he's held on to it. I hope that you like it as much as he did. Then here's some truth for you. You're going to see the difference between the truth and the good with this example. If you go in the backfield and you dig three feet down You could have three feet of dirt and rocks. You could do it. Now is that true? Is there any doubt? Don't you have mental conviction that there is dirt and rocks in the backfield? Now let me ask you, are you going to go back there and dig? No. Why? Because although it's true, it's not good to you. None of you are interested in a bag of dirt and a bag of rocks. Not all of you. Anyway, I guess some people in here are into rocks, I guess. And that helps you to see that distinction that human beings are not moved by mental conviction alone. That which you convince them of must also be good. to their nature. Otherwise they will stay standing still. They will not be moved in any direction or persuaded. And so let's say it was like this, and I know you've heard this analogy before. If I said to you, I found a map from 1844, and it's a pirate's map. And I believe, and I have a lot of evidence to show you this, that there's actually gold about 15 feet underneath of the container behind the pavilion, but on the edge of the container, so we can get to it. And then I show you all the evidence, and your mental conviction forms, and you say, by golly, pirates were here, and there's gold here. So you have the mental conviction. Now let me ask you, will you pick up the shovel? You will. Because the gold is a good thing to you and your nature. You're moved to do it. You start to, as you're shoveling, you're starting to think, you know what I'm going to do with this gold I'm gonna get this thing over h I'm gonna have the motorcycle I always wanted and leather pants and whatever Whatever you say to yourself. And those are those two parts that Brad and I are excited about that we would have mental conviction, but that there would also be uh we would convince people as to what is the true good. And my whole point in going through all of this for you this morning is to point out to you in this passage that the Apostle Paul is seeking not just to give you mental conviction about examples. and stories. He is trying to show you what the good life actually is. He's trying to show you, and this is how he does it. He says it in very bold words. I don't even need to use good and necessary consequence here. He says, you want to know what's precious? Do you want to know what you should esteem? It's the life that Epaphroditus has lived. It's the life that Timothy has chosen or has been chosen for. It is the sacrifices that I myself as Paul have made. That is a good life. Now there's a lot of people that don't believe that. I would say that our culture is dominated by saying the good life is the fulfillment of all of my hedonistic desires with no consequences Or let the consequences come so late in life where I'm just, you know, I'm dead and then I don't have to face the disease and whatever. But Paul contradicts that. Paul is subversive, and he is countercultural to the idea that you will actually have a meaningful human existence and the fulfillment of all of your hedonistic desires. Paul says you will actually find your greatest fulfillment, the most meaning in your life. You will be highly esteemed. You will be considered precious if you are willing to give up your life for Jesus Christ's congregation. And I'm just saying that that's true broadly, but I'm saying even to keep us unified, to keep us in harmony. We have a lot of doubts that that could really be the picture of the good life, but it actually is. Let me just ask you a couple questions to help you with this. Do you know how many years it has been now that this text has survived? Do you know how many people would like to see this text go away? All of it? Do you know how many languages this text has been translated into? Isn't that some indication to you? That Paul has something that is enriching and valuable and insightful for the human race? This is thousands of years old. And he's appealing to principles that are thousands and thousands of years older than that in texts older than that. And people in just about every single culture have picked it up and they have read and they said, yes, this is in fact the meaningful way to live a human life. I want you to think about that level of testimony to the truth of something Set up a court of law. Have a day where you would determine whether Paul is right in saying this is meaningful life, that you'd give up your life for Jesus Christ's congregation. That this is the good life, to be like Christ. Set up a court case scenario where testimony after testimony is given, you'd have testimony from every single nation on the earth. For th people who are thousands of years old rising up and giving testimony that yes, this is in fact meaningful. Do you want to know who will have the strongest testimony of them all? It'll be those who have gone to sleep and have gone to be with Jesus Christ. Because you know what they're going to tell you? They're going to say to you, There was nothing more precious to me. Then when I stood before my Lord Jesus Christ and he said to me, Well done, good and faithful servant, all of the sacrifices that you made for my congregation. were worth it. And let me show you how. Has not Paul been to the third heaven? Does Paul not know what the most valuable things in life are? Especially you here who are younger, you're always whether you know it or not, you are trying to figure out what it looks like to have a meaningful life. And I'm telling you that that's a complicated question, but a large part of the answer is right here in this passage. That you would be precious That you would be one of those who is highly esteemed, and that you've given up your life for Christ and his congregation. I'd encourage you to reread our bulletin this morning from the sections from 1 Peter. And in fact, I'd encourage you all to read this afternoon all of 1 Peter and count the seven times that Peter uses the word precious. And see that Jesus Christ is our precious cornerstone, and that He has called you to be a precious stone also. That you are to see this as true, and by the power of the Holy Spirit, may you see Being like Epaphroditus and Timothy and Paul and ultimately Christ, it is my prayer that you would see that as good. Better than gold. In order for this congregation to be healthy, including the health of unity, then you must be willing to give up your own life. Kind of like a parent with a newborn. Our Lord puts it this way for our final words, John 15, 12 through 13. This is my commandment that you love one another as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this, than to lay down one's life for his friends. Amen. Let us pray.