Philippians two, one through four. Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit If any affection and mercy, fulfill my joy by being like minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, it is in you alone that all things are unified, and it is done by your Spirit We ask that you, as the master craftsman, bringing all things together, that you would unite us by your word. We ask, Lord, that this would be a witness to the world that your kingdom has come. That your will is being done on earth as it is in heaven. We ask these things in your name. Amen. May be seated From the moment that we began the Philippian series, we noted that Paul was ultimately concerned with unity. He was quite pleased and overjoyed by the fact that the Philippian church had already been unified in helping him out as he was on house arrest in sending Epaphroditus and gifts with him. As we kept looking at each section of this letter all the way up to this point, we kept noticing more and more unity, united in love, and exactly what that means. Last week, or two weeks ago, actually, we had an image from the military domain of imagery, from the Roman phalanx. Shoulder to shoulder and shield to shield, we are to be united striving for the gospel or the faith of the gospel. Last week we saw another discussion on unity, which had to do with our motivations. We know we're to be unified, but from what motives? There were three main points, really, where we were to all be motivated out of our love for Christ and his work. Really motivated for the triune God. We were able to meditate on what is it that Christ has done specifically for you personally in your actual life. And it's the same thing with the Spirit. And then he went on, the Apostle Paul, to say Even consider the love that I have had for you, speaking to the Philippians, and you could do that too. I didn't get a chance to talk about that last week. But if there has been elders or deacons or officers who have Uh just to think about the apostolate here for a moment, but by analogy, if there have been officers who have poured out their lives into you, even out of love for them. you could move on to that next step, which is unity within the body. Now we're moving forward here this week with a new set of verses two through four, but the main focus is still unity. And there is a new question that arises. We know the motives that we're supposed to have When we seek to be unified, and that is love, but what is it specifically that we're supposed to be doing out of motives of love? That's the main question that we seek to answer this morning, and we seek to apply that as well. So let's take a look at the passage together and just seek to answer What specifically are we meant to do from motives of love? There's a couple summary terms here, and we'll unfold them. So let's look together at the passage. Last week, Paul made an appeal for the Philippians to fulfill his joy. That's really right there in verse number two, I believe. Let me just double check. Yes. Verse number two, fulfill my joy by being like-minded is the continuation of it. We stopped at fulfill my joy. If we were to keep going like I just did, you can begin to see the answer to, okay, well how? How do I fulfill your joy? How, or what do I do from motives of love? And he continues, therefore, in verse number two. I just want you to see this, and you can even make a note of this for yourself. He's first going to state this positively. And he's going to say positively that you can fulfill my joy, or from motives of love, tying in the rest of the passage, by being like-minded. Having the same love. Being one souled. It's translated in my Bible, one accord, as one souled, and of one mind. I'm not looking at these as separate things, but rather explanations mainly of what it means to be of one mind. Just think of if you were to look up a thesaurus and you wanted to see, well, what are other words that mean basically the same thing as this word? Well, you would have that here in this list. And being like-minded or having the same love or being one of one accord or one soul or being of one mind is Paul's appeal to you It's really the Spirit's appeal to the church throughout the generations. So that's what we see in verse number two, is it's answering the question, okay, well how do I do this? I know the motives, but what's the mark? Well here it is, you're to be of one mind. Then in verse number three, just to fill this out a little bit so you can see the rest of the passage, he states it negatively. Well, what is it that would work against that or not be being of one mind? Well, specifically, he brings up the idea here in verse number three. He says, Let nothing be done through selfish ambition. Or conceit, but in loneliness of mind, let each esteem others better than himself. So you can see the opposites there, or those things which grind against that which he wants us to accomplish, or you could even think of it in terms of what is resident within your heart that will mess this whole thing up. And it's selfish ambition and conceit and only considering your interests and not considering the interests of other people. That resides right there in your little heart organ. Spiritually speaking. Right there in your heart. So he brings that up and he doesn't want that pouring out of you because there is a remnant of it that remains Then he goes on to give you a way in which this specifically can be accomplished, and that is instead of just looking to your own interests. Instead of just thinking about your own selfish ambitions, take a look at verse number four. This is just very practical stuff in order for us to remain united as a church Let each of you look out not only, a lot of times we forget that little phrase there. Sometimes we think the Bible just says, only look out for other people's interests. Never look out for your own. That's a great way to fail at life. Please don't do that. It says here, let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. So you can see how all of these pieces are glued together, and if you were to go ahead and just put it into a simple statement. You could see that, well, from motives of love, the Spirit calls you today, Christian, to be like-minded, to be of one mind, to be of one heart That's his call to you today. To love from love of Christ to be like minded. Now Our first question was, how are we to love to move from motives of love? We know it's one-minded, like-minded. I have a second question for you that I want you to consider as we go through the passage. Second question is, what in the world does it mean to be one minded? I think that's a valuable question to ask because some people take this Down the wrong road and they use it to subjugate you to just their selfish ambitions and interests So we want to be really careful. When Paul says, I want you all to be one-minded, does that mean that if the majority of the people here decide we should only eat vegetables? that all of us should become vegetarian? Is that what he has in mind? Does he mean that if everybody here got on the bandwagon of the carnivore diet, that all of us should just be meat eaters? He's not talking about that. Not so narrow. He has something far more expansive in mind when he talks about the word one-minded or like-minded. It's actually quite a special word. It would be worth your time, I'll tell you this now, it would be worth your time to just study the word on your own and take a look at how it was used throughout the Greek world. You're going to find that this word is used within Platonic dialogues You're going to find that this word is used within Aristotelian treatises. It's quite interesting to see exactly how these things are working, and some of those within that larger Greek world, some of the meanings of this word do pass in to what we're seeing here. There is a kind of overlap. Like-minded is a special word also, just in the sense of it is used ten times in the book of Philippians, or in this letter. This is not a long letter. Ten of anything is a lot. And if we were to go through those various usages, you would see how important this is, that Paul is really beating this drum of unity. by way of them being one mind. Do you remember when we talked about the two women who were in conflict here? It says that they are to have the same mind And he'll go on in other ways to talk about this same thing. It's brought up in other letters to talk about the same kind of thing, but it is a special word. Now, what does it mean specifically? What it means specifically is not the idea of the vegetarian idea or the carnivore idea. It means something broader than that, that includes a lot of different things, and it means your entire mindset. It's the way in which really you're going to operate within your life. It is an entire way of looking at the world, really. In this way, it's analogous to a lens. If you were to put a pair of glasses that are blue in their lenses, you would see, is this right? I mean I'm colorblind so I'd I Don't pay attention to these things. But you would look blue, you'd be like a congregation of Smurfs. And it would make me laugh. When we had the eclipse, I put on glasses that didn't allow me to see anything and my mindset was darkness. Until the eclipse came out, and that was pretty cool. So you could look at it in terms of perception, like a lens. You could look at it one step forward and remember what we talked about last week when I made you put your finger in front of your face And if I look past my finger, my finger is blurry. And I see all of you, you're foregrounded. If I look at my finger, you become blurry, and a different set of things are foregrounded, and other things are backgrounded. And the point of bringing up that analogy was in fact in anticipation of this specific sermon that we have here this morning, that it really makes a difference on what your mindset is because it's all encompassing and how you view the whole world. really determinative of what's foregrounded and what's backgrounded. To say it again, like I said last week, a mindset is your focal point. A mindset is what determines what is foregrounded and backgrounded in your life. A mindset is where you is what you care about. A mindset is your concerns. A mindset is what you love. A mindset, if we were to just keep sticking with perception, but I mean more than that, it's how you see and act in the world. It's actually how you see the world and therefore how you act. Because as a man thinks, so is he. That's really going on here in all of in this word, this kind of mindset here. It determines what's forward and what's in the back. And that is called the one-mindedness or our mindset. Now, God is calling us to that. I want to keep trying to explain what this word is because that was a very general and almost philosophical way to describe it, or psychological way to describe it. If you were to look in Romans chapter 8, the same word is used by the Apostle Paul, and he splits this idea of having one mind into two different categories. He says that you can be of one mind in the flesh, or you can be of one mind in the spirit. If your mindset is a flesh mindset, it doesn't mean that the things of the earth are terrible. All of God's creation is good. But what he's getting at here is that if your mouth if your mindset is a flesh mindset, then your focal point in love Is not for the things that God calls you to love at the time that He calls you to love them. In fact, there are some things that you love that He never called you to love. Like loving yourself too much, or selfishness becomes your focal point. That's a fleshly or earthly way of viewing things. You love things that are lower on a hierarchy of goods. When you should be loving that higher thing. That would be a fleshly viewpoint or mindset. You live for your lust. Have you met anyone that's like that? Most of the time you don't know because it's happening in private, but they live for their lusts. They sacrifice the health of their wife and their children for things that don't really matter. They destroy church communities not because they want the truth to prevail and Christ to be honored, but because they need to be right. Those are different ways to have a mindset of the flesh. It means to be an idolater. The example that we've given to you, I think, three different times already is Cain. Cain had a fleshly mindset. If you go back to that original passage, take a look at how they talk about him or choose to describe him, the authors of Scripture. They talk about him as earthly. And they're getting at something there. They're talking about, and Brad was getting at it in his confession, that this person belongs to a particular kind of mindset and way of being in the world. That is a part of a different line of people, even. Those who are not a part of the covenant, those who can only see things a certain way, those who raise the knife and spill their brother's blood on the ground. Now that seems uh radical and extreme, but it's meant to be a kind of poster or ideal for you from which all of the other examples flow of the kind of things that you're tempted to engage in within your life from a fleshly mindset. If you were destroying your wife or your children, even in small ways, because you're more focused on trivial matters, it would not be unheard of for the scriptural authors to say you're like Cain. Is it saying that you're as grievous as Cain, that you raised the knife and killed the wife and the children? No. But what was in him is the same thing that is residing within you. It's the same kind of thing and the same kind of mindset. You would be like Cain killing all the ables, or if you want to, you can look at the New Testament usage of how Judas is portrayed in his betrayal. We have silver on a hierarchy of goods. And we have Christ and the accomplishment of the will of God on a hierarchy of goods, and Christ switches them to where money becomes more important than the Messiah. You could say the same thing and that you have a little bit of Cain inside your heart, so too do you have a little bit of Judas because you are quicker than you want to be to elevate money in a hierarchy of goods, to prioritize it above people that you love. You will put them on the altar of your greed and sacrifice the people of your lives. in order to attain money for the sake of status or prestige or a secular security That's the mindset of the flesh. But there's also the mindset of the Spirit. The mindset of the Spirit is that you live for Christ and his kingdom by way of the seeds that the Spirit has planted in your heart, having purified you by faith. You take your calling seriously. You make sure that those around you are healthy in Christ, even at your own expense. to different degrees in different situations. You choose the good works on the top of the hierarchy. You do not give way to inordinate or disordered desire. But rather desire that thing which should be desired in that moment, and you strive for it. You want to know how Paul puts this? In Philippians chapter 4, verse 8. He gave these things specifically that these two women would use it, but we can use it a little bit more generally, and we can say that mindset in the spirit is this, Philippians 4. 8, it's whatever things are true. It's that we're a group of people who are united in one mind, and we have a what that means is that we're always after whatever things are noble Whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, if there is any virtue and if there is anything praiseworthy. Now it uses the word meditate on these things, and it is a different Greek word than this one-mind idea, but I think there's the same semantic field, so to speak, logisomi And you could think, put your mind, be one-minded on those things. And that is the mindset of the Spirit. That is the mindset of the Spirit. So Paul, in Romans 8, to help us to understand what a mindset is, he divides it into two categories, the flesh and the spirit. And you can see this is not some Gnostic idea. But the flesh and the spirit shows two different lines, the line of Cain, or the line of the serpent, and the line of the woman. You can see it all wind its way up seripulously on the one hand all the way through history, and you can see that Christ is bringing to life those whom he chooses, and he is giving him them his mind, that is to say, they become spiritual in this sense of the mindset where they are striving for the true, the good, and the beautiful That's the spiritual mindset. Now, I want to give you one more way to understand what do we mean by one mind? I'm really I'm doing you the one two punch. How's that? No, it's one two, yeah, and then punch. One, two, punch. And here's the punch. This is from Matthew chapter 16. It ends up being an excellent example to see the difference in mindset. Actually the same word that we have in Philippians and the Greek is also used in Matthew 16 to talk about mindset. And it's Matthew chapter 16, beginning in verse 21. Here is a spiritual mindset. Let me read to you this part of the passage. From that time, Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed. And be raised the third day. Mission-minded. Focused on what the Father has determined for him to do and that he has voluntarily entered into. Spiritual mindset. Fleshly mindset begins in verse number 22. Then Peter took Jesus aside. Now this is crazy. Can you imagine taking Jesus aside to give him a good talking to? If I did that, I and you all were there, I hope you would just stop me. If you saw me in motion, be like, whoa Things are not going to go well for you, Jesse. So Peter took him aside and he began to rebuke him. It got worse. And he says this, far be it from you, Lord, that this shall not this shall not happen to you. Exclamation point. And he goes on in verse 23 to explain him, and Jesus turns to him and he says to Peter, get behind me, Satan. That's a pretty tough thing to hear. And then Jesus continues and he says, You are an offense to me. That's really hard to hear. And then Jesus continues and he says, in the word from Philippians, you are not mindful of the things of God. And then he goes on and he says, there's an ellipsis, so he leaves the word out, but I'll add it. But you are mindful of the things of men. That ends up being an ultimate example for multiple reasons. One is it it's just a good example, right? To be able to see the kind of mindset that we can get into that Christ calls us out of. He confronts us. calls us to be one mind and of a particular mindset in a specific way. That is to say we are to have the mind of the spirit and not the mind of man or the mind of flesh. It also is a good example because the stage of going from humiliation to exaltation that we see within Matthew 16 is also the same set of stages that we see in Philippians chapter 2 verse 5, which is next week, and continuing. So we're really in touch at this point with how the scriptural authors and the spirit think about these things. They're starting to repeat like fractals. We know we're really on to something in understanding what does it mean to be like-minded or one-minded. It means to have the same mindset We talked about that psychologically using an analogy of a focal point, cares and concerns and the metaphysics of love. It is also to walk in the spirit and not to walk in the flesh. It is to be mindful of the things of God and not the things of men. It is to subdue inordinate desires that we might always be striving for whatever is lovely, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is good report. As we learn in Philippians chapter 4, verse 8. That's what it means here when he calls you to be of one mind and to have that mindset. I've given you a few snapshots. And I hope that you have better understanding from that. Now, that brings us to even another question. This is called the Sermon of Questions. Apparently. What does that look like in our everyday life? What does that look like in our everyday life? And I want to give you A few examples just from my own testimony and uh and then also some observations from perhaps I guess you could call it experience. What does that look like? in everyday life. First, what does it look like in everyday life when you're single? Back in the day, I was single. And Christ had called me to himself. He had renewed my mind and my heart, and I had spiritual understanding. I was a little baby. And if you were to talk to the people that were around me at that time, like Holly, you'd say, yes, he was definitely a spiritual little baby, and he made all kinds of terrible mistakes. But the Lord was still with me. And he had given me some gifts. And so being of that mind and of that mindset, I decided to join a church. Because I saw that's what God calls you to do is to join with his people in his worship and in his service. And then as I was a part of that community and they were discipling me, My mindset grew to where I could become more spiritual. And they pointed out that, hey, you sometimes do something right. And you seem to be able to hold a conversation with people. Why don't you work with the youth group? And so I began to work with the youth. I would sit there, we would open the Bible, I would ask different questions, and I'd get them to think through their faith And sometimes I would play dodgeball with them as all a part of that. And that was me being in a different mindset than I was before, because prior to that I had enough n I did not want anything to do with the church I would be willing to join with a group of people to do different things that I do not want to talk to you about here this morning. But now there was a different mindset. It was about the things of God. It was about raising up youth and the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. It was about the health of the church. Tons of sacrifice to be a part of those different kinds of ministry, even playing dodgeball. as a part of that, all being ushered as a unity toward a particular thing, which really you could characterize in some way as the coming of Christ's kingdom The things of God, and no longer the things of the flesh. Another example I could give to you from everyday life would be marriage. Marriage is exceptionally difficult. It is two people that are that think differently about things trying to do something together. In many ways. And when we enter into our marriages, we don't come as clean slates. We come with a bunch of baggage on how we think things are supposed to be done. And so over here on the left hand side we have the husband and all of his baggage and all the ways that he thinks things should be done. And that's one set of ways. And then we have over here the wife and all of her baggage and the way that she thinks things should be done that are have been ingrained since childhood. And both of the th ways that they think they're supposed to be done, if you did a Venn Gra diagram Some of them very small overlap. And most of them don't. And everyone's really excited at the wedding, and then they push you off into life. And that ends up being marriage in America. Well, the baggage that I brought was into my marriage was I work hard for my money and I play on the weekends. That means that if I want to, I'm going to use my paycheck for a shotgun. I'm going goose hunting. I'm going on fishing trips. I want the $400 camo wear. I want the new pickup truck. I want this and that and the other thing. Holly's mind point was of the spirit. Mine was of the flesh because she's thinking, how could we set up this home where it is a place of life and peace and beauty? And we went on like that for about three years until the Lord Jesus Christ confronted me. And I had to repent not only of my sins, of my selfishness, but I had to repent of in a sense, or or just just see that the that was just the tip of the iceberg, that I was actually carrying forward a familial heritage of what it means to relate to people that was unhealthy. I carried forward some of the things that my grandfather had in him, and some of the things that my grandfather, great-grandfather had in him that got passed down on how I thought about women. and how I thought about spending my time, and how I thought about money and the purpose of life. And those things needed to be confronted in order for me to have a spiritual mindset. to where Holly and I could look at each other and we could say, we serve the Lord Jesus Christ and his kingdom together. So then we start walking together hand in hand towards the celestial city on a good day So that's an example of how it ends up working out where you saw me where I had to repent from a terrible mindset and I didn't get into all the the the details. But I just thank God for Holly's patience and for the Lord's grace. Now, I'm not, I want to give one more example, which is an example from widowhood. Holly is here this morning, so that's not me. But widowhood I have noticed is exceptionally difficult. Widowhood, these are my observations, little baby 47-year-old Jesse. I think I got my age right this time. But when I look out at widows, what I see is a person who united with another person for a long time serving Christ together, and then one of those people is no longer persons is no longer there. So you would think, well, we can figure this out. That's not a big deal. It's just like one thing changed. No. What I notice in widowhood is that everything changes. When you're growing together in your marriage, you enjoy having coffee and you don't think anything of it. I get up and I have coffee in the mornings. And then your wife or your husband dies and you get up and you go, you know, I think I only really loved coffee because I loved having coffee with them. And now I don't like coffee anymore. And it's all the little things, the kind of food that you're gonna make. Are we gonna have vegetables on the plate or just meat? Am I gonna just heat something up? All that ends up changing in widowhood. It's like your whole life is being rearranged all the way down to the particular fundamentals. And that can take a long time to be able to get your feet under you. Now from those observations, just thinking about mindset here and widowhood, what does that look like in everyday life? Well my mom's a widow and I've had to work with her for a while, and there are some of you have been widows and We've talked, and I would say one observation or one encouragement would be, please be patient with yourself. Give yourself some time to acclimate to this new life. And I and I I know it's the same life, but I'm calling it new because there's so many different things that are new. You can be so hard on yourself thinking you're supposed to have it together already. Sigmund Freud, who you should normally not read, used to say that human beings really love to kill themselves. He said that we this is how he put it. He's such a funny little man. He said, we all have tyrannical super egos. Now, if you were to translate that into the the literature of our tradition within the Reformation, it would be we have tyrannical, overly scrupulous consciences. that drive us into the ground, constantly criticizing us. And I'm encouraging you here this morning, of course This goes beyond widowhood. All of you have that in one way or another. Sometimes you have an overly scrupulous conscience. But as a widow, please give yourself some grace. I try to repeat this often. Give yourself as much grace as God gives you, which is more than you give yourself. Let your feet get back under you and recognize that you still have a spiritual mindset, but all the pieces of the game have been rearranged and it's going to take a minute to figure it out. So I hope that's encouraging to you. And I'd encourage you to encourage widows and not put too much pressure on them. I remember this one gentleman, I'll conclude with this, who told me that he was so excited to finally have kids. And when he did, he really jumped the gun. I mean he got like a six month-old BB gun. It just wasn't time, you know, but he was so excited about it. And eventually he tuned in that some age you gotta wait to be able to go on adventures together, like in The Wind and the Willows. And so he did. But eventually they were of the age where they could get on a canoe together. And he wanted them to get on this canoe because he knew of a great place in some of the deeper marshes. to see painted face turtles, large bass, and this beautiful willow tree. So they all hopped in the canoe. He put life preservers on them. He sat in the front Paddling, they sat in the back. He handed them each a paddle because we're all on an adventure together as a family. There's two of them. Three total. And he noticed that it was particularly difficult to get to the beautiful spot. There was no wind, and there was no perceived current working against him. So he began to wonder, why is it taking so long to get to this good thing? And when he turned around, he saw that both of the children were paddling in different directions. And I love that story because it ends up being a picture of the way that we can be as human beings. We have Jesus Christ in the front of the canoe. He is our shepherd taking us into eternal glory and bringing the kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. And there are some times when you have a fleshly mindset. In your marriages, in your widowhood, or whatever it is, you're in the back, paddling in all different kinds of directions, being distracted by selfish ambition, cares, and concerns that really shouldn't be yours. And it's leading nowhere good. It's just holding us up to getting to that which is beautiful. And that's what's on Paul's mind this morning, and more importantly, with the Spirit. What is the picture that you want to have for your life if you considered your life as a canoe ride? How do you want to paddle? You need to choose By the grace of the Holy Spirit. And I would encourage some of you who are all in these different kinds of relationships, you need to have a conversation today. Husbands and wives in particular, I'd say to you, have a checkup with each other and just say, hey, am I paddling against you a lot? Is that how you feel? And be humble. Be willing to change by the grace of the Holy Spirit. The main goal is for your good. No one's trying to hurt you, though it can feel that way when we seek to pull you away from sin. Really the main thing that we're after is that you, out of love for Christ, would be one mind together. Amen. Let us pray.