Here's the word of God. But Jesus answered them saying, The hour has come that the Son of Man should be glorified Most assuredly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it produces much grain. So let us pray together. Dear Heavenly Father, we just praise you and thank you for your word. We praise you for our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We thank you for the wonderful harvest that you are bringing. And the abundant life that you bring to your people. I pray, Lord, that you would use this time and these words of exhortation to edify and strengthen your people. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So about twelve years ago, my oldest was a senior at Rockbridge. And about this time in Rockbridge kind of curriculum in these dark days of winter, uh the English uh curriculum takes you through the brothers Karamazov. And um uh maybe this is strange or maybe this is normal, but uh as I think some parents They want to kind of read with the kids to find out what are they actually uh reading about? What what's this great book of literature? Uh The Brothers K is considered uh one of the greatest novels ever written. And uh so I decided to go to the shelf. I pulled off the book. If you know what it looks like, it's 800 to 1,000 pages, a very deep, dense uh Russian literature uh and I'm not like Carol who knows uh Russian but um thankfully it was a translation but um I I pull it off and you go to the first chapter But actually there's something before the first chapter, if you look carefully. And there's an epigraph. And I'm not sure if people know what an epigraph is, but an epigraph is A quote, a verse, a line of poetry that essentially is a theme for the entire book. And the epigraph for The Brothers Karamazov is Truly, truly, I say unto you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. So this massive book, it has this great theme throughout it. And I was reading for the first time, searching for where is this theme of redemption coming out? Where is this death, where is the life? It's a story of three brothers in three very different places with a very terrible father. And I don't want to give away the story, but there is a lot of redemption in the story. But in reality, the word of God that we have, this is the most wonderful. story of redemption that we have. So I'm looking forward to sharing with you some thoughts around these two verses from verses twenty-three and twenty-four. But um because we're jumping into the book of John, I thought it'd be appropriate to um provide a little bit of context of what is happening in this chapter. So if you think of um John 12, Jesus has just performed his greatest of signs with the resurrection of Lazarus. And Jesus is in the house of Simon the Leper, according to the book of Mark, and he is with Lazarus, Mary and Martha, and some of his disciples. This is how the chapter begins. It's a few days before his triumphal entry. So he is there, if you remember, Mary takes this very expensive Uh pure nard, this ointment. She washes Jesus' feet with it. The perfume is filling the house, and you remember Judah saying, Why are you wasting this precious ointment? And Jesus rebukes Judas and says, She has done a wonderful work for me. She is anointing me for my burial. So it's already starting to foreshadow what is to come in just a few chapters later. Just a few uh the scene changes rather quickly to the triumphal entry. You see Jesus not ascending into Jerusalem on this mighty war horse and steed, but he comes into Jerusalem on a humble donkey. But you remember what the people say. Hosanna, blessed. Hosanna in the highest. Blessed. Let me make sure I get this right, I'm sorry. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Even the king of Israel. And if you think about that, this is one of the first times you hear the people really calling him king, and there's this exaltation that's happening. And um the Pharisees here are just they can't believe it. For three years they have tried to Thwart Christ. They have tried to silence him, even kill him. And you read in the night in the 19th verse, it says, So the Pharisees said to one another, You see that we are gaining nothing. Look, the whole world is going after him. So you have the people crying out and saying that he is king of Israel. You have the Pharisees saying that he the whole world is going after him. And then the next verse says, Now there are some Greeks. So we see these Greeks that have come and they want to see Jesus. a picture of the whole world coming to see the Christ. And um so went through a circuitous route. They get to Jesus finally. And I don't know all the conversation, but Jesus answers them when they want to see him, and he says, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. If you think back, there's many memorable moments in John. There's five times where Jesus says, the hour has not yet come. And this is the first time. That Jesus says, the hour has come. And when he says this, he says, the hour come for the Son of Man to be glorified. And I think of the disciples that were that were there. I'm assuming maybe the Greeks were there as well. I wonder if they, in all of their exhilaration and excitement of the crowds glorifying and praising God, did they think, you know, Jesus had told them that he was going to be Cursed, spit upon, betrayed, but they're like, maybe, maybe this is it. Is this going to be this glorification they're waiting for? But Jesus in this next verse says Truly, truly, I say unto you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit So I just want to spend some time though thinking about what does this analogy mean? I want you to think about how is the Son of Man glorified in his death? And then how does that apply to us today? So first the analogy. Jesse in Sunday School said, uh any uh anyone know anything about uh I think Dairy farming or something, and someone said yes. Um and I was thinking that um not many of us are farmers anymore, right? So I don't know how much we can relate to these analogies in this agricultural society. But it talks about a grain of wheat. Some of the other translations talk to uh about a kernel of corn or a seed. And if you think about this analogy of like what it means. I grew up with seed packets. And we as amateur gardeners in my family, we might take a seed packet, we may put a few into the ground, we'd line them up. And we'd watch them grow in a few uh weeks or something. But I'm assuming that the seeds would stay in this package alone for quite a while. If you didn't do anything with them. But if you took the seed and you actually put them into the ground, what happens to the outside shell? Starts corroding, it starts decaying. It's not that dissimilar to what us as our bodies age and decay. That that outer man starts wasting away. But as it is buried into the ground, it then starts giving life. And it starts providing that shoot. And then it comes up and it bears much fruit, or can bear much fruit. And I think about how in the gospel so often Christ is telling us of in the good soil it can bear 30, 60, 100 times, hundredfold. There's so many examples of this great harvest that Christ is teaching his disciples about. So I think the picture of what he's telling us is clearly referring to Jesus' death. That he must die, that he must be buried, and then he would rise again and produce fruit. But it does beg the question of how does that glorify uh the son of man. For he says the s the hour has come for the son of man to be glorified. So before we jump into, I just wanted to consider I have four different ways that the Son of Man is glorified and then some application. But when I think about glorification, sometimes I find uh that that term feels abstract to me. That um we use it a lot. What does it mean to glorify God? What is the glory in something? And uh some of the things I'm saying, I'm sure will be very familiar, but I think it's just helpful to us to think about When we think about glory, we think about ascribing weight, honor, worth to something. And when we want to glorify something, we often want to lift it up. We want to say it's excellent. It's beautiful. It's worthy of praise. So we magnify the reputation through our words and our actions. So when we think about how do we glorify God and how is the Son of Man glorified, think about this glorification. And how did God glorify the Son? You may think of a number of different ways, but at least a few of the ways there's when Jesus you it the gospels talk about the Father vindicating the Son, the Son in whom he was well pleased. And he exalt exalting the Son Jesus Christ. And throughout John, you see that the Son says that he is glorifying the Father, and the Father is glorifying him So when we think about this glorification, what I want us to think about is how do we recognize, honor, and reflect the worth And action of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in his dying. So I think the doctrinal statement that I'm trying to kind of leave us with, if you said, what is the one thing that I want us to think about? The glory of Christ. is revealed in his sacrificial substitutionary death by which God sovereignly brings eternal and abundant life to his people. So let me give you four different ways, I think. Yes, the glory of Christ is revealed in his sacrificial, substitutionary death. by which God sovereignly brings eternal and abundant life to his people. So I have four different ways that I feel that the Son of Man is glorified in this passage specifically. And particularly in the Gospel of John. So I want us to start with one that is may not be quite as obvious, but the submission to the Father is just a beautiful way that Christ is glorious. I have just been reflecting so much of how Christ knew what he was going into. He knew he had a betrayer. He knew that someone was w was going to sell him for money and that he was going to be facing the most difficult task that he had. And in the garden in just a few days, and this is part of this this culmination, the hour has come where Christ in his agony Is dealing with drops and sweats of blood. He cries out and says, Father, if you're willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless not my will, but thy will be done. Can you consider what what that would be like and I don't know if you've ever gone through being betrayed before. I think I've only experienced it once in my life. But if I had the opportunity to go back and I knew who it was and I knew had the power to potentially change it. I c be almost I couldn't imagine not trying to stop it. But Christ, in his submission to the Father in this great redemptive plan. He says in John 6, I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. That was Christ's work, that he was going to follow in the will of the Father. And this brings me to the next point, that he is glorious because of his sacrificial death on a cross. In um in Isaiah 53, there's these beautiful verses about the suffering servant. And it really speaks of this idea of what the death would be to this great, to this servant. And it says, yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring, he shall prolong his days, the will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many. Christ clearly lays down his life. There is no doubt that, as he told Peter, I could call down legions of angels to stop it. But he lays down his life in a sacrificial way. Uh that is just a beautiful picture. And I um just this this verse in Philippians 2 probably comes to mind for many of you where it says, and being found in human form, he humbled himself. By becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him. He has glorified him, and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. What a beautiful picture of the sacrificial death on a cross and what it means for us to have such a wonderful Savior. So the third way that I wanted to talk about is his redemptive work. And um Christ's work in this picture of redemption is throughout all of Scripture. It's not just in the Gospels. And in John 17, 5. It says, and now the Father glorify me in your presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. Isn't that amazing? Just the way that the Father and the Son, in perfect unity together, in the foreknowledge of all that would come, had this perfect plan of redemption to save a people. Um in Christ, we're in God sending his Son in the perfect timing, in the perfect way, that at this moment, and this is the hour that has come, that we would see Christ glorified in his death. for his people. It says in Colossians 1 that Christ is the head of the body, the church. That in everything he might be preeminent, for in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things, making peace by the blood of the cross. So this is the great redemption that we have, that we have peace and redemption through our Lord and Savior, through this great redemptive work that was planned throughout all of time. And finally, and this might be the most obvious one with uh this verse in verse twenty-four, Christ is glorious because of the way that he brings about a great harvest and abundant life. You think about the Greeks that were there, you could view them as the first fruits of this harvest, the first ones that were this expansion of who these promises were to. That soon we'll see the Great Commission going out, that all all every nation, every tribe and tongue will hear the gospel, and many will come to Christ. And um when you think of Christ and what we'll see, will we see millions upon millions, billions upon billions? I it will be a multitude. There'll be more than the sands of the sea and the stars of heaven. We know that. And uh it says in Revelation 7. After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, from every nation, standing before the throne and before the Lamb. And crying out, salvation belongs to God and to the Lamb. Isn't that glorious? That is glorious. And that's why his death and redemption is a glorious thing to consider and spend time considering. So that is kind of the meat of those two verses, but I wanted to spend a little time thinking about so how does this apply to us. Um when I think of uh these verses and when I was reading The Brothers K, I was spending time thinking about What is the death of each of these num I know a number of you have read this book, so you could probably imagine these characters and what they were struggling with with their sin. There's a lot of sin in Brothers K. But there's a lot of dying that has to take place and I started seeing the mortification of sin that even seen in these characters is helpful for me. to think about how I should die to sin. And you think of Romans 6 when it talks about that we have been buried with Christ in our baptism and then raised up with him. So we have been united in his death, and we have we are united with him in his resurrection. And uh this gives us the ability to have power over sin. It says in Romans 6, I think 6, we know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. So when you think about um your own dying, maybe dying to self, where do you need uh to die to sins? What are some of the besetting sins that are easily entangle you are there sins uh that you may not take very seriously sins that you think might be fine because they don't really affect others. Doesn't seem that they affect others. So you you're willing to allow them to fester But are you willing to actually mortify and kill these sins in a similar fashion as this analogy of this death to life and to see your old self be crucified? Uh how are you doing with your pride this morning or this afternoon, sorry. I think a good way to consider our pride is how often are we confessing our sins to God and to one another? Are we never sometimes? Occasionally. Our ability to confess our sins to one another just gives us one a posture of humility and also a recognition that we are continuing to die to sin and until we are glorified we will struggle with sin. But uh just continuing to die to ourself and killing our pride and also being willing to forgive others It can cost a lot to forgive others. It can be a lot of pain that we can go through to be willing to truly put away the sin of others. and be willing to not remember it and hold it against a person. So those are at least some of the ways that I think you can consider. a different type of dying than what Christ is, but uh still a a way that we are called to die to ourself and to live for Christ. So in conclusion, just as I was considering um the Brothers K, I was thinking about these verses. I found that particularly in the past, as I read the book and even scripture, I tend to put myself in the center of these stories too often. And really, what I need to do is put Christ in the center of these stories. That Christ is this picture of the gospel. Because I have I am too willing to try to go fix myself. and say, I see my problem, now I have to work hard and I gotta do a better job next time. But I just think of like this verse of now The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. That is what needs to be first and foremost in our heart, that we need to use this glorification, exaltation of the one that is above every name. And as we glorify our Lord and Savior, this can fill our hearts with love. It can help us fuel our obedience and our desire to obey Him. So I just uh, you know, as you consider, maybe where are those pars places where you need to mortify sin and put and see some death? Consider Christ. Consider the one that has truly done this and done it perfectly, and the one that we are called to love and glorify and worship and remember His grace. He is the one that can enable and strengthen our hearts to die to sin, to live to Christ. Amen. Let me pray and uh then we'll I'll uh I'll close the service and then uh Jeremiah will leave us in a time of some corporate prayer together. O Heavenly Father, uh we thank you, Lord, for your word and the power in it We thank you that you have given us life in Christ, and we do pray that you would continue to transform our hearts, that you would help us to be Ones that give life, that we bear fruit through the power of your spirit. Lord, I've just been considering how much uh each of our time here on earth in some ways is so short And we do not know uh uh what is before us tomorrow or in the future. And I pray that you would help us to think eternally. And that you would help us to see our Savior and that we would glorify Him with all of our heart. And that as we glorify Him, that you would fill our hearts full of love. And desire to obey you and s and to glorify your name that we would be a light to the world around us. We do praise you for, again, for your word and your just uh Just the love that you have shown us and how much you've forgiven us. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.