Let us now turn to the word preached and ask that you turn to Proverbs chapter one. And that you'd have your pen handy to be able to take notes There is a sermon notes page in your bulletin. And you could collect these bulletins and store them for reference works if you wanted as you study them. The book of Proverbs for your remaining life. We'll consider specifically how Christ relates to these Proverbs as we take the supper My heart is thrilled to go through Proverbs with you. When I look out at our culture, and even when I hear Christians speak, I see everyone searching for wisdom. And I hardly ever hear the book of Proverbs mentioned. And yet it is the very book of wisdom. for the people of God. Anything on Amazon that doesn't have the word Proverbs on it falls short of what this book offers. And I hope that you can see that value as we get through I ask that you'd be patient with me as it might go a little long. The sermon also is on the verge of a lecture, but this is an introduction to Proverbs. So I just again ask that you would be patient. My goal in teaching the book is, of course, that you would be obedient to Jesus Christ and the Father and the Spirit And that your families would be, and that you would know his love. But I also have a goal in revealing to you how this book is structured. This is ancient Hebrew literature, and I want you to be able to read it on your own. And so I'm going to try to reveal those things to you. In other words, I'm going to open it up to you for you to benefit for the rest of your life. And for you to be able to teach it to others. The book is in is little used in the church today. And here is what one theologian says about such a series as Proverbs. He says, In a world bombarded by inane clichés, trivial catchwords, and godless soundbites, the expression of true wisdom is in the Short supply today. However, Proverbs remains the model of curriculum for humanity to learn how to live under God and before Humankind. That is what is offered to you in this series. And in fact, you'll see on the front of your bulletin that it tries to capture the melodic line that runs through the whole book and that you are being offered God's wisdom for your life. And notice how we usually put a series, but I'm being quite honest with you, this is a study. And you're going to have to apply your heart more diligently than you ever have to this book. It has not one dimension, but it is multi-dimensional. Really could be in it your whole life and not exhaust it. And so this is an introduction to Proverbs, and I want to take a look at the title, the purpose, the audience, and the prerequisite. The title, the purpose So let's go ahead and we're going to begin with the title. In verse 1, the title reveals both the author and the kind of literature which this book contains. Now quite obvious quite obviously it says in verse 1, the Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, king of Israel. So the author is in fact Solomon, but I do need to be more precise with you, and I know you've heard that before, that it that the author's Solomon, but that's not exactly correct. To be more precise, we have to say the collections one through four in the book of Proverbs is from Solomon. The book of Proverbs consists of seven different collections. And so let me just show you very quickly, I don't want to show them all because I can't use that much time on it, but just take a look at Proverbs chapter 30, for example. Just flip to the back or swipe on your phone, whatever you're doing. And you can see here in chapter 30, it doesn't say that Solomon is the author. It says that it's the words of Agor. All right, so here you have a uh uh a um courtier of a king recording Proverbs. And then if you were to just go to Proverbs 31, which is collection 7, you could see this is great. I love this so much. That it is the words of King Lemuel, but not exactly. It's the utterances which his mother taught him. So it's really his mom's sayings. Isn't that lovely? I love that. Praise be to God. And so here you can see that the author in that section is going to be, and this is one of my Agor is one of my favorites, here is King Lemuel So you can see it is Solomonic authorship in the first four collections. But then it will move into the men of Hezekiah for the thirty sayings of the wise, and then it'll move into collections six and seven, and you can see So Solomon is the author of the first four collection, but there are other authors. And now in the title, it also, besides mentioning who the author is, it also mentions the kind of literature this is, and it says that they are Proverbs. You'll notice in Agor or in King Lemuel it says sayings, which is different than Proverbs, and it's it's actually an honorific title that only goes along with what Solomon had put together. But the kind of literature is a proverb. For us within our culture, we understand to be a proverb. For example, if you're going to If you're going to cook a meal, this is a proverb you would know. Too many cooks spoil the broth. If you haven't said that with your mouth, you've said it with your heart. The end of the meal, however, many hands make light work. You want all you want all the you want everybody Alright, and those the biblical proverbs are in fact like that. Um for example, in collection two, there are three hundred and seventy-five different proverbs, and three hundred and seventy-five, by the way, is the numerical Numerical value of the name Solomon, just the consonants, which is interesting. And they are short, pithy, instructive sayings based on patterns of experience. Just as uh you would experience seeing a bunch of people trying to cook one meal, it doesn't work. There's too many chiefs and not enough Indians, you know what that's probably not politically correctly, you know what I mean. The same thing happens here, and those are from patterns of observation. Now I want you to see this very clearly within the book so that you can be aware of this kind of proverb. Turn to Proverbs 2430. That they are short, pithy sayings based off of patterns within creation and observations that draw out a particular conclusion. And you can see a great example of the making of a proverb. In Proverbs 24, verse 30. Here you see that he goes in verse 30 to a field, and he's going to observe a man in a field. I went by the field, and it's the field of a lazy man. And by and now this is uh this is very Hebrew literature because he's now going to push the limits and it's not just a field, it's a vineyard. You see that? So it's the great it's the best kind of field you could have. Took the most work. And by the vineyard of the man, devoid of understanding, and there it was, all overgrown with thorns. Its surface was covered with nettles, its stone wall was broken down. And when I saw it, I considered it well. And he's going to go ahead and he's going to consider this thing that took place on the earth, and he and he's going to look for patterns. And out of that observation, he's going to come up with a proper And there it is. That's how a lot of these pithy sayings were put together. This is a different kind of revelation, and I can't get into that right now, but it's a different kind of revelation than we see in visions and dreams. and face to face with Moses. This is insightful and inspired observations of of um God's creation and how it works and in this case So look at what he does here. He says, When I considered, this is what I saw. I looked on it and received instruction. Here's the proverb. A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest, so shall your poverty come like a prowler, and your need like an archer. armed man. That's all from considering the vineyard and the lazy man. And he's not really an agriculturist. He wants you to consider these things spiritually also. And so he'd say, if you want to be lazy with your spiritual life and then wonder why you're not a strong Christian, look at this proverb. Consider your own vineyard. That's his point. That's the development of Proverbs and that's the development of those shorts. So however though the word proverb does include far more than just pithy sayings. I understand that's what it means here in our culture, but it means more than that. You can look at this later, but the first nine chapters are actually in Or lectures to uncommitted youth, pleading with them that they would choose the way of God instead of the way of the world. And those are not short pithy sayings. mixed in there, but they're longer lectures from a father to the son and from the mother to the daughter and the mother to the son. And so that's also a proverb. That's the kind of literature that we're looking at. In addition The one difference that we'd have to say here, in considering Proverbs, is that although everyone agrees that too many cooks spoil the broth, Christianity And non-Christian alike, and that many hands make light work, Christian and non-Christian alike. Not everybody agrees with this. The fear of the Lord, Yahweh, is the beginning of understanding. And so these are proverbs for the true covenant community of Yahweh. The true Christian community. And that is a very big difference from all of us. of the proverbs that you would see across the land. And so that's verse 1. That's the title and the genre or the kind of literature that you're looking at. And we'll go through that more as we go along Now let's take a look at the purpose and really open up this passage. This should be exciting to you. The purpose, and you could say it even to me when I was looking at the purpose of this, it also made me feel the value of it, so I hope that the value is also communicated to you, is in verses two through six. To know wisdom and instruction, to perceive the words of understanding, to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, judgment, and equity To give prudence to the simple. And then he continues there. These two statements are purpose statements. That's what he's doing. In other words, you could say the purpose of the book is to know wisdom and instruction, to perceive the words of understanding, to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, judgment, and equity. That's why I've given this book to you. That's why the Holy Spirit has caused me to give this book to you. It's the purpose of the book, to know wisdom and instruction. And in fact, and I'm not going to go through all of those different purposes today. Through the whole series, there is a summary purpose in verse 2, which is to know wisdom and instruction. Those are general terms in the Hebrew that would include everything else that's said throughout the rest of this passage. And so let's consider the purpose that he gives here for this book to impart to you wisdom. Now, if we say the word wisdom and we talk about people who are wise within our culture The English language denotes and connotes very different things than what this than what Solomon means, than what the Holy Spirit means. In our culture, if you said someone is wise, it means that they have a high IQ, doesn't it? Doesn't it mean that they did a really great job on the verbal and mathematical sections of the S. A. T. And doesn't it mean later in life that they did a wondrous job on the GRE? That's kind of I think I got that right. This this um this is what it means within our culture. However, wisdom in Solomon's culture basically meant this moral acumen skill masterful understanding and expertise in an area of life And so it would be like the difference between me and trying to fix a dented car and Wyatt trying to fix a dented car. The car is actually gonna not have a dent in it when Wyatt's Done and it's going to look great, whereas for me, it's just going to have more dents. And we're going to have to call Wyatt to come over and help us. That's the kind of wisdom that this person needs. That's wisdom. It would be it would be expertise. It would be Knowing how to live life well in every area that is given to you. Now, you see, that's the purpose of the book: to teach you how to live life skillfully. And you can see how, although I'm communicating to you the purpose, you see the value in that? You know how we all want that. And this is through the lens of the covenant community. So in the Bible, the word is used, for example, with metallurgy Working with metal. Certain men were given expertise in Exodus thirty four, I believe it is. They were given expertise in artistic design and construction for work in gold, silver and bronze for the tabernacle. They didn't know about metallurgy. It actually says in the RSV, the Rest Standard Version in this verse, it says to know about wisdom. Totally wrong. speaking people. It's not about knowing about anything. It's becoming a moral it's becoming an expert in the same way that you'd be an expert metallurgist. They had a masterful understanding of all things metal. Now let me tell you what that means. It means Mining the metal. It means smelting the metal. It means removing the impurities in the metal with a crucible. It means knowing how to design and shape and the structural integrity of the metal itself and what kind of loads it can withstand It means knowing which tools to use for which job. It means not to be an apprentice, but a master carpenter. Or in this case, a master metallurgist. And so this same kind of expertise was seen throughout the scriptures when we talk about wisdom in the governance of nations. I take take a look at 1 Kings 4. The expertise in the categorization of insect species are mentioned there Encyclopedic knowledge for the sake of the benefit of the nation, waging war, warfare, the ability to answer questions, and of course overcoming limitations or threats to your life and the life of your family. And your friends is a major aspect of wisdom. Take a look very quickly at Proverbs 30. This is a wonderful example of what wisdom is. By the way, these are This may at this point be my favorite proverb or set of proverbs. It's chapter 30, verses 24 through 28. Have you read these before? These are so lovely. There are four things which are little on the earth, but they are exceedingly wise. The ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their food in the summer. The rock badgers are a feeble food. Folk, yet they make their homes in the crags. The locusts have no king, yet they all advance in rangs. The spider or lizard, I actually think it's lizard. The the spider, and I think it's can be grasped with the hands not skillfully grasps. So the spider skillfully grasps with his hands and it is in kings' palaces. These are small things, but because of their wisdom, they are able to have a good life. They're able to keep their families alive. They're able even to end up in the luxury of a king's palace. Do you see what I'm saying? say prosperity not a prosperity gospel we'll get in we'll get into that kind of stuff later but this is life lived well and that's what wisdom that's the kind of wisdom that we're looking for For. And that's the purpose that he intends for us. And you can see an example there in 30, verses 24 through 28. So the purpose, though, is not only wisdom, as it says going back now to Proverbs 1, verse 2, it's not only to know wisdom. It is also to know instruction. Now, when you hear instruction, you think of somebody. If you're older, you think of chalk and a chalkboard. If you're younger, you think of whiteboard and a whiteboard marker or or a PowerPoint. That's not instruction here exactly. Instruction is actually a chastening lesson that corrects a moral fault. It's instructions of the wise that will curb and silence your inherent waywardness. And so what you end up having here is an implication within Proverbs is an admittance to the to the depravity of humanity. That if we are left to ourselves, we will move away from the presence of God. We are prone to wander, one song says. And so you take the vineyard example. You take the vineyard again, as we already looked at, we don't need to look at that again, and you can see that even within creation itself, that there is a waywardness to the creation. The vineyard doesn't say a vineyard. In other words, the creation is subject to a law of entropy. Now I don't exactly mean I I I I have physicists in the congregation, so when I say entropy, I don't mean that it's a thermodynamic quantity representing the unavailability of a system's thermal energy for conversion into mechanical work. I just mean that it's a gradual decline in the disorder. That's all I mean is that things are getting worse. Not better. Okay, so there's an entropy that we see within the vineyard. You can have a vineyard, but the vineyard will die or slowly degrade if it's not taken care of. If the vineyard dies, then so too does your ability To take of your care of your family and to be a contributing member of the community, which is very big in this book. You have to be healing to your community and not destructive. The leech is the one that says more, more, and you don't want to be a leech Within us is the problem. Within us is the possibility to be careless or lazy. The remedy of the entropy is for us to work to keep up the vineyard so that no entropy happens, so that it doesn't degrade. That's the privilege that God has given to us to be able to work with our hands. And so the lazy are despised in the community for that very reason. Reason, because they bring destruction. If you are not corrected, in other words, or given instruction for your laziness or careliness, then entropy will win and the community dissolves Therefore, Proverbs corrects moral faults that hurt you and others. Proverbs provides protection against moral, psychological, material, and communal disorder. If you saw someone Who would hurt your family? Wouldn't you protect them? A lot of the times you think of that protecting them physically. Proverbs is saying, You don't even need to go there because I can provide you with wisdom to where they are protected in And it will primarily be through your diligence and through your wisdom. That's what's offered to you here. It's not just wisdom, it's It's instruction and it goes beyond just the material. There's also a spiritual entropy as well. In fact, he's not primarily concerned with evangelists. Vineyard. If you are lazy or careless with your Bible reading, your prayer, your worship, your Christian fellowship, etc. , there is a law of the devil that will cause an entropy, and you will degrade. It's always the purpose of instruction, therefore. The purpose of instruction here is it's offered to you, it's healing that comes from the tongue of the wise. They don't say things, the wise don't say things to you because they're annoyed with you. And they just want you to stop talking or stop fidgeting so that they can do what they want to do. They say things to you and are are are healing waters to you so that you're not destroyed, so that the entropy can stop, so that the so that instead of having shriveled grapes in your vineyard, that they would be plump and that you could make wine from them or whatever, wherever you want to take the analogy. It's for the community to remain healthy, to bring them back onto the path of life, and that's offered to you here. He's going to do that for you, and you're going to be able to do that for others. That's the whole idea. So the specific wisdom that is given here And the instruction are then unpackaged, particularly in verses 3 through 5, but I'm just going to focus on 3b and 4. So the purpose that he has for this book is in 2 through 6. The summary of the purpose is wisdom and instruction, and now I want to look at some of the specifics of wisdom and instruction, and particularly in 3B and 4. In 3, this you see the second To receive the instruction of wisdom is 3A. 3B is justice, judgment, and equity. And then in four, to give prudence to the simple. And I'll show you a little bit later why these are the ones I'm focused on. But if you look in the it right after the um one of the hymns in your bulletin, what I have done for you as you go along with me in this conversation those of you especially who are visual learners, is that I've provided a chart with all of those terms that I just mentioned and their definition and their Hebrew word. It's and uh hopefully you can put use to that. So let me just go through these because again, this is the reason why he's writing to you. This is what he promises for you if you accept the invitation. And so the very first thing that wisdom is, is justice. You see that there in the passage? That it is to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice. Now justice in the Hebrew is sedek, and it is to establish a right social order by disadvantaging yourself so that others flourish. I do understand that the word justice can mean different things in different contexts. That's what it means in Proverbs. It means Tedek. I want to unfamiliarize you with some of these English words. This is why I got the Hebrew in there. Sadek, you were to be Sadek, to establish a right social order by disadvantaging yourself so that others would flourish. So here's an example. When we see justice within Leviticus 19, 17 It says, you shall not hate your brother in your heart. You shall surely rebuke your neighbor and not bear sin because of him. And right after it says, love your neighbor as yourself. Alright? So this is what it would mean for you to uphold justice. That you would disadvantage yourself by entering into conflict with somebody and having a difficult conversation in order for them to be advantaged. So that they stop wandering. That you would not consign other people to their sin, but you would have the courage, the moral courage, to stand up for what is right and to say something to them at the right time, at the right place, and in the right right way. All those are a part of the proverbs. You have to do all those things. Right time, right place, right way. All that has to be a part of the wa the wisdom of justice. And so that's to establish a right social order. And the only way to do that is to disadvantage yourself so that others would flourish. Tell me that Jesus is not the perfect example of justice. He re-establishes a new social order by the disadvantaging of himself, coming in the form of a servant. And we too are called to justice. Now the second is judgment, which is Mishpat. And that's to establish right social order by punishing an oppressor and relieving the oppressed. And I didn't put this little diagram in the bulletin for you, but I want you to picture a triangle, and you are on the top of the triangle. On one leg of the triangle is an oppressor. On the other leg of a triangle is the oppressed. At the top of the triangle, you're in a position to do something about it, and you do something about it There are a lot of different examples with this, many different uh applications. You may be in a position to keep someone from being oppressed by insurance companies. We have actually had that happen amongst our diaconate. They have helped some congregations. Members here to not be oppressed by insurance companies. It's the same thing with employer-employee, etc. Okay, there's a lot of different examples where you might be in a position to deliver the oppressed from the oppressor. And Proverbs will provide you with the wisdom to be able to do that. It will provide you with judgment once the once To train you in your judgment. And then lastly, equity. And this is Neshawrim. This is living so that you have liberty within law, freedom within form. And I don't want to be too euphemistic because I really want to stay with the scripture. But this is as euphemistic, this is pretty euphemistic. Love making within marriage. Okay? And that that's what equity is in the Proverbs: living so that you have liberty within law, freedom within form, and etc. All right? Uh as opposed to thinking that you have freedom just doing whatever you think. I mean isn't it foolish for the fish to think they have freedom by being out Outside of the water. Don't they find their greatest freedom when they're in the water? And that's the same thing that we learn within Proverbs, and we'll work, we'll have liberty within law. And then lastly, we have prudence with this maskile to give attention And this is perhaps the most exciting. Maskeel is also offered to us, as you see there in verse 4, to give prudence to the simple. Maskeel is to give attention to a threatening situation To have insight into its solution, to act decisively, and thereby to affect success and life and prevent failure and death. Who doesn't want that? It's exactly what's on offer here. That's what the invitation is. And so you would see prudence or maskile in David. David used stones and a sling instead of a javelin. The javelin would have never reached. And he developed this mass skill over time because he shaved he saved sheep. The Lord taught him and gave him instruction over a lifetime in saving sheep from lions and bears, preparing for the And we have Goliaths in our life, particularly spiritually. And we are given prudence from his word. So in summary, Solomon and others invite you to expertise in relieving the oppressed, exercising your liberty within law, helping others to flourish and navigating through threatening situations to safety and consumer. Now I say that he invites you, which is true. The voice of woman wisdom calls out to you today. From this book. But there are some particular, there is a particular audience mentioned that is emphasized within this passage. And so let's move to the next point now with the audience. You have the title, you have the purpose, and now we move into the audience. And the audience is emphasized here into two groups, and it's verses 3 and 4. To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, judgment, and equity, to give prudence to the simple, to the young man's knowledge and discretion. Verse 3, the audience is for those for some to receive. And verse 4, there are those who give. So that's one way of looking at it. There are those who need to be receiving, and there are those that could continue to grow in their wisdom but are in a position to give. And this book is for both of you: students and teachers. Now, I want you to notice though that the ones who are to be receiving are particularly called out in name, but you might have read right over it because you're just not familiar with the with the literature, it says to give prudence to the simple. Now you could translate that as the simpleton if you'd like, or the gullible, if you want, but here's uh here's it's piti in the Hebrew and it means those who are uncommitted. That's what it means. This book is primarily or it is emphasized that this book is written to those who are open to everything and committed to nothing. Ethically and Religiously speaking. In fact, if you do some research on this, this is the primary audience of this was um 15 through 17 years old. But that can also be in spiritual terms too, with new converts. It can be 15 or 17 as kind of in Christian years, you know what I mean? You can be going through a teenage years in your Christian faith. And so that's the that this is for the simpleton. Now the simpleton or the one who is uncommitted, uncommitted youth are the primary audience here. The uncommitted youth or the si The simple one is on a spectrum with the fool, the mocker, the sluggard, and the senseless. And there's a lot of other terms that I'll introduce to you throughout the rest of the series. As we work through the book, one of my goals is for you to gain a new vocabulary for personality and character types so that you can truly have an evaluation of reality. Do you know we have a lot of personality and character types within our culture that are not from the Bible? And that's that's really important that we get on Now This is there's an evaluation here and vocabulary chosen here by someone who looks at humanity and God through a biblical lens. Our culture is not looking at humanity and God through a biblical lens, and they're choosing vocabulary that doesn't match God But here we have someone that is. William Blake said, We do not see with the eye, but through the eye. And here we have to- he sees through the eye with a covet. And he has vocabulary for us so that we can tap into reality. The Holy Spirit will teach you the God-given perspective and vocabulary for life. When you evaluate yourself or others for any other reason, what are the categories that you're using right now? When you want to describe somebody, do you say, well, they're type A? Totally understand where they're coming from. Or do you say they're melancholic by nature? If you like Jane Austen, maybe you'd say that. Or do you say, well they're an introvert and I'm an extrovert. That's the big difference, right? Those are all those that's not what the vocabulary is here. The vocabulary here is simpleton. Senseless, sluggard, wicked, fool, unchaste. Those are the that's the way that they categorize humanity according to wisdom And then being able to understand ourselves. So our wisdom literature has its own categories, and if we use them, then we can tap into the very nature of God-given reality. And that's what we need to do. So if you're uh if you're a simple one, if you're uncommitted, if you're confused, let me just tell you right now this book is especially for you. Isn't that beautiful? If you consider yourself a teenager, this is for you specifically. that it was written for teenagers. I just love that. So let me just summarize very quickly everything that I said and then I want to move into the very last point. To summarize, take a look in the bulletin, and you can use this later. To summarize, I want to show you this little graph that's below all the definitions of the terms. The danger of showing you a graph like this is for it to come across as hoity toity or prideful, and let's just not use it that way. Okay, we've got to understand how this is written In our English language, we want to read from left to right and we want to be done when we get down to the bottom of the page. That's not the way Proverbs is written Proverbs is written from left to right, but you also got to compare the top with the bottom. You gotta compare the top with the middle, the middle with the bottom. And that's exactly what I'm trying to do here is to set this up for you. Down the bottom, do you see the ABCXC prime B prime A prime? I'm not trying to sound Let me just give you an analogy. The way that this passage and many other passages within Proverbs are structured is like dropping a rock Into a pond. When you drop a rock into a pond, the pebble hits the water and the rings go out. And you'll have multiple rings. That's how this proverb is structured. And do you know what the most important part of the proverb would be? The main emphasis is where the rock is dropped. And the way that we represent that, if you're going to To read commentaries is with a big old X. It's called the pivot point. There are other passages that don't have pivot points. This one has a pivot point. And look at what the pivot point is. This book is for you to grow in justice, judgment, and equity. Those are all social or community skills. So in other words, what he's offering you, the invitation is for you to have social skill under God and before men. That's what the whole thing communicates. So there's a summary, and I've already defined all those terms for you when I added prudence because it was so good. But just being able to look at that structure there, if you want to, notice some of the other things Compare A with A with the one next to it, A prime. Notice that to know wisdom instruction matches what fools despise. Wisdom instruction. Instruction. Now compare B with B prime to perceive words of understanding. Well, what are the words of understanding? B1. Well, they're proverbs and iniguas and wise riddles You see how it's defined there? They this is the way the passage is set up. And it's the same thing with C and C prime. And so hopefully you'll begin to start looking at this literature. It it is really fascinating You can just spend so much time working through what is God communicating to you, and being aware of these structures is therefore very helpful So when we see that this is what is on offer, I can't imagine anyone saying, no, this isn't appealing to me. No, I don't want to put the study in. I wish this were a series and not a study. I can't imagine that. It's so appealing, these things that are offered to us. But there is one last thing that I want to mention before we go to the supper: all of these things are offered But you will gain none of them if you do not have a pre a main prerequisite. And that is verse 7. All will be lost if you do not have this main prerequisite. You cannot have anything if you don't first gain what is spoken in verse 7. And verse 7 goes along with 8 and following, but it also is the closing of 1 through 6. I'm not sure how your Bible is paragraphed, but 7 belongs to both. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. So the fear of the Lord, I you know, people really scratch their head on, well, what in the world does that mean? And that has caused some problems. That's one of the reasons why this book isn't read much, is because people read it and they have no idea what it means It's saying. And so let's understand what the fear of the Lord is, even though it's confused us in the past, perhaps. Let's try to understand it. Now here's the thing: you can't Look at the phrase the fear of the Lord and just break it into pieces, study the dictionary, and then put them back together. thinking you've got what it means. In other words, you can't study fear and then study the Lord and then stick them back together. a it's a syntagom and anyway this this is like trying to do it would be like trying to do that with butterfly. Have you ever tried to do that with butterfly okay I want to understand butterflies so what I'll do is I'm gonna break a word part the word butter and then flies. So I'm going to study butter, and then I'm going to study flies. And if I bring them then back together, then I understand what butterflies are. That's definitely not the case. And it's the same thing with the fear of the Lord. You've got to take it as a whole phrase. And the way to do that is to just look at it through other scriptures, particularly in Proverbs. Or in the other wisdom literature. So I want to look at the fear of the Lord. I'm actually doing great on time. So let's with the fear of the Lord, Psalm nineteen Take a look at Psalm 19. This is a premier case where the fear of the Lord is mentioned, and then we'll also uh look at two in Proverbs. Proverbs is very quickly. I want you to see the synonyms to the fear of the Lord, beginning in verses seven through nine We've already looked at general revelation in verses 1 through 7, or in verses 1 through 6 in Psalm 19, and now we moved on to special revelation that is given to us by God. Alright, and it began so here it is. The law of the Lord is perfect. Okay. The testimony of the Lord. We can see how law and testimony Would go together, can't we? We're looking at written literature from God, particularly his laws, and we're probably thinking of the Torah or the Pentateuch. The statutes of the Lord. Okay, that's a synonym of testimonies And of the law, the commandment of the Lord. Okay, that's a synonym of statute and testimony and law. And now look at verse 9. The fear of the Lord. And then he keeps going. The judgment of the Lord. And so here, what we conclude is that the fear of the Lord is the actual words given to us from God for the sake of sake of our wisdom. And so you'd have to say at least that the fear of the Lord in the case of Proverbs is the book of Proverbs. So if you don't have Proverbs, then you can't learn Proverbs. Okay, that's what he's saying. That's part of it. So that's a that's part of it, but we do see within Proverbs chapter fifteen, verse thirty-three, that there is an added dimension to this fear of the Lord. So it's not only revelation from God. In other words, you need Christian teaching as a prerequisite. You also in 15 verse 33, it equates the fear of the Lord to humility. And it says, the fear of the Lord is the instruction of wisdom, and before honor is humility. The capstone really in 22 is twenty two four. Twenty two four also does does that and it says By humility and the fear of the Lord are riches and honor and life. And those are are meant to be synonyms there. By humility by it's it's it's quite literally in the Hebrew, if I were to do a a translation for you, it would be by humility, the fear of the Lord, the fear of the Lord sort So humility is fear of the Lord. And then there's also an emotional component that I'm sure you're aware of that that has been brought out at other times, all for the one who holds life and death in his hand. That's truly what the word awful would mean. That God is that we are full of all. So here's a summary, and I appreciate it if you would write this down if you can. If not I'll you Here's a summary then of those three passages or two yeah, three passages on what the fear of the Lord is, and this is the prerequisite that you would need This is the most important point of the sermon. If you do not have this, if you do not pursue this, you will not gain what the book offers. You've got to take the prerequisite class here. And again, it's not going to have to do with your IQ primarily. You have the teachings before you, but listen to this. Here's the definition. The fear of the Lord is that affectionate reverence By which the children of God bend themselves humbly and carefully to their Heavenly Father's law. Let me say it to you again. The fear of the Lord is that affectionate reverence by which the children of God bend themselves humbly and carefully to their heavenly Have you ever seen someone bend themselves in humility to God? That is the constant state that your soul must be in as you study the book. And you must attend to it diligently. Your whole life falls under his sovereignty. Notice in chapter 1, if you choose not to do that, you do have another option. You could be the fool, and he is the one or she is the one who despises wisdom and instruction. And your place is the grave and death. And disorder. And so here you have it. This is your introduction to the book of Proverbs. You have the book before you? Will it be a study for you? You have the book before you. Will you receive it in moral humility? Will you walk humbly with your God? Father, we You've provided us with this boat called Proverbs, and we've got all the supplies in there, and the sails are raised, and we're ready to take off. We pray, Father, that you'd put wind in our sails, and that on our journey you would teach us how to navigate life, to overcome threats and obstacles, and to benefit benefit the community and to no longer be morally lazy. Father, we ask that as a congregation we would grow and that we would fulfill your promise that your people People would be the wise of the land, and that nations would look on us and say, How how wise of a nation, how wise of a congregation. Women here would be those that others seek for advice because of the wisdom and skillful living that they have. We pray, Father, that you would work in us through your Holy Spirit That you would give us fear of you, that we would drop to our knees as we read this book, that we would read it prostrate. Father, only you can do that. We ask that you be with us now on the supper. We can remember that you have already begun this in your Son. We thank you, Lord Jesus Jesus Christ, you are our wisdom. God and Father, you have revealed hidden wisdom, which these sages did not know as we do now. Not as completely. And so we pray that we would become wise through this supper. We ask these things in your name now. Amen.