A copy of God's Word, feel free to open it. I encourage you to open it to Mark chapter nine. We're continuing on in the Gospel of Mark. We'll be examining verses nine through thirteen together. Mark chapter nine, starting in verse nine, reading through verse thirteen. God's holy word for God's holy people. Now, as they came down from the mountain, he commanded them that they should tell no one the things they had seen till the Son of Man had risen from the dead. So they kept this word to themselves, questioning what the rising from the dead meant. And they asked him, saying, Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first? Then he answered and told them, Indeed, Elijah is coming first and restores all things. And how is it written concerning the Son of Man that he must suffer many things and be treated with contempt? But I say to you that Elijah has also come, and they did to him whatever they wished, as it is written of him. Please pray with me. Almighty God, we thank you that you have preserved your word, that you have given it to your people, that you have not left us in darkness, but you have given us this great light, this lamp unto our feet. Oh, please, God, guide us through your word. Lead us into the truth through your helper, the Holy Spirit, whom you have given to us, promised to us, sent to us. In accordance with your goodness and with your mercy to us. Oh God, please move in us to accept your word. to be transformed by it, to be made more like Christ. And I pray, our dearest Savior, That you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. We come to you in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I've entitled this sermon Unreasonable Rejection And I did that because there are times in our life where we may experience reasonable rejections. Last week I I must apologize to you because uh I kind of threw my wife under the bus and telling you that she saw a bright light in the skies and got scared thinking it was a drone. Well, let's talk about some of the things that others have said those bright lights floating around New Jersey are. Some people think they're aliens. Now, if somebody came up to me and said, those lights can only be aliens, they can't be anything else. I believe I could come up with a few reasonable rejections to what they are saying, huh? Do you think you could? Last week I told you that all I had to do was pull up a star chart and found, nope, not a drone, not an alien. That's Mars glowing brightly in the night sky. Well, sometimes we can have reasonable rejections. It's reasonable to reject what someone is telling us we must believe. But I think all of us have a lot of experience with unreasonable rejections. If you're a parent, you have great, most likely, uh very frequent experiences with this. Hear me out. Have you ever gone to your child and said, Would you please clean up that mess? And had the child return with what they deem to be a very reasonable rejection of your request. And they say, what do they say? I didn't make that mess. And to them that seems very reasonable, doesn't it? And yet we have to explain to them, I didn't ask you to clean up your mess. I told you to clean up that mess. Your rejection is unreasonable. You may think that you have a good reason to reject what I'm asking you, but that is not what I'm asking you. There are times in our lives when we think we're using logic and reasoning to support our rejection of something, when in reality, we're actually being unreasonable. So I'd ask you tonight, do you want to be confident? Do you want to be confident in your life that you are not doing this, especially when it comes to living as God has intended for you? Is it possible that you are rejecting something that God has said because you think you have a reasonable reason to reject it? And I want to posit to you tonight that is it plausible? Is it possible to you that your rejection of what God has said might actually be unreasonable? Let us rejoice together and praise God because He's given us this gospel of Mark. Mark has been recording this good news that Jesus is the Christ, He is the Messiah, He is indeed the Son of God. And we've seen this in the gospel so far because Jesus does what only God can do. Do you remember all of those miracles that He has performed? Not only healing diseases, but even forgiving sins. Not only healing physical problems that, you know, maybe they could have been healed after six months of physical therapy, but what he does is he forgives the sins and says That you would know I have this power also, I will tell this man, take up your bed and walk. Most recently we've been Going through the beginning of chapter 9 and chapter 8, we have seen Peter's Confession, the very pinnacle. The apex of this mountain, if you will, if Mark is itself a mountain, right at the very middle, at the very top, is the confession that he is the Christ, the Son of the living God. We have seen that that confession is a good confession. A confession that didn't come from flesh or from blood. But who gave that confession to Peter? It was his Father in heaven. It was a heavenly confession. We have seen that that confession is not just going to stand alone. It will have to withstand tests and trials. And the very first trial of that confession, do you remember what that was? It is Jesus telling his disciples that there are some things that must happen, that he must be rejected, he must be dismissed. He must be persecuted. He must be tortured. He must suffer greatly. He must die. And he must rise again. And when they were tested with that, the disciples, Peter included, showed that they still have this very worldly understanding about the Messiah. They relied too much on worldly reasoning. Do you remember what Peter says? He says, I need to correct you, Jesus. That can't be what's going to happen because that doesn't make any sense to us. That seems completely unreasonable. And so Jesus in his great mercy to them, he takes Peter, James, and John up on top of a mountain and he says, You may think it's unreasonable, but I will show you why it is eminently reasonable. And he's transfigured before them. He's shown to be so much more than just a mere man. He's shown to be The Son of Man, the true Son of God, in glory, the same glory that his Father has. And there with him is Elijah and Moses, showing that all the law, all the prophets, all of the Old Testament had been pointing to him. As the Messiah, as the Son of God, as the one in whom his people can truly trust. And so this passage before us tonight is a great example for us. It's here to help us, all of us, all of God's people, to see that Christians must believe something. And what Christians must believe is that even though God's word may at times be confusing, it is completely reasonable. Christian, even though at times God's word to you may seem confusing, I assure you it is completely reasonable. And we're going to look at this short passage in two ways tonight. We're going to first look at God's word, which we'll see together from verses 9 through 11, and then we'll look at God's reason. And verses twelve to thirteen. First God's word and then God's reason. So jumping into this, right at verse nine We will look together at God's word. Look at what it says there. Now as they came down from the mountain, he commanded them that they should tell no one the things they had seen till the Son of Man had risen from the dead. And so they kept this word to themselves. questioning what the rising from the dead meant. And they asked him, saying, Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first? God's word is seen here, and that God's word is what He says. It is what God says It is what Jesus says, it is what God has said through his prophets and through Moses. And the first thing we see about what God says in the very beginning of verse 9 is that it's He says what we need for our everyday life. It may be confusing to us to think how somebody could have had that maybe you've heard this Christian term, a mountaintop experience. How did Peter, James, and John have such a mountaintop experience, see Elijah and Moses and the glorified Christ? How did they see that and still not get what he was saying? Well, they're coming down the mountain now. They're returning from the mountaintop experience to their regular everyday life. Now, obviously the disciples' everyday life was a little different than ours, traveling around with Jesus, performing miracles. But what they needed is what Jesus has told them. It's what God has said. And we see in the very next Phrase of verse 9, that even though this was as they came down the mountain, returning to everyday life, he had commanded them something. He gives them a very real requirement. And God's word often has very real requirements for us. Things that we must actually obey. We must actually do what He says to do. And what does He say to His disciples there? He says that they need to keep this glorious vision to themselves. Tell no one the things that they had seen. Many times Jesus had said that. He had said to those he had healed: don't go into the crowd, go back home. Don't go tell a bunch of people, go back home. Go home. And if you recall, we had discovered together that the reason he says those things is because God has very perfect timing in his mind. If what had been revealed to them had been revealed to everyone, that timing would have been very messed up. There were lots who wanted to take Jesus and forcibly make him the King of the Jews. They wanted to exalt him before it was the time for his exaltation. And what could what could possibly have gone wrong if they had described the Messiah in this way? If they had told everyone what they had seen. Can you imagine what would have gone wrong? A lot of people would have perhaps taken up weapons. In order to defend him when he had started to be scourged. If people had heard a description of him as the Son of God, Do you think those Roman soldiers would have been willing to beat him? To give him the stripes by which our iniquities were taken away? It's very interesting this command. It's the first time that Jesus gives a command like this, don't describe what you've seen to anyone, and then he puts an end time on it. Do you notice that? He says, don't do this until something else. And so we see that what God says in his word, so they are very real requirements. They are reasonable requirements. It's very reasonable. He's not saying don't ever tell anybody what you said. He's saying wait until he has risen from the dead. What God says is His Word. And this, His Holy Word, contains What he wants us to do, commands, real requirements for us, reasonable requirements. And what he commands us to do, we must do. Look at what the disciples in their example show us in verse 10. So they kept his word to themselves. But then it says right after that, questioning what the rising from the dead meant. Now this has been very important to me. They obeyed even though they didn't understand. Have you ever found yourself in that situation? You don't quite understand what God is doing. You don't quite understand what God is saying. But you must obey, even when it can be kind of confusing. You may not fully grasp why he has commanded it or why he's done it in that particular way, and yet we are still expected to obey it. And so they do. They keep it. They keep it to the best of their ability. The word tells us. They didn't share it. And we don't have anything else in the in the rest of the Gospels recording that Peter, James, and John took some of the disciples aside and said, Hey, I know Jesus told me not to tell you this, but just in case you're wondering They really did obey to the best of their ability, even though they were not 100% sure why he was commanding it. Or what exactly he was commanding, other than don't describe to others what you saw here on the mountain. This word questioning is very interesting to me. In the Greek, it literally means seeking together. They were talking together, seeking together, that they might understand exactly what Jesus is saying. teaching them and telling them. And it says specifically that they're doing this together about a very particular thing. Do you see it there? Rising from the dead. What does that mean? Now the Jews had always believed that there would be a resurrection. But do you know when they believed that resurrection would uh would happen? They believed it would happen in the last day, as we also believe that all the dead will rise to judgment. Some will be categorized as the sheep. And some will be put in the category of the goats. And other parables tell us that this is exactly what God is doing at the end of days. So they're seeking together what does rising from the dead mean. It shows us that they're still very confused about what Jesus is doing. They have this worldly uh understanding. Perhaps to make sense of it all, we just saw the Son of God transfigured in glory on the mountain. How could that one need to rise from the dead? Perhaps they were thinking that it was a figurative statement, right? Maybe the dead was uh him not being known by everybody, and then he'll rise from that and he'll suddenly be known. They were confused. And they were disputing together, questioning together, seeking together what could this possibly mean? And I want you to see from verse 11 that God's word and what God says is unaltered by our confusion. Even their confusion. Look at what they ended up doing. Jesus has said, don't share what has happened here with anyone until after the Son of Man has risen from the dead. They say we're going to obey, they're questioning what does it mean that he's going to rise from the dead, and then they ask him a question, showing that they don't understand. And they say, why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first? We can understand why they would have this question. It's a very it's a very reasonable question. They had just seen a vision of Elijah. But who had they been following around well before this happened? Jesus. How could Elijah perceive the Messiah if the Messiah they had just confessed and just seemed transfigured had already been there? So they they're starting to get a picture. That what they had thought God's word had said. Perhaps it wasn't exactly as they had been taught. And I don't know if you guys are familiar with this Mostly in reformed circles we're not because we we don't really put a lot of value in the Apocrypha. But the Apocrypha, written some of the books uh in the Old Testament apocryphal books, They really they're not scripture. They don't have the same value and weight and authority as scripture, but as our confession says, there is some value in them. It's the same value as any other man-written book And in the apocryphal book of Sirach, there's a lot of things mentioned about Elijah and the proceeding of the Messiah and what will happen at that time. Well, if you went and looked at the Apocrypha, you'd see that the scribes, that scribe who wrote that, he's not just making things up. He's really just taking the prophecy from Malachi, what was said about Elijah. I want to encourage all of you that questions are okay. It's okay to ask questions of your God. It is okay to bring your confusion to him. And to say, what exactly is meant by this? We don't have the same blessing that the disciples did that they could ask Jesus face to face. But has God left you alone to just figure this out for yourself? No. He has given many gifts to his church and to his people that we would understand what his word says, not the least of which is this word itself. But he's given 2,000 years of scholars, 2,000 years of godly men who have been putting their lives to the task of understanding what God is saying. I want to encourage all of you that though you may have questions and confusion about what God may be saying to you, do not be afraid to ask for help in understanding what He's saying. And I want to encourage you also that you can question what God is saying without doubting him. You can ask questions without them leading you into sin. We'll be led into sin if we decide we're gonna just come up with the answer on our own, based on our own reason. No, we must have God's reason if we're going to have the true understanding of what His Word says. And we see this together in verses 12 to 13. There is this situation, God gives a command. The disciples are confused, and so they ask questions of our Lord, and our Lord shows his reasoning. It shows his rationale. In the answer that he gives to them. Look at verses twelve through thirteen, starting in verse twelve. Then he answered and told them, Indeed, Elijah is coming first and restores all things. God has answers. And Jesus, the way he answers this right here, shows us that his word is consistent all over. It's always consistent. Indeed. Yes, of course. Of course he is coming first. This Translation in the New King James and some of the other English versions make it a little bit difficult for us because it says he is coming first. But in the Greek it's very clear, it says he has come first. It's very clear that he has already come before the Messiah was made known. Jesus says, and how is it written concerning the Son of Man that he must suffer many things and be treated with contempt? We see that God is the only one with the perfect understanding to help us know what His word is saying and to get over that confusion. He knows how we think. God knows that human beings can be easily confused by what is being said in the Bible And so he asks the question that maybe his answer had prompted in them. How maybe you say to yourself, how can it be then that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be treated with contempt? And this is really the crux of the issue. This is what the disciples in their worldliness, this is what Peter in his worldly way of seeing things. Was saying, it can't be possible that the Messiah would suffer like this. And yet we have seen together in Isaiah 53 the suffering servant who has to suffer. The Lamb of God has to be slain in order for the sacrifice to atone for the sins of God's people. Jesus knows what it seems like. It seems like an inconsistency. And so he knows how to help us, just as he helped his disciples. And he says in verse 13, But I say to you that Elijah has also come, and they did to him whatever they wished, as it is written of him. Really quickly, I'm going to turn to Malachi chapter 4, just so you can see this prophecy Malachi four, verses four through six. It says, Remember the law of Moses, my servant, which I commanded him in Horeb for all Israel, with the statutes and judgments. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest they come and strike the earth with a curse. And we don't have the time to go through all of the prophecies concerning John the Baptist. But it's very clear if you were to turn to Matthew chapter 11, Jesus says plainly that if you will accept it. John is the Elijah who was promised. He tells this to John's uh disciples when they come and ask On John's behalf. Are you the one who's coming, or should we be waiting for someone else? And he says basically what I've been reminding us every time we start one of these new passages in Mark, this is what Mark is showing. He's showing that God can only He's the only one who can do these things. Jesus answers and says, the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf ear. Jesus is reasonable in his response to John's disciples. And he teaches that John the Baptist is among women there's no uh or among among human beings there's no one born that was greater than John. The last of the Old Testament prophets, a prophet like I Elijah, in the spirit of Elijah. The angel prophesied and said To Zacharias, do you remember what he said? He said exactly what was there: that your son will turn the hearts of the people back to their father. He says that he is restoring things. He comes first and he restores all things. He restores the idea of what God's people should be living What they should be resting on that they are sinners in need of salvation, that salvation comes from God alone, that the God who has proven himself time and time again through the Exodus Bringing them into the promised land, giving them a king, even though it was not the greatest thing in the world for them to clamor for a king, he gave them a king, a king after his own heart. All the while promising, I will give you a prophet better than this, I will give you a king better than this, I will give you a priest who can never fail, I will give you a sacrifice better than the ones that I have shown you. To the Jews, that would have been completely unreasonable. They were so enamored with their Jewishness and their religion Because they understood the specialness of it. God had given it to them and only to them. And yet He comes, His Son comes, and is telling them, you will need to understand this in a very different way. And when those prophets had been sent in the Old Testament, do you remember how they were treated? Were they enthroned? Were they lifted up? Did everybody say, hey, you really need to start listening to Micah because of what he's saying? All of them were treated poorly. Some of them were just completely dismissed. Some of them were sawn into. Executed. Let's think about Elijah. Elijah in his life, he was dreadfully treated by Jezebel. He was hunted. He fasted for 40 days, 40 nights. He was in the wilderness. He would have died had God not sent ravens to provide him food. If indeed Elijah has had come and was treated that way. Why do you expect that they would treat the other servants of God in any other way? It is entirely unreasonable to reject Jesus when he says that he will suffer and he will die. And so I want to encourage all of you. It is unreasonable to reject God's word simply because it might be confusing. That's an unreasonable rejection. God doesn't make mistakes. If you believe that God can possibly make a mistake, you don't believe in God. If you believe that God somehow has messed up and He's inspired someone to write inconsistencies in His Word. Then you don't believe in God. You believe in a God who's so powerless that he can't preserve what he says? That doesn't make sense This is what Satan wants you to believe. Genesis 3:1. How does he start his challenge to God? Do you remember? Has God indeed said? Did God really say? And then you know what he says after that? Something that God didn't say. He's a liar. And he wants you to believe lies. He wants you to believe wrong things about God, that God somehow does not have your best interests in his heart and in his mind. And so how should we treat God's Word? Can you pick and choose to believe what is said in one book and completely reject what is in another? A lot of people have told themselves they can do that. Do you know how they make that reasonable to themselves? They've come up with all these weird theories. Did you know that they used to believe that David was not a real person? It wasn't until the 90s when they found an inscription about the house of David. Archaeologists have found evidence that corroborates what the Bible says. The Bible is true. There are unreasonable rejections of it all over the place, and you can find them. Scientists give them all the time. Unfortunately, sometimes theologians do the same. You don't have to believe what is said, because there are reasons to reject it. But I would encourage you, just in closing, If you doubt God's word, or you doubt the Bible, or you're one of those who say, well, it was written by men and men are fallible, do you then believe that men are stronger than God and more powerful than God That men can have their will enacted better than God can have his will enacted? If you are one who seems to think that that's reasonable, let's talk. Let's get together for a burger and fries, and I'll give you some resources. The Bible is the most attested-to book in all the world. Especially in terms of ancient literature or religious texts, its authenticity is verified. There's no reason to doubt it. And in case you're you've listened to some of the modern secular arguments about the church choosing, picking and choosing what was going to be incorporated in the canon, I'd love to talk to you about how we've received the Bible. in this form, and how God, even though some have used the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls to bring out these weird Gnostic writings and to inject into Christianity a whole lot of strange ideas. In God's mercy, we have found also in that discovery that the books we have in this Bible Are no different than what was there 2100 years ago. It is unreasonable to reject God's word, even though it may be confusing. It is unreasonable to reject it. May God help us. Give us the right questions to ask Him. And give us changeable, teachable hearts and minds so that we can learn what he's really saying and not reject him thinking That we have good reason to. Please pray with me. We would not even have a little bit