And his feet was sitting, a crippled from his mother's womb, who had never walked. This man heard Paul speaking. Paul, observing him intently and seeing that he had faith to be healed, said with a loud voice, Stand up straight on your feet. And he leaped and walked. Now, when the people saw what Paul had done, they raised their voices, saying in the Lyconian language, The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men. And Barnabas they called Zeus and Paul Hermes because he was the chief speaker. Then the priests of Zeus, whose temple was in front of their city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates. Intending to sacrifice with the multitudes. But when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard this, they tore their clothes and ran in among the multitude, crying out and saying, Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men with the same nature as you, and preach to you that you should turn from these useless things to the living God, who made the heaven, the earth, the sea, and all things that are in them who in bygone generations allowed all nations to walk in their own ways. Nevertheless he did not leave himself without witness, in that he did good, gave us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness. And with these sayings they could scarcely restrain the multitudes from sacrificing to them. Then the Jews from Antioch and Iconium came there. And having persuaded the multitudes, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing him to be dead. However, when the disciples gathered around him, he rose up And went into the city. And the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derby. Please pray with me. Lord God, you place before us here a summary of all things. Of turning from uselessness, lifelessness, falsehood, idols, to that which is real And true, and lovely, and beautiful, and good, the living God. I pray, Lord, that that same movement would be in us today, whether in repentance to life, Or in repentance. I ask these things in your name. Amen. Please be seated. Now, last week we observed a pattern in Acts. I'm sure you saw it again this morning when I was reading. Paul moves to the next town. He's preaching the gospel. And some believe, but some persecute and seek to poison minds against the good news of Jesus Christ. What we did last week was that we gained insight by noticing that Paul reflects on the pattern that we see in Acts. He reflects on it in First Timothy in Second Timothy chapter three verse thirteen. He generalizes The situation, so that we can see that that little time and acts that we saw last week, that pattern that we see in each week, is meant to pervade through the ages. And it's this But evil men and impostors will grow worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. Now, last week I mentioned two current political pressure groups and one philosophy. As deceivers, they present themselves up front as safe or true or insightful, like all deceivers do, but underneath they are not working for God's glory. They were just some examples. Throughout the ages, there have been thousands. And I wonder what the next age will bring if Christ does not return before then. The question that we asked, though, is: what is our responsibility when we see such things? And we turned to again 2 Timothy and saw that Paul said, Your responsibility is to weigh all things by the word. And so we did. We turned to the word. It was Proverbs, and it said this: Though his hatred, speaking of the deceiver, though his hatred is covered by deceit. His wickedness will be revealed before the assembly. And we realize that our responsibility, just as it was Paul's responsibility, is that as a community we must be careful and proactively expose rising poisonous people and groups. A little leaven leavens the whole lump. By God's grace, this is actually being done. I'm sure you can think of books and lectures and podcasts that are all over the place bringing the darkness out into the light I think, for example, of some series done by Tony Evans or Vodie Bacum or Kevin DeYoung in all of these different areas. That's God's grace to his church that we might know the truth This is the wisdom Paul used in relating to his persecutors from Acts 14, and it is the wisdom that the church always needs. And may the Lord grant it to us. This week, the pattern as Paul, the pattern moves forward, and Paul is now preaching the gospel in a different place. It's Lystra. So I want to make a few observations with you in this new episode within the story of Acts. And let's begin with observation number one. It begins in verse 8. Paul heals a man, it says, who was crippled from the womb, leading to the people saying in verse 11, The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men. In verse 12, you'll notice that they decide that Barnabas is Zeus and Paul is Hermes because Paul was the chief spokesman. Now, do you know why this is going on? Do you recognize it in your reading of Greek literature? The reason why the Laconians looked at it this way was due to a local legend, although they would say local history. The Latin poet Ovid had earlier recorded the legend of a visit by the supreme god, Zeus. It would have been Zeus to the Greeks. and his son Mercury or Hermes to the to uh the hill country, disguised as mortals seeking lodging They're literally looking at this and the stories that they grew up with, they're saying, what we have only had our grandmothers read to us that bedtime story about the Greek gods is actually coming true right in front of our face. That's what they were saying to themselves. According to the legend, if you were to continue, an elderly couple welcomed the gods with the result that their house was transformed into a temple and they were made priests But it was only an elderly couple couple that welcomed the gods. The rest of the city denied them. And those gods destroyed all of their houses, everyone who did not receive them So you can see why they're doing what they're doing in verse 13. We've read about this. We know what happens if we don't recognize and bring them garlands and start to worship them. Everybody Go for it. We're not going to let this happen to us, what we saw within the story. So the priest of Zeus makes sure that the whole town receives the gods. That they will receive the gods well this time, and so they brought oxen and garlands and sacrifice to the gates. That's what's going on. That was their cultural understanding that led them into such a moral action. That's observation number one. Now we move into observation number two. Paul responds to this in a few ways, but I want you to notice that the emphasis is on verse 15. Specifically with the word preach. In the NKJV, it's preach. Do you see that there in verse 15? He's preaching to them, but I say that the emphasis is there, and then I want to say that the emphasis is on evangelism because that's the word that's being used right there. It's really he is evangelizing to them. And I say it's the emphasis because it really takes up the whole message. He takes up the majority of the passage with his speaking or his evangelization in this specific situation. Luke gives us a clipping, therefore, from an evangelistic sermon. It's excellent. First, Paul calls them away from the useless things, or if you were in his culture, you'd realize he's saying they're idols. In which they have walked, verse 16, throughout their generations. This is not something that has been is new. It's been going on for a long time. You can see the same kind of phrase in 1 Thessalonians 1, verse 9, and it says this For they themselves declare concerning us what manner of entry we had to you, and how you turned to God. from idols to serve the living and the true God. It's almost word for word what we see here in Acts. And Paul is calling them to do the same. And so the first thing we notice in the evangelistic sermon is turn from these useless idols. And then second, Paul says, go to the living God. That's the second part of the sermon there. It's really a a two-part sermon and then a stoning. I'm still waiting for my stoning. That's observation number two. It's good for us to see that structure and what is a part of Paul's evangelistic sermon. Then we have observation number three. Paul is relying on his knowledge of the Psalms. In order to know what evangelism is. If you look in verse 17 at the very end there, it says that he fills our hearts with gladness. The whole idea of God being the maker of the heaven heaven and earth, him giving us fruitful seasons, him filling our bellies with food, and then our hearts being filled with gladness, these are all major themes within the Psalms. What Paul is doing here is he's relying on his knowledge of the scriptures, particularly the Psalms, in his evangelism. We receive gifts from God. Our hearts become full of gladness, and they erupt in continual praise to his name. That is a summary of the majority of the Psalms. And so, if you were to take all these observations and glue them together, we learn a great deal of wisdom. Number one, that our history as human beings is to worship useless things. That's one of the first things that we learn from Paul. And then, number two, going right along with that, now, however, God through Christ is calling all nations to worship him. And to praise him. God is calling all nations to take the psalms upon their own lips. So let me repeat that summary for you again, and then I have two lessons for you today. Looking at those observations and pulling them together, we can say Two main things. Our history as humans is to worship useless things. But now, however, God through Christ is calling all nations to worship Him. What I'd like to do is I'd like to look at two lessons from this, or two applications, or two good and necessary consequences, if you will. And the first is historical events. And the second is I think we have some lessons to learn about evangelism, which is exciting. Historical events and evangelism. We'll talk under those two main headings. working out the application of that truth in the summary. Let's start with historical events. In our day and age, history is a hot topic. And I am going to avoid the heat today. It seems that before recent events Christians thought that history was like the timeline project that we see in elementary school. Some of us were viewing it that way. And let me explain to you what I mean. This is history. We know the person's name. Okay? We know the event. And we know the date, and we're going to draw a picture, and we're going to put the date in the person's name, and it's going to be made out of construction paper And we're going to glue it onto a timeline. And when we look at it on our wall, that's history. But that is not history. What we have been learning is that is that history is far more complicated than that. We remember that history is a morally meaningful narrative. And that is where we get into trouble. Lately, the moral and the meaning are being sorted out among our society. What is the meaning of certain events? What was the moral of that story? Who are the winners and who are really the losers? It reminds me of that old saying, until the lions have their own historians, the history of the hunt will always glorify the hunter. That is really where we are in our society. And I want to raise the question for us, because it is just beckoning and beaming at us from the passage, what is the right morally meaningful narrative? of history. As Christians, we turn to the telling of God's history, which is why I appreciate that at least in elementary school we say that history is his story. Paul summarizes all of Gentile history as walking in their way and giving themselves to useless things or idols. I'm sure that some were not excited about his definition of those events. Elsewhere in Romans, Paul summarizes history by saying that Gentiles worshiped the creature instead of the Creator who is forever blessed. This is how he views all of history among the nations. I want you to imagine sitting in a lecture hall waiting for your history class to begin. Your teacher is not a Republican. Your teacher is not a Democrat. Your teacher is not a whatever. Your teacher is the Apostle Paul. He is your history teacher today. He lectures, giving a coherent narrative of every nation. He shows that though God, who is good, gave them every good thing, they never glorified him, and they never gave him thanks. Instead, they put their faith, hope, and love in things and in each other, into the creature instead of the creator. You and I have, you and I leave the lecture hall, we look around and we see, this is the point. For Luke to record this for us, we leave the lecture hall and we see that the exact same history continues. It is the morally meaningful narrative even of our own lives. It is what history is still subjected to. For example, let me put it this way: though the fig tree may not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, though the labor of the olive may fail, and the fields yield no food. Though the flock may be cut off from the fold, and there be no herd in the stalls, yet I will rejoice in the educational institutions of Western society. I will rejoice in the wealth of Western society. I will rejoice in God, my Savior, the science of Western society. I will rejoice in the political leaders of Western society. That is the history that Paul gives us, if we were to put it in provocative terms, which I just did. In our day Folks folks are fighting over what is the real history of events. What is the morally meaningful narrative Of our past experiences, even as a nation, and of all nations. And Paul gives us the answer God leaves witness to his glory, and he fills our bellies full of food and our hearts with gladness, but we neither give him glory nor thanks. That is the story of all nations. That is the morally meaningful narrative of history. His story What that does is it sets us up to really be able to understand what we are doing in evangelism. Evangelism is only possible Because the story goes on, and God the Father, through Christ, has decided that He will bring redemption to all the nations. And so now the story will change. Evangelism, then, I would encourage you, number one, to start a viewing viewing our second point here, which is evangelism. That you would view evangelism as a gift from God the Father. God the Father in the past allowed all the nations to walk in utility. That's what Paul says. But now he has sent his son Jesus Christ and his bride the church to call the nations to light and life. to the end and the good of all creation, which is the glory of God, even upon the praises of our lips. That's the good news that has gone out. To see him as the end of all things, the good of all things. Now, we have struggled and I've heard you tell me, yes, well I think you would agree with me, number one, yes, evangelism is a gift. It's good for us to be able to share those things, but I have heard you tell me over and over again That it is very, very difficult for you to do. You feel like you no longer share any suppositions with people. That you don't know how to have that conversation with folks. Everybody just thinks so differently these days And I think that's true, but I want to tell you, I think that that is a gift also. Second thing I want to tell you, besides evangelism being a gift, is that I think God In his own way, is making it easier and easier for us to be able to evangelize if we would just realize what our message should be. Before COVID, the church and the world really did struggle with an idolatry problem. I'm sure that we still do. I'm sure there's many things that we have to work on, of course. But it seems to me to be more grievous before that time. It seemed to me that we really did idolize science and wealth and politics and education. Showed up in different ways, taking it all for granted. And now, in a way that I have never seen before, we are learning how to relate to all of those good areas of life. What we're starting to learn, what I hope we're starting to learn, but I'm hoping that we're starting to experience a sense of disillusionment with, is thinking that science is purely objective. And is the absolute truth. In the real world, scientists are influenced by large industries and political movements. I'm not taking a political point this morning. I'm just trying to point out what has been obvious across the board for human beings. Even scientists themselves are learning more about what science really is. Science has a lot of good, and I'm very thankful. I am allergic to penicillin, but I still thank God for penicillin. The same can be said about education. It is clear now more than ever that you cannot just eat whatever food they are serving you. Education is good, but we realize it cannot be our ultimate good, unquestioned good. The same thing is said about wealth. This was one of the greatest surprises that I saw within all of you. The government basically threw dollar bills up in the air and they landed in your house. They dumped a bunch of money on you. And I'm hoping that the money that went out was helpful to people that really needed help. But for those who learned our COVID lessons, we looked at the money and we said there are more things to life than money. That's what we said. I've bought enough on Amazon. I have a pet dragon. Whatever it is. I bought a I bought a Pope costume. Whatever you bought. You realize that it wasn't fulfilling and that there's more to life than money. And this is where, in the midst of that, I have heard some of you say, I am so disillusioned with our society. And what I'm trying to tell you is that everybody is saying that, pretty much. I'm so disillusioned with our society. And here's what I where I think it fits in with us and this evangelism. That's good news That is the point. The point is not to become anarchists and throw society into the garbage can, but to realize where all of the institutions of society actually belong in relation to God and his kingdom. You are being forced to reorder your life and God is teaching you where to properly put everything. And that is a gift. That is a gift, and it is making it easier for us to do evangelism because Christians are not the only ones who are saying such things. There are many people who are disillusioned with what's going on. And God has done that on purpose because God in His providence is taking away illusions By showing us the proper place for all things. Hopefully, we are learning that those institutions are not meant to be ultimate goods or even to instruct society in what ultimate goods are Hopefully, we are learning our lessons that politicians are meant to be prudent, that scientists are meant to make controlled observations And that neither one of them are meant to tell us what is morally good or what is worth the allegiance of our life or what we are to worship. Guess whose job it is to tell people who should be worshipped? It is the church. Now you can begin to see that we are set up for the task of evangelization If the world is learning those lessons, then it makes our job of evangelism clear. In a time when people do not know what is good, people do not know what is good. People do not know what is really worthy of praise. Everyone and their grandmother are saying something is worthy of praise, and they all disagree with each other. So who's right? Who has the truth? That's where we come in in our evangelistic duty In a time when people don't know what is good and what is worthy of praise, it is our evangelistic duty to tell them and guess what our evangelistic message is: it is the Psalms. Psalm 107, verse 1. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. Now we say that to each other, and we could sing that to each other, but what I'm telling you by way of seeing the influence of the Psalms on Paul and how he structures his evangelistic sermon Is that we are responsible in our evangelism to tell the world that God is good, that you are to give thanks to the Lord. That you are to turn from useless things to the living God. That's the point, right? Is that people are finally starting to see that these things in which I trusted, they actually don't have the power that I thought they had. So what does? What can bear the burden of human existence? It is only God And so we see in Psalm 119, for example, verses 68 and 72, God is good. He is the one that does good. The law of his mouth is better than thousands of coins of gold and silver. It is the only thing, it is the only way by which human life may be properly ordered. And that is that God is placed as the highest good of all things. All thanks and praise are given to Him. And when that takes place, Then we know the place of everything else. Essentially, what our culture is experiencing right now is disorder They're trying to figure out what order it should be in. And we now have the opportunity to tell them because God has told us. God first. God is to be worshipped. God is to be thanked. And then all things fall into their place. Well, our history as humans is to worship useless things. So I look forward to hearing Your stories, when you come back to me and you said, I went to this person in the supermarket and I said, You know what you need to do is you need to worship God. I can't wait I wouldn't do that rashly or obnoxiously. Some of us are really good at being obnoxious, including myself. Don't do it that way. But I am interested in your stories. Stories of a history that we've known for a long time and that Paul reminds us. That humans and their history is to worship useless things. But now, however, something different has entered the scene. God has interrupted the story God, through Christ and his bride, is calling all nations to the only true good, God Himself, to worship and to give thanks to Him for all of His good gifts. Are you looking for justice? I could say this to the whole world right now, not just you. Are you looking for justice? Are you looking for the truth world? Are you looking for freedom? Are you looking for the good? Well, I would encourage you to turn to sacred history. Sacred history like Psalm 146, verses 3 through 6. World, do not put your confidence in powerful people. There is no help for you there. When they breathe their last, they return to the earth and all their plans die with them But joyful are those who have the God of Israel as their helper, whose hope is in the Lord their God. He made heaven and earth, the sea, and everything in them. And as Habakkuk says, He keeps every promise forever. The promise of the creator to his creation. Let us pray.