Turn in our scriptures to Proverbs chapter thirty-one, and we'll be looking at the whole Proverb today. We're looking this morning at the words a mother taught her son. Very sweet. This is Proverbs chapter 31, the whole chapter. The words of King Lemuel, you can turn this down. Please. The utterance which his mother taught him. What my son? I'm sorry, I'm I'm not going to do the whole chapter. That's not a good idea. We're going to start in verse 10. I apologize. Who can find a virtuous wife? For her worth is far above rubies. The heart of her husband safely trusts her So he will have no lack of gain. She does him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeks wool and flax. And willingly works with her hands. She is like the merchant ships, she brings her food from afar. She also rises while it is yet night, and provides food for her household, and a portion for her maidservants She considers a field and buys it. She perceives that her merchandise is good, and her lamp does She stretches out her hands to the Dysaff and and her hand holds the spindle. She extends her hand to the poor, yet she reaches out her hands to the needy. household for all her household is clothed with scarlet. She makes tapestry for herself. Her clothing is fine linen and purple Her husband is known in the gates, when he sits among the elders of the land. She makes linen garments and sells them, and supplies sashes for the merchants. Strength and honor are her clothing. She opens her mouth with wisdom, and on her tongue is the law of kindness. She watches over the ways of her household and does not eat the bread of idleness. Her children rise up and call her blessed. Her husband also he praises her. A woman who fears the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates. Let's pray Lord Jesus Christ, you are our heavenly husband, and we thank you for making us your bride and sanctifying us. In wisdom. We ask that you, Holy Spirit, would illuminate our hearts and open our open our eyes this morning. We ask that we, as a The result of your words would love you more and love each other more. And that we would serve this world. In the name of Christ. Amen. Everyone has important decisions in life. I say everyone, although I was thinking about the very young, and sometimes the important decision they have to make is will I play in Or will I play outside? That's not as important as some of the things that you face when you've become just a a little less younger. So for example, which college would I go to or what job shall I take? Will I go to college or will I not go to college? When will I start my work? I've seen those t kind of decisions turn people inside out. And I know When you become um even more not so young, you can begin to ask the question which doctor should I really go to? Or where should I live? Close to my family? Should I stay where I am? Should I go to a one-story or can I still have a two-story? These are really important decisions that everyone has to make and life. What are some of the important decisions that you have had to make lately? As we think about this passage, that's really the question On our heart. There's an important decision that is before the young man Lemuel, and his mother is going to teach him in regards to that important decision. This passage is quite often taken out of context. Yes, it certainly does have to do with the noble woman, and there's a lot here that you will learn, women From this passage. I'm sure you've read this before. But the actual context of what is going on here is this: Young men, who should you marry? That's the ultimate question being answered here. Now, everyone here, there's going to be an application for you. I'll bring that out in the end. Make sure you're listening. because you will hear things that apply to you no matter who you are in this room. Young man, young woman, old man, old old woman, whatever it is, it will apply. But the main I have to stick with the emphasis Of the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit is bringing this out. Young men, who will you marry? Or who should you marry? And the answer is basically that you should marry the valiant entrepreneurial and righteous woman. That's the answer. And so we're going to look at those three things here. The valiant, the entrepreneurial. Is that surprising? the entrepreneurial businesswoman and the righteous woman. Now before we get into the actual verses of 10 and following, I do want to point out to you if you flip back to the beginning of chapter 3 That this is the seventh and last collection compiled in the book of Proverbs. You can see that there with the editorial comment again just And now since we're not looking at the first nine verses, I do want to just show you, I'm not pulling whom she's I want to show you the theme and how I arrived at that conclusion that that's the main intention of the Holy Spirit for this passage. King Lemuel's mother is teaching him to not give his strength away to the wrong woman. Notice in verse 10. I mean, I'm sorry, in in um In verse, I'm sorry, what I'm going to start in verse 2. What my son, and what son of my womb, and what son of my vows? Verse 3, do not give your strength to women nor your ways to that which destroys kings. And now notice that it's set in opposite, where he's now going to talk about how alcohol can destroy a king. But he's also going to focus on how the wrong woman could destroy and take away power from him instead of giving him strength. And so now he's going to go through with the virtuous, actually, it's the strong woman, or the valiant woman, and I'll show you that in a minute. That's the one that you should choose, one that will add strength to your life. That's the continuation of the theme. That's why his mother is teaching. And so I hope that that's helpful to you as you continue to read this the rest of your life. That's the focus. In fact, in verse 17 I want you to notice that she girds herself with strength and strengthens her arms. That's the whole idea. She's a woman of strength. strength and therefore doesn't make him weak. And that will continue in even further ways that I'll show you as we go throughout the passage. This theme of strength is really the whole thing. So King Lemuel's mother told him, generally speaking, that he should marry a strong woman. And I'm characterizing this in the first point, when I say valiant, strength I want to talk about in terms of her being valiant. And here's the first point, particularly you young men. You should marry the valiant woman. And this is in verses 10 through 12. Who can find, in my translation, it says virtuous? of find a virtuous wife, for her worth is far above rubies. The heart of her husband safely trusts her, so he will have no lack of gain. She does him good and not evil all the days of her life. This section of the book is a bookend with the end of Proverbs. You'll notice she's being praised here in the beginning at 10. And she's being praised at the end. These are book ends in the passage. This praise is meant to warm your heart towards the right woman. Because if you notice at the end of the passage, your only focus is on your sexuality and looks. And that can be the end of you and it can be your demise. Proverbs says elsewhere that sure you can focus on physical Appearance to a degree, but that's not what he brings out here. So he's seeking to warm your heart to the right woman. That's why he's praising her in the beginning. She is recommended first by a comparison with Jules. Notice that who can find a virtuous wife for her worth is far above rubies. Doesn't that sound familiar? Does it remind you of Proverbs chapter 3? When wisdom is likened to jewels and that you should choose wisdom above wealth, that's the same thing that's going on here. Before we learn that wealth Or profit, jewels, can buy a house, but it can't give you a home. And the same thing is being said here of the woman. The strong woman. With rubies, you can buy a house, but with the valiant woman, you could have a home She's recommended second by her strength, and this is why I use the word valiant. Some translations as mine say virtuous. Maybe your translation says Excellent. But the word that is behind it runs through this passage and many other scriptures, and it is most often translated in the other scriptures. Listen to this Women, Mighty Warrior. Some people title this passage Woman Warrior Isn't that great? And I say valiant because valiant has to do with being a warrior, but there's also a Sophisticated intelligence, the ability to have discernment and planning, all of that goes along with being valiant, honorable, knowing, having social graces You could think of the warrior who was also able to be with senators, if you were to think of it like that. Someone who truly carries themselves well, which is why I've chosen the translation valiant. It is the word used for noble warriors in in battle. For example, in 1 Samuel 18, 17 Then Saul said to David, Here is my oldest daughter, Merib. I will give her to you as a wife. Only be a mighty warrior for me, and fight the Lord's battles. Same word. Same theme. In fact, take a look at verse eleven. I just want to prove to you this mighty warrior theme for a moment. The heart of her husband safely trusts her. Gain. That actually, the word gain, if you were to look that up and through the rest of your scriptures, you would see that it's translated most often as the spoils and plunder of war. She really is looked at as a mighty warrior. And then look at verse 15, and we'll get to this a little bit later. She also rises while it is yet night and provides food for her household. The word food there, if you were to look that up throughout the scriptures. It is most often translated prey. And the picture is of a lioness who was hunting at first light, dragging her prey back to her husband and her children. I am woman, hear me roar. It's in the Bible. Isn't that amazing? And this is the woman you should be looking for, young man. This is the woman you should be looking for. Ezekiel 22, 25 says, The conspiracy of her prophets in her midst is like a roaring lying tearing the Same word. They have devoured people. They have taken treasure and precious things. These are her general praises that begin this uh encomium to her. It's through poetic images. It's to warm the heart of the young man towards this woman. The poetry is meant to meant to awaken your heart, to make the young teachable as you've seen through the rest of the book And ready to receive now the literal descriptions of the one they should marry. And I'm going to tell you right now, the woman that will be depicted in this passage is not a delicate flower from a Jane Austen novel. She'll not be sitting around waiting for her suitor, afraid that her rue or whatever it's you put on your face makeup runs mascara? Yeah. That's not what's going to happen here. What we're going to see, secondly, is that you should marry an entrepreneurial woman. Now you're going to need to think through these things even more so than what I can give you in the sermon this morning. in terms of how this is going to work out in your culture. I'm going to give you some some ideas, but you're going to need to continue to think through this. You should marry the entrepreneurial woman, verses 13 through 19. Take a look. We immediately enter into business items. She seeks wool and flax, and she willingly works with her hands. She is like the merc merchant ships. She brings her food from afar, and it continues like that. All of these business transactions. What's presupposed here is I want you to take a look in Proverbs 2427. Remember, we have to read all of the Proverbs together. So I do want to point this out to you in Proverbs 24, verse 27, and this is a little enigmatic. Prepare your work outside, speaking to the sun. Make it fit for yourself in the field, and afterward build your house. The presupposition here is that her husband would provide the economic basis through her his hard work for her to steward for the rest of their life. He would establish the fields, he would establish the basic family business given to her a field that is now growing and livestock that they are now feeding. She'll take those raw resources and she will make them profitable. That's the whole point here in these verses. In verses thirteen through fifteen, she is a small businesswoman. She seeks wool and flax and willingly works with her hand. The idea is that she takes the raw materials from her homestead and turns them into consumable and marketable goods. There's no denying that that's what's happening here. There are two domains, the livestock or the animals and the field, basically what the Lord had provided for human. kind. She would then turn from scratch wool into sweaters and wheat into bread. No more time for Netflix. I'm just Just kidding. This really we don't have to we don't have to start from scratch. It's okay. We can work together. We can work together. In verse 14, she is like the merchant ships. She brings her food from afar. These marketable items that she's worked with from scratch scratch are sold and traded at the market in her trading and dealing. And her wisdom in that, she is able to bring beauty and luxury back into her home. Spices from Africa, meat from foreign lands, or whatever it would be, seafood maybe. You can think, in fact, if you want to turn to Proverbs chapter 10, look at how she is the embodiment of her. I'm sorry, Proverbs chapter 9. Woman wisdom has built her house. Notice that she can build a house. She can take raw materials and she can turn it into a house. She has hewn out her seven pillars. She's slaughtered her meat. She's mixed her wine. She's furnished her table. Just like Southern Living Magazine. She has sent out her maidens. Come, eat of my bread and drink of my wine. I have mixed with s the that's the idea of spices. You see the resourcefulness that she has and the luxury that she offers to her family. That's all a part of her being this small business movement and being able to provide for her family. It says in verse fourteen, going even further, I'm sorry, that in verse fifteen, going even further, that she also rises while it is yet night, and provides food for her household and a portion for her maid servants That's mostly the favorite verse of women's that she has maid servants. But this point is not that she spends all of her time working. That is how this is Usually read. She's up when it's dark. She doesn't go to sleep at night. That's how this is usually read. That is not what this means The point is, again, the picture of the just simply relating her to the lioness that she rises early to get her prey. It doesn't say what time. Now what look at what's going to happen here. In thirteen and fifteen, you see that she's basically working with resources that have been given to her from the And I want you to notice this big shift that takes place in verse 16. And this is primarily one of the reasons why I say she's on Entrepreneurial. She's not only the businesswoman type at home. Look at what happens in verse 16. She considers a field and she buys it from her prophets. She plants a vineyard. She's now going to invest. All that she has developed, she's going to consider that field. She's going to consider her investment portfolio. She's going to diverse And from her prophets she is going to plant the best field that is ever known amongst men, which is a vineyard A true business inventment. From her raw marketable items, she has put aside money, she diligently researched investment opportunities, and she has decided to move into a major business venture. A vineyard. It is the most cultivat cultivated and profit-producing industry available. She will have employees, she will have equipment such as the wine press and the watchtower, and there will be, if you read the New Testament, possibly Possible leasing options where she can lease all of this out and just be able to take dividends, so to speak. She girds herself with strength Verse 17, she strengthens her arms. 18. She perceives that her merchandise is good and her lamp does not go out by night. Through her practical wisdom. She is becoming mightier and mightier. Strength is being added to strength. The lamp at night is a point that is bringing This out. See, this is where we would get it wrong. We'd say she gets up when it's dark and she never puts her lamp out at night. See, she works twenty-four-seven. That's not what it's saying. Better with the text. This is the proceeds of her profit. Poverty gave limited money for oil, and the lamps in a poor home would have to be put out at night. But not so with her. Her electric is never turned off. Because of her resourcefulness. She stretches out her hands to the die staff and her hand holds the spindle. These are tools for dealing with raw materials such as wool. Now, do you notice I've already talked about wool? What is that a sign of? If I've already said something and it's being repeated later on in the passage, It's a sign of the chiasm, isn't it? And there is a major chiasm here, and I'm not going to show it to you. Alright, you can look for it yourself, but it's verses 13 and 19 are matched. 14 and 18 are matched. Fifteen and seventeen are matched, and guess what the center is? She shall buy a field and plant a vineyard. And that is why I say, young man, you must choose the entrepreneurial woman, because it's at the center and the heart of this communication in this poetic form. That's the whole idea. That's what's being laid out here. Now, if you were to try to translate this over into our modern world, you'd have to to do some work and you're going to have to do more work than I'm going to do for you right now. There are women that I know that actually work with raw materials. And that's great. It's exactly what this passage is talking about. There are some women that will own and operate a small business as we understand it today. And this passage gives you permission. Maybe you will work instead with what we barter with, which is money. We don't the raw goods are not exactly what we're working with any longer The trade has become different, the form of commerce. Maybe you'll work with the money that is provided from one or more incomes. In that case, you could and I don't mean this to be trivial, but you could you could plunder the giant. supermarket and bring spoils home where you as the lioness can take food from the food lion And I really am not trying to be trivial with that because here's the thing, you know, we all laugh at that. We all laugh at that, but if you were to see what our women save in and supplying the household with all household goods. And if you were to receive that same return on your investment in the stock market, we would be millionaires. Because when they leave the grocery store as opposed to the van, usually, they've stayed 15 to 30 percent. Imagine a 15 or 30 percent return on your stocks. It's no laughing matter. Saving money on purchases for the household, for later investment, and for ends to meet. Think of the return. Working with other women to share resources I have ages two through four. I don't need ages two through four anymore. I'm passing these things to you. Think of the return on the investment with all of those choices. And it doesn't have to be that, it really can be small. business. We're working in the corporate world. So many different options. Young man, there are so many different options for that woman that you would marry The point is, though, through her business acumen, her ability to be a good steward, she would add strength and not weakness to your life Now there's a very interesting turn that takes place in the passage. Here's what we have so far. The heart is warmed in praises of the valiant woman. The specific ways that she is strong and adds strength are described in terms of business. Therefore, marry that entrepreneurial woman. Here's the last one. This is a most surprising turn of events in verses 20 through 31. Through resourcefulness she grew strong. And now her strength makes everybody else strong, not just the husband. Remember, righteous in the book of Proverbs means that someone who will disadvantage themselves for the advantage of another person And that is how she's portrayed here. Notice verse 20 how this begins. Everything that she's worked, verse 20, her hands are full of profit. And now in verse 20, she extends her hand to the poor. She is the embodiment of what Proverbs has taught us That you would be a blessing to your neighbor, that as you have kept the word of the Lord and entrusted in all of his ways, and he has upheld his moral universe and blessed you, you are now offering to those who are in trouble. And this is what this woman does. In verse 20, it's to the poor. In verse 21 and 22, it is to her household. She has worked hard to make sure her own house is clothed. Noticed, even for winter, even for beauty, and not just utility. She extends her hands to the poor and to the needy, but she's not afraid of snow for her household. They'll always be warm Even more than that, all her household is cl clothed with scarlet. She makes tapestries for herself, her clothing is fine, linen and purple. We're not just getting by. And she's giving over to her children. This again is a key asm, and you would see these themes repeated a little bit later. And then in verse 23. Her strength has made her husband strong. Guess what's at the center of the chiasm? The husband Because we know the purpose of this passage. Verse 23, it says At the gates with the elders. Now if you didn't know that this was a kiasm, you could still pick it up by word repetition. Let me point something out to you. She, she, she, she, she, she, she, she, she, she, she, her husband, she, she, she. Do you pick it up? That's what's going on here. That's the focus. He's at the gates with the elders. Now, women, you really do pick up on the fact that it says he's sitting there. And and after all of this work and busyness we have someone sitting. That's not what it means To sit at the gates is not to be lazy. Sitting does not equal laziness. It's like Psalm 1 and Psalm 2. He is among the respected of the community because he makes the community lazy flourish. It is because of you, young lady, that your husband is able to fulfill the book of Proverbs. He's respected because he makes the community flourish. He serves the community in ways that bring life to everyone. He has become, through your work, your planting, ladies. He has become a tree of life, and the community eats of his fruit and they live. That's what he's doing at the gates. Justice. Said Va Ahmed. Marrying the wise woman, young man, allows you to fulfill the instructions in Proverbs to become the righteous man. The woman makes this possible. Through her strength, the husband becomes strong. Don't forget that. Behind every strong man is a strong woman And everyone recognizes this and praises her in verses 28 and following. Her children rise up because of the blessing that she has brought to them. They call her blessed. Her husband also he praises her. Many daughters have done well, but you excel them all. I think that's a quote from the whole community. But the whole community would say this of her She is a fears the Lord, as it has been instructed in this book. She is the embodiment of wisdom. She shall be praised. We are to give her of the fruit of her hands and let her own works praise her in the gates. All of her business All of her resourcefulness, all of the giving of the poor to the poor and the needy, and to the family, and to the husband, all of those are the fruit of her hands, and she is to be praised for For everyone. Who should you marry? Maybe it's not who you thought it was. You should marry the valiant, strong woman who was entrepreneurial and Righteous. That's the main point of this text. Now, what I want to do with the remaining time is I want to go through and I want to pull a couple little threads that apply to more than just the young man sitting here today. I want to start first with the married. And I'll move through these rather quickly. If you're married, this renews your vision for your marriage This is complementarianism at its finest. This is what her role is, and this is what your role is. The woman is a helpmate to the husband that the works of God's kingdom would be done, and there's no other reason for marriage. Or that's the main reason. So if you are married, renew your vision from this passage. Talk immediately. I would begin, if I were you, husband, by praising God. your wife. I understand, no matter how old you are as a husband, that you can turn into a little bashful boy when it comes to praising your wife. Get over the bashfulness and praise her. Now, parents, this is very, very important for you as parents. Did you know you're the ones That are raising up this young man and this young woman. It gives you a vision for who your children should be. Ideal. It is an ideal or it is a target to aim at for your daughters. God gives this to you instead of you just going off what your culture teaches about being a man or about being a woman. It's ideal for your sons as servants to the community. and the wife they should have. And I will point out, you can see why you would be very, very careful with who they date. Because, and I could think this would be why arranged marriage would be so important back then, as a parent, you are investing in your son or your daughter. Imagine if they end up in the wrong marriage. Total perhaps destruction. Of your investment. A limiting of their potentiality. So you have to be very careful. Train them up in the fear and the admonition of the Lord, especially in regards to this. Now let me also speak to unmarried women who are looking for marriage, and I don't care what age you are. Unmarried women looking for marriage Christian women, choose your man wisely. I told you what the intent here is. It is to To the young son, but there is many takeaways here for the young woman. I want you to imagine rising early like the lioness, roaring, taking the day by the neck. I want you to imagine all of the resourcefulness that you have, how good you are with money and accounting. I want you to imagine investing. And then I want you to imagine a husband who does not sit in the city gates, but who sits in front of the TV in laziness. You must choose your man wisely. Choosing a husband is like choosing a vineyard. You will get a return on your investment, or he will destroy all of your work. If you are growing to be a strong woman, here is what I believe this passage teaches you. Marry a strong man. If you are a strong woman, do not marry a weak. And talk to strong older women around you so that because they can see through all men. I also want to speak to those of you who are single for whatever reason, particularly you who are single with no current prospects. For a time or for a lifetime, God does in fact, as we look at the rest of His counsel, He does permit singleness. Let me say this to you, and this is from other scriptures, but I want to speak to this because this passage could be thoroughly discouraging. Singleness, brothers and sisters, is not a curse It is not a curse. That's not how the scriptures relay that to us. It is a blessing from God. You must listen to God's word And not what this culture says, even in this church. Singleness is a blessing. Usually it says here it takes two to complete the work of the kingdom. However, by the power of the Holy Spirit sometimes Christ will empower one person to be fruitful alone and to work for the Lord in a way that married people cannot work. Listen to this. A single man or woman has the privilege to work directly for Jesus Christ without distraction. 1 Corinthians 7:32 through 33. But I want you to be without care. He who is unmarried cares for the things of the Lord. how he may please the Lord. But he who is married cares about the things of the world, how he may please his wife. The purpose of the marriage is kingdom work. We learn that from this passage. God allows you to fulfill that purpose without a spouse, oh single wife. You are not disadvantaged, you're not lamed or leprous, and you're not held back. Because whether you're married or you're single, the Holy Spirit alone allows you to work for the kingdom of God. And he will bless you in your singleness. And it will be a resourcefulness that the person the married person is actually at a slight disadvantage in some ways, according to Paul, because they have earthly work that they have to be concerned with. I want you to think especially of the missions opportunities you have in your singleness. What a blessing. And I know it doesn't feel like that, and this is hard. But I just want to remind you. This is what the Lord says. And now I want to end also with every Christian. I told a few people, guess what? I'm preaching on Proverbs 31 this week. Guess what the overwhelming response was from the women? Oh, great. Guilt. And I want to rid you of your guilt. Your guilt has been taken away by Jesus Christ. When God looks at you through Jesus Christ He loves you. He has loved you from the foundation of the world. Daughters of the King, you are not a disappointment to your God. I want you to hear what the rest of the scriptures say to you. The Holy Spirit wrote this scripture, and later he wrote the scriptures in terms of the church being the woman and the bride, and Christ as the great son, and who he shall marry. In Ephesians chapter 5 it says, Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her Blemish. Christ is the strong husband who has reached down to the weak bride and is making her spotless. Don't you be ashamed of yourself. You are his handiwork, you are his workmanship. He understands that there is work yet to be done for both man and woman in this congregation, but you are his bride, and he is committed to you to the end. He is sanctifying you by his word, washing you clean. He is sanctifying us that we would become the strong bride. Because the strong bride is the one who glorifies the husband in the city gates, which is what we shall do for Christ, which we have already begun to do for Christ, glorifying him in his body here on earth that everyone would know, every nation. We are becoming strong that our beauty as the church would witness to every tribe and tongue and nation about the glory and the honor of our husband, Jesus the Christ. That's why we're here, to spread his glory, that he might be in the gate, reaching out to the poor and to the needy. Nothing will get in the way of his glory, which is why You don't need to be ashamed. You are a sure thing. And the argument is because Jesus will never let anything get in the way of his glory, and therefore he will sanctify you, because it is through you that he is glorifying himself. Will Christ give away his strength as a king to a foolish bride? No. Although we are fools, Christ shall strengthen us for his glory. Glory. So recognize your failings, but turn to Christ for your strength and remember the end game. Remember where you shall be, which will be in Glory. Seven run. Do not forsake this truth about Christ. Wait upon the Lord, and hope will rise as stars appear when day is dimming. Rest in your heavenly husband. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus Christ, you are the great kinsman redeemer, and you look Upon us as this poor bride, and your favor has fallen with us, and the lines have landed in pleasant places for us We thank you for your righteousness, not only to definitively sanctify us, but your righteousness in reaching down to us, this needy bride and lifting us up and giving us bright white clothes to wear. We thank you for purifying us and continue to work with us through your holy Spirit. We pray that as your bride, we would make your name excellent throughout this world as we seek through our business acumen and our resourcefulness. In our righteousness in helping the needy, that your name would be known, and that as we, your church, are praised by this culture, that all of our crowns would be cast at your feet. We pray Pray, Lord Jesus Christ, that your kingdom would come and that your will would be done on earth as it is in heaven, especially through your church. In the name of Christ, Amen.