Now there was a man from the mountains of Ephraim, whose name was Micah And he said to this mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver that were taken from you, on which you put a curse, even saying it in my ears, here is the silver with me. I took it And his mother said, May you be blessed by the Lord of us. So when he had returned the eleven hundred shekels of silver to his mother, his mother said I have wholly dedicated the silver from my hand to the Lord for my son to make a carved image and a molded image. Now therefore I will return it to you. Thus he returned The silver to his mother, then his mother took two hundred shekels of silver and gave them to the silversmith, and made it into a car's image and a mold image, and they were in the house of Lyka. The man Micah had a shrine made in Ephah and the household and household idols, and he consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest. In those days, there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. Let's pray. Lord God, I ask that we would from your word have the right pictures of you, uh by faith, the right knowledge of you. I pray, Lord, that this would Bring further reconciliation between us and you, even to the point where we become more dedicated followers, and that We are willing to profess to the world that we love you. We love your ways. We love where you're taking everything. In the name of Christ. I'm not sure. I love the uh audible throws in the reading of the book of Judges I just started and I I can feel you saying inside of yourself, wait for it, wait for it. Well, to reflect on the tragedy from last week, we it's good to just review Last week we acknowledged that another symptom of the canonization of the church is when we substitute the divine mission for our personal ambitions. This was pictured for us in the story of Sanson, but Samson is a story that is not just meant for one historical age It is meant for instruction to the church throughout the ages until Christ returns. We have a problem. We'd like to move from thy kingdom come to my kingdom come. So we had the opportunity to look at that uh quite uh pointedly with regard to our mission not only to perfect the things but to gather them. The Great Commission. And our prayer last week is that we would not only be hearers of that word, but doers. May we not only perfect the saints, but seek to gather the lost from darkness into light. And may Christ uh give us the power to me. I'd like to make a few observations with our six verses here, and then I have uh really three points of application this morning. So let's jump right into it. The first thing I'd like you to notice Is that right in the beginning of this story of Micah, it seems like the clouds have parted and we're going to get some sun on our faces, and we need that vitamin D. Uh it's been difficult here in Judges. I'm really looking forward to admin, by the way. We're going to go into one of the Gospels, and it should just be a sunnier day than Judges. And so here we seem like we're going to get some sunlight on our faces. For example, when you look at the word mica here right off the bat, it's the full, uh, it's the longer version of this name, even though they just translated mica. The full version that's in the Hebrew here is Micah Yahu, and the translation is who is like Yahweh? It's a declaration of there's no one as great as him. Right? And that name usually indicates when a person has a name like that within this culture, it indicates the piety of the parents. in their worship of Yahweh exclusively, as opposed to the other gods that surrounded them. And it also was a cry of hope that their child would grow up to be devoted to Yahweh also. And we continue further in the passage and we think, yeah, that's right. I mean, uh who is as great as Yahweh? Finally we have a family on our hands that's gonna Show us this. It's going to be a positive example. Our hopes are going to be realized. And then we see that Micah shows up and he had stolen or robbed his mother of this silver and he confesses it. Praise God. The prodigal son has returned. Here he is. And then the mom is gonna and she says, Well I guess what son? You're doing things for God. All along I was saving up that silver So dedicated to God. And here we have this Christian Puritan household, and it's beautiful. You see that in the first three verses. Then we discover in the second observation that I'd like to bring to you this morning that those words prove to be a thin veneer They are a thin veneer. What seemed like piety only was skin deeper The silver dedicated to Yahweh very quickly is used to help Micah make idols to complete this homemade shrine, verse 5. Just like we witnessed with Gideon. This is meant to resurrect all those folks that were back to that kind of a place. We know we are right, in fact, in this judgment, because the narrator leaves no other interpretation possible. Sometimes it feels like we're being a little negative towards these people and judges, and that can definitely happen. I'll discuss that another time. But here we know we're right on to have a negative lens here, that these people are not meant to be a sh uh a bright ray of hope. Because the narrator himself summarizes the situation by saying In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in their own eyes. And there's the eyes again. Just like we saw with Samson. It's a continuation of that same story in a sense. That they're just doing they're they're kind of like acting like animals. You know my dog sees a food and he just goes for it with no thought. But he's actually jumped out of windows that were kind of high to get for things. And we as human beings He's still alive. The dog is still alive, don't worry. But human beings can do that same kind of thing. Now when we look closely at that summary, this is the other observation last observation I want to make with you I want us to look closely at that summary for a second because it has at least three important points of information. First, that summary that I just read to you from verse 6 tells us that Micah and his mother may have a piece of the truth, but that it is just superficial. And I'm calling that, that's why the the title of the sermon today is veneer. Underneath, they are largely controlled and formed and shaped by the pagan culture that is around them. You will see that now uh from now on until the end of the book. The end of the book is going to end with the same phrase that Nemo's writing her own eyes. And I'm just want to prepare you, it's going to get worse every week. The second thing I'd like you to notice in this concluding summary by the narrator is that it tells us that Micah and his mother are typical. They are typical for the church at the time, because it says everyone. So here you have an example of these two who end up being significant for the state of an entire people. And really it can be throughout history. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes, and here the narrator has been selective for his own theological purposes. And then third, it tells us, and I'm gonna translate this a little bit differently than what you're used to, but I think this is the truth. the part of it. It tells us that final statement tells us that the people, when it says there were no no king in Israel, this is not in my mind an argument that we need kings. We're gonna get some kings in the next book and they're gonna lead the whole nation into idolatry over and over and over again, and then we're finally gonna get the data. And then he's gonna not do some great things also. I think what's going on here instead is He's basically pointing out, well guess what? They don't even need leaders to lead them in the sin. They can do it themselves. They don't need someone telling them from the top down or leading them into worldliness. It's right in their own little hearts as individuals For there was no king of Israel in those days, the people were capable of wandering on their own with no help from the Pharisees. Now this morning, I believe we should gather these things together and acknowledge another doctrine, and it is this. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is a thin veneer of devotion, which is the triumph of God. We've been characterizing this by the word hypocrisy in the time of the confession. It's the same kind of thing. There's a veneer, but underneath our design's bone. That's what Christ is getting at. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is a thin veneer of devotion to the triune God. And here's the thing, this goes along with this doctrine. Underneath the veneer, our hearts look very much like the world around us. And you'll see this especially in the next episode. But it's already present here in Micah and his mother. So let me say that for you one more time and then we'll go into three different applications. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is a thin veneer of devotion to the Triune God. Underneath the veneer, our hearts are like the world around us. Or they can be. I want to look at this under three main points. So children, if you're taking notes, images, examples, and questions. Images, examples, and questions. How I'd like to divide this up. So the very first thing I'd like to do is I just want to be clear at what we're talking about here And I'm going to do so by giving you some different examples that are analogous or metaphorical of what is being communicated to you by way of this story of Micah and his mother. Someone once told me, I don't honestly don't remember who this was, so if this is you, I'm not saying any names, so forgive me. Someone once told me that they had made Koge fried chicken That it was beautiful, golden brown, and perfectly crispy, but when they cut or bit into it, it was still raw. That's a picture of what we have within the scriptures here. We can look open delicious on the outside and inside we're uncooked and there's and and we give s uh Simon Villa the people. How's that bringing an hour? Here's another one from uh these are from my life in listening to others and then also my own experiences. Once I gathered an egg from our chickens, It was a kind of wholesome brown with little speckles. And when I cracked it open, however, the yulk, the goats and the white were all confused and mixed together. And uh when it hit the pan, it smelled like a salty marsh of dying sea level. Behold the church. Sometimes. Behold the church. Author Annie Dillard Speaks of a time when she walked along a river. Usually she meets up with little frogs who jump away with a little uh frogging boot. into the water. But one frog just stayed there no. And then to her surprise, as she observed the frog, some giant water bug swam out of the frog's body. And all that was left of the frog was a thin, froggy-shaped sack of skin. All the innards of life were sucked out. Behold the church sometimes. Are we thankfully that Christ never lets us get there? Now those are images from the natural world around us which resemble what can happen to the church. These are cautionary tales. to put it that way. We don't want to go there. We can display the whole point is that we can display the shell of devotion. But inside, according to these natural examples that I've given to you, we can be wrong. We can be confused. We can have all of our the innards really sucked out So where we're like, we're dead. Well those are some images that get us thinking down the lines of the way God has presented this to us. But there's also some examples, and this is the next point of application. These are examples from the scriptures themselves. There are so many of these. I was surprised as I was just going through and thinking, well, what is just like what is being communicated in the story of Micah? I have this long list that started to develop, but I'm just going to give you a couple because of time So here's the first one that I want to give you, which is from James 2, 14 through 20. What does it profit, my brethren, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? I want you, when you're listening to all of these examples, I want you to think of the thin veneer and then what's underneath. Because it's going to be similar to that throughout all these examples. If a brother or sister is naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you says to them, Depart in peace, be warmed and filthy. But you do not give them the things which are needed for the body, what does it profit? Thus also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. But someone will say, you have faith, I have works. Show me your faith without your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. And here's where it really starts to get to the heart of this particular congregation. He says, You believe that there is one God. You do well. Even the demons believe and tremble. But do you want to know, oh foolish man, that faith without works is dead? And he goes on through some examples proving this. But I want to focus on the fact that he says, you believe that there is one God. Well, if you look under the hood of that, what is most likely going on here is a reference to the Shema of Israel. Why would they say, you believe in one God, except to refer them back to Deuteronomy 6, where the church has been professing in every age, hear, O Israel, the Lord your God is one And then it goes on to say, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and your soul and your strength. And then it would go on to say, and your neighbors. That's the summary of the law. And here is a possibility that I want you to consider. That this congregation in particular was saying the Shema as a confessional response during worship. Let's say the worship leader says, okay, we're going to do a responsive reading now, and they all said from memory, the Shema, the Lord our God is one. And here's what he's trying to point out with the the veneer and then what is underneath. It shows that on the surface of their speech They were saying the Shema in their worship service, leaving the worship service and noticing that people did not have clothing or food and doing nothing about it. And he was showing them that there was a disconnect between their faith, what they professed about God and what he requires of us, and what they were actually doing. as a an example of a veneer. And it is no wonder, therefore, that James's main point throughout this whole letter is God has decided to give you trials to fill up in you what is lacking. And then he gets to the end of chapter one and chapter two and he focuses largely all these ways that we can lack. And one of them is that we can say things but have no heart behind them. And he's just trying to be trying to let let you know about that relationship. Also as a cautionary tale that we could away from that would be more like Abraham and Rahab, which are the examples he gives right after that in chapter two. Well here's another one. That's from James. Here's one from Matthew chapter 15 verse 8. And it is a quote from Isaiah. These people draw near to me with their mouth and honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. Now you've heard that before. But look at the reality of what's going on, the condition that we all the church struggles with, according to the story of Michael. This doesn't need explanation. You know what that means. But I do want you to notice the spatial dimension that is emphasized here. They are near to God with their speech, which is like with veneer. On the surface, they are near to him. And if you were to just listen to them, it would sound like God is their best friend, and that everything is for God. And they're totally on board with his mission and what he's accomplishing with this creation. But Isaiah points out that that is an illusion. It is does not take long to get through it and into the flesh and heart of what they actually are as a people. And he does this with this facial metaphor And he says, but your hearts are very far away, in some other place. Now, has anybody ever said anything like that to you? Maybe not with reference to God, but with reference to other situations going on in your life. As soon as I heard the idea from Isaiah and that and that Jesus was using and that Paul will use a little bit later. I thought of myself, and I wondered if some of you had this same experience. Sometimes when I have a lot going on, I will still make it to the dinner table. But I will be sitting at the dinner table and then all of a sudden as I'm eating my food or uh staring in the space Uh Holly says, would you care to join us? And what does she mean by that? Because I am physically located. Right there. I could even be holding her hand and eating with my left hand the whole time. And she would still say, would you care to join us today? What is she getting at? It's the same kind of thing that we see within Isaiah. And other places. What she means is that I am physically present, but my thoughts of my heart are somewhere else. And she would like my thoughts of my heart to come on over and to commune with her and the children. And that's the same thing that Isaiah is presenting when it's in relationship to our God. Now those are some examples, and I would love to hear more from you. When you look at the story of Wankath and you think about the veneer. And then what's underneath of this? And I've given you all these images and examples. What other biblical examples can you think of that meet uh these criteria or have uh close similarities. I would love to hear that, especially from the children. What other Bible stories can you bring to me to help me write my sermons more quickly? Well now we've gone to our our next point within the application, which is a set of questions that I now want to raise, since we're, I'm hoping, pretty clear on the reality that we're faced with in this microphassage. The main question which we must consider is, do any of these pictures, especially the last one with the spatial metaphor of the heart being far away, like when I'm at my dinner table sometimes? Does do any of these pictures portray your relationship with Jesus Christ? Do any of these pictures portray, even if it's just in one of the domains of your life, does it portray in any way your relationship with Jesus Christ? I think that the answer is to different degrees all of us struggle with this. That's the honest answer. Like James's congregation, we are here this morning singing all kinds of songs. But inside, sometimes there's a bit of a different story going on than the things that we're saying in the song. The first song was all about victory and that we're all excited that Christ is doing things his way. It inside the heart is uh raging a bit against the way price wants to do things. Even while we're singing, we're wrestling with it. I thought, for example, of some of you students that are here. Some of you students are learning theology or you're reading theology on your own. Some of you have begun to memorize whole books of the Bible. You've got a couple chapters down. Some of you have the catechism down pretty well. You know a certain creed by heart, I'm always impressed when I just hear the nicesting creed come out of the child. That's lovely But then we can get to a certain age, especially about 14 up until 25, where we could know all of those things and have this system nice and neat. But your heart could still be very distant from God. So you have all these things that you can say with your lips. You have a theological veneer But then if we were to have the knowledge of God of your relationship with Him, we would see you two aren't actually very close, even though you've memorized all this stuff That's a normal experience within human life. And it is by God's grace and the work of His Holy Spirit that over time we mature. But maturity is not that you know more of the definitions necessarily that are in the catechism. But that those things have led you to a closer relationship with God. In a very unique way, because he relates to us by way of the spirit at this point. We're not running up and giving him physical hugs Now if you want to look in other places of scripture to see how this human condition is described, it's actually very helpful. I would turn you to Ephesians 4 verse 18, and I'd encourage you to meditate on that for longer than we're with each other today. In Ephesians 4. 18, the Apostle Paul describes the human condition with these really intense words. He calls it estrangement or alienation. That's really intense for him to say that, that we are estranged, estranged, or we are alienated from the life of God in our natural condition. But even after there has been the receiving of the Holy Spirit and repentance onto life and the beginning of sanctification, we still wrestle with a level or degree of estrangement and alienation. The idea is that even after professing faith, we struggle feeling like God is strange and is a stranger. And that may be to a low degree in some areas of your life you've gotten closer to him, but in other areas you remain distant. In other words, when we examine the reality of being close to God with our words, but far away with the heart, I'm just going to try to make this as simple as I can based on many, many examples within the canon of the scripture. The heart of this reality is that we as human beings, even the church, struggle to trust God. That's it. We struggle to trust God. Those of you who are leaders, if you're administrators at a school, for example, you want to know the number one problem within all your students They struggle to trust God. There it is. Talk about it in fancier ways like faith or something, but they honestly struggle, it's a relational term, they struggle to trust Him And so do you. And so do I. If you were to look under the hood there, what is going on with a human being according to the scriptures is basically two main things. First, we all have these emotional, these emotion laden experiences of suffering in our lives. And whether at an emotional or an intellectual level, we have trouble trusting a God who lets us suffer. Now there's other ways, there's other things that go through us and other experiences that we have. They're just pure joy. And those shape our view of reality also, but I I think uh I just want to talk about suffering here because that has been the theme through judges that we've seen people wrestling with and not trusting God is because they suffer under the oppression of local people. We have trouble trusting in God who lets us suffer. That's the first thing. And please text what I'm saying Some of you are unwilling for whatever reason to allow there to be emotional experiences. I don't know what it is. I don't know if you're like have a goal of becoming uh What's a guy on Star Trek? Oh, watch Star Trek. Stock. Yeah, I don't know if you have that goal or what, but these are emotional, intellectual experiences that we all have and they shape the conclusions that we draw about reality. And when God lets us suffer, we are inclined towards certain conclusions. Now here's the second thing. Other people around us explicitly or implicitly tell us to give up on God that there is green grass elsewhere. And that is happening more and more. And you're watching those people as you're trying to make up your mind whether you should move closer to God or away from God. You're watching those people and guess what? They're having a time of their life. Right now. That's what you always have to say. Right now. They're just part of it. They're having a time of their life, so why would we want to join them? That's what's happening too full. And that, my friends, reveals the heart of the matter when we keep going down these layers as to what God reveals to us in His in. As individuals and as a church You must spend time working through the ways in which you mistrust God. Do you think that by not addressing the cancer that is in the soul that it's just gonna go away? You have got to address those things. Those things are addressed in the wrong way throughout all of judges and there's all this hardness of heart that develops and wrong-headedness in just about every area of life. But this is what is happening behind the scenes. This is what happened in Gideon. This is what happened with Micah. And we have got to spend time working through the ways in which we mistrust God. And this is very difficult if you just want to keep up appearances and make it look like you have no problems at all. I'm not arguing against a private life. I think you should have a private life. There should be things about you that I should not know, and honestly I don't even want to know that. But there is another sense in which you're going to have to bring out what only you and God know, and sometimes you're even unwilling to admit to yourself, you're going to have to start bringing it out and dealing with it Because it is affecting your relationship with God. I want you to I want to put it this way. People that I know have reflected on their past relationship with their parents. And I remember speaking to one person in particular where they realized once they got to a certain age, they grew up in a broken home, the mother and the father divorced at an early age. And as this child grew up and was old enough to start processing them the things on their own They started to recognize that the things that the mother said about the father and the things that the father said about the mother were actually inaccurate pictures of who they were as human beings specifically. That the bias and the hatred of one for the other, which caused the divorce, painted wrong pictures, and that the child was brought up with all those wrong pictures, but then after a little bit of freedom They were able to develop their own relationship with that parent and say, well, wait a second. I mean you're not perfect, but you're not exactly that painting. And they have worked hard from that point forward to work on the mistrust that was created because of the inaccurate pictures. They've worked hard in fact to paint accurate pictures of each of the parents. And that is very similar to what I'm saying you have to do in this situation. We do the same thing with God, though he has taken upon himself human nature to show exactly who it is who he is, we still get this wrong. From our experience, especially painful experiences, we draw conclusions about the nature of reality and God. This is what happens to us as human beings. And guess what? I just want to give you a news flash. Those conclusions can be wrong. But whether they're wrong or whether they're right, because of the place that they have in our life, we base everything we do off of them. All of our feelings, the way that we take words from other people. The words we say to other people, our bodily responses, everything is flowing out of these things. As a man thinks, so is he Sometimes we view God in some ugly way We've drawn some kind of conclusion based on of certain emotional laden experiences to where we think of God in a certain way. And because we think of him that way, it is no wonder that we really would not want to be. That close to him. And that is the nature of the human experience. That's what's happening under the hood. But here's the interesting thing. In order to remain socially acceptable, even though all of that is happening inside of you, You retain the veneer as if you're just praising God with all your heart. Isn't that amazing? That is the human story. That's what's actually going on in each one of us every day. We attend church, we sing the songs, but inside at some level, Christ is doing such marvelous work in each one of you. We've got to give him credit. You do love him, but at some level you're still wrestling with this. And the question that needs to come up, if this is our condition, if this was really what's going on underneath the hood, well then what needs to happen? What needs to happen. And I I know that at this point I could uh try to be as complicated as possible, but it's super simple It's given to us especially within the New Testament. What needs to happen based on the condition of the church is that you need to talk with a Christian who really trusts God. And that you can trust. I'm absolutely convinced after working here since 2008 and being in countless counseling sessions That by and large you are unable to process these things on your own. I don't think that if you got out a notebook and you just started writing down your story That you're just going to start skipping down the street after that. You need to find someone who trusts God. It could even just be in a particular area, and you need to find someone who not only trusts God, but who you can trust to tell things that you have not told anybody. I'm not saying that you have to tell ever somebody everything, but there are certain things that you're going to have to let out of the closets that are affecting your relationship with God. and your prayers and how you view the people around you, the very nature of reality. And you need to talk about those things with someone who really knows God. So that they can help you very simply redraw the picture so that it's more accurate. You need to share with them the experiences you have had and let them hear the conclusions that you have made about God and the world. And listen very closely. I would greatly encourage you to do this before you go off to college or grad school. I'm finding that if you wait and you go off to school and you then you decide in your dorm room to share this with somebody, you're usually going to head down the wrong path. You're not going to get a more accurate picture of God. You're going to have someone who does not know how to paint paint something even worse. And you're both going to just run towards hell So I would encourage you to turn to your home community first. And the second thing that this tells us is that is that I'm giving this exhortation to people who are really struggling If there is someone that comes to you and they actually think, and this is true of you, that you trust God and that they can trust you, You cannot hurt them when they come to meet with you. You cannot go ahead and put one, if we were in England, your judges wig. And get out your gavel. And as soon as they say something that you know is against the Ten Commandments, smash them! That is not the place for that. I'm not asking you to condone evil. I'm just saying when a person comes to you and they're trying to tell you the deepest secrets and wrestlings with evil and the drawing of conclusions about reality, you can't be in that judge role. They're trying to be honest with you so that you can help them untwist and sort it out and help them paint a beautiful picture. Because when they look at the creation account, for example, there is this beautiful God who has made everything beautiful and fitting for each creature that we would all be blessed and our hearts would be merry. And yet they're having these emotional elated experiences that speak against that God is like that. If God is like that, then why this? I can't bring the two together. That's what's going on across the world today. You may have to sit across from someone who says, I feel that listen, you're gonna laugh because you all watch certain news. broadcasters or whatever, and they make fun of these people. You may have someone sit across from you and they say, I feel like I am a man in a woman's body. And this the the the way that our culture portrays this whole situation that you've now been faced with is that you are supposed to with an immediacy treat them with ridicule Now that may be the case in some cases. It depends what this person is doing. They're setting cities on fire or whatever. I mean that metaphorically. But if they come to you because God has sent them to you, you're going to have to wrestle with the fact that someone has such a psychological burning. That they cannot push away such a picture of reality to where they're saying this to you, you are going to have to help them to figure out how to accept their bodies as a creational gift from God. But what keeps them from doing that? Why could they never believe that God would give them a gift and that they should trust them? Why is it that they believe other people instead on how to interpret their experience? You have got to posture yourself in a particular way as a leader and take responsibility for these things. I'm asking you to be better than box news. I'm asking you to be better than CNN. I'm asking you to display the wisdom of the church in the face of these stories of suffering. Yes, there's sin too. But we will need to do that as parents and teachers and church leaders. When they come to you, whatever they have that they are finally or willing to reveal to you, you must let them tell you who, and here's the thing You're going to have to let them tell you who they really are and what they actually think. Because it is the necessary process for them to move from it just being of the near to it taking over the whole heart, body, and strength like we see within the Shema. There's going to need to be more of an integrated and wholeness in the transformation. Do not let them just play role, continue to play roles within society. They have to have a safe spot where they can tell us their honest struggles And now here's the difference between us and the world. We are not going to say to them, Well, I'm really glad you've discovered yourself. We are going to help them to move towards what God has designed for them, whatever the situation is. But there's no way that they're going to move towards God if they do not trust Him. And that's why you're going to have to deal with the mistrust first. You must listen to how they actually view God and the world. And then prayerfully and gently, you are going to have them, you're going to have to help them to see who God really is. For those who are struggling with transsexualism, who are thinking that they are a man and a woman's body or whatever it is, you're going to have to show them that the body that God gave to them was a gift and they should be delighting in it. And we're gonna have to figure out a way to work through these things. It was not a curse. It was not a mistake. God gave this to you as a gift. And that will be a long, long work with someone. Now that's an that's a bit of an extreme example, but it's becoming uh more of a part of the story of people in their regular lives. So I just wanted to mention that. There's so many other things We will prayerfully and gently need to help them to see who God really is, to have the picture correct. And underneath of that We must remember the words of Paul to Timothy. And that is that if we stand any chance in this, we are going to need Christ to release these people from the captivity of the devil. To release you from the captivity of the devil. That's what Paul says to Timothy. You must be a servant of Jesus Christ who does not quarrel with people, but who is gentle. And that you would be prayerful, asking that the Lord would release them from the captivity of the devil. The devil is behind us painting the wrong pictures of all of these things. And it is the glorious liberty of Jesus Christ by way of his Spirit that sets them free to see the world as it actually is and to live in accordance with it. That is the great work of the gospel of what Jesus Christ is doing. Now that was a lot. And we got a chance to look under the hood at what's going on behind these images and these examples. But just remember that our main teaching this morning is this. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is a thin veneer of devotion to the triune God. Underneath the veneer, our hearts can be like the world that is around us. But no one knows because you have been unwilling to share. And that has been the main exhortation this morning. No matter what your condition, you need to find a Christian that trusts God and who you trust, that it can help you to paint accurate pictures of reality and God. And may Christ through his spirit soften our hearts. May he reshape them wherein we see God as he really is. And may we begin to love him with all our hearts, longing to obey everything that he has commanded That's the s that's a Christian story under our glorious Jesus. Let us pray