For the reading of one day. Please follow along with me in Deuteronomy chapter thirty, verses eleven through twenty. For this commandment which I command you today is not too mysterious for you, and nor is it far off. It is not in heaven that you should say, Who will ascend into heaven for us and bring it to us that we may hear it and do it? And nor is it beyond the sea that you should say, Who will go over the sea for us and bring it to us that we may hear it and do it? But the word is very near you. It's in your mouth and it's in your heart that you may do it. See, I have set before you today life and good, death and evil, and then I command you today to love the Lord your God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments. Commandments, his statutes, and his judgments, that you may live and multiply. And the Lord your God will bless you in the land which you go to possess. But if your heart turns away so that you do not hear and are drawn away and worship other gods and serve them, I announce to you today that you shall surely perish. You shall not prolong your days in the land which you crossed over the Jordan to go in and possess. I call heaven and earth as witnesses today against you. That I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing. Therefore choose life, that both you and your descendants may live, that you may love the Lord your God, that you may obey his voice. And that you may cling to him, for he is your life and the length of your days, and that you may dwell in the land which the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. To give them. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you. This is these words are strengthening. They are clarifying. And most of all, they are plain and simple Even our children understand this. We pray, Lord, that we would not just be hearers of the simple word, but doers in the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. Saint Gregory the Great in his commentary on Job says, Scripture is like a river, broad and deep. It is shallow enough over here for the lamb to go wading, but it is deep enough over there for the elephant to swim. I wonder which person you are. Do you approach the scriptures like a lamb or like an elephant? Are there different times in your life where you've moved from lamb to elephant? Where you've waited in the shallows and the certainty? Comfort of the truths of the scriptures, and other times you've gone out further, sometimes over your head. Person you are. Both are necessary. But in my observation, the deep and the profound often within our Reformed congregation overwhelm The refreshing and the certain shallows which the scriptures offer. So let's not forget that they're there. Often we value the scriptures as elephants. That's fine. Keep doing so. But today I ask with Moses and with the Holy Spirit that you would value it as lambs. That you would see the value of the shallows, the simple. the plain message that God gets to us. So simple that it may move right through the intellect and directly into the will. There's no Excuse. And so today that's what I want to do. As lambs, let us move into the shallows to begin to value the shallows. I want to look at two things. You need to realize this morning But the message is plain. We've been in Deuteronomy for some time. And here at the end, we've moved out of the giving of the covenant to these the times as a past And as a shepherd, he's encouraging his people here. And he's saying to you, this is simple to understand. It is plain. And after that, I want us to look forward a little bit in the history of this people to see that not only is this is the message plain, but the story is familiar as to what will happen. to them and and really what happens to all of us. So let's look at these two things. The message is plain and the story is familiar. We begin in verse 11 here And Moses is briefly reminding them of the covenant that he just declared. The whole series is on our website or on sermon audio if you want to hear the whole book of Deuteronomy up to this Point. But you see in verse eleven he says, For this commandment, he's referring back to the covenant which I command you today. That covenant, he reminds me of And then with a shepherd's heart, he anticipates some conversation amongst God's people. I wonder in your scriptures, take a look in your scriptures, do you see the discussion of heaven and the and the sea? In quotation marks? Because mine is in quotation marks, and I sought to read that to you as a conversation. That's what's going on in verses 12 and 13. The Bible has it there, the translators put it in quotation Because it represents an anticipated conversation that Moses would have with people. Is it not in heaven that you should say, who will ascend into heaven for us and bring it to us, that we may hear and do it? And then he says, Nor is it beyond the sea that you should say, Who will go over the sea for us and bring it to us that we may hear and do it? That would be the mindset. It's not simple, Moses. It's complicated. It's mysterious. We'd have to go and find it somewhere. It really represents an ancient Near Eastern mindset, first of all. In that culture, to know any truth from God, you would have to have a special class of people Or a special person who goes on a long journey, they find God, and then they bring what they got from God back to their people that all might have truth and that they might know who God is and what he requires. For example, an ancient Near Eastern story would be the Epic of Gilgamesh, which is what's going on there. But you know, it's not just for Ancient Near Eastern people, isn't that our culture too? Isn't that how we think we gain knowledge of the truth and knowledge into reality? It's exactly how we approach it and And you know, the proof is really in our in our cultural display of how we think, which is mostly in movies. There are a lot of movies these days. I'm sure there's still books out there But I see a lot of movies. And we see the same trend in them. Gandalf and Lord of the Rings is always going off on some dangerous journey to bring back truth to the fellowship of the Ring and how they should proceed. I'm sure you're familiar with that. Luke Skywalker must go off and sit with Yoda to discover the truth of the force and bring that power back to the rebellion. And I bet you you could think of the thousand But let me just share one of my my most recent favorite ones. If you know me, I have a lot of favorites. My most recent favorite is Frozen 2. There Elsa had to travel through the enchanted forest and the dark sea to discover why the spirits had turned against her people. And she eventually brings the truth back, and they all live happily Ever after. Oh, spoiler alert, sorry. Yeah. Well I'm just saying this happens in every story. So there you go. Sorry, folks. But you know the interesting thing when you look back down at your scriptures and those quotations, although I could have gone on all day long with How this shows up in our movies and in our books. You could go to Greek literature, it's the same thing, Odysseus. Interestingly, Moses contradicts the whole thing He says in the quotations, he says, no, that's not what it's like. Moses' whole point is that in this case, they do not need to go on a journey to heaven. Heaven. They do not need to travel across the seas to discover who God is and what He requires for His people. God has come down and Clearly stated it for everybody. That's the whole point. And the focus here is on the commandment. So if you just think about the way in which God has done this throughout the book of Deuteronomy. Has not God clearly stated his will? And has he not clearly stated who he is? I mean, it was clearly stated and summarized for us in Ten Commandments. And I'd encourage you, if you have time one day, to look at the Ten Commandments in the Hebrew language because they're shorter looking than the English language. It's just a real short word and then another word, all the way down. But it wasn't just the Ten Commandments. He summarized it even in a simpler way for us called the Shema. It's reduced to two: love God and love your neighbor. It's the same way that Jesus summarized it. The Ten Commandments couldn't be easier. Everyone was to memorize it. It was to be on their heart and on their mind. It was to be on their doorposts. Families were built around it. The kings studied and copied it It was rewritten, as we learned in earlier chapters, on monumental rocks on Mount Ebald that everyone could see it. Festivals were set aside to ingrain the covenant. There were parties that surrounded the covenant. Passover reminded them of God's grace. For example, of bringing them out of slavery to be a Sabbath people who had time to love him and love their neighbor. Everything in their society was a goad to understanding what God had clearly communicated. That's the kind of God that we have. You don't need to go far off. And that's why Moses says in verses eleven and in verse fourteen of this passage. This is not too mysterious for you. It is not far off, like you have to go on a journey like Elsa to discover the truth. for your people. It is right in front of your face. The problem is not knowing who God is and what What he requires. You cannot plead ignorance of who this God is and what he requires of you. That's the message that he gives to this group of people. Well that's the first thing I want to bring out here. But the second thing is that this story that they then follow and the path that they Take later on in their life is all too familiar with us. We've already gone over this. Despite this being perfectly clear, the story goes on You see here within this passage that they have the choice between blessing and curse, life and death, and we know the path that they take. The story's familiar. As I mentioned last week, by the time you reach the end of 2 Kings, they have disregarded this covenant with complete abandon. It is truly sad. I didn't know, I don't know if you realize this or not But do you remember one of the reasons why God had the Israelites remove the Canaanites from the land? Do you remember one of the atrocities that they were committing? Like removing the Nazi party. Child sacrifice. After a time, do you know what the Israelites themselves were doing? Child sacrifice. That's what it came to. They were destroying their own children. That's where the story goes. They become like the Canaanites themselves. And as verses 17 through 19 declare in our passage, once they turned their hearts away from the Lord, they entered upon the pl path not of blessing, but of curse. And heaven and earth Earth witness to this whole thing. And I believe that heaven and earth reminded them every day of the path that they chose. The heavens no longer gave forth rain as a reminder, and the earth dried up as a reminder. But of course I bet you, and actually you can look through some of the scriptures to to see that they in fact did this. I bet you some of them raised their fist at God and they said, if only we had known what you wanted. If only we knew who you were, they would plead ignorance, and there would be a special pleading that for whatever reason we And so the blame would be shifted, and we see this like in the book of Micah when the Lord brings a lawsuit against his people, or in Isaiah, when the Lord brings a lawsuit against his people. Or in any of those prophets where a lawsuit is brought, they always have an excuse. And they say, Why are you doing this, Lord? We don't understand. They fall back into this blame shifting. But of course, we know from the very first point that I made, they did know. There were no excuses. It was not a mystery. They did not have to travel to the heavens. They did not have to sail to the far reaches of the ocean. They did not have to find Yoda in the swamp. To receive the message of the force. Everything was laid right there before them. The key word here that you must take away from chapter 30, 11 to the end Is that God's message is simple? There are no excuses. It is not far away. It is very near. That's the truth. So once again, what we have is the ancient Israelite people on display for the whole world to learn. And you're part of that world. You get to learn here, and you get to evaluate yourself, and we get to evaluate ourselves as a church, and we get to be encouraged and goaded by these truths. The message is plain, but most, because there was a remnant in Israel, most still choose the hard path. every time. I'm still speaking about the Israelites, but as the words leave my mouth, I can't help but to already begin to think of how timeless this message is. I can feel the power of the message that although things are clear, human beings have a way of still choosing evil. You know the message is plain to us too, isn't it? Let me ask you, instead of assuming, I I I don't like assumptions, is God's message plain to you? Would you say that it is simple? Has God made it clear who He is and what He requires of you? Now that's a difficult question because of the kind of creature. We are. In a certain way you could say, no, it's very confusing to me, but I hope to explain that in a minute. I think the best way to try to answer that question is from someone who knows the reality of the situation And so we turn to the Apostle Paul to answer that question. Is God's message plain? Who he is and what he requires of us? Is that plain? to everybody? Let's turn to the Apostle Paul actually. Turn to Romans chapter 1, verses 18 and following. Here we have an a authoritative understanding of the reality of our human situation so that we're not Stuck in one person's opinion over another. We have a great rule and standard here to find out our human For since the creation of the world His invisible attributes are clearly seen. This is the kind of language I want you to notice. We're trying to answer the question: do we know who this God is and what he really is? requires of us. Number one, Paul says, for since the creation of the world, that's from the beginning, and this is going to include everyone, his invisible attributes are clearly seen They are understood by the things that are made, the creation that is around you. Well what's understood? That he has eternal power, the Godhead. And there it is, it's so plain that we are without excuse In terms of knowing him. Because although they knew God, this is a story of the human race, they did not glorify him as God. There's one requirement that he is to be glorified, nor were thankful This is Paul's take on it. But instead, the human race has become futile in their thoughts and their foolish hearts were darkened. That's a story of our kind. And it tells us two main things. Number one, it tells us an answer to our question. God has revealed who He is through the creation around us, and He has revealed what is required that we are meant to glorify Him and to Be thankful to him. Now, all of these things are also communicated when I get up here and I preach to you from the Word, because God is also revealing Himself and what He requires from His Scriptures. But here I'm just showing you one thing that Paul says But this is the interesting thing. If you were to keep reading, Paul says that something terrible has happened. That even though that is true, you are such a creature that you wouldn't be able to recognize it You suppress what in reality is there. You're a suppressor. And that's the second thing that it tells us. It tells us That though the message is clear like that to the Israelites, we all or ignore or suppress the truth in unrighteousness. Have you ever heard that word before suppressed? I wonder if some of you have been using a suppressant over the last month. As a cough suppressant suppresses a cough, so too naturally we suppress that God is the only God and that He deserves our worship. and to be glorified. Those who become Christians actually see this very clearly, especially those who become Christians late But even those who grow up in the church, as God gradually gives them life, they say things like, It wasn't like I didn't know God and what he required. It's just that I worked really hard to not care. And I worked really hard. I spent my whole life seeking to shut him up. I at every turn figured out a way to gag God and adopted modern philosophies that did so most effectively. That's the story of the human race. You know, one theologian points out that Paul teaches this again in Romans chapter 3. You're welcome, since you're already in Romans, you're welcome to go there. In Romans 3. He teaches it here after he declares that all are guilty under sin. He rehearses humanity's history And we learn a lot about the continuation of our lesson here in Deuteronomy from Romans 3 with this history. It just keeps going. If you take a look at Romans 3:10, for example, let me ask you a question. Does this section in Romans teach you that some men at least recognize How God designed life. That the majority of people recognize how God designed their life and that they try to live just like him. They seek to imitate God and his righteousness and they want to live for him. That's the trend today, right? No, Romans 3. 10 hits the nail on the head. There is none righteous. No, there's not one That's the conclusion that we reach. Here's another one for you. Does history provide a moving picture of humans on their own chasing after After the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, longing to pray naturally in themselves. They hang on. Our culture. We can't stop them. They want the Word of God passionately. They hang on every word that Jesus has spoken. What is the picture of humanity? There is none that seek after God. Romans 3:11 Do people naturally seek to please God by speaking with dignity toward those who are made in God's image? When we look on Facebook, we see God Himself and how He dignifies human beings. That's the picture. And you know what? We can't stop people from worship services. They sing praises to God night and day, cross the land. That's not what we see. It's not the history of humanity. Rather, this is the history from Romans 3:13 and 14. Their throat is an open grave With their tongues they practice deceit. The poison of snakes is under their lips. Their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. That is the description of what we have You know this to be true. I'm appealing to your own experience and the experience of history. Whether you are an ancient Israelite or a modern American As a people continues today. And now you know what sin brings. I mean it's there in the passage. The lesson continues. You know what sin brings. It was current Curse or life. It was curse or blessing b blessing, death or life. And because of what the human race has chosen, even in Adam, we know what to expect. It's curse. Have you experienced a curse lately? Do you have examples of living under a curse? Have you heard of What is the curse within the news lately? Is it something that I really need to prove to you this morning? That this is a cursed existence? It is why the world is the way that it is today. This is not the way that it is supposed to be. I just heard someone say that. This isn't the way it's supposed to be. Today you are not experiencing the exact curse of the exile exactly like this group of people, but you do experience the curse. The tornado which tore through Middle Tennessee is part of the curse. The coronavirus is part of the curse And the person who said to me, It's not supposed to be like this, was a local pastor whose wife born twin boys prematurely and they both died. And he said, it's not meant to be like this. Those were his words. And we say yes and amen. It's not meant to be like that, brother. And we seek to comfort them as they lived in this cursed land. Every day, these kinds of things are in our life so that we would remember everything is not well There's something that's broken that needs to have some kind of fixing, and we need help. Everybody recognize Recognizes this. Whether you're a Christian or you're a non-Christian, you really do recognize this, although I do understand that people could think differently about it, but you're wrong. Talk to me afterward. Now here's a here's something, here's a question. Wasn't it nice that when we were in the Deuteronomy passage, God said, You don't need to look for what? I am and what I require of you, I'm bringing it to you. Wouldn't it be great if God said, I know you need help, and I'm going to bring it to you. You don't need to go try and find it Wouldn't it be nice if he did that? In the same way that he did of old, going to them and striking up the initiative and the relationship. Wouldn't it be nice if he did that here for the solution? In the same way that the command was near, in the same way that we didn't have to search the heavens or sail the seas to know who God is and what he requires, it would likewise be nice to have a solution to the human problem near at hand. Hand, would it not? But no solution seems near. That is what everyone is saying right now. We're not sure what to do, but we're going to keep trying. Let me give you some examples. Examples. We are exploring space, looking for a way to colonize Mars. Why? Because we're miserable We explore the oceans. Why? Because we're miserable. We explore genetics because we're miserable. We explore below the atomic level of things. We keep going deeper and deeper, searching for the reality like Elsa did in Frozen 2 or like Luke Skywalker Or like Gandalf, hoping to bring truth and health and life and salvation back to the human race, win the Nobel Peace Prize. All in hopes that one day there's going to be someone who walks into the earth, returning from their journey with the truth to save the whole world. And lately, the latest attempt is mostly through science. But that's what we're doing. Can't you read what's happening? In front of your face? But here's the thing: what if I told you that all of that scientific exploration And the way that it's being used today is just a suppression of the actual solution that God has already offered and brought near to you. What if you're ignoring an open hand that is stretched out to you with the solution? And what if science helps you to suppress it In other words, what if God did it again? What if he said, you don't need to explore the oceans for salvation or the heavens? Does that sound familiar? You don't need to go down into the earth. You don't need to go down up into heaven. I'm coming to you. Well, it's in our bulletin today. It's like we plan things around here. In Romans chapter 10, verses 5 through 9. For Moses writes about the righteousness which is of the law. The man who does those things shall live by them. But the righteousness of faith speaks in this way. And then it's a quote from our Deuteronomy passage. Do not say in your heart, who will ascend into heaven? That is to bring Christ down from above. Or who will descend into the abyss? That is to bring Christ up from above. From the dead. But what does it say? It says the word is near you. It's in your mouth and it's in your heart. That is the word of faith which I'm preaching this morning. And on purpose chose Paul so that it would be the word of faith that he preached. That if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be Be saved. Finally, the solution. If you want to be saved from the curse from your sin, the punishment of your sin, the effects of your sin, God has brought the answer near you in His name. Jesus Christ. It is as plain as day. You cannot miss it. It is not complicated. Brothers and sisters, we are in the shallows Not the deep. It is too easy. The message is not mysterious. You do not need to know calculus. You do not need a college degree. There is simply this that is laid before you in the preaching of Peter himself, who knew all too well the truth that you must repent of your disloyalty to Jesus the Christ. Christ who has been established king over the whole world and the heavens, and you must submit to him as your God. You must acknowledge him as both the one, the only one that can save you, and the one to whom you alone owe allegiance, not your own desires Not your own ambitions, not your own goals, but his goals, his ambitions, and his desires As God, he deserves your dedication. I'm talking about Jesus Christ. He's the answer. He came to us. We did not have to go. Go find him. As your God, he will at just the right time deliver you from the curse. You could look on yourself if you're a Christian and you could begin doubting. That this is the right choice. You could, from the outside, looking in on Christians, think, what is he talking about? They're all suffering still. But make no mistake, though Christians still suffer today, it is promised to us that we have a glorious future. In the end, we, you, brothers and sisters, will not be ashamed of you, of running to Jesus Christ and running away from sin Here's the difficulty before you this morning, even as I preach to you from God Himself. You are a suppressor, and I am the cough. You're a scratcher, and I am the itch. I pray that the Holy Spirit would be merciful to you and that he would open your eyes. Some of you may be sitting here as snug as a bug in a rug, having grown up in the church thinking you've got it made But then if even a child were to evaluate your life, they would see that all you have done is listen and you have not dedicated anything Anything to the Lord. The only time you come running back to the Lord is so that He can be your therapist and make you feel better so you can go out and do whatever you want to do. That is not living for the Lord Jesus Christ. Stop Suppressing the truth. Don't forget that our passage from which this lesson comes in Deuteronomy is not know what he says, and then you're good to go. It is do. I'll tell you this morning, there is a great mistake in the Reformed faith. It's never meant to be there, it's not truly reformed, that faith is in the intellect and that it ends there. Faith carries through the intellect to the will. Faith is best expressed in faithfulness. What is faith without works? It is dead. A lifeless corpse. None of this is too mysterious. It's been laid before some of you for your whole life It is not in the heavens, it is not across the sea, you do not need to ask Gandalf or Yoda or Luke or Obi-Wan Kenobi or Elsa You do not need a theological degree. It is right in front of your face. It is very near you. Please bear with me. Father, the most fitting prayer for this morning, given the kind of creatures that we are in ourselves, even after regeneration. Is that you would release us from the deception of the devil himself? Lord, I pray for those who are blinded by his ways that you would give them sight. I pray for those who have backslidden by his Temptations that you would give them repentance. Lord God, I pray also for this congregation and for the leaders in it, especially That we would not make your word more complicated than it actually is. Lord, it is a terrible image to take a lamb out into the deep and drown it. Even if it is drowning it in your word. Lord, may we understand each other. May we know when to wade in the shallows and in the riffles And may we know when to swim out. I ask, Lord, that you'd give us wisdom and discretion, and that there would be no one discouraged by your word But that they would know that you are very near and that you are our salvation. You are our very life In the name of Christ, Amen.