I'd ask that you please turn with me now to Psalm 19 as we hear God's word to us. What a grace that He speaks to us. That his voice is heard in every land. If you remember, this is this these set of verses are set up, and this is the uh From 15 all the way to 24, this one is at the dead center in this poetic structure, and so it's very, very important. Please follow along with me as I read through this whole psalm. We're looking at Psalm nineteen. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament shows his handiwork. Day unto day utters speech, and night unto night reveals knowledge There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. Their line has gone out through all the earth and their words to the ends of the world. In them he has set a tabernacle for the Sun, which is like a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoices like a strong man to run its race. Its rising is from one end of heaven and its circuit to the other end, and there is nothing hidden from its The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold. Sweeter also than honey in the honeycomb. Moreover, by them your servant is warned, and in keeping them there is great reward. Who can understand his errors? Cleanse me from my secret faults. Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then I shall be blameless. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. Please pray with me. Lord Christ, as you know, everyone sitting here today has many voices bouncing around in their heads. Head, perhaps even distracting them from getting through the reading of Psalm 19. I pray that you would remove those voices and that they would hear you speaking as the great king. In your name. Amen. Amen. Matthew 16, 13 through 15 When Jesus came into the region of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? So they said, Some say John the Baptist Some Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? And of course the dialogue continues, and you could pick up on other dialogues throughout the Gospels raising the question of who is Jesus? What is the nature of the kingdom? And you notice in this passage, as it does in Matthew 16, as it does in many other passages, I don't know if you've noticed before, but did you hear there are a lot of answers to the question? I'm not saying that all of them were right. In fact, if you were to read the next verse in this passage, we'd get the right answer that he's the Christ, and it was revealed from heaven to Peter. But the point is that there are many voices in the world giving many different answers. And that's the focus of this psalm. There are lots of voices about who Jesus is. There's lots of voices in the world. There's voices that can sound like what you hear right now. There's voices that can sound more urgent. There's voices that can sound more agitated. And when we look at this psalm, we'll also see a number of different sounding voices. In fact, there can be voices of praise Voices of wonder, voices expressing sweetness, voices expressing sorrow and confession. We're going to hear all of those voices in this Psalm. And they have a message. Here it is. The heavens which have a voice, and the word which surely has a voice brings praise to God so that you, Christian, would humbly submit to his rule. Actually, whether Christian or non-Christian The heavens and the word bring praise to God so that you would humbly submit to His rule or His God. That's the message of Psalm 19, and we're going to step through each of the stanzas. I hope that your Bible editors marked out the stanzas for you. you but um we're going to look at the heavens praising the law ruling and the saints submitting it's going to be glorious as Christ speaks to you this morning Morning. So let's take a look first in Psalm 19 at the Heaven's Praising. I'm sure you're familiar with this Psalm. It's a glorious psalm, one on which you'd want to meditate. It's a psalm of David, and right off the bat you can see a voice. Speaking up, it's a little unexpected. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament shows his handiwork. Day on today utters speech, and night on tonight reveals knowledge. There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard, their line has gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. He sparks very generally, doesn't he? He says that the heavens praise God's glory, a very general statement that encompasses everything. Psalm 8 began with a direct address to God. He says, O Lord our Lord, how majestic is your name in all of the earth. Very similar to this. The Psalmist in 8 began with a direct address, but in Psalm 19 there is no direct address here. But the atmosphere is still praise. You notice that? The heavens declare the glory of God. Can they declare the glory outside of praise? Really, you would think of a hymn. The planets and the planetary spheres. are singing hymns. Instead of praise proceeding from a human congregation, the praise proceeds from the congregation of astronomical objects Just as Disney's motion pictures give human personality to candlesticks and clocks and dinner wear if you've seen the beauty and the beast. It's called personification. So too, David does something similar here. He personifies the heavens as declaring and showing, verse 1, the glory of God and his handiwork. Have you ever looked up the words declaring and showing? They're actually quite telling. Declaring and showing mean to narrate a significant message. To pour forth in detail. I remember hearing people do this kind of thing when there were floods in Ellicott City I forget who it was, but one of you here in the congregation, I think, was sitting in a restaurant as the floods picked up and the water started pouring down the main stream. Street in Ellicate City, and cars began being lifted up and taken down the streets. And as you were telling the story to me, you were expressing to me the raw power of the water And it could have been turned into a hymn in some sense. And that's kind of what we have going on here. There's a personification, a narration of detailed and powerful, significant message. Like you'd hear, you'd see people's eyes open wide as they said, the whole car was lifted up by the water and taken down the street. And our eyes should be wide here as we see the raw power of God and the planets themselves evidencing that glory. Here are the significant messages, God's glory as seen in his handiwork. The celestial marvels evidence God's transcendence weight, his dignity, his importance, and its honor. So I was driving on Benfield, I was looking at the trees and just asking for the song, for me to hear the song of the one who created those trees. the one who brought the Son up, so to speak, poetically. In verse 2, both the continuous narration and God's handiwork is further emphasized. Did you see that? Day onto day utter speech, you see how the voice is being emphasized in the amount of time and all the locations in these verses In verse one, the words themselves grammatically act like an ever-rolling stream. Unceasing In verse 2, David substitutes with figures of speech. He says, Day onto day, night onto night, what he's saying is all day, all night, every day, every night, 24-7 365 is how you would say it. In verses 3 and 4, the heavens orbit from praising God's 24, 7, 365, to all locations. There is no speech nor language where his voice is not heard. Their line has gone out through all of the earth and their words to the ends of the world. The heavens praise God for his knowledge everywhere. So do you see what he's doing now? It's all time, everywhere. Fully encompassing the metaphor moving back to fact and away from personification, David then lists three negative statements. There's no speech, there's no language, their voice is not heard. The heavens speak with an unspoken eloquence. Although the heavens are only seen, humanity may hear a song sung to the reason and the heart that incites worship Have you ever had that happen to you? I've had even atheists say to me, while looking over the waters in southern Florida, with birds flying overhead at a sunset, something spoke inside of them that said There must be a God. I'll admit their inhibitions were open because they had a few drinks. But the voice rose after the few drinks And something inside said, based on the sights, there must be a God. And they were not able to silence it in that moment. The unspoken eloquence that David brings up. This little unspoken voice is at all times. times it's everywhere. Their line or boundary markers extend throughout the earth. That's the the point there. Uh we we don't uh use this kind of language in our culture in verse 4. Their line has gone throughout all the earth and their words to the end You can think of a survey putting in markers to mark the northeast corner of the property and the this corner of the property and that corner of the property where his voice is heard, and he's saying the surveyor who sets the boundary lines has to be a very good idea. to put them at the ends of the earth because everyone can hear the unspoken eloquence. The heavens declare it throughout the earth. Now I want you to notice that you you and you should have in your Bible the way that it's been edited, it's now going to move from the heavens in general, which include the sun, the moon, the stars, and it's going to now focus on the sun and foresee. In them he has set a tabernacle for the sun. This is a transition verse. David now moves from astronomical objects in general to the sun in particular. and foresee acts as a smooth transition from heaven in general to the sun within the dome or tenth of the heavens. You see the image there? Can you parse it out when it says in them he has set a tabernacle for the sun? A tabernacle or a tent. I think the idea is that the sun sleeps under the tent at night but is still present. And then it moves on to the sun if it's sleeping at the night. And then what do we see in the next verse? But the sunrise, as David looks over Jerusalem, with no trees in the way, only small shrubbery He's able to see the sun rise. Thus, when we come to verse 5, the sun, like a youthful, vigorous groom at a royal wedding. rises in radiance and rejoices or is fresh and fast like a sprinter and marathon runner all in one package I don't think it's focused so much on the handsomeness of the young man as to how excited he is to be united with his bride. That he'd be fast to get there and he'd travel any length to do it, is the point. The sun as a runner travels from one end of the earth to the other, and thus nothing is hidden from his heat. Do you see the repetition in the poetry? It was spoken of generally, and now it's being said of the same thing with the sun. It's not an ode to the sun. We're not singing a hymn to the sun. You have to read this in the context. The sun is in the tent at night and day and then uh uh releases And runs throughout all the earth and throughout all of time, and it is a s again, the significance of the Son is the dignity and the honor of God, and the Son, therefore, in all times and in all places Is singing the same song as the moon at night and the stars when they're revealed. It's proving the point once again, there's not a single second, and when God's glory is not revealed throughout all of the earth. Oh How often do we hear it? It's not unknown to the sun. The sun gives glory to God. The themes are repeated. The sun is in the tent at night and day and therefore all the time. The combined effect is that God's wisdom and governance, his omniscience and omniscience and omnicompetence is seen in his providence over all of his heavenly and earthly creation. In all their actions. Isn't that what they're saying? If they're saying something about him and what they're going through and how they're governed, aren't they saying on how omnicompetent and wise he is? How capable he is. And thus we learn about his providence. All God's most holy, wise, and powerful, preserving and governing all his creatures and their actions. Testifying to the weight of God. If it were the sun and the moon and the stars in the 16th century, they would have turned that section from the shape. shorter catechism into a hymn, celebrating the common and the special providence of God. The heavens praise God for his providence. The heavens tell a detailed narration and story like one, an elicate city with the floods. It's the story of God governing over all of his creation all the time and everywhere, 24-7-365. But then we reach verse 7. And before we go into the next major point of the sermon, Notice that there feels like a there's a real break in substance and style at this point. Have you ever determined what you believe the connection is as you move from this hymn to God, through the planets, to the law of God? You can see the major shift in style and topic. Some people have said that the two there were two separate poems pasted together with a glue stick. That's me being derogatory towards those people. I apologize We move from the praise of God to the law of God. Now you can try to seek unity in this. By saying, well, the first part of it talks about God's general or natural revelation. The second part talks about God's special or supernatural revelation. Revelation, and that is unifying this whole psalm under the word revelation. But I don't think that's exactly what David is doing. I think that's true. You see both of them there. But I don't think that's how we should unify it. I don't think that's what David is doing. It doesn't make sense of the first part and the bringing of us to praise him in the way that the planets are praising him for his governance Rather, the connection should be teased out in accordance to what we've learned in wisdom literature, because this is in fact a wisdom psalm. For we praise, we go from wisdom and then we sh Sh we go from praising into wisdom. And you know we have a proverb like that. Can you think of a proverb? You actually studied it in small groups where we went from praise to wisdom. It was Proverbs 30. And like Psalm 19, Proverbs 30 moves from God as creator and sustainer. proving his infinite wisdom and governance to verse in verse 5 of Proverbs 30, every word of God proves true. And that's the connection. The wonder of God's omniscience, as we've seen in the first four verses, and of his governance. Prove his comprehensive knowledge as seen in creation, and thus with Agor, we are also led to have confidence in God's knowledge and governance through his word. That's the effect that's meant to happen with the first four verses. As you see how good God is in his providence of all of creation, can you trust him to govern you with his word? It's the question that verse 5 brings out of us before we leave verses 1 through 4, which is why I had to transition this way. Have you been convinced of his goodness and his power and his omnicompetence in verses one through four? Because if you have not You may not be prepared to also be governed by his word or his law. So consider cu so consider the garb of spring upon all of creation, that your heart may be open. To his word. And as we do that, we can now move into the second point, which is the law ruling. When you go through the list, when you heard me read it, is that how you thought of God's law? If you were to have to explain it to somebody, describe God's law. Would you have said these things? Describe the rewards of his law. Is that what you have said Have said? The law has fallen on hard times. If you had to describe the law to someone, what in fact would you say? What would the adjectives be that you would choose? Just as the heavens declare the glory of God, so too do the traits and rewards of the law. And so we have the law ruling. The verses are written. If you take a look here closely, the verses are written. To show what the law is and then the rewards. They show a trait or characteristic of the law and then the benefit. And I'm not going to go through everyone in the list. I'm just going to To go through a couple for you. It would be a good study for you to look them all up in your concordance and understand them. So the first thing that we see in verse 7 is the lawless perfect, converting the soul. The law converts in the sense of moving people back into the right direction. That's what it means. The law restores in the sense of putting humans back into their proper order. That's also what it means. There's a great moment in the life of Ruth where these same words are used. Let me read this to you from Ruth chapter 4, verses 13 through 15 Look at how tender and beautiful this is. And this is why the psalmist David must speak about the law this way. So Boaz took Ruth and she became his wife. And he went into her, and the Lord gave her conception, and she bore a son. Then the women said to Naomi, Blessed be the Lord who has not left you this day without a redeemer. And may his name be renowned in Israel. He shall be to you a restorer of life and a nourisher. of your old age. Same words used of the law. For your daughter-in-law who loves you, who is more to you than seven sons, has given birth. That's the picture that David paints. Yahweh, through the writings of Moses, shall be a Boaz to you and restore your life, even the parts of your life which the locusts have eaten. The testimony of the Lord is sure is the next thing that he says, making wise the simple. You can see in verse 7 that he narrows down. He starts broadly with the word the law, which is Torah, referring to all of the writings of Moses to the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. This word testimony is most used in the book of Exodus, and it should remind you of the place where this testimony was kept, the Ark of the Testimony, or the Ark of the Covenant. That's his focus now. These reliable and unchanging commandments have the effect of making wise the simple. This is a wisdom psalm, so you should recognize that word, simple, pati. And making wise, those who are open and teachable to the testimony of the covenant shall be masterful and wise in life. Have you ever thought of the law that way? To restore your soul, to make you masterful in living And then he goes on, skipping down, the commandment of the Lord is pure. This is most surprising because it enlightens the eyes. The law of God is the writing of Moses, particularly the testimony. But they are not just legal treatises. They are commands, and they demand obedience because of from whom it's coming. These commands are radiant and pure. The sense is that they have no moral impurity. You know what this is like. The Hebrew is actually very vivid here. Have you ever driven on a Saturday and you go by a parking lot, like a Burger King parking lot, and you see a bunch of people that decided to get their old cars together and just kind of hang out with cool old cars You ever see how clean their bumpers are? How shiny, how much they must have scrubbed. There's not a scuff. You could see your full image in it. That's the picture here. It's the same kind of language that it's been scrubbed clean to where it would be shiny like like uh whatever those beautiful car cards are in their chrome bumpers. That's what he means by pure, radiant, without scratch or scuff. That's the way that the commands are. And when it's ingested, When it goes into the heart, they make the eyes brighten, and it shows a life of joy and vitality and righteousness like a new convert. You ever seen their eyes brightened, brought out of a life of bondage and whatever it was, and then their eyes are clear. You ever seen that? You can see a difference in their eyes That's what it's speaking about here, the vitality that comes through his law. Is that how you would have described God's law? The adjectives that you would have used to describe his word? I'm not going to list anymore. You should study these on your own. Just get out of concordance. Look how these words are used throughout the scriptures. But I do want you to notice three more things. Notice that the different names for the word law. Notice all of the different synonyms that are given here. It will eventually cover every word that has ever been enscripturated by God. That means this whole thing is included. Notice also the value of the law and how it escalates into a statement of sweet pleasure. Like honey from the honeycomb. I'm not talking about honey that you buy at Food Lion. I'm talking about the honey that you would get if you came over to my house and I cracked open a comb for you. The freshness that you'd smell in opening up the hive. Not honey from China. And then lastly, the repetition of Proverbs. The word of God is greater than gold. You remember this from Proverbs? How it compares wisdom to gold and to treasure. Here the word of God in its entirety is compared to gold, and we remember from Proverbs that God that that gold can give you a house, but it's only through God and His Word that it can give you a house. And that's his point here. Now, have you ever heard anyone, or at least heard lately, someone speaking about God's word and law this way? It includes the law. Speaking of it this way, how sweet to us is this how we would have described it? That's the point. The emphasis is on the word to the praise and trust of the one who spoke the word. That's what's happening here. David's not just interacting with words on the page, he's thinking of God. In the same way that the planets would declare God's praise, so too the word brings him to God, and he falls in love with the one who speaks. Who is there and who is not silent. And every word coming from his mouth is sweeter than honey. It's a personal, covenantal relationship, not words on a page. Although, yeah, they're on a page But he's connected with God in that. And that's the point. It doesn't move from a hymn from the planets to, we're no longer talking about a hymn. The word itself testifies to someone who is speaking them. The 24-7-365 praise of the creation is meant to persuade you of God's perfect providence, and the perfect word of God is meant to persuade you of the sweetest delight of God's speech into your heart. life. It should be the greatest voice that you ever hear in all your life. The sweetest. But that's the difficulty. Did you notice that there is a chasm that exists between what David writes and what you yourself experience in Bible study? You could be miles apart from David's experience. Part of the problem is that many view this Psalm, Psalm 19, just as they view Psalm 119, and that means without much observation. When you begin to study these Psalms and you observe for a long time, just letting them roll through your mind, ruminating on them. It does in fact imply and urge Bible study. However, the Bible is a means to communion with the living God, just as the stars are a means to worship of the living God. And so here's the real question before you in Psalm 19. The question is not how much Bible study do you have? Of course, that's very important. Here's the real question. The question is, is your heart open to what God says to you? He established that he is worthy of listening to in the first four verses. And now he is speaking through his word. Will you open your heart to let him speak to you? Will you be teachable and open? That's the question that's being asked here. And David was, and as he opened his heart to the Word of God, he discovered all of these adjectives in enlightenment. You know, Jesus says something similar about opening our hearts or closing our hearts to what God says. The seed is the Word of God. The ones along the path are those who have heard. Then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, so they may not believe and be saved. And the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear the word, they receive it with joy. But these have no root. They believe for a while, and in time of testing, then they fall away. And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear, but as they go on their way, they are choked by the cares and the riches and the pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature. As for that in the good soil, they are those who, hearing the word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart, and bear fruit with patience. This is all about having openness to what God says. And that's the same thing. point here. Which would be more important? To read 19 chapters of God's Word or to read a few sentences and actually receive His word. Truly be open to it. Receive it. The parable acts as a warning concerning our hearts and God speaking to us. The heavens speak, and our hearts should be open to the message. Their message prepares our heart to open to all of God's word with delight. Yet when we open up and commune with God, He as the light brings things out in us that were hidden in darkness. And that's one of the reasons why we never open our hearts. Of fear of being exposed. But I want you to notice what happens next in this psalm. David is exposed. He goes through it because it's worth it. If our hearts remain open, this will in fact require more than exposure. It will require you as a saint to submit. And to do things his way and not what your own voice tells you So this next part of the psalm, you can see we're reaching, we're going deeper and deeper here into the life of spirituality. Which what would you expect in the life of the Psalms? This isn't a superficial meditation. He's going to take you as deep as you will go, where your ears start to pop. Or that's as high as you go. If you go deep, then your ears get stuffy So verse 11 is a transition here in Psalm 19. Yea, moreover, by them your servant is warned. And in keeping them, there is great reward. David inverts the order. You notice that? 11b summarizes all the rewards that we just heard of about the law, and then it's 11a that moves us into the next section. If we were to put them in linear order, it would be, and in keeping them there is great reward, referring to the law, and then moreover, by them your servant is warned. And now we move into a time where he's going to take on this warning and personally appropriate the law. All of the Word of God. When we open up, the laws give warning, he says. You read the Psalms You know the poetics. You know now in this study of the Psalms that there's five collections of Psalms, and the Psalm we're in right now is the center of a kiestic structure. Okay, great. It's nice that we've learned those poetics. It's nice that we've learned that about the Psalms, but David is going to teach you something more deeply now. He's going to show you a man after God's own heart interacting with the Word of God. You're going to watch a human being Interact with God. One whose heart is after God. And the first thing that we see is that he takes the warning. And I want you to notice the language that he shifts into here. He sees his faults. And in verse 13, there's a word here that should glow on the page. Keep back your servant. He immediately recognizes his relationship to the living God. He knows who he is before him. And when we are before God's Word, we must also recognize the place that we occupy. He also, in verse 12, admits his limited knowledge and his vantage point. What else would you do when you come face to face with God through His Word but to admit your weaknesses, your faults, and that you are a mere unworthy servant? He knows that even if he could not see his faults, it doesn't matter, since he does not have comprehensive knowledge, as the Apostle Paul says in 1 Corinthians. Corinthians 5. David needs a judge with infinite perception to tell him, for we have been consumed by your anger. And by your wrath we are terrified. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your countenance. Psalm 90, verses 7 through 8. But he goes on from there, and he says, However, we must not only petition for sins hidden, but for deliverance from presumptuous sins. Do you see that there? Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. He's throwing himself before his master, helpless, asking for help to keep this word. Because he knows through the word that it is God who helps his servant to keep the word. And he asks him to keep him back from presumptuous sins. Do you know what a presumptuous sin is? A presumptuous sin is an act of willful disobedience. Have you ever seen that in a child? Have you ever seen it in you as a child of God? Because those are presumptuous sins. I think he's speaking here of an ultimate kind of apostasy. Not sure exactly what he was going through to say something like that, but the Psalm uh almost ends on this great transgression you see there at the end of the final part of verse thirteen. Maybe he's thinking about total apostasy and he knows how quickly he could abandon his God How prone he is to wander. And so he cries out for help. He cries out in confession for forgiveness. In essence, presumptuous sins are acts where you defy the authority of God as your master, and you do whatever you want. Because the only voice you are willing to hear and open your heart to is your own voice. Or people that agree with you. And so you've created an echo chamber. We are familiar with relating to God that way, aren't we? Only hearing our own voice. The heavens speak. God speaks, and we don't listen. And he knows that. And so he cries out to the God who will work with people to make them good listeners, even husbands. Watching God govern the world and watching what God says in His Word. David knows that God helps those who ask for protection and safety. From sin. We have seen many psalms where God is the refuge. He is the refuge here also. David loves the law, but he knows he must receive help from his master. Verse thirteen, really, doesn't it remind you of the Lord's Prayer? Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then I shall be blameless, and I shall be innocent of great transgressions. Give us this day our daily bread and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. The evil one who also has a voice, which is always contradictory to the voice of God. We must be delivered from him. And so that's what we have in Psalm 19. The heavens praise, the law rules, the saints submit. We see this through the practice of David. The heavens and the word bring praise to God, so that you would humbly submit to his rule. That's what everything has been leading to. And thus we have the voice of the heavens and the voice of God. But as I've already started to bring out in the sermon, there are many other voices in your lives. I want you to just stop and think about all of the voices in your life. All of the people speaking to you, I want you to turn off the radio inside your head. Or if you do turn off the radio when you're in your car, think of all of the things that go through your mind. Those are all voices. And then there's real people, not just what's happening inside your head. And then there's all of those voices. This is such an important psalm for many reasons, and one of them is for us to start thinking about the voices in our lives and which voices we are open to. In the beginning we started with Matthew sixteen and Jesus asked the question, who is the Christ? And there are many different voices and opinions on the matter. We see that there are voices in the creation. There's voices through his word. We know there are a thousand other voices out there that oftentimes are louder than those voices. In our culture, there are voices that are telling you all about life. What are worthy goals of life? What should you be spending your time doing? How should you think about yourself? How should you think about yourself in relationship to other people? Our culture has voices that has a fully constructed worldview of what you should do with every moment of your life. And they are constantly speaking to you. Did you know that? Do you know there's voices always speaking to you? I'm not just speaking to those of you who are crazy. There are voices speaking to all of us About life and relationships, and you know what else they're speaking to us about? God. There are a thousand voices every day about who God is. Can we trust him? Does he love you? How does he do things? You have voices in your head. Did you know you talk to yourself all the time? I wish we could record how many words you say to yourself every day. It would be probably more words than anyone else says to you. Do you speak to yourself more than you allow the Word of God to speak to you? And which voice do you accept? That's really what we're getting at in the Psalm. And we see David wrestling through that. You can see that the question is this. Which voices, and I want to take David goes through this progression in this psalm on purpose, and this is a question that he's definitely bringing out. The question is: which voices are sweet and delightful to you? And you need to answer that honestly. You might want to ask someone who's close to you, or talk to them about the voices that you hear, and which ones are delightful, which ones are sweet like honey to you That's part of the transformation. When we go out of the kingdom of darkness and into the kingdom of light, we're going to put away a set of voices and we're going to gain a new voice, and there's going to be a new voice that becomes sweet to us, and the old voices are no longer going to be sweet to us. And you've seen some of that change which's in your life, but you need to keep thinking about that every day. Which voices make sense to you Which voices have a compelling logic that you cannot resist? And is it the voice of God? Whether through his creation or especially through his word In all likelihood, in all likelihood, you have been listening to the wrong voices As I've done my own self-examination, I have found, until David brought this whole thing up, and the Holy Spirit more importantly, I've been listening to the wrong voices. I've never even questioned myself on whether I could be saying something to myself that's wrong. Do you understand what I'm saying? I've never questioned my own voice. I've always given an ultimate authority. Isn't that stupid? And now I just say, Jesse, that's not true. You don't know what you're talking about. That's not what God says. And I have to keep saying that to myself all the time. All the time. But we don't listen to the right voices, we listen to the wrong voices. And here's the truth: behind every action, behind every attitude, I really want you to think about this today. Behind every anxiety, behind every fit of rage, behind every depression, behind too much drinking, behind your laziness. Behind your doubt, there is a voice. There will always be two voices, at least. There will be the voice of the world, and there will be a voice from God. As he reminds you of what his word says about all of those things. And how you have gotten there. Like David, you must begin by hearing this voice. This is where David arrives in the Psalm as we discover in the Psalm advanced spirituality. Most of your voices from our culture would not accept where it goes. This is where David goes. Jesus is your king! He's in charge, and you are his servant. You must do whatever he bids you to do because you are not in charge of your own life. Totally contrary to what the culture says. And it for us seems the most unromantic. We would want to start with: Jesus is the lover of my soul. He bids me come to him near streamside. Or whatever it is. But that's although true, Jesus is the lover of our soul. David goes right to, I am your servant, you are my master. I live for you. Everything that I do must relate to you. That's why we say that we are covenantal. Must relate to you as my master. And then from being open to the voice of the master, because you must know that you listen as a servant, you ask for forgiveness. It's the very first thing that you do for not listening up to now. You know what? I exist in your house. I steward your property. You are my God. You are my master, and I am your servant. And you know what? I haven't listened to a word you've said this week. I need to repent and ask you for forgiveness to not having an open heart to what you've said. I've decided I like the sound of my own voice, and I need to repent of that You are my king. You deserve for me to hang on every one of your words. And then ask Jesus for help to keep your heart open to what he says. I have had to stop in my tracks as some people in my life annoy me. I'm rising in agitation and I want to burst out in anger and I stop and I say I don't want to listen to the voice in my head, Father. I want to treat people and relate to them as you want me to relate to them because that's how I want to relate to you as my master. Give me the strength to speak a soft and tender word. And he does. That's the psalm. It shows you really, God is going to speak and He's going to show you how to relate to Him and how to relate to other people, which is the sum of all the law. To God and to each other. It won't happen all at once. You eat an elephant bit by bit, but over time you will progress and you will listen to more And then you'll listen to even more, and more and more will become sweet and delightful to you over time as you open your heart to new words that he has been saying for thousands. thousands of years. But he will help you progressively. And may we, may these words, Psalm 19 And this sermon be acceptable to our God, and may it be acceptable to us. May we have our hearts open to it. And may you know Him as your Lord and as your rock. And as your Redeemer, as you seek to have your heart open and obedient to what He says and what all of the stars are proclaiming to you. Amen. Amen. Please pray with me. Oh Father, we have such a long way to go. Perhaps longer than the path of the sun through the sky. But Lord, you will take us there. You have said in your word that our home is the celestial city and that you're going to take us there. You'll bring us out of temptation. You'll bring us like Peter out of denying you three times. You'll pull us together and teach us to love your word. You'll teach us to sing hymns of your glory so that we can join the stars. We ask that you do so now. We ask that the other voices in our life that you would silence your enemies That you would silence Satan as he speaks to us, especially our children. That you would silence this culture, and even as it's speaking, that we wouldn't be able to hear them. Be like a dome of silence that would fall over us where we couldn't hear these things. We ask that you deliver us from temptation and that you deliver us from the evil one. We ask that you give us our daily bread, for yours is the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen. Amen.