To look at Matthew chapter twenty-eight and I'll be reading verses sixteen through twenty. So let's turn there together in our scriptures. This is uh quite a familiar passage. Matthew 28, 16 through 20. Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had appointed for them. When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you, and lo I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Amen. Let us pray. Lord Jesus Christ, it is our prayer this morning that you would be honored, that we would understand the calling that you have given each one of us. That even if we received primarily instruction this morning that you would make our calls to action evident, we pray, Lord, that through us You would cover the earth as the waters cover the ocean in glory. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. Over the last few weeks here at Severn Run, we have sought to discover And to rediscover the basics of Christianity. And we've done so through the vows that are part of the Presbyterian Church of America. Last week we were looking at the third vowel by way of a passage within the letter to Titus. Last week we discovered that Christ cherishes us, and that looks a really specific way As a good husband cherishes his wife, just like we read in Ephesians 5, so too Christ cherishes his bride, the church, and he does so through his Spirit, in his regenerating and renewing work. And he makes us zealous for good works in his name. We are a people of positive good works. And therefore we, as Chase was even mentioning this morning, we were called to be on guard against that which strikes and neutralizes us in our good works. to be aware and on guard against our inclination as Americans toward living for personal peace and affluence And instead, we are to live for Christ. And we are, as we saw in Titus, to live for him in three main areas. We live for him in the family, we live for him in the church, and we live for him in our local civic community. Here we have focused on Anoronal County. I even said that like I'm from here, Anorano County. And that's our focus. This week we're going to keep camping out on the church. We started that a little bit last week, but we're really asking the question: what is our responsibility to the church as you see gathered here, in fact? And to answer that question, I've obviously chosen Matthew 28 as a premier passage by which we're meant to understand. In order for you to frame what we have here well, to really get at the depth of what Christ is doing. What Matthew is doing in recording this, and what we are meant to be doing as a church, we're going to need to see this passage in front of us in relationship to three other passages. Three references. And I'm going to tell you those passages so you can write them down and you can talk about them over pulled pork or when you get home or whatever So the very first reference is to Genesis chapter 1, verse 28, and we already put that in the bulletin for you. We need to look at Matthew 28 and the authority of Christ in relation and in reference to the authority given originally to the first Adam. Now here's what it says, just as we read earlier, then God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it, have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, over every living thing that moves on the earth. And what we have to recognize when we turn to this passage is that Christ is being presented as the second Adam Christ will be fruitful. It will be different than the way the first Adam was. He will multiply. It will be different than the first Adam multiplied. Christ will multiply as people are reborn from the rebirth of the Spirit from every tongue, from every tribe, and from every nation. And there will be a fruitfulness that could fill the earth with fruit. And that fruit will come from the work of Christ through his spirit. That's the first reference we want to have. Christ, the second Adam in relationship to the first Adam, and the dominion or cultural or creation mandate. Now there's a second one. The second one happens a little bit later in your scriptures, and it's in Joshua. Joshua chapter 1, verse 3, but it's really that whole first section. I'll just give you that as a placeholder. Now let me read that one to you. Every place, this is God speaking to Joshua, every place that the sole of your foot will tread, upon I have given you. As I said to Moses, and then if we go to verse 5 of the same passage, I will never leave you, and I will never forsake you. That should sound really familiar to you. And that's what we see here is that Joshua is a kind of shadow who eventually will reach his pinnacle in the new Joshua, if you will, or Jesus. And Christ, being the new Joshua, will send out his soldiers, continuing to use the language of warfare from Joshua. He will send out his soldiers, and he will never leave them nor forsake them. They will dispossess, as we saw within the book of Acts, the gods of every nation who cause people to stumble into confusion. He will dispossess them, and he will instead gather into him disciples that will follow all of his commands, as opposed to, for example, the commands of the Caesar of that time. So that's our second reference. We want to be able to see Matthew 28 in relationship to Joshua and his conquest of Canaan. But there's one more, and this one is the most surprising. And if you're really surprised and you want to keep talking about it, let me know. But there's one other reference, and that is that we have to look at Matthew 28. In relationship to Isaiah 45 and to 2 Chronicles, the very, very end of the Bible, the Hebrew Bible. This is the moment that God gives Cyrus, the king of Persia, authority. Now, what is interesting about this, it's really strange, actually, that he would give such authority. To a pagan king, if you will. But in Isaiah 45, Yahweh actually makes Cyrus his Messiah. It's a language that he uses. And he also calls him his shepherd And then in 2 Chronicles, to continue the story, he gives Cyrus all authority on earth in order to do a single thing, and that is to rebuild the temple of God. And so when we turn to Matthew 28, we want to take Matthew 28 and we want to put it next to those passages also. Jesus is greater than Cyrus, and he is not rebuilding a temple like they anticipated. Instead, it is not a stone temple with dead stones, but it is a temple of living stones. He is constructing through his spirit a living temple. Listen to this from Ephesians chapter 2, 19 through 22. Jesus Christ Himself is the cornerstone. The apostles and the prophets are the foundation. In whom, Jesus Christ, in whom the whole building being fitted together grows into a holy temple into the Lord, in whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. You see, he's carrying forward the work that Cyrus was given, but Cyrus was given in a kind of shadowy form, and here we see the consummation of it. in Matthew 28. And what that does is it gives us a full picture of what Jesus is intending here and what Matthew is intending within Matthew 28. And I'm going to go ahead and shrink it all down and put it into two statements for you. Here it is. God has given Jesus Christ all authority to reform the earth from evil. We've got to say something like that because of the other passages to which we referred. And he accomplishes this, speaking of Jesus, he accomplishes this by filling the earth with his disciples who gather together as the church to do their worship and their work. That's really what we see here. That's the full picture that you'll see unfolded. God has given Jesus Christ all authority to reform the earth from evil He accomplishes this by filling the earth with his disciples who gather together as the church for worship and work. So Guess what the main points and lessons of the sermon are today? Any guesses? Two W's. What do you think? Worship and work. Right. It's real easy to follow this. Worship and work. And that's what I want to focus on is worship and work today. It's going to be primarily instructional so that we can orient to this truth because these truths are lost in our evangelifish culture. So we want to focus on worship and work. And let's go ahead and do that. The very first point in our lessons today, based on the truth I've already read, is that we gather together as the church to worship. Now That is starting to be redefined a little bit based on COVID. I just spoke with somebody last night, and it really wasn't that much of a surprise because I've heard this uh at least a a dozen times now. I just spoke with someone last night who said that they don't really gather with the church for worship anymore because the church offers a great online service So what they do is they choose to attend online. Well, I just kept listening. And what they ended up saying was that it affords them the convenience of watching the recording when it's convenient in light of the work that they've got to get done. So that's an interesting perspective, right? I mean I'm not slamming anybody right now because you can't make it to the gathering because you have a medical issue or because you're concerned about a medical issue? That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about a person who has decided that the online is going to help him to have a better life now by making worship convenient and to be able to fit it wherever he wants it. Maybe right after he binges Netflix. I don't know. But that's an all that's kind of a perspective that's gathering within our culture. It happened because we all had to go online for a little while. We're all fighting it I speak with others who are not in that same category, who are faithful, they want to, in a sense, gather with their family and with their church family, but I still hear within them another problem That keeps them from with all their heart gathering with the church. And it's something along the lines of they're not really sure why we do this. It feels like a kind of bygone religious exercise. I don't get it. I don't understand. It doesn't make sense to me. It doesn't fit within the way I view life. And that's an honest concern. And so perhaps I think what we could do for either one of those people, or for wherever you are, I think this will be helpful. I think it would be helpful for us to just remember the story of worship. That's what we've been doing around here. We've been trying to get the story straight. What is Christianity? What's Christ doing? What does he require of us? And today, let's get the story of worship straight. Well, here it goes: God created man, male and female, to have dominion over all of creation. Now, what does that mean? What that means is that we are meant to perfect and to order all things in worship to the glory of God. That's what that means. Dominion doesn't mean that you're just the tough guy who knows how to calm down a bunking Franco. It's not the marble man. Dominion means that you're going to order all things not so that we can see how strong you are. You're going to order all things that we might see the glory of God. That's the purpose of it. That's what it means to have true dominion over all of creation. In other words, you can put it this way: if you were to reread the Genesis account in light of Leviticus, for example, you would see that we're two things: we are gardeners. Which is exciting. Everybody here, you know you want a homestead, and now you got it. And we're priests. Two things. We are gardeners and we are priests. So, as a constant memorial of our task, God gives us mankind one day in seven to bring all of his work before him. We've done a lot of work intending to the garden, and as priests, we're going to bring it to him one day in a seven and give thanks to him Give praise to him, sing song to him for who he is and what he gives us as our creator and what he gives us as our redeemer. That's worship. With perfect love, we would offer all of our work as a sacrifice of praise to Him. You've got six days to do a ton of stuff all in His name and then you're going to Come to him and say, This is all for you. My life is for you. Just like if you were to read in the Old Testament about the grain offering or the first fruits or whatever it is, they're always bringing an offering to him that they had to raise up as farmers. And that was the point. But here's the problem. The problem is that the snake deceived Adam and Eve, and humanity became disoriented. Humanity became disoriented and enslaved to the serpent and to his work. So there was no longer the bringing of a sacrifice to God, it was the bringing of the sacrifice to the serpent in a sense. Or just to ourselves. This is best illustrated in the Exodus story. You know, I keep hearing the Exodus story read to little children, and you could make the mistake that this is a little kid's story. This is serious business. The Exodus story begins with Pharaoh wearing his snake headdress, because he is the representation of the snake that we see within the garden. He's known later, as I spoke yesterday at the men's breakfast, as the Leviathan, that great serpent of the sea. And he enslaves the Israelites. To do only his bidding. There is no time for any other work except to work for him. And this is really interesting Their whole lives is consumed with the work of the earth. They literally get st they get mud and they get straw. That's the earth. And they have to take all that they are given from the earth, and they are only ever allowed to use it for the glory of Pharaoh's empire and the legitimization or the worship of his gods. It's exactly what happened with Adam and Eve, and it continues throughout the human race. But here's how the story continues: God overcomes in every age the Pharaoh. He drowns the great sea serpent under the waves of the Red Sea. Read Exodus and see his carcass washed up on the seashore. The people then, as God gathers them in Mount Sinai, as He gathers them as a people around this tabernacle, which is the beginning of us, the temple, we are set aside by Him. As not only our creator now, but our Redeemer, to reorder all of our lives around Yahweh. And think about that Think about how he gives you a day of worship to remember that he has finally given you the rest that you need so that you can serve him. What is the second half of the Ten Commandments? Being good to your neighbor. Loving your neighbor. God is the only one who gives you the freedom and the time to be able to do that. If you live under the Pharaoh, You do not have time to care for one another. And that's part of the glory here. It's part of why we show up on the Lord's Day, to continue worshiping him, to remember these things, so we don't get out of joint and disoriented again It is really this day swallows all days. Because this day and on this day we remember the Sabbath, and this is what it means to remember the Sabbath. It means that you would remember why you do everything. It is a day for you to remember what everything is for. All of your children, all of your food, all of your animals, all the work that you do. It is a day for you to remember that you do not have this kind of freedom and emancipation naturally, you enslaved yourself to a totalitarian system, if you want to put it that way. This is a day to remember with joy and thanksgiving and love that God re-established one day in seven in order for us to be able to remember all these things. And boy, do we need that. And we are a part of this same story. That is why we do this. We work six days, and on the seventh we remember our Creator and our Redeemer. We present all of our works to Him as an offering for His glory. And God loves it when we do this in prayers of praise and thanksgiving and in the offering. We love to remember His love and fidelity and the salvation from the serpent which he gave to us. Some of you can remember what it's like to live under the serpent. And you are very thankful. We love to remember him through his word, accompanied by his spirit and through his sacraments. And if I wanted to put it all into a single statement, it would just be this: we love to remember the Sabbath and to keep it holy. That's the spirit of it. That's the heart of it. We love to gather as the church for worship. That's a story. And you are a part of that story. Now we not only gather as a church together for worship, but we also gather together as a church for work. And that's certainly implied, isn't it? What is implied in the day of rest is that there are days not of rest, but of work We spoke about this last week from the Titus passage. Christ gathers you as a disciple in order to obey him in all he commands in every area of your life. The family, the civic community, and even the church, which we're talking about today. But here's the trick. This is a little where it starts to get a little bit tricky. God orders things So, you know, I spoke of the Marble man earlier. He's kind of like the mascot for strong male individualism. I don't need your help. I can do this on my own. And that is a that's the trick with us. And it's a trick because God is in control of how things are ordered in his universe. And guess how he has ordered things? He has ordered things to where you can't do his work without the help of each other. That's clear through and through within his word. There is no possibility unless we work as one body. Now you have a natural analogy of the church in the family. Each person plays their part in order to steward everything to the glory of God. And by his grace, I know that you do this in your families. You already know what it looks like to run as a body. or to not run as a body. You know, when mom gets stuck with everything, that's just not going to go well. So what we end up doing in households that are governed well is there is a distribution of the workload and the labor. As their capacities and abilities grow, they are given a task that matches, a chore that matches. The little ones, though they don't have the same kind of ability, are given maybe a little thing. And by his grace, we end up seeing that we can be stewards to what God has given to us and to do his work together. This is a natural analogy. I remember as soon I couldn't make it happen fast enough for Holly and I to have some help. So it's like as soon as those kids are born. I mean I just they come out I give them a shovel. That's what you know or whatever it is. We got stuff for you to do. The first thing you're gonna do is you're gonna take a nap when I want you to so we can get something done The second thing we're going to do is when you get old enough, is you're going to cook your own breakfast. Ellie learned how to make her own eggs and sausage at a very young age, operating the stove safely The others become jealous because they want chores, so Jack gets to uh you know scoop the kitty litter. Nora can give us water on the table for dinner or clear it or whatever it is And now that we went COVID crazy and bought chickens, you know, we got those chores and everybody's chipping in. And pray for us because we are talking about a dog. I don't know though. Holly, forgive me. You get the picture because all of you have this. There's a kind of co-laborship within the natural analogy of the family. God multiplies you You become a family. You build on the individual strengths that are there, and you are seeking to be fruitful with what God has given you to steward. Now, the natural family is but a type of the supernatural family. It is the supernatural family that we hear of when we read the scriptures, and I am calling you brother and sister. When I call you a father or a mother in the faith, that's what Christ is tapping off of. Christ is fruitful. But he's not fruitful in the exact same way in which we are, through biological reproduction in that way. Christ is fruitful gathering his children to himself By way of the preached word and the efficacy of the Spirit, calling people to Himself. They're reborn and they're handed a shovel. Though there is one universal church, and make sure you get this because this is tricky too. Though there is one universal church, Christ organizes us into local family congregations. It's called the local church. And we are given the title of brothers, and we are given the title of sisters, and mothers, and fathers, and sons and daughters in the faith. And this is not just sappy sentimental language. This language arises out of the reality of the family that Christ is knitting together. In bonds that are stronger than biological blood. They are the bonds of the unity of the Spirit, as you see within Ephesians chapter 4. And here's the next step. Just like in the natural family, where Jack has this innate capacity to shovel kitty litter. We have our gifts too. Christ disperses them. Christ gives us each gifts that fit with the chores that He gives to us. And that should be great news to you. Because some of you, Christ has given you that ability to raise up children. He has not made you the kind of person to get out there on the street corner in Annapolis and do open-air preaching. Just stick to preaching to your kids. There's a huge relief in hearing that. We'll often hear that every one of us is meant to be an evangelist, and I know what we mean by that. But if you push that too far, that's going to go against how Christ has proportioned his gifts. We want to work within the best of the abilities which Christ gives each one of us as the SREPC family. We seek to gather disciples to Christ. We seek to teach those who have gathered. We seek to join them and for them to join us in obeying everything that He has ever commanded from the beginning of the world. Understood in wisdom And that, my friends, is the good news of Jesus Christ. There's the full gospel. That's the work that we have. Those are the good works that He gives us to do. It's good news because you have officially been placed in a position where you are going to join people like Adam in the constructive task of subduing the world to God's glory. You are going to join people like Joshua in building up the land in goodness instead of evil? You are going to join Cyrus in the building of the church, the temple of God, filled with the Spirit. That is a constant testimony to his goodness. I cannot think of any better news. And it is already beginning to happen Where in the beginning, because of sin, our work became a struggle and a curse for us. But in Jesus Christ and the work that we have to do now, everything that you have heard this morning that is no longer a curse. Sure, there will be nettles and thorns and thistles that are still a part of our work until He returns, but it has already started to turn on its head where we can feel the goodness of work It is just good to work. But it is only good to work if you know there is one day where we rest. Because if you don't, the whole Jenga Tower falls apart. That's the one little block, boom. Now, both of these lessons that we heard this morning about gathering for worship and gathering for work They are more instructional. This is like an orientation to everything in your life. But you, I hope that you can feel that you're right on the edge, even if I don't draw out all the application. Can you begin to feel all That is your calling, all of the possible calls to action for you. And not you as the rugged individual, you as a body of believers. These are vital instructions which lay out the path and the direction for every area of life. These are the instructions of how we live here at Severn Run by God's grace. That is our endeavor, at any rate. God has given Jesus Christ all authority to reform the earth from evil. He accomplishes this by filling the earth with his disciples who gather together. We gather together for worship and we gather to work to the best of our God-given ability. In the end, we acknowledge all of these things by acknowledging this promise. We all promise to support the church and its worship and work to the best of our ability. That's the fourth vow. That's a good one, right? We take some time to understand that's good stuff. We accept the work which is from God. We acknowledge that good works are through God. We especially on the Lord's Day confess that all of our work is to God. Amen. Amen. Let's pray.