Scriptures to Romans chapter three. Over these next five weeks we're going to get back to the basics of Christianity. And with each week we'll revisit each of our vows that we have made as members, as well as the vows that you would need to make to be a member here. And we're going to begin with a basic of Christianity from Romans chapter 3, verses 9 through 20. And I'd ask that you'd follow along with me, and then we'll pray, and you can be seated, but keep your scriptures out, because I'm going to keep pointing to them. What then? Are we better than they? Not at all. For we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks that they are all under sin. As it is written, there is none righteous, no, not one. There is none who understands. There is none who seeks after God. They have all turned aside. They have together become unprofitable. There is none who does good, no, not one. Their throat is an open tomb. With their tongues they have practiced deceit The poison of asps is under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood Destruction and misery are in their ways, and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, the deeds of the law, no flesh, by the deeds of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. Let us pray. Lord God, this is a very serious thing. Lord Christ, I pray that you would not leave such a serious thing. Just in the hands of a preacher. I pray, Lord, that you would, by the way of your spirit Move within the hearts of your people by way of your word through a preacher. I pray, Lord, that we would in the most depth of understanding of this word that we would truly attend to you. I ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, we do have a bit of a sudden shift in terms of popping from Acts to Romans. But it won't be so sudden because you'll see that the same truths in Acts are the same truths in Romans. Last week, just to remind you, we did work hard. At understanding something and really embracing, I think is a better word, embracing something that is very important to us, and that is, what does it mean to be baptized in the name of the Lord? We observed, perhaps to your surprise, that it is at least a political statement. Baptism is a sign of political allegiance to Jesus as King. And in one sense or another, it means we are citizens of his city or kingdom. Now this week we are starting something quite different, and if you look on the front of your bulletin, you'll even see that we changed the Title on the front, it says 30 years. We're using this milestone that the Lord has given to us in his faithfulness as an opportunity. to return back to the basics, to make sure we have our house in order before we go out into other people's homes. That's the idea. We're hitting the pause button on the Act series, and for the next five weeks, I'm going to preach through the membership vows. And on the sixth week, we'll have even something else that I'll announce another time Now let me just answer the question on why we would want to do this, besides what I've already said. There are a few things that you may not know about that have surfaced amongst us at Severn Run. First, and um There's some of you here that I'm talking to on this one. There are several families and individuals who are regularly attending Severn Run and they want to become members. In order to become a member, it's like entering into a marriage. You really don't want to do so lightly, you'll have regret. So this is a good start for you to see what are the basic commitments of the leadership and the people that live here at Severn Run. It can be captured in these five vows. So this is of benefit to you, new families that want to join. Consider this a kind of membership class. These sermons will help you to decide if you want to marry us. Second, I want to start fulfilling the promise that we made at our last congregational meeting It was during a portion of the congregational meeting titled the, what was the name of that title of that part? It was the State of the Church Address. And I mentioned that we have a mission and we have motivation to order all of life in Anorano County to the glory of Jesus Christ. Our sights are set on the county. I cannot be clear enough that my prayer is that Christianity and Christ's rule will be so pervasive that Anorunnal County will be known as a Christian county. Now I understand that within a sound theology. You can talk to me afterward, but that is still my hope I will therefore use these vows to remind and clarify for us our basic devotions and our commitments. You cannot give to Anorano County what you don't have. So now is an opportunity to check your own house and your own life, to do your own inventory. That Christ may renew you in repentance, that you might have something to give. And that's why we're going another reason why we're going to do these basic Commitments. My hope is that we will recommit to ordering our lives to the glory of Christ in order to competently spread Christ's kingdom through our county. That is what we are doing. And so we're going to go over really what the basics of Christianity are. And guess what the first one is today? It's very cheerful. You are a sinner. I'm looking right at you, Dick. And I'm looking at me too, brother. No, I'm looking at all of you. We are all sinners. That's the basic commitment or the first basic point of Christianity. It's actually the basic of the story of Christianity. Our passage uh comes out and explicitly says this in a couple different ways. Let me just point out to you in verse nine where it it points this out you can see this kind of language. What then are we better than they? Not at all. For we have previously charged both Jews and Greeks, that they are all under sin. With those two categories, there's no one left. You're either a Jew or you're a Greek or a Gentile. And that covers everybody. Everyone is under sin. There's also in verse 19, you can see a charge, and all the world may become guilty before God. That is the idea. Now, what I want to do, and now that that is stated explicitly within our passage, is I do want to work through trying to understand that more deeply. Embedded within the story of Christianity, and then we'll come into some lessons for us to learn. Here's the first observation that we have to make about this passage. in coming to understand that we are all sinners, is that this is filled with universal language. Very important observation. It's happening from the beginning of Romans and it's going all the way through Romans, but universal language is a characteristic of this letter. Jew and Greek are all under sin, the whole world. But even in the Old Testament quotations that we see, which are from the poetry of the Scriptures, that list that I read to you. starting in verse 10 where it says, as it is written. It's just different places in the scriptures all throughout. Most of it coming from the poetry of the prophets Notice the universal language that is there, because it's on purpose. Notice in verses 10 and 11: none righteous, no not one. None who understands. None who seeks. They have all turned aside. None who does good. There is no fear of God before their eyes at the very end. You see that universal language is there on purpose And if you were to look at the rest of the earlier chapter, chapter two, you'll see it's continued universal language, the rest of three Because the point that Paul is seeking to make here is not a point about a single individual, it's not a point about just people that live in Rome, it is a point about the universal state of the human race. He's speaking as big of a picture as you can get. All times, all places And therefore, when we say with universal language that we are sinners, I don't mean just some of you. Do you want to know what the characteristic is of your race as a human being? You are a sinner. I mean it that way because that's what the scriptures mean by it. It is a race of being. Whatever it means to be a sinner, if you are a part of the human race except for Jesus Christ, then you have that problem. You are a sinner. Now you know that I'm on a a Western kick. I just watched another one. It was uh recommended to me as John Wayne's last that's his name, John Wayne, right? This is my first time seeing him, and it was his final film that he did. It was weird, guys It was weird. I'm gonna have to try another one. Uh but the the one before that, if you remember, I watched High Noon. That was interesting. Especially if you look up its uh purpose. But in high noon, if you haven't seen it, the marshal seeks to uphold righteousness by staying in the town to fight a group of villains And the final villain will arrive on the train, guess when? High noon, right? And then they're going to come into the town and he with courage and with righteousness in his heart has decided not to retire and go on his honeymoon, but to stay there and fight against evil. Now the producer of the movie purposely frames each scene of the Western. It just unfolds of looking at different groups of people and whether or not they are righteous. Will they stay and fight against the evil? So the marginal goes out. And you would guess this. Those who have been deputies before and have helped him as police officers, he says, Will you stand against evil with me? Will you be righteous? And they go, Oh, sorry, boss. You don't know. You don't understand. Sorry, boss. Then he goes and he asks the business owners. You'd think they'd have an invested interest in keeping the town safe, but nope, none of them are righteous He even asks his wife, and at least temporarily she says, Nope, I'm getting on that high noon train and I'm out of here. And then there is this, I was on the edge of my seat at this point in high noon Because there is a climactic section when the marshal goes to the doors of the church and he bursts in, and you can tell what he's going to do next. He's going to ask God's people if they will stand up for righteousness. He asks the preacher directly. The whole service stops and he asks all of the people. He's given the floor in the service He asks all of the Christians that are present in that town, are you righteous? Will you help me to stand up for evil? And guess what the answer was? No. That was the answer. It was the ultimate condemnation on all people within this person's experience. And at the end, the marshal could truly say No one was righteous, no not one. And that's what's being said here in this first point. Is that if Jesus Christ, remember, he's the sheriff, and if he were to go around to any town in all of the world looking for a righteous person, he would not find them. What he would find are sinners. And this is our first observation: that according to the scriptures, the whole human race, except for Jesus is under sin. Now that's just the first subdivision here, or first observation of trying to understand this passage, is that there is this universal language, all of us. But there is also total language. That's observation number two about this passage. There is total language, and I'm going to go ahead and say a word that's probably familiar to most of you. Total depravity is in this passage, teaches it. It teaches that we are totally depraved. Now, I'm sure you've used that word of what it means in a broader Domain of understanding is a kind of corruption or decay. A putrefaction is another synonym for it. To have a kind of rot into the bones. And the point that I want to make in the second observation is that depravity goes far, it goes deep, so much so that we would say it's total. I'm not saying that it's utter and you've heard that distinction before. I'm saying it's total. Now look at verse eleven You're going to have to, I think this whole section that Paul has put together is a kiasm, by the way. It begins and ends with no one seeking after God, and it's going to work its way towards the center But you'll notice the deuter the language that's very similar to Deuteronomy, where it picks up on the different parts of the body, the eyes the the feet, the path that is involved. And all of these are meant to communicate to you far more than just a foot or a hand or an eye. It is meant to show you that the whole person has been infected by this thing that we call sin. In verse 11, for example, it says, there is none who understands. We're not just talking about a mild ignorance here. We're talking about a corruption of mind. Your thinking is fundamentally inclined toward and tainted by sin. Which is a kind of inclination in life away from God, at your enmity with Him naturally. If you look and you continue reading through 11 and down at the second part of 11, there is none who seeks after God. It's not talking about just a single example of you not seeking after God. It's saying overall, human beings in their life, their ambitions are not for God. They are set against him. If there is a godly path, humans don't go down that path They try to carve their own path and come up with their own order and ways of doing things. They have their own aspirations and motivations And that is why he can say that we have all turned aside from the path. He can also say that we have therefore become unprofitable. Meaning there's nothing that we give off that is glorifying to God. There's nothing that, even though we're made as workers, there's because of the way that we are constituted as sinners all the things that we produce are for further destruction. I mean the image that we end up getting here when you start to then move from the general ambitions and aspirations of our life, which involves the infected will or the infected understanding And then you can see that the infected will and the infected understanding are going to show up in the center of this chiasm by saying something about our throats and our tongues and our mouths And then we're likened to snakes who are venomous. That what comes out of our mouth is poisonous It itself is corrupting. What we say would get on another person and start to eat away at them like acid. And then he goes on, talks about our feet, talks about our eyes, and if the eye is not pure, then the whole body is dirty. We can hear the teaching of Christ in that. This is a total infection. Now listen, you all have been worried about COVID-19, but there's something worse out there. It's you Left to yourself naturally. The point is that no matter what aspect of being human to which you point, Your mind, your will, your heart, your emotions, however you want to divide the human being up. We can talk about that later. The main point that we see in this total language, not this the universal language, but the total language Is that we are inclined, because of our will and our hearts and our emotions, to turn everything into an instrument of sin. Every part of our body is not in service to glorifying God, but in service and in slavery to serving sin. It is essentially, in a word, in the deepest sense, we are enemies of God. And you'll see that Paul uses that same language in his other letters as well as here. He'll use the word enmity, for example. You are naturally left to yourself at enmity with God. If God desires light, guess what you desire? Dark. If God works for order that looks a particular way, then guess what you work for? Chaos. God is truth, guess what you are? A liar. And guess who your father is? That snake who lied. We have taken on his attributes. And if God is love and he is, then you are hate. That is the second main point under this teaching that we have here within this passage. And you can see why I started my prayer asking the Lord, please help us. This is very serious. We are sinners. And when I say we, I mean all of us. When I say sinners, I mean totally. We're not as sinful as we could be because God restrains us. So we are not utterly sinful, but we are totally depraved. The human, this universal language tells us that all humans are sinners, and the total language tells us that the sin has corrupted every part of us. We are totally depraved. Now there are a couple lessons that we've got to take away from this that I think are appropriate for us as a church. And the very first thing is we have to realize that therefore, because this is the case, we are objects of wrath And then number two, the only way that you are going to escape that is to be an object of mercy. So we've got two points, both begin with O. Objects of wrath, objects of mercy. And both of these points flow out of the truth, the reality that we just confessed from Romans chapter 3. Let's begin with objects of wrath. Since the human race is totally depraved, God, as the protector and sustainer of his creation, must remove them. I think that's a good way to put it. To draw upon him and our knowledge of him as the creator. The creator is bound. There are other reasons why he would do this, but the creator is at least bound To uphold and protect his creation from us, the chaos machines. And you can see him do this across the board in his creation today. He protects it from chaos He makes the waters draw back away from the land, so that everything is not washed out. And he would do the same with those that are not water, but that would have a life effect of destroying everything. And this is the basic story and the underlying tragedy. This is the basic story that is actually the reality. Every story that is ever told at any time in all of the world that contradicts this story is wrong. And you need to hear that because you have a lot of stories floating around in your culture. It's always been the case. Every generation has to deal with a story that gains power. We've got a couple stories that have gained power right now, but this is the only true one. God created humanity in his image to bring his will on earth as it is in heaven You can think of it this way: that we were given a garden, and that is true. We are, by way of His grace, to maintain and expand that ordered garden, that paradise, to flourish throughout the whole world. And you know that would be difficult if it were just two people. So that's not all they were to do. They were to be fruitful and multiply. And with this growing family, they were to take and move outward and outward and outward and outward, making the whole earth a kind of temple of holiness to the Lord. And with that increasing family size, they would. They would turn the whole earth into a well-tended reserve for the glory of God. Everything in perfect harmony But you know the story, because this is a tragedy. Actually, technically, it's a comedy. Mankind decided to join the serpent. An animal of chaos came into an ordered space and corrupted the ordered space to where those who became corrupted had to be removed from the ordered space. And then God had to create other spaces that were sacred and uphold them. But we joined the serpent. That is what our mom and our dad did, and we inherited it. We, therefore, look just like our mom and our dad, as agents of chaos also, and we have a resemblance to the snake. For example, you can see in Romans that our speech has become like venom They became agents of chaos instead of order, and we have joined them. And God, being the creator, will not permit his creation to be destroyed, and so will one day remove that chaos totally. Where does that leave you as a human being? Think about the way that we have told the story in the way that God has given to us. Think about the way that God orders the facts. Think about the significance that God has given to you. If he is the truth teller and everyone else is a liar, and he has told you that you are a sinner and that you bring chaos and you understand his responsibility as a creator to his creation Where does that leave you in your natural state? Go ahead and draw the conclusion. There is a syllogism in there somewhere, and the conclusion ends up being that you are an object of wrath. You, with the thorn, must be removed to bring the earth back into paradise. If you were to remain In your natural state, the earth would never be cleansed of its chaos. There would have to be judgment upon judgment upon judgment upon judgment It would just be one cycle after another, never coming to perfection. As those things which must be removed in order for the Creator to protect his creation, that is what we have become. And guess what? There's no difference. There is no difference. This is what you will hear in our culture today. We agree with you that some people need to be removed from the situation. You need to be removed if you're whatever group people are angry about today You've been sectioned off into groups, and every other, let's call them tribes, and every other tribe believes that your tribe needs to be eradicated from the earth somehow. In some sense. And here's and in a sense that's true, but they don't go far enough. If you were to line up all of the tribes and all of the groups, And put them before God, he would look at every single one and he would say, you've all got to go Now, let me be so bold to say I'm talking about race. When I look in the scriptures, it says that if God were to bring every single race before him, though he would hear the affliction and recognize certain truths that they speak, In the end, not one of them would be found righteous, and every race would be removed from the face of the earth as a chaos machine. He has no partiality or favoritism. I mean, isn't not this the implication? That every single race is an object of wrath? Is that are we not all guilty of whatever it is that God would bring before us? I'm not really trying to hit a contemporary issue. I'm just trying to bring out to you some of these implications. No matter who you think you are, I don't care if you have wallpaper in your house with American flags all over it and eagles. You're just as guilty before God as the liberal with Gandhi on their wallpaper. I'm not saying that you have the same lives, I'm talking about your status before God. You are an object of wrath. There is no difference. As Paul says, all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And I brought race into it because he mentions Greeks and Jews. I brought it in because Paul brought it in. The Creator must protect his creation from us all. You know, we just spent over a year and probably billions of dollars trying to protect the world from a virus, and you see the common sense in it Would not God also be right in protecting the world from a virus far worse than a plague that destroys everything That is us. We are objects of wrath. Now, what this should do Is, you know, I don't know what you're going to do with that information as a sinful human being. There are a couple options, but my goal is to urge you towards seeking mercy. That's what I would like you to do. If there's a door and over top of it it says mercy, I just want to push you right in there. That's where you need to go. But I put it like this because you as human beings like to wriggle. I looked this word up Wriggle, wriggle room. It's not wiggle room, it's wriggle room. Can you believe it? That's a real word. It means this to squirm and to twist to try to get escape something. And we like to try to escape these things that I have said. We like to feel righteous. We like to feel like there's a little quarter of our life that is okay before God without His help. And what I would encourage you to do is to sit down with me sometime. You can buy me a cup of coffee. And I would like you to tell me all the ways that you think you could escape being an object of wrath, and then I'll show you how that's not really going to work. And then we'll finally get to the point that I said in the beginning, which is you're going to have to plead for mercy. If you want to read a sermon that goes through some of the list of the ways people try to escape, read Jonathan Edwards' Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. Good stuff. I don't care if you think you I do care if you think You're hearing me say you're an object of wrath or you're an object of mercy. And some of you may be thinking, that's a false dichotomy, Jesse. We can escape some other way. And I'd like to see how that works out. No, it wouldn't. Come and talk to me because the only way is mercy. Mercy in the Hebrew language is interestingly and linguistically, for all of you language nerds out there, is related to the word womb. Compassion, mercy, womb. It has different vowel markings in the Hebrew language, but it is related to the word womb, and it is such a wonderful image for us to begin thinking about our only option, which is mercy. God's mercy is pictured to be like the way a mother is with her children Now, I want you to think of all the ways that a mother's body, while the child is in the womb, is geared towards the child. All of the sacrifices that she has to make, all of the things that she has to put up with. I'm not a woman, so I don't know, but I think you get the picture. All of her body is geared toward nurturing that little body inside of her. It begins to give you the picture of what God is like in his mercy. And that will continue because after the baby is born, the nurturing doesn't stop. It just seems to have become more frantic in a sense. I remember when we were having our first child and reading about it and talking to people about it and what's the nutrition that Holly needs to have while Ellie is in her womb and and I thought that was difficult And then she was born, and I realized we really haven't even scratched the surface with how difficult this is One of the most difficult times with our first world problems was that Ellie was not responding well to dairy. And if any of you know how much Holly loves Mexican food, for her to take dairy out of her diet was a true sacrifice of mercy for you, Ellie. But it goes on from there. I know others that have had to cut out dairy. You have to baby proof the house, you get car seats to protect them on the road, you get books to learn more about sleep schedules and feeding schedules or no schedules wherever you land on that. And you can see how the image is starting to build for us that we would be able to draw from all of our human experience with mothers and parents with children that we might Get a glimpse by way of analogy to what our God is like. The kind of compassion and the kind of mercy that He offers. You know, if you want to have a good use of your time today and you want to keep thinking about this analogy of what God is like, you need to read Ezekiel 16. Ezekiel 16 presents a picture of God and it presents a picture of us The picture is that we are like a little baby that has been left out in a field with the umbilical cords still attached and covered in blood Nobody wanted us. I have reason to believe, just from the history of the human race, that the baby was probably disabled or deformed in some way. In fact, 95% of abandoned children have disabilities. I don't know if you knew that. But that is the picture of us. And then the picture that we have of God in Ezekiel 16 is one who is merciful, who will even be willing to take in that which is deformed or disabled. To take in that which no one else wanted, and to make the baby his own. And the image transforms into a wedding scene where he's even willing to take her as his bride. In his mercy, he wipes off the blood. He cuts the cord. The image will continue in Ezekiel 16, where he clothes us with the finest clothing. It says badger skin sandals. Must have been nice. He feeds us, he nurtures us, and he places his wing over us. That's what it would look like to be an object of mercy. Do you think that the baby there lying In the field, full of blood and disabled, had anything to offer for itself? Don't be mistaken in thinking you would just think the baby is cute and it had like a right to life or something There's nothing in the picture of Ezekiel within that culture that would recommend the child to you. It was a complete act of will, of mercy, and compassion. for God to place his wing over that child. And it gives us hope It gives us hope that with our deformities and our disability, which is total and universal, that perhaps if God sees us, he will have mercy. Perhaps if he were to hear our cry, he would have mercy. And we're going to have to get into Val II eventually, but I'm going to tell you right now the story ends well. Because he does decide to have mercy. But not for anything that you have done. Quite the contrary. That is a powerful image. It becomes more powerful the more you read it from Ezekiel 16, and then it's going to go on and talk about what the bride did to her husband. Did all of those things for her. It's going to resume into how we are sinners and the kind of things that we do. I'd encourage you to read it. Just meditate on it. Turn it around in your mind over and over again. It's a powerful image because it is the only one that makes sense with how the actual story goes. The human race is desperate for hope. But there is no hope if there is no mercy. Naturally, we are all sinners. If you look at the universal language of our passage, the whole human race is under sin. If you look at the total language, you realize there's no escape. Even your own thoughts would trick you. Everything about us is depraved. And this is why we have become objects of wrath The creation cannot permit our chaos to destroy, the creator cannot permit our chaos to destroy his created order. And of course, if you're watching this story, you would be on the edge of your seat and you would say, well then what? What could save them? And you realize that if the main agent of all the world, that same creator, if he were to have mercy, then things could change. Things could be restored. And that's what we discover. That our only hope is that God would have mercy on us. Now let me try to summarize this for you in our bow. Here at Severn Run EP, We acknowledge ourselves to be sinners in the sight of God, justly deserving his displeasure, and without hope, except in his sovereign mercy. That makes sense, right? That's exactly what the story says. And that is our vow here. What I would encourage you to do is to embody the vow. Don't just say it, become the vow. And write to me what it's like to live in that reality. Send me an email, send me a card, talk to me. What does it mean to be a person that embodies this vow? One who knows they're a sinner and lives by hope That the Creator will give you mercy. The next question we have to answer, which will come up next week, is what does that mercy look like? And I would say he looks like Jesus Christ. Let us pray.