I'm going to start in chapter 2. The older women likewise, that they may be reverent in behavior, not slanderers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things. That they admonish the young women to love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste homemakers, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God may not be blasphemed. Likewise, exhort the young men to be sober-minded in all things, showing yourself to be a pattern of good works, in doctrine showing integrity, reverence, incorruptibility. Sound speech that cannot be condemned, that one who is an opponent may be ashamed, having nothing evil to say of you. Exhort bond servants to be obedient to their own masters, to be well pleasing in all things, not answering back. Not pilfering, but showing all good fidelity, that they may adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior, in all things. And here's really the focus of today, For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age. looking for the blessed hope and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us, that He might redeem us from every lawless deed. and purify for himself his own special people, zealous for good works. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this word and even picking up earlier in this passage of the responsibility of older men. We thank you for this focus really in every area of life and revealing to us what it means to walk as becomes a follower of Christ. We pray that you would help us through your word here this morning to understand the vows that we have taken or that we may take in the third vow of the PCA. We ask these things in your name. Amen. We may be seated. Now, over the last few weeks, we have gone back to the basics. You'll see in your bulletin that the vowels are listed out and that the third vowel is emboldened. The basics for us, we've been relating the scriptures back to the basic vows that it would take to become a member here. It's good for us to remember that as members. It is good for us for those who are interested in membership. to see what it would mean to join this church because it would be kind of like a marriage. The commitment is that serious And so what we've done is we've looked at different scripture passages like Romans chapter 3, the first week, and we learned that we are sinners and objects of wrath unless God makes us objects of mercy. Last week from Ephesians 5, we heard that God is merciful in the saving work of Jesus Christ. Through his death, the Lord cleanses his bri The church taking is being taken or is taken from a realm of the unclean into the realm of the clean, from the unrighteous into the righteous. Like a husband carrying his wife out of a crackhouse, if you want to remember that uh illustration. And then he also nourishes and cherishes her as his own body, and the word that we used for that was rehabilitation. And she has actually promised the church that is rehabilitation to full glory upon Christ's return Now this morning we take the next step, and we have chosen this scripture for us to understand, particularly verses 11 through 14 in chapter 2 of Titus. to understand our next vowel, which is just basically asking the question, what does it mean or what does it look like to be this new follower of Christ, or old follower of Christ, because it's the same all the way through. That's the next step. We're wedded to Christ. We've been brought from one realm into the next realm. What does it look like to live in this Clean realm. We we don't really need any education to live in the unclean realm. You all are really great at that all by yourselves But when we get into this clean realm, what does it look like to be a follower of Jesus Christ? Now we're looking at Titus 2, 11 through 14. And I just want, before we get into two specific points today that are kind of applications. I want to make a few observations about our passage so you can see what's going on here in a little bit more detail since we've only read through it together. The very first observation I want to make with you is that when we read Titus, it is the same story that you heard last week. It's the same story that was told in Ephesians 5. And that shouldn't surprise you because it's the same Christ who's speaking throughout all of the scriptures of the old and of the new, and he's always telling the same story. Our Savior cleanses his people. That's something that we learned last week that was a part of the story, and it was put in terms of bridal imagery, especially from Ezekiel 16. It is true again this week that our Savior, the story is still, our Savior cleanses his people. In Ephesians 5, Christ gave himself up to cleanse his bride in verses 25 and 26. His sacrifice takes us from the realm of death into the realm of life, and that is talked about in terms of cleansing and purifying. Here, our God and Savior Jesus Christ, verse 13. in Titus chapter 2, gave himself for us, so the we may be purified as his own special property or people or possession or treasure. Verse 14 See, it's the same story about purification. He is taking us from being a part of one realm and bringing us over into another realm. That was both in Ephesians 5, and you can see it here again in verses 13 and 14, that he might redeem us, that he gave himself to make us his own special people, to purify us into that realm. That's the first part of the first observation. But notice there's the second part present also. It's not just that he cleanses and purifies, but he's also going to continue to nourish That's been the story. In Ephesians we read that Christ nourishes the church as he does his own body. Bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh. Five. Ephesians 5. 29. In our passage this morning, he nourishes us, but what he's going to do is he's going to give you a little bit more detail on what the nourishment looks like. Nourishment means you're becoming healthier and healthier due to someone's work within your life. And look at what the health looks like in our passage in verse 14. We are set aside and become a group of people that are zealous for good works That is what it looks like for him. So if I were to say that you and I, we're going to go off and we're going to develop a skincare program together. I know this is weird, right? We're going to have a skincare program And we're going to cherish and nourish our skin. I'm not going to nourish your skin. I'm going to nourish mine. You get what I'm saying? We're going to have this healthy glow about us. We're going to look youthful and vibrant. Even when I'm seventy, people are going to think I'm twenty because of how great my skin is Here we're not talking about skin, but we are talking about a kind of vibrancy in life that is a part of the healthiness of God's people, and that is that they are cherished into being people of good works. They are in fact zealous for it. Now, if you were to read a little bit further, there's some more details that are given to us in Titus for the story to be present. That we didn't see explicitly within Ephesians. Look, for example, in chapter 3, verse 6, on how all of this is going to take place. Notice the Holy Spirit entering into the story now. This is how Christ is going to work in the story. Christ in his ascension is going to send his spirit to us on earth, and he is going to cherish and nourish us as a body. And that is why we end up be calling we're end up called a spiritual people. Not because you have crystals and you're new agey You're spiritual because you have the Holy Spirit and He's cherishing and nourishing you. That's what that means to be a spiritual people. And you can see that whole part of that story there. in chapter three, where Christ sends or pours out him on us and the kind of work that he is doing amongst us Christ, after his ascension, poured out his Holy Spirit on his bride, and there's two words used: regenerating and renewing her, verse 5 of chapter 3. So whether you're in Titus, this is the first point, remember, the first observation. Whether you're in Ephesians, or whether you're in Titus, or whether you're in Deuteronomy, it's always the same story. Christ through his sacrifice cleanses. Christ through his Holy Spirit nourishes and rehabilitates. That will even be the case with the general resurrection when the Spirit raises your bodies into your new spiritual body Now, observation number two. This is the same story as last week, but with a bigger application. That should be an easy observation to remember. In Ephesians, Paul uses the knowledge of Christ's death for his bride and Christ's care for his bride in order to instruct husbands and wives on how they should live generally in marriage. It's a very specific application to one realm of human existence. But I want you to notice in Titus that when Paul writes to Titus, he's capturing every realm. It is a much bigger application as to what he brings the Spirit into. This week the application is not just to marriage, but to an entire life zealous for good works, verse 14 of chapter 2. Now you can see this kind of thing by reading a little bit earlier in the letter to Titus. So when you have your scriptures out here, I just want to point out a couple things to you. And you can, over a ham sandwich this afternoon that you make in your kitchen, go ahead and look at this, okay? A life zealous for good works, number one, verse five of chapter one, it is an ordered life. Paul leaves Titus behind to put in order what he left behind. And then when you start to look at all of the things that he is going to order, it really encompasses all of the domains. This ordered life includes an ordered life in the church, it includes an ordered life in the family, it includes an ordered life in the civic realm. There is no stone unturned as to what you will be zealous in in your good works. It's quite beautiful. An order of church life, for example, is seen in the call for church government in verses 5 through 16. Church and family life are included in chapter 2, verses 1 through 9. And an ordered civil life is seen in chapter 3, verses 1 through 8, which we must read very carefully and in wisdom. About honoring the king. So I just want to point that out to you. And when you're having your ham sandwich with mustard or without, just take a look at the different sections and see that the application is far beyond marriage. It does include it, but it includes every area of life. One church, in fact, that I know would say all of Christ for all of life. That would be the motto. So let's return to that initial question, and now that we have our observations, we can really pull it together with the answer. What does it look like to be a follower of Jesus Christ? It means that those who are cleansed and those being nurtured by Christ and His Spirit are by grace made zealous for good works in every sphere of life. Now it's right there. You might need some more time with the scriptures. Go ahead and take the time. Bring it up with me later, but that's the main point. It means that those who are cleansed and those being nurtured by Christ and His Spirit are by grace made zealous for good works in every sphere of life. Now I have two main lessons that I want to focus on because of where we are in our time. And that can be summarized under two main points, which is the enemy and the offensive. So I'd encourage you to mark those down and to make notes under those two headings, the enemy and being on the offensive. So let's start working out that truth into this lesson about the enemy. Since we are followers of Christ, Since followers of Christ are zealous for good works, here's the first thing: we must be on guard against the enemy. Now I'm kind of tempted to get you to write down on your bul bulletin who the enemy is and then hand it in to me later and see if your answer changes. I just want to know. I d I hope it's not me. Against the the enemy. People are naming different enemies these days. Let me tell you who I who wins enemy of the week this week. Many, I keep hearing, believe that the primary enemy has been, not just this week, but since uh you know at least a year, the coercive government. And the coercive university system, and the coercive public school system, and the coercive mainstream scientific establishment system. And I don't want to deny that totally. I'm happy with all of them being my enemy. But I do want you to recall how it has even elevated to that level where we could give them such a name. Remember, I'm using the word coercion. That means that they're able to exercise some kind of power. If you were a horse, you feel the bit in your mouth. Which means somehow they got this harness on you. I want to ask, how did it even end up like that? Because that starts to expose who I think the more dangerous enemy is. And as I evaluate evaluate my life and your life. This is the main enemy that I see. I would say that though coercion does seem to be playing a larger part, I don't want us to become blind that America's greatest talent is always seduction, not coercion. Definitely not compared to other countries You talk to somebody in another country who is under some serious coercion and they will laugh at you and your coercion. But they would not laugh at us and our seduction. I would say that our culture is the way that it is, mostly because the church has been seduced into adopting an idolatrous vision for life. This is generally speaking. And as I was beginning to see that that really does hit the nail, I was reminded of the prophetic voice from the 80s, 70s and 80s, of Francis Schaefer. You need to go back and watch his How Then Shall We Live series and read his books because I was reading them this past week and he predicted everything that you see. He said that this is what's going to happen. The church is going to give herself over and already has started, it's going to give herself over in seduction to an idolatrous system where there are two main values. Personal peace and affluence. Now this is how he defines it. He says, personal peace means you just want to be let alone. You don't want to be troubled by the troubles of other people, whether it is across the world or across the city, to live one's life with minimal possibilities of being personally disturbed. Main goal. That's my goal. Number two, personal peace means wanting to have my personal life pattern undisturbed in my lifetime, regardless of what the result will be in the lifetimes of my children and my grandchildren. Personal peace. I'm he I'm hearing some grunts out there or groans of the spirit or something. Because this guy's on, isn't he? Now he talks about, besides personal peace, he talks about affluence. Affluence means an overwhelming and ever-increasing prosperity. A life made up of things, things, and more things, a success judged by an ever higher level of material abundance. And this is, he goes on further to lay all this out, and it's very interesting. He said, when the church adopted this idolatrous system, you know what she did. And she said, Life's pretty good. And her voice was no longer present. She had nothing to say. She became quiet. Now let me ask you something. The church is meant to be a prophetic community. What happens when the prophet goes silent? What happens when the only place where you could find meaning and significance for life all of a sudden chooses an apathy not to speak? Frances Schaefer goes on to say that God is there and He is not silent, but the church did not speak because she was He didn't say this, I'm going to add this, because she was on her boat in the Severn. And because she was too busy worried about recreational sports, and because she was over there playing video games Or whatever new distraction arose wherein she neglected her responsibility to her particular area, which was at least to live and speak the truth. Now he goes on to say, and this is back in nineteen eighty-two, I looked at the publication date. 1982, he says, people cannot stand the tension of having no meaning and significance in life. And so when the church ceases to tell people and show them their meaning and significance in life, they will turn to some other total system. And that system, he says, these are his words, will be run by elites. And they will manipulate through technology and media. 1982, he says that. And I'm trying to point out to you the root cause of this because this is our real enemy. I bring all of this up because the game is starting again. You're getting or you have already received your stimulus checks. There are the promises of child tax credits on the way. There will be the reopening of society, and they want you to go right back into the same old game. No voice. Everything's okay. Because we're meeting your goals where you can have personal peace and affluence. Meanwhile, this is what we're going to do in the background: we're going to take away every single one of your liberties. That you really care about. And then when you awake up that there's a problem, too late. I already own all of the universities. You can see what the real problem is. And now you have two problems. You got seduction and coercion. So congratulations. Here we are. Our idolatrous system seeks to tempt us again into a continued silence as long as you have personal affluence and peace. And don't fall off on the other side of the cliff. God wants us to be able to enjoy the good things of His creation. I'm talking about idolatry, which means you start to live for them. Which means you're then not going to live for him, which means you're going to neglect your responsibility. Now it is true, perhaps our enemy will be coercive now because they're more bold. But above all, I promise you, the problem is still seduction. Since we are followers of Christ, zealous for good works, you have got to begin by being on guard against this. It's time to make some decisions. I think we woke up. We're not woke, but we did wake up. We woke up Let's not go back to sleep. Let's wake up even more. Now that's the first point, which has to do with our enemy. And the second one, which has to which is dealing with seduction. The second point I want to bring up is getting on the offensive. And this will be shorter. Since followers of Christ are zealous for good works, We must go back on the offensive. I'm not saying you must be offensive, and I'm not saying that you must be obnoxious. I'm saying we must go back on the offensive in the way that Christ would have it And I say this because I hear more and more people saying things like, well, we've really got to get into the law courts. We've got to protect the churches, which is probably true. But what you don't realize is that the law court is a defensive measure. It's not an offensive measure. That's fine, use it in defense, but we have an offense. Some of that will be necessary, but there's a very limited use In law courts. I'm very thankful for them for, in fact, with churches being able to open up in California. Great. Great defensive measure. Now they need to get onto the offensive. We need offensive measures, and you can think of them in terms of football. It's very helpful for me. As a Christian, God has given you all you need for life and godliness in every area of life. I cannot tell you how robust this grace is that Christ has given to you. You live in concert With the God who literally upholds reality, and then he tells you how he's doing all the important stuff. So that you could not only by kind of instinct, but through mind and rationality, know exactly how to live in accordance with reality Which means that we end up having the number one and most robust philosophical and theological foundation for absolutely everything. In other words, we've got the ball. Which means that we are on the offensive Everything that is against Christ, it only takes two or three little steps to show that is a total joke and not in accordance with reality. Brad, you're a woman. No, he's not. That was really easy. It was really easy You are meant to run that ball down the field in every area of life for as many yards as you can, and you've been given everything you need to be able to do it. Especially when you start to rely on each other, because we as a body are compensatory. We compensate for one another. It's like a little shuttle pass, and they keep going down the field. As you notice in the letter to Titus, you are responsible for running your offense in the areas of family, the area of church, the area of a larger civic community. And we have to watch out for the enemy still. We've got to return back to that first point because what you could do in running your offensive is you could set your goals to where now you're getting personal peace and affluence and working really hard in those areas. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about kingdom advance, not your own personal advancement. You advance the ball when you use your role and position for other people. In the name of Jesus Christ, you advance the ball when you use your role and position to advance the kingdom in the lives of other people. Fathers must be zealous for good work, for the benefits of their families, for their churches, and for their country and their county. You have been given those emotions for that purpose. It is the same with mothers. When you read the letter to Timothy, it is the same with widows. Since you are not married and by definition have more time, at least theoretically speaking, it says in Timothy that you are meant to be devoted to the health of communities around you. And this goes for every church member, no matter what your calling is, you have a calling to be a member of this church. And I fear that personal peace and affluence and that model has entered in on what you think it means for you to meet this third vow as a church member and the fourth vow as a church member. You could read your church membership to mean my responsibility is to hire staff and to elect people to take care of this church so I can focus on my best life now. I don't need to worry about it because we've got whoever at the church. And I'm telling you, that is the wrong focus, and it's going to get you in trouble It's going to put too much pressure on your leadership and they're going to crack and they're going to do stupid stuff. And you're going to give them too much liberty and not hold them accountable. That's a different model. We don't want that model. We want to have a dream. We want to have a dream here where when we hold a session meeting You take your church responsibility so zealously that we have got to set up tables here because you're all sitting in these chairs and you want to come up to the mic to speak persuasively on the issue that is before the session. Let me ask you, over the last two years, could you tell me five things that are on the sessional docket? And why not? I know that some of you, including myself, when they put an issue on the docket down at the Ann Ronald County uh meeting place for the town, for the city council. We went down there and we listened responsibly. We went up to the mic and we spoke our peace because we're responsible citizens. And we were speaking against abortion in our county. That is a good model for the kind of responsibility that you have as a church member. It doesn't mean that when you come up to the mic that the session now is just going to vote whatever you want to do. If you want to put candy lane forest in the backfield. It doesn't mean that we have to do that. But you would take responsibility for what's happening around here. Are our youth being tended to with the kind of care that they need? If they're not, maybe we need a youth pastor, and you need to have some zeal to make sure that it happens. Or whatever else it is. I'm just picking an issue But that's the kind of responsibility that you would have. Do you see what happens when you just let leaders have it and think they're doing a great job? Look what happens in the county or at the national level. Across the board, we need to wake up out of our personal peace and affluence and take responsibility for our citizenship again. Whether it's our citizenship in our family, in our church, in our county, or in our country. That, my friends, is called being on the offensive That's my dream also for the future session meetings. Members speak at the mic because they are on the offensive and want this church to be full of good works for the kingdom. In fact, you know why we have a pop-up pantry? Because someone came to a session meeting and spoke up. As Christians zealous for good works, we drive the ball, we run the ball, we strike forward because we're on the offensive. We have everything we need. I haven't even mentioned that we have God, did I? We have God. Of course. You know, this is all flowing from that main question in the beginning. And I'm speaking to our time. Maybe in 50 years it would need to be a different application. But we're just asking, what does it look like now to be a follower of Jesus Christ? It means that those who are cleansed and those being nurtured by Christ and His Spirit Are by his grace made zealous for good works in every sphere of life. And we have become zealous in our past, but we were not zealous for good things. We were zealous for personal peace and affluence. But now we have to move into a different resolve. As the first, or as the third vow says, we must resolve and promise. In humble reliance upon the grace of the Holy Spirit to endeavor to live as becomes the followers of Christ To do that, we have to at least watch out for the enemy. And I know you get all excited about coercion But I'd ask that you please don't forget about seduction. The seduction of personal peace and affluence is a death blow. We will be silenced. And to live as becomes the followers of Christ means to go on the offensive. Be zealous and take responsibility for the three domains of your life: family, church, and county. Use your roles to advance the ball down the field and bring the kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. Let us pray.