This morning I'll be reading verses 22 through 33 as we continue in the basics of Christianity and the exploration of the second vowel. Beginning in verse 22. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her. that he may sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word, that he might present her to himself a glorious church. not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish. So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes it and cherishes it, just as the Lord does the church. For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this reason, a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church Nevertheless, let each one of you in particular so love his own wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband. Let's pray. Christ, I know that the reality here is important to you That you today, in just the reading of it, have placed something very serious before us that changes everything. I pray, Lord, that it would be spoken seriously, that it would be received seriously, that it would be lived seriously. In the name of Christ. Amen. May be seated. Last week we began our new mini-series. We've hit the pause button on axe. This is the basics of Christianity. We last week discovered that we are sinners. And that we have no out or escape except in God's sovereign mercy. We are objects of wrath unless we become objects of his mercy. Is a basic truth for us. And this week we take another step forward. At the final close of the service last week, I asked: Is there the hope of mercy? And I said, yes, and his name is Jesus Christ. Here we're asking a question, again, that is pretty much the same question, but we're going to go ahead and fill it out. Will God be merciful? In the way that we need it, with the way that we have defined the problem. And if he is going to be merciful, what will that look like? Well, we're looking at Ephesians 5, 22 through 33 for the answer, and I want to make a few observations as we go along, and then I want to draw out a couple lessons. I have four observations for you this morning. from this passage. This makes it easy for you to take notes, for some of you who told me you'd like to take notes. And so here are the four observations so that we can take away the truth here that will lead us into our charge today. The very first observation I'd like to make about 5. 22 through 33 is that this passage is about Jesus Christ. I don't want you to be confused. Usually the passage is used for the sake of marriage. That's fine. Paul does draw an application to marriage. He states in verse 32 that this passage, however, is about what? Christ and the church. You see that? There is a love story and a marriage story that transcends your story So I want you to move beyond thinking about the relationship between just men and women. If you can, you may have already, in the reading of the passage, been distracted by your own marriage. I want you to do your best to get up out of it And let's focus on our relationship to God. That's the first observation. This is about Christ. The second observation is that this passage is not just about Christ, but this is about Christ as Lord. And I'd really even like to go further to say that this is about Christ as the Lord God. You can see this in verse 22 through 23 and also in 29. And 22, you can see that he is called Lord there. In 23, it shifts the language, but it's synonymous that he is the head. And in 29, it is repeated again. Where we see, just as the Lord does the church. If you were to comb through other scriptures, I would encourage you, for example, to look at Colossians chapters 1 and 2. And you will see that this is not just any old Lord. This is the Lord God. And I would commend to you, actually, a psalm to consider the kind of Lord that he is And that is Psalm 8. Take a look there on your own time and see how he is the head of the cosmos. And you have crowned him with glory and honor. You have made him to have dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet All sheep and oxen, even the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea, that pass through the paths of the sea. O Lord our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth. This is the installation. of Christ Jesus, who is the God man, the same one before the foundations of the earth, the master craftsman who formed all things, the one by whom God the Father Created the heavens and the earth, this same one has taken on flesh and is Lord. You can think of the creation being set up in hierarchies, and he is at the top of the pyramid. That's observation two. He's not only the Christ, he is Christ the Lord God. Observation number three is that this passage is about Christ as the Savior of the church, also. And you can see this in verse 23, and we're really going to be working on this word savior today. For the husband is the head of the wife, as also Christ is the head of the church, and he is the Savior. Of the body. From the beginning, God had a plan to exercise mercy to those whom He calls, saving them from chaos. Christ Jesus is the one who saves, and therefore it is proper to call him the Savior, who brings salvation. Christ Jesus is the Savior who does what is necessary to bring the plan into fruition. He gave himself in sacrifice for the church that they would be cleansed, verse 25. And Christ nourishes the church over time that she would be glorious. Verses 27 through 29. Now, if you want to start pulling all of these pieces together, then you need more than just the three observations that I have given to you. You need the fourth observation. This is about Christ and his bride. This is beautiful because one of the things that we can have difficulties with is figuring out how to pull all the pieces of the Christian story together. So that we can understand what God is doing and what he calls us to. Getting your head around God's plan can be strenuous. And so what he does, I want you to notice an act of mercy in the passage for you. An act of kindness as your teacher. What he does is he gives us a familiar but ancient framework or story in order to be able to understand the whole situation far more simply. To not get lost in vocabularies and words, but just keep your eye on the story. What kind of story is before you? It's a redemptive love story, is it not? We all love redemptive love stories, and that is God's plan. I want you to notice really like the the the pinnacle of Ephesians 5, 22 through 33 is in verse 31. I don't know if you noticed. It's very good for you to notice when there's quotation marks in your Bible. These are quotations from Genesis chapter 2, verses 23 and 24. And it is the quotation, if you were to look in that section of your scriptures, you'll see it's set off into stanzas. Which means that Paul is here quoting a love poem from husband to wife in Genesis. Paul is reciting the love poem when Adam says, This is now bone of my bones. This is now flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. You can see why Paul would say this is a mystery. It would take some work to get to see that that means that. But you can see the story is about the love of the husband for his wife. But the story becomes complicated like all stories do. If the story were like this: once upon a time, a husband loved his wife and they lived happily ever after. That's not a story. The story instead goes like this, which makes it a story. Once upon a time, the husband loved his wife, but she loved other men who used and abused her. That is our story. There is an emotional depth if you really start to get what God is talking about. It's not just a series of vocabulary words to arrange in some kind of systematic order. It is something that is placed before you by which you are moved in the depths of your being. And so the story continues that the husband being strong and wise Did what was necessary even unto death to bring her back under his wing. And now he continues nurturing her that she may recover her former glory. That's the story. And you can see the story iterated not just here in Ephesians, but throughout all of the scriptures. Paul says Let's go all the way back to the beginning, and then you could go all the way back up to where he's speaking. That this is the story. If you want to, you can think of Adam and Eve as the story. If you want to, you can think of Rahab as the story. If you want to think of Of Sarah and Abimelech, that's part of the story. Of Israel and Pharaoh, that's part of the story. Ruth is a part of the story. Ezekiel 16 is framed in the exact same redemptive marriage love story. The Samaritan woman in John chapter 4, love story, redemptive, a woman being rescued from all of the husbands of the past. And then you go all the way to the end of the scriptures in Revelation chapter 1, and there you find again the image and the framing of Christ and his bride. That is the story. And that is a model or a frame that Paul is even using here that we would understand what all of this is about. They are all about the new life-giving husband as the savior of his bride. So let's go back and ask the question: Will God be merciful Will God be merciful to you, a sinner? You may have even prayed that prayer. God be merciful to me, a sinner. And the question I'm asking is, yeah, will he? And I'm saying the answer is yes. And then I want you to ask, well, how is he going to do that? And I'm going to say, well, let me tell you a story. And it's a story about a husband and his wife. It's about Jesus Christ as the Lord God. It is about Jesus Christ as the Savior of sinners. And it's all put into a frame of marriage. Now, today I have actually a special set of emphases that I want to bring out for us. Usually at this time, I move into the charge and exhortation mode, trying to rouse you with a call to action to take over the world. And I love that, and we'll be right back to that next week, okay? But This day, you know what I really my hopes are for you this day is I really just want you to start to get the story straight And I want you to see how powerful the story is. I want you to be moved by it. I want you to see yourself in the story. Okay? One of the problems we're running into is people have forgotten what Christianity is, which is another way of saying they don't know the story. So let's unfold that. And this may be put in terms that you may not be familiar with, but I'd encourage you to chase after this. Talk to me afterward, talk to each other after this. This is this is a treasure in a field Get out there and dig it up if you need to. There's two things I want to bring out. One is the first point is realm to realm. Okay, realm to realm. And then the second point I want to make is rehab. Realm to realm and rehab. When we say that Christ is our Savior from sin In one sense, what we mean is that Christ takes us from one realm over into another realm. And this is profound. Now, this can be, if I were to say this to ancient Israelites who and all of their children would have remembered or memorized Leviticus, which they did, can you imagine? All of their children would memorize Leviticus. They would know exactly what I'm saying. But we have difficulty within our culture. We have very few analogies. But Governor Hogan has given me one. He didn't call me and tell me. I was just watching the news, and we officially have a kind of analogy within our culture of moving people from one realm into another realm. The two realms that are happening in our culture, and I'm not revealing any of my political positions or anything, I'm just saying there is officially a realm on even doors in bold marker, safe and unsafe. Vaccinated or not vaccinated. That has happened. I'm not making a political comment on it. I'm just using it as an analogy because it fits. It seems to me that some people are adopting the attitude, which I don't comment on, that if you have the vaccine then you are clean, if you don't have the vaccine then you are unclean, and there are these kind of two realms in which you can exist now. Some of you are allowed into these places while you're not and uh you know how it goes. And the interesting thing is that I'm noticing that it's actually coming into fruition and shaping society For example, Ellie and I went shopping yesterday and on the door it says if you're a vaxxer, you don't need your mask. If you have no vaccine, you must wear your mask. Again, I'm not commenting on that. I'm just saying we're we're creating people that exist in two realms and are required to do different things depending on the realm that you're in. And I'm expecting this to enhance even because I have just heard that Hogan is having a Maryland lottery. Is this true? Yeah. He's having a Maryland lottery using your vaccine numbers to perhaps have the winning ticket. Whatever your view ends up being on vaccines, come on back to reality with me here. Okay? Whatever your view happens to be on vaccines What is happening is that Hogan and others are seeking to bring people from one realm that they consider to be unsafe into another realm that they would consider to be safe. Again, I'm making no comment. It's just a it's an analogy to let you know. I'm not I'm not talking about even the vaccine really. I'm talking about social realms that have been created. Do you see it It should remind you of what Peter would have had to face when they considered the Gentiles unclean. You see what I'm saying? Though they had different bases than what's being given here This is an analogy to Christ as Savior, except He is not trying to bring a person from safe or unsafe to safe or anything like that. And no matter who you are, you should love this news. The analogy with Christ is that he is taking, get this, he is taking people from the realm of death into the realm of life. The realm of chaos over into the realm of order. This is the story. It's nothing less than this. It's revolutionary. It is the transformation of creation, which we would call it, that's why we would call it a new creation. Now the question you have to ask is, how will God get those from the realm of death into the realm of life? Because that's the the story. The suspense, the tension is set up. The problem is right there in the beginning. The inciting moment for the story is how is he going to get them from death to life? Because here's the thing, if you remember what we talked about in the first week You like the realm of death. Those are your boys. Right That's where you would like to stay. So it's not as if he leads the horse to the water and you're so thankful for water. That's the difficulty. And that you could go over and over and over again to make complications within the story How is he going to do it? Well, we can answer this in a lot of ways, and we will over the years together, but I'm telling you this morning that Paul tells us he's going to do it by way of a marriage. He's going to do it by way of a marriage. Christ joins himself. To those whom God has prearranged for him to marry See how I'm using marriage language instead of abstract theological language. Christ joins himself to those whom the Father has prearranged for him to marry. And here it is right here. And Christ assumes all of the liability that his bride has accumulated and gives her all of his assets Now, interestingly, could you raise your hand for me if you have read or seen the Lion the Witch in the Wardrobe? It's not a thing to be ashamed about, so you can raise your hand. Okay, very good. That's enough people. So interestingly, I really think this is what's going on here in that first uh story with Aslan and the need to redeem Edmund. And I would encourage you to think about it that way because if you're in wa either you're reading the books or you're watching the movie, you'll notice that the other children don't know what Edmund and Aslan are doing, but they have gone off to the side and they are having a private conversation. You can rewatch the movie if you don't remember. And that private conversation is Aslan moving into a kind of contractual or covenantal relationship with him And he is going to assume the liabilities that Edmund has created. And Edmund is only going to be the beneficiary of his actions. And that's a pretty great analogy or characterization of what's happening in the real Christian story. Aslan volunteers to enter into a kind of covenant with Edmund, assuming liability for his treachery. And the witch does not know that if an innocent one dies for the guilty, then the deep magic not only releases Edmund, but because an innocent one went through, he too is also released into the realm of life, and cannot stay in death. It's quite a similar tale. Edmund raises out of death into life from his treachery, Aslan raises from the sacrificial offering to the realm of life. And in essence, whether you're listening to Nardia or let us get back to scriptures really, in essence The end of the story, because of the voluntary work of Christ with his bride and entering into death like that to release her The end result is stated right in the beginning of the scriptures. It's at the tail end of that love, the love poem, You are flesh of my flesh, bone of my bones, and then Adam goes on, but it's really the words of Christ. And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and they were not ashamed. Do you see that? I mean, think about that just in terms of realms. They're not even in the realm of shame. It's not even a possibility. There has been a resurrection to life in so many ways. And we could spend years going through all the details of that story, but these are the basic outlines. In this story, the husband doesn't save her because there's something about her. She loves death She would prefer to be there. She will come over into realms of life and bring much death with her. In a sense, she does not have any good works to offer to this husband The story is this: God the Father prearranged the marriage, and Christ as the good husband enters into the death. And pulls her from the realm of death and pulls her into the realm of life. Nothing because of herself. That ends up being the main story. And that ends up being all of your stories. If you're a Christian, and it ends up being our story corporately also, as we got gather as the bride of Christ in the truest essence of it. Now that's the first point. Let's just follow the story. That's what we're trying to do today. Realm to realm. It's a really big deal. But there's also rehab. That's the second part of the story that you're living right now. When we say that Christ is our Savior from sin, we also mean that we are in the realm of life. Even after we are in the realm of life, he rehabilitates us to perfection. That's the second phase. Now I want to put this in a story, and I'm going to warn you, I'm not going to be graphic, but this is a true story. And I still know this person, and maybe one day I'll let you meet him. I had an old friend of mine thinking about rehabilitation and being brought into perfection as this next phase. There's an old friend of mine, he was married. And unfortunately, what ended up happening was his wife developed a very heavy drug addiction. And when I say heavy drug addiction, I don't mean a lot of drugs. I mean heavy drugs. Heavy stuff. And after a little bit of time, she disappeared. And she disappeared for days. Now, if you know my friend, he's not the kind of person who resigns himself to these kinds of things. So he searched everywhere for her. He knew people, he knew people within that lifestyle, and they eventually gave him a tip. And he found out that she was staying in a crackhouse in Baltimore. So he had his friend drive him there. His friend waited in the car. My friend emerged from the car with a crowbar. He ripped the door off of the hinges. He went into the building and debilitated anyone who got in his way. He put his wife on his shoulder. And he carried her out and he brought her home. Now that is a picture of that first point that I mentioned to you. He took her from the realm of death into the realm of life. And now here with this second point, I want to ask you a question. Is now everything okay? Is all the work to be done done? Don't they have a lot still in front of them And that's why we need rehab. Because she needed rehab, didn't she? She needed some level of rehabilitation. And if you have not been to rehab, Then this is kind of what it's like. You are given just days to become human again, to dry out And then you learn from the community that is there, that has also dried out, to start to think again, to have things clear, to notice a butterfly on a flower. Then you can start to have your feelings straight. And you start to see what is what What you should love and what you should hate. And after a while, you don't stay there as the one who's receiving all of the treatment and all of the attention. You end up being the person who gives the attention. You are experiencing healing You have been raised up and you have your feet under you now. You are stabilized. And when the person comes in Who doesn't know how to think and doesn't know how to feel and just needs to dry out, guess who's going to be one of the people helping them? It's going to be you And that is a picture of the kind of rehabilitation that we enter into with Christ. Our picture is not just being put on Christ's shoulder and taken out of the crackhouse. That is true. But it is Christ staying with us. He doesn't even just drop us off at the rehabilitation center. It is his. And he is the one in every group And this is where we are now in the story. If you are a Christian, then you are in the realm of life. And there's nothing that can take you out of that. Nothing. We refer to this as the assurance of our salvation. Nothing can take you out of this realm because Christ is in this realm and you are united to him in marriage. The Christ is still working on us in this realm. For some of us, he is stabilizing us in the basics. He's just trying to get us to think clearly and to know how to feel for the first time. And for others of you, as you regularly hear from this pulpit, you have been here for a while. You are the veterans. You know the ropes. And what you have been encouraged to do is to take what Christ has given to you and give it to others. You cannot give what you do not have, but I'm telling you right now, Christ has given you a lot. And whatever He has given, it is meant to give. Those who are going to come in these doors, who are carrying pain and misery and sin from the realm of death Now, I did warn you that normally we have calls to action for the second part of the sermon, but you can see right there at the end, I couldn't help myself. I had to give you a little bit of a call of action. Okay? But today was really you just getting your story straight again. And that the story was placed within the context of marriage, and those kind of situations that we heard about the crackhouse helps you to understand the power and the reality of the gospel. That is what's going on. The gospel is the good news that God, through a prearranged marriage with Christ, takes us from death to life. From crack house to home. The gospel is the good news that God, through a pre-arranged marriage with Christ, rehabilitates us to perfection. It is a part of the gospel of the glory of God as he orders all of the heavens and all of the earth under his rule And this leads me into a final question, and then we'll head to the supper. The correct answer is we do. Christian, do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of God and the Savior of sinners And do you receive and rest upon him alone for salvation as he is offered in this gospel? Amen. Let us pray.