Now we could uh we could probably spend a whole year going through each and every term that's present in this passage. I'll reassure all of you this morning. I do not intend to do that. We are going to look at this passage in the way that I believe the Spirit wants us to understand it. This week there's been a lot of difficult thoughts, a lot of challenging meditation. I myself was thinking a lot about heart conditions, heart illness. And I wonder if you realize what I came to understand this week, and that's that every single one of us is born with a heart condition. were born with a very serious heart condition. In Matthew 15, 19, the Lord Jesus Christ says, For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies. That means that when we look out at the world or at our own lives, and we see things going so wrong, there is only one place to lay the blame, and it isn't God It's the sinful hearts of human beings. Now, children, I want to make sure you're clear, I'm not referring to that organ in our body that pumps blood. Rather, we need to understand or think of the heart as Jesus does. It is the seat of our desires and affections. It is the driving force behind all that we do or say. Our heart is our life. And if Christ is to be trusted, and I promise you, He most certainly is, then there's only one hope for humanity. Only one hope for you and for me. We need new hearts. Praise God Almighty. That is exactly what he is doing. In this letter, Paul is writing to Christians in the Galatian church to remind them that they've been given new hearts by Christ. They've been saved by his miraculous grace and mercy, and now have new lives in him. But something happened in that church. Do you remember it? Somehow they had forgotten that a new heart meant a new life And they were trying to do something foolish. They were trying to live their old lives with their new hearts. Somehow they had been convinced that they needed to live in both the old and the new ways There were some among them trying to get them to live under the Jewish law. It got so bad that some of them were even convinced that they needed to be circumcised. Even Peter himself needed to be reminded that this makes no sense whatsoever. And Paul has been reminding the Galatians that Christ has freed them from the old life. And now they need to walk away from it entirely. In fact, they need to walk, they need to live in a way that is consistent with their new reality. A way that is consistent with their new hearts and their new lives. He ends his reminders to the Galatians. He wraps it all up with our passage here this morning, which teaches us. That to experience the wondrous life Christ wants for you, you must sacrifice your old life and its desires and follow the Holy Spirit in the new life and desires He gives you. To experience the wondrous life Christ wants for you, you must sacrifice your old life and its desires and follow the Holy Spirit in the new life and desires He gives you. We're going to look at this in three sections this morning. We'll be examining the wondrous life in Christ that we'll see from verses 16 to 18. We'll look at the old life of the flesh. In verses 19 through 21, and we'll see the new life in the spirit, verses 22 to 26, just in case you missed it I'll give it again. To experience the wondrous life Christ wants for you, you must sacrifice your old life and its desires and follow the Holy Spirit in the new life and new desires He gives to you. We'll look at the wondrous life in Christ. We'll look at the old life of the flesh. And we'll look together at the new life in the spirit. So let's begin by looking at this first section where we will see the wondrous life in Christ. This is verses 16 to 18. The first thing we notice is that the wondrous life Christ wants you to have is a holy life It's a holy life, a life which does not fulfill the desires of the flesh. We see that right in verse 16. We don't want to import too much of the modern meaning of the word lust here. What Paul is talking about is not isolated to just sins of our body. That's not how lust of the flesh should be understood. It is referring to the fervent desires of our sinful hearts. It's the desires that we most easily and most readily succumb to, and which lead to actions so that they will be fulfilled. But Christ wants better than that for you. And so he has Paul tell us: walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. And next we see that the wondrous life Christ wants you to have is a free life. A life in which you can do what you want, you can do what you wish And you can do what you want to do because the Holy Spirit reorders what you wish. He reorders what you want to do. We see this in verses 17 to 18. Paul is reminding us in verse 17 of the war between the old man and the new man, or the old life and the new life. There's a war between our flesh and the spirit. Look at verse 17. He says, For the flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary to one another, so that you do not do the things that you wish. He tells us that they aren't simply in conflict, as if some compromise could be reached, as if someone could fully embrace the desires of Christ and their natural sinful desires at the same time. The two are contrary to one another. They are completely contradictory. It's as if there are two trains, one is on the track heading in one direction, the other is in the complete opposite direction. I used to think of this as they're contradictory. They're coming in a head-on collision. It's not like that. They're completely opposite. Completely contrary. It's our flesh trying to pull us back into sin, which keeps us from doing the things that we now want to do, living in Christ. But if you are alive in Christ, united to him by his spirit, you no longer have to follow your flesh. You are free from bondage to sin. And the life you live is no longer yours, but Christ's. That's what Paul has just reminded the Galatians in chapter 2, verse 20. Christ lives in you. His love and grace to you is evident because he sends you his Spirit to live in you and to empower you so that you can have the life that Jesus wants you to have. He says, but if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Like a father lovingly leading his child by the hand, the Spirit is every day. By the grace of Christ, renewing you in your whole self after the image of God. Each day he enables you more and more to die unto sin and to live unto righteousness. You are no longer under the law. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. Romans 8:1. You can follow the Spirit and turn away from your sin. You can now devote yourself to it, and you can try your hardest. We know we don't do this because we think it saves us. We know we can't be sinless in this life. And our only hope to stand in the day of judgment is the righteousness of Christ that's put on us. But now, in this new life of grace, we can obey God. We can do good. We can follow the Spirit because Christ has saved us He has given us a new heart and a new life. And so Paul reminds us that the wondrous life Christ wants for his brothers and sisters is a holy life. One which does not fulfill the desires of the flesh. And he reminds us that it is a free life and able to do what we now desire, which is to please God, by following the Holy Spirit as he leads us. In our new life in Christ. And so we must do two things. We must sacrifice the old life of the flesh and walk in the new life led by the Spirit. And so Paul starts by showing us the old life of the flesh in verses nineteen and twenty-one We're told that the old life is filled with obvious and evident wickedness. Look at the first part of 19. Now the works of the flesh are evident. The badness of each of these things, Paul will go on to list, is obvious. Most of the things he mentions, even unbelievers would agree, are terrible things which no one should do. They're even more evident to us. Because God has revealed himself in a very special way to his people. He's revealed himself through his word, through the teaching and the law. And he's done this so that his people can know with certainty the difference between good and evil. And so Paul then lists 17 works of the flesh, which show that the old life is completely contrary to God's good order. The first thing we have to notice about the list is that it's not exhaustive. And Paul doesn't intend it to be. We know that because he ends the list in a very particular way. See what he says? He says, and the like. The next thing we should notice is that we should recognize that what he's listing there are violations of the Ten Commandments. They're violations of God's good moral order. It's easy for us to see this in the first four. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness, these all fall under the seventh commandment. Others could fall under different commandments, hatred, murder, outbursts of wrath. They could be understood under the sixth. Idolatry, sorcery, heresy, these Can be understood under the first and the second commandments, contentions, dissensions, drunkenness, and revelries, depending upon the specifics of how these things are worked out, they could fall under the third, fifth, eighth, or ninth. It's pretty obvious that envy and jealousies would be condemned under the tenth commandment. But what we want to see here, what Paul wants us to see, is that the old life, the old life of the flesh, is clearly and obviously and evidently contrary to God's good moral order. Paul finishes this section showing us that the old life is not part of the kingdom of God. Look at the rest of verse 21 there. He says, Of which I tell you beforehand, just as I also told you in time past, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. These things listed here and the like will not be present in the new heavens, in the new earth. We must not do these things. We must not even desire these things because they're not going to be there with us into eternity. These things, this flesh, has to be left behind. And so we see that the old life is obviously wicked because what it desires is contrary to God's good order. The works of the flesh do not have a place in the kingdom of God. And so, brothers and sisters, they do not have a place in the wondrous life that Christ wants for you. Paul then describes that wondrous life, the new life in the Spirit. And we see this in verses 22 through 26. He tells us that the new life is filled with the fruit of the Spirit. new and good qualities and desires which are brought about in us by the Spirit. By calling it fruit As opposed to works, he teaches us that these qualities, these new desires, this new life in the Spirit is not the result of our efforts, but it is the result of His marvelous grace. It is a work of God's Spirit, whereby convincing us of our sin and misery, enlightening our minds in the knowledge of Christ, and renewing our wills He does persuade and enable us to embrace Jesus Christ, freely offered to us in the gospel. Paul then gives us a list of this fruit. And I'd point out to you first that it's it's not an exhaustive list, just like the first list. But what he does include show us that the new life is a new way of living with both God and with man. So let's look at this fruit of the Spirit, and hopefully we'll see this together. We'll see a new way of living with God in the first three: love, joy, peace. These all have to do with how we relate to God. Is a life of love possible without God? Can we have joy in this life of suffering if it is not given to us by the Almighty God? Is there any peace that can be found except in the covenant, which is his promise, that we will be his people and he our God, that we will be forgiven of our sins and adopted into his household? And the rest of the fruit, we see a new way of living with our fellow man: long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. These all have to do with how we relate to others The Spirit gives us new desires in our relationships. We want to be patient. We now want to be kind. We now want to be gentle. And because of his work in us. We would rather control ourselves than control everyone else. And so Paul says: against such there is no law, which shows us that the new life is one of liberty. There are no restrictions on these new desires. There's no worry about being excessive here. Can you love too much? Can you have too much joy? Can you have too much peace? I ask you seriously, have you ever met somebody who was too long suffering? Do you think it's possible for you to have too much self-control? Paul shows us that the new life in the Spirit is a life of ultimate victory, and he does this in verses 24 and 25. He says, And those who are Christ's have crucified. The flesh with its passions and desires. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. In Christ, our flesh, our sinful passions and desires are nailed to the cross. It's already happened. Now I want to remind you the crucifixion was normally a very slow and agonizing death It sometimes took days for people who were crucified to die, but make no mistake, once a person was nailed to the cross, that person was surely going to die. And the same is true of your sin. It is crucified. It has been crucified. And it may be dying a slow death, but its death is sure. It cannot and will not survive. And I promise you, brothers and sisters, it's getting weaker by the second. And though in moments of weakness we may fail and succumb to temptation, the old man cannot hop down off the cross and enslave you again. Every second spent living and walking in the Spirit is one second closer to being made perfect in holiness. And since we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Spirit. The last thing that I want to point out here is what Paul teaches us. And he teaches us that the new life in the Spirit is a life of honest self-awareness. Look at verse 26. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. And the flesh will try to make even your walking in the spirit into something you become proud of. As I was preparing this sermon, I couldn't help but think about the screw tape letters by C. S. Lewis. If you're familiar with that, it's The screw tape, he's a devil, a demon, who works in the lower archy of hell. He's basically an actuary or a pencil pusher. And he's writing letters to his nephew Wormwood, who's a demon out in the fields trying to make people do terrible things. And what I kept remembering was the part when Wormwood has written to ScrewTape to let him know that he's failed. The patient has become a Christian. And I wonder if any of you remember what Screw Tape says to him. He starts telling him all the things he should have done. Do you remember this? He says, what you should have done is you you should have made him So proud of his Bible reading. So proud that he knew the Bible better than others. That's what you should have done, and then he wouldn't have become a Christian. Or he says things like, you should have made him take walks for exercise and physical fitness only, not so that he would enjoy the creation that God has given him. Or you should have made him read books just so that he could have more knowledge than the people around him, so he could argue his points effectively. Basically what he tells Wormwood is that you should have twisted those good Things away from pointing to God. At times your flesh may try to convince you that God isn't fair He's not fair because the people around you aren't struggling in the same way that you are. But walking in the Spirit enables us to rejoice. To rejoice at the love of Christ being shown to our brothers and sisters. We rejoice as he pulls them out of their slavery and darkness, sanctifying and blessing them in their repentance, even if it's a different way than he's doing it for us. Walking in the Spirit, we can trust God to work in each of His children according to His good pleasure and in His perfect timing. Brothers and sisters, to experience the wondrous life Christ wants for you, you must sacrifice your old life and desires And follow the Holy Spirit in the new life and the new desires He gives you. Now, I understand that sometimes we can look at a passage like this and we can we can become discouraged. That list of sinful desires, the works of the flesh, they hit pretty close to home, don't they? Even after years, decades even of striving to live a Christian life, There are still shadows of these desires and behaviors that haunt us. They haunt our minds and our hearts. Well, I want to encourage you that when you look at a list like that, don't end with just recognizing a little bit of yourself there. I want you to recognize the entirety of yourself there in that list. And don't stop. But remember the cross of Christ and what Paul has told you. But your flesh and those desires have been crucified. See each of those Written on the body of Christ, dying, a perfect and complete death. And you don't have the power to pull him off the cross. He hasn't given you the power to take those sins off and say, no, this one's not going to die. I'm going to cradle this one and love it. Momentarily you may have lapses, but you don't have the power to reverse the saving work of Jesus Christ. But encourage you, brothers and sisters, try to look at this list and others like it in the scriptures with a different perspective. Not as reminders of all the ways that you fail to live as Christians, but of all the terrible things From which you have been saved by Jesus Christ. Let them stand as reminders that you cannot save yourself. That you cannot even try to save yourself You will never be completely free of sin until the Lord calls you home to Himself, either through death or through his return. And so let these lists be reminders of all the things you need to be praying for, for yourself still, and for others We all need the Spirit to lead us out of these desires and these behaviors. Every Christian you know, every single one of them, struggles with something on this list. Every Christian you know struggles with and the like different sins that haven't been listed here But do you guys want to know something? I'll tell you a secret. Many of the Christians you know, perhaps most, struggle with everything on this list. Many of us find ourselves in every one of those sins and desires of the flesh So I ask you, do you hate anything in that list of the the works of the flesh? Is there any one of those that you hate? If you do, praise God. Because the only way that you can hate what is evil is if He has changed your heart and made you hate it Do you see yourself on that list? Then praise God. Because the only way that you can have a transformed conscience. And really honestly look at yourself and confess those sins is if He's given you the new heart. If He has convinced you that you are guilty and you need the atoning sacrifice of Christ. If you see yourself in this list, let it remind you of how far you've come, how far the Spirit has led you. And let it remind you of how much you need Him to never let you go. Or you'll fall off the path of righteousness right back into those behaviors again. You need him to hold on to you tightly. Because each of you probably know better than I, your flesh is not going to go without a fight. In a similar way, we can look at the fruit of the Spirit and we can be discouraged because we don't see enough of ourselves in it. But I'll ask you, brothers and sisters, do you want to? Do you want these spiritual desires, these new desires to dominate your life? Do you want it even a little bit of just one of those fruit of the Spirit? If you do praise God, He's given you a heart that wants what he wants, that loves what he loves, even just a little bit. Let them be a reminder to you of the glorious future that Christ is guaranteeing for you. Let it be to you another reminder of all the things that you need to be begging God for, begging Him to give to you and to others I'm sure you can look at the list like I do, and you can immediately have some Christians pop into your mind. I think of gentleness, and there's specific faces that pop into my brain. Some people I know who are more gentle than I could ever hope to be. Every one of us needs to be blessed to have these desires. We need God to bless us with the power to live in them and to walk in them. I also encourage you to look at the fruit of the Spirit very carefully and to glorify your Father in heaven by recognizing how He's brought forth this fruit in you. It may be small, but the mustard seed is small, and it becomes a large plant, which can even house birds. Even the tiniest bit of one of these fruits is evident of the Holy Spirit at work in you. Have you ever done something in love? Ever once done something selflessly because you love someone else? Isn't that Christ living and loving that person through you? Be encouraged. That should be a sign that Christ is working in you, that his spirit is living in you and leading you. I mean it. Really be honest with yourself. Can you not recall one single moment in which you exercised self-control? I'm sure you can. And so rejoice and praise God that He has given you even the seed of it. And he is going to bring it into full fruition as he sanctifies you. Remember that even the smallest one of these should be cause for rejoicing. It's a miracle. A body that's been dead for three days, if somebody found a heartbeat in it, even the slightest heartbeat, that'd be a miracle, wouldn't it? Brothers and sisters, rejoice with me, for our great God knows how weak we are. He knows that this spiritual war requires spiritual strength. How blessed we are to be able to partake of the spiritual food, of this spiritual feast. That we are able to partake of it in faith and with thanksgiving in our hearts. May it seal to you the wondrous new life and the spirit which Christ has purchased for you. And may it empower you to sacrifice your old life and your old desires as you follow the Holy Spirit in the new life and the new desires that He gives you. Gives to you. Please pray with me.