This morning. So if we'd like to turn there. And I'll be reading verses one through sixteen. Four one through sixteen I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you were called, with all lowliness and gentleness, with long-suffering, bearing with one another in love. Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called and one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all and in you all. But to each one of us, grace was given according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore, he says, when he ascended on high, he led captivity captive and gave gifts to men. Now, this he ascended, what does it mean, but that he also first descended into the lower parts of the earth? He who descended is also the one who ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. And he himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints, for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. That we should no longer be children tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the trickery of men and the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting, but speaking the truth in love. May grow up in all things into Him who is the Head, Christ, from whom the whole body, joined and knit together by whatever joint supplies, according to the effective working by which every part does its share causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love. Please pray with me. Father, these are your words of eternal life. They are eternal life worth living. outworking of the great calling. And we ask that you would seal our conversation, our life, our walk. To our hearts. I ask, Holy Spirit, that you would do your work, for you are the Spirit of unity and community. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen. We see that. Did you know that there are a com there are communities in Belize that have had no outside contact with the modern world? I mean none. The only contact that they've had is they've seen a airplane go overhead. They haven't had contact with people that wear clothes. They hear about such a thing. Uh they are still uh if you were to think of perhaps uh a a Mayan civilization or even before, and then all of a sudden just running into people that had no idea that there were cities and automobiles and indoor plumbing. That's what we have in Belize. Something happened to one of the tribes. I'm not even going to attempt to pronounce the name. But something happened to them. I think there were some some poaching loggers in the Belize and Rainforest. I think it's probably for uh making tires. And I think that what they ended up saying, this tribe that ended up coming out, uh is that they were attacked and many of their people were killed. And so they sought refuge elsewhere. Um there was an anthropologist and he was working with an another group of local people and they they found them. This tribe came out of the jungle and it was the it was caught on film the introduction of a people that had never been exposed to modern culture to people that were. And I can it was it's such a fascinating case study. Um number one, it was fascinating because all of my the enchantment of living off the land and getting back to nature was just a farce. I mean they were these people are um uh unfortunate are are vulgar and and very difficult and and barbarians. They're polygamists, they disrespect women all the time. number of things. They're not, it's not the noble savage. So we can get rid of the Thoreauan idea. And that was important for me. But the other thing was just to see how different the culture was. And then when they were being introduced to clothing and different methods of cooking, how much their culture changed. There was an identity shift. There was actually one caught on camera and he said, before I met modern culture, I was fine being naked, and now I'm ashamed. Now that's a major cultural shift. Now why am I telling you about you know Belizean tribes? Well, I think it ends up being a good analogy of the severity and the serious of what has happened to you if you have become a part of the family of God. It's as if you beforehand We're in a isolated place with your own individual culture, and then being introduced into the people of God is to be introduced Introduced to an entirely different culture. You could see the differences between the Belizeans and modern day the old Belizeans and the modern day Belizeans. Polygamy was no longer uh morally appropriate, the uh etc And we end up finding the same thing. One of the problems that we run into though within our country is that Christianity has been redefined to look more like just the American American dream. And you you start to see l less and less of a contrast between w Christianity and and America. And uh actually that's starting to change more and more. And I think you're starting to To catch that, that we're in a post-Christian society, and we're beginning to feel the difference between what does it mean to belong to God and to belong to the world. They are very, very different. Very, very different is what we're finding out. In this passage, we're going to see the outworking of one aspect of no longer belonging to the world, but belonging to God. to God, becoming his people. He is our God and we are his people. And it will be like we're um joining a new tribe, so to speak. That's why I give the analogy. So this is Ephesians 4, 1 through 16, and we're going to be looking at what does it mean to be the people of God in a very specific way, particularly community. Now, this is an intermission from the main series that I'm giving with Quorum Deo, Before the Face of God. We're looking at this because this is the bedrock or the basis, this passage, for one of the reasons why we have chosen to do small groups. And so I want to to get you to start thinking about this, see what Jesus thinks about uh what you're supposed to be doing as his as a member of his family. And we're going to look at this under the formation of the community, the helpers of the community. So it begins right off the bat in 4:1. I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you to walk worthy of the calling. So he's hearkening back to something that he's already spent a lot of time with in all the other chapters. There's a split right here at chapter 4-1. There's a huge shift. Chapters 1 through 3 is the first part of Ephesians. and then four following is the rest. The first part is telling you what God has done. The second thing is therefore now this is what your life is supposed to look like. This in order to remain consistent. And he mentions this idea of calling. If you were to go back into the different chapters, you would see, for instance, in two one, in my Bible it's just the page over, but you can tell Take a look here at 2-1. When he talks when he talks about calling, he's going to set this contrast in what you used to be, and then you're called out of it, and now you're something else. In other words, he's going to form a community, and when he does so, there's going to be a change in identity, is the very first thing that he's saying, and this is seen in our calling. Your communal identity is given by a supernatural re-identification. It ends up being the basis for why we would act the way that we would act. You see this in 2. 1. And you, look at the language that he uses, and you he made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins. in which you once walked, according to the course of this world, according to the Prince of the Power of the Air. And then if you skip down to verse 4, he says this contrast again, but God, who is rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. And he raised us up together. And he speaks in this resurrection language. We were once a part of this one tribe, and now we're a part of this different tribe, and becoming a part of the different tribe is your calling. God has called you out of the one tribe and into this next tribe. He even speaks about it in such drastic terms of re-identification and your understanding of yourself as that once you were dead and now you are alive. You don't get further apart on the spectrum. He'll also say if you take a look at 219, he uses other language to show you a spectrum. Look at 219. Now therefore, you are no longer strangers and far uh and um foreigners, but fellow citizens. Saints and members or with the saints and members of the household of God. And you can see the spectrum again. The change of identification from one tribe to the another has been so drastic that it goes from one spot side of the graph to the other side of the graft. In fact, if you were to look through Ephesians and you looked at just what are the names that are given to those who have left the old tribe and are now joining the tribe of God, they would be called holy ones. They're separate. They're called sons or daughters, as those who were never children before. They're called fellow citizens. They're now called member of the household. They are called fellow heirs. They're called new creations. And there's also you can see on the spectrum you used to be children of darkness, but now you are children of light. And he's saying you need to walk worthy of that calling. The change, the re-identification that has taken place. You used to belong to this, and now you belong to this. You can see the surprise, perhaps, uh uh initially, of seeing people like the Ephesians and people like us moving from one tribe to the next in Acts 10, 44 and following. And this is just where Cornelius receives the Holy Spirit, and Peter is very surprised to see that Gentiles were becoming members of the household of God that had never happened before in this capacity. And that's what we're talking about. We're going from darkness to light. We're going from not have not being sons and daughters to being sons and daughters through adoption, being strangers and foreigners to those who are now brought near through the blood of Jesus Christ. And this is your calling. The next thing that we end up seeing in the passage are helpers in order to help us in this new calling to community that we have. And you can see this in verse 7, especially, in 4 verse 7. But to each one of us grace was given according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore it He says, when he ascended on high, he led captivity captive. And then he goes on to talk about the inferences of if he ascended, then he must also have descended. The ascended Jesus sends his Spirit to raise up a diversity of helpers is what we see in the next part because it says in verse eleven, and he himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers for the equipping of the same. Saints. Does everybody see what the passage is saying there? You have a calling, is the first point that he makes, and you're to walk worthy of that calling. That calling means that you've been brought out of one place that was very far away And you've been brought now near to God, a miracle, a supernatural deed that was done for you. And now you're going to walk worthy, but you're not supposed to be doing it alone. Jesus who has ascended on high will send you helpers, it says. Well, if he ascended, then he had to be down first, right? You can't go up without coming going down. first. This is Paul's point. So it's the one who descended that also is the one who ascended. And when he did ascend, he sent gifts to men. Now we went through the Acts series. Can't you picture it? Don't you see Jesus ascending on high at the right hand of the Father? And then we see at Pentecost him sending out his Spirit and filling those in the upper room, and they begin to prophesy. And they begin to tell of the gospel and the fulfillment of Joel chapter 2. That's exactly what he's talking about here. He's speaking about when Jesus sent the Spirit and he began to do great works within specific individuals like Paul and Peter the apostles. He sent them to the church so that the gospel message would reach them and through the Holy Spirit he would start to gather in more people into his tribe. These are the helpers Jesus is ascended, so he must work through his church to bring his gospel. And that's what you see with apostles. You would also see that with the prophets. And you would see that with the evangelists like Timothy and Titus, they are called evangelists doing good work and organizing those churches and taking over from what Paul has established. And then we also see offices that continue today and roles that continue today, such as pastors and teachers, in that list. And you can end up seeing the goal that they would have, which is that they are to give up life and limb for the sure establishment of a particular church Look at the way in which these gifts are supposed to work amongst us in order to create and foster community. It says that Jesus gives us these gifts in 11 in order for us to be able to walk worthy of our calling and community. And in verse 12, he says the purpose for the equipping of the saints, for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Shall we all come to the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ? And then he starts to get into real particulars. That we should no longer be tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine by the trickery of men and the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting. What you end up having through the apostles and the prophets and the teachers and evangelists and the pastors is you have gifts from Jesus that are to bring good teaching to his people. So that they are not carried away in error and disaster. Now you can see that being carried through all of the church. Isn't it a miracle that the church still exists with all the enemies that have been against her? It's because Jesus Christ is faithful. It's not because we're so good. He's continually sending gifts to his people, raising them up to hold the gospel clear and true. So that the whole church could grow up into the maturity of Jesus Christ Himself. They established truth and conviction, you see, in verse 14. And this is also supposed to be an act of shepherding. In fact, the word pastor here has connotations of shepherding. He's not just a teacher But he is looking, as it says in 2 Timothy 3. 14, that when they receive the word, it would lead and they would be equipped to do every kind of good work. Those are the gifts that you have among you, people that are able to do those kinds of things in a little bit of a different way than others. The church is served through intelligent shepherding, you see in verse 16. The church is formed and made stable through Jesus Christ working through them as a means. And the and and uh helping the members serve each other is what the rest of the passage ends up unfolding for us. These verses end up making clear that living alone and trying to do these things on your own is contrary to what God has for you in His will. We end up getting this picture, if you end up watching modern-day movies or sometimes reading books, of a person going to a mountaintop in solitary confinement and finding him or herself. And that's where we receive spiritual enlightenment and we actually become who we were always meant to be. We reach our full potential when we can separate ourselves from other people. But here you end up seeing in this passage that you were meant to be helped by others, particularly those who Jesus Christ would send to hold you in truth and conviction and lead you to good works as a shepherd should do. Maturity and holiness and Christian progress is therefore by definition communal. That's the point that he's making here. He says, walk worthy of your calling And then he says, You can't do this alone, so Jesus has sent you gifts to be able to help you. You can see some of the things, some of the virtues that are present here in the passage. and for that we would need help with. If you go back to the passage at the top in verse two, it says, with all lowliness and gentleness, with long-suffering bearing with one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit. And then if you were to go to chapter 5 or chapter 6, you would see a bunch of virtues that he lists. And the one thing that is common amongst every single one of them is that you can't do them alone. They must happen in community They must happen in community, and people have been placed in community to help you with those specific things that you are to be doing. You have a difficult time with being lowly and gentle and long-suffering and bearing with one another in love. And so someone comes alongside of you, or so or someone delivers the word to you in Sunday school or in preaching or in visitation or whatever it might be. You can see how these gifts are given by Jesus Christ in order to keep you moving in that direction. But it's not just that list that we see there of apostles which have passed, or prophets which have passed. Or evangelists which have passed, or pastors or teachers which are still present. If you keep looking at the list, it involves everybody in the room. The entire community incorporated with each other. The whole body contributing. to itself by by um Christ's power. Take a look at some of these verses here. We should no longer be tossed to and fro and carried about by every wind of doctrine. Jesus has given us people to help help us with that, to develop convictions by the trickery of men. But we should be speaking the truth in love so that we can grow up into him who is the head, Christ. From whom the whole body joined and knit together, and here's the phrase, by what every joint supplies, by what every joint supplies. according to the effective working by which every part does its share causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love. You can see that every person is to be involved. Now, if you were to just do a Bible word study to see what helpers have been given to the community, you would see that there are certain teachers. There are pastors, but you would also see that everyone's involved. Everyone's involved. And I would encourage you, if you do a Bible word search online or something, type in one another. And just look at the one another passages. Everything that we are to be doing for one another. It involves the entire community, is what it would mean to walk according to the calling that we have received. This is what it means to belong to the tribe That we would walk worthy of the calling, and that we would do so by having helpers and helping one another in community. The next thing you end up seeing besides The formation of the community and the helpers of the community are the goals. And we already started to read that. But you see this picture in this passage. Of someone that used to be young and unsure of themselves growing up into a mature person who is Christ, being in God's image again And this comes through the whole body contributing to itself by Christ's power, growing into strong and mature communal person. This is not just speaking about you as growing as an individual. This is speaking about us all growing together into a strong community, helping one another as individuals, sure. In verse thirteen I'll point out, till we all come to the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, and each person is to contribute to that, and if they don't, then we become weak. You can see this in 1 Corinthians in the latter chapters, where the importance of each member contributing to the goal of growing up into Jesus Christ. I thought that I had um re-injured my knee that I had hurt skateboarding. And then I was just going to have my knee redone and then I'd be out front dunking on all the youth again in the basketball game Or trying to keep up with Matt Holland in soccer or whoever. Or showing Jeremy my stuff. He hasn't seen my my athletic skills yet. But come to find out when I went to the doctor, he diagnosed me with arthritis. And he said, I said, well what can I do about that? And he said, nothing. I said, great. That's great news. Well well what it well what ended up happening was because of the arthritis my knee would constantly click and it would be very painful or it would go out, it would feel like it. There's a lot of grinding and And I and I've been worried about it and I've been favoring my other leg. And my whole left leg has atrophied And it actually the left foot started to turn in a little bit because it was more comfortable for my knee, for the foot to be in. And that started to concern me. But it not nearly as bad as when my back started hurting And then I started to put on more weight because I couldn't run any longer. I didn't have the exercise programs. And then my psychology started to change. I I I had a dream one night that I was playing college lacrosse again and the and then I woke up and I thought, I'm never gonna run again. I'm never gonna be able to do that stuff. I thought about riding my skateboard with Jack. Can't ride my skateboard now And so something psychological started happening about feeling like an old man and depressed and I'm gonna be forty in March, so I don't know if this is a sign. But the point that I'm making though with this analogy, this is the exact same analogy that that Paul uses Am I becoming, through the arthritis and how I've chosen to work with it, am I becoming a strong man? I'm becoming weaker. Um and you end up seeing the weakness happening because everything ends up being connected. My back is hurting because I'm favoring one leg and muscles are changing and atrophying And the psychology is changing all because of what's happening in the knee, and I'm I'm gaining weight because I can't no longer exercise. Just this one little knee right here had that much importance in my life. It ended up affecting everything within the community of my body And that's the point that Paul is making here, is that the whole body is to be contributing to itself. Now we know that there are some people that are struggling. And you and they would receive help from the community, otherwise the whole community would suffer, is what Paul would say. It's the picture that the same picture that is happening with my body is the same And the goal is not for it to remain atrophied, but for us to come up with a creative solution that God would give us in his wisdom for people to be brought up strong again. And should no longer be tossed back and forth by all the different teachings of the world promising them everything. But we would remind them. Sometimes we'd shake them and we'd say, that's not the truth. That's not the truth. You're not a failure. You're not a disappointment. Whatever it is that we would have to say to people to strengthen them again. What I had to do with my knee is I could no longer run and I could no longer skateboard, but I can ride a bike. And now I ride the bike on the trail and all the strength in my leg is starting to come back and my gait is coming back and I sometimes feel like just running. But I'm not going to, because it'll hurt. But I'll ride my bike and it's doing the trick. It's bringing everything back. And that's a good picture too of what's intended by this passage is that we would be that to other people strengthening them. Strengthening them. Everyone, whether you're an officer or you're not an officer, all the same commands apply. We have the formation of a community. We've been called out of one tribe by this supernatural event that I can't really get into because it's so huge. It's the whole first section of Ephesians. You've been called into the people of God. You've been formed into a community. You didn't choose this like a membership to the Elks Lodge. This was chosen by you by God for you. And when you become a part of this community, you become helped by certain individuals. And really, you end up being a helper yourself Because the whole community is supposed to chip in in the same way that the foot or the knee or the hand or the elbow or the head would chip in for the body to have life and to grow up and to be strong and mature and have convictions This passage teaches the formation, the helpers, and the goals of community. Now I want to close with bringing it into the framework with of what I think is bigger go ha happening on a much larger scale here. And that is that this term calling not only leads us to these conclusions that we see here in this past But calling should also remind you of the vocation that you have within all of your life. Now some of you have been going through a Sunday school last quarter on vocation, but let me just remind you as we end In Psalm 104, I'd encourage you, if you've ever done this, check out Psalm 104. It begins in the mountains with a stream going down into the valley, and everything ends up being watered. The cattle, therefore, now have grass, and trees grow, so birds can be in there. And the lion is now going out into the field to be able to hunt. And it says that God provides for everyone. Says that God provides for everyone, but what I keep pointing out is that Jesus is not down in the valley with a pair of overalls on feeding the cattle. He's working through means in order to accomplish his purposes. Now that's not only true for grass and trees and birds and lions, it is also true with human beings. That's the great biblical teaching on vocation, our callings, that God has called us to be his people, and now he will work through us to accomplish his purposes. in this world. You can see it very quickly in Romans chapter 12 and 13, how he works through the government to establish justice. That's what he that they're his ministers for vengeance. To punish those, but it goes into every single vocation. Every vocation ends up being sacred. All of our vocations A lot of the times we only end up focusing on the ones that we're paid to do as our vocation. If I said, what's your job? You would most likely tell me the one that you get paid for, if you get paid for. But when we look at the biblical vocation, it ends up being much broader than that. It includes that money to bring home for bread. But many other things which then would also include the function that God has given to you in the church. Now here is an observation. Maybe you're like me. Tell me if you're like me. I have had trouble transitioning. I'm looking at this doctrine that's being taught here in Ephesians about my role in community, being attached to God's eternal plans. And I understand the idea of vocation, but I'm having a difficult time transitioning. In other words, I would pour myself out in my day work. Do you pour yourself out in your day work? You pour yourself out. And then for you men, you're really good at going home and doing the yard work. Right? I'm not saying that women can't do yard work, don't be silly. And I'm sorta doing yard work. I'm kind of keeping up with the property. But then there's also this vocation called family, and they kind of get the leftovers. Now that's me. I don't list church here because I work at the church. So it ends up getting a lot of my time. But it let me ask you if that is the same way that you are struggling. Perhaps you are struggling with Not vocation in general, but a sp giving a specific vocation enough time. God has given you so much work to be able to do, so much work to do in your calling. In Ephesians, walking worthy of your calling, if you were to keep flipping through the book, you'd find that the calling includes your marriage and your family and your work. But here he's focused on your contribution to the church. Which can end up just getting the leftovers. And I don't mean being here at the church building. I really don't need you at the church building. I'm talking about you contributing, sharing your space and your time with other people so that you can fulfill your calling and walk worthy of it, and we can be a strong person because we take our vocation seriously. All of our vocations growing up into Jesus Christ. So that's the question. What about your vocation as a church member? What about your calling and walking worthy of it in this passage, which is being a member of this body and providing strength? And this is where the small groups end up coming in. Small groups, if you were to anybody ever find the word small groups or community groups or fellowship groups in the Bible? It's not in there. You can look in your concordance all you want. The word's not there. You're not going to find it. There's going to be no demand or command that you would be able to or that you should attend small groups. But this is what we have found as leadership Is that everything else that it says, this is a great opportunity for us to use small groups or fellowship groups or community groups to accomplish these purposes? This is what I'm saying. I, on somewhat of a regular basis, when I speak to people, they say I'm surrounded by people, but I feel lonely. I feel like I'm trying to do life on my own. I feel like things are superficial. I mean, how deep could we get into narthex? And so all we're trying to do through this is to fulfill being able to walk more worthy of our calling by offering small groups to the congregation. Let me end with just five things. We're offering fellowships or community groups as a place to commune with the Trinity. We are offering small groups or community groups as a place for deeper friendship, as we would see in these passages. in Ephesians, fulfilling what the church is meant to be. We're offering community and fellowship groups as a place to contribute and exercise your spiritual gifts. And as a place to receive truth yourself, and a place to grow in maturity by gaining opportunities to serve deeply. And I'm going to add one. Because this is something that I had been talking about for a while, and we still haven't done it exactly as we've been meant to. But what about bringing the gospel to those who do not know Jesus Christ? That is what our hope is for the small group, also is that since it will be in a community, it will be a more inviting door for people to come and to learn about Christianity and about Jesus Christ in the context of hospitality. And not shooting them like a slingshot right into the middle of a strange worship service. Strange to them because they're right in the world. Allowing them to transition over dinner and a snack and conversation. These are our hopes. It's just to be able to walk worthy of the gospel, to walk worthy of the calling that has been given to us. And it's my prayer that people would begin to say, you know what? I feel like I have friends. I feel like I'm talking about significant things. I feel like I'm talking about deep things again. I once was lonely, and now I have friends. That's what we're looking for. And we're looking for everyone to be able to contribute to this vision that Paul has laid down. Please pray with me.