Chapter ten and we are looking at verses twenty four through thirty six. And I y you know how I like to do this, but I'm changing the title uh to We Are God's People. I think that's good enough. We are God's people. Beginning in verse twenty four. And the following day they entered Caesarea. Now Cornelius was waiting for them, and he called together his relatives and close friends. As Peter Was coming in, Cornelius met him and fell down at his feet and worshipped him. But Peter lifted him up, saying, Stand up. I myself am also a man. And as he talked with him, he went in and found many who had come together. Then he said to them, You know how unlawful it is for a Jewish man to keep company with or to go to one of another nation. But God has shown me that I should not call any man common or unclean. Therefore I came without objection as soon as I was sent for. I asked then, for what reason have you sent for me? So Cornelius said, Four days ago I was fasting until this hour, and at the ninth hour I prayed in my house, and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing and said, Cornelius, Your prayer has been heard, and your alms, or charitable giving, are remembered in the sight of God. Send therefore to Joppa and call Simon here, whose name surname is Peter He is lodging in the house of Simon, a tanner, by the sea. When he comes he will speak to you. So I sent to you immediately, and you have done well to come. Now, therefore, we are all present before God to hear all the things commanded you by God. Then Peter opened his mouth and said, In truth, I perceive that God shows no partiality, but in every nation whoever fears him and works righteousness is accepted by him The word which God sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace through Jesus Christ, he is Lord of all. Let us pray. Christ, you are so good to give us your word. We are a people that live In a place that can get pretty dry and dusty. And your word is water to us that wells up to everlasting life. We pray that you would give us the ability to drink deeply, that it would hydrate our whole lives. In the name of Christ. Amen. I still feel greatly blessed by all of Holy Week, starting with Palm Sunday and moving forward. And I feel blessed because I know that it was the Lord Himself who was with us. And he continues to be with us today. You'll notice that I read verses 24 through 36, but I really picked up in mid-story, and I'm expecting that you're somewhat aware of the story that preceded. When we left off before Holy Week, we left Simon with a tanner in Joffa. That's a seaside town. He had just raised by the power of Christ Tabbitha from the dead. And Christ did so out of compassion for Tabitha's community, if you remember. She helped the widows and others in the in the uh town, and so is a great example of how Christ compassionately raises even us from the dead of our sins, that we might help those who are around us. We live for the other. Well Christ's work is continuing. Peter is not able to stay there in Simon the Tanner's house. And if you want to today, reread the whole story. I'm just going to give you the wavetops. While Peter was at Simon the Tanner's house, he went to the rooftop to pray. I believe it was the six hour, which would have made it lunchtime. And that's why we would see, if you were to look in this same chapter in verse 10, that Peter becomes hungry. I don't have time to get into it, but it's actually kind of humorous. It makes me think that Jesus has a great sense of humor. Because while Peter is hungry, Jesus lowers down on a sheet all types of food. Now, it is the kind of food that Peter would say, I can't eat these things. They are unclean. And you can see that as a part of the study. Or as a part of the passage. From a heaven, from heaven a large sheet comes down, and on it is livestock and birds. These were considered unclean animals in verse 12. And then a voice says to Peter, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. But Peter refuses. And that should remind you of Peter Do you remember uh how many times has Peter done this? Lord, you'll never wash my feet And here we are again. This is the way that Peter has to learn. He refuses, but then a voice rebukes Peter, which is often the case. And the Son of God says, What God has cleansed, you must not call unclean or common. Now, for a while, Peter, honestly, if you study the text closely, Peter is scratching his head. He does not know what this means. It at least means that Christ wants Peter to let the three men into his home that bang on his door. There are three times that the sheets come down, the sheet comes down or the sale comes down, and then there's three men that show up, and he's trying to make these connections as to what is God doing in this vision. And you can see that in verse 23. It also meant that Christ wanted Peter to go to Caesarea to Cornelius' house. And all of this is quite odd. Peter would not normally do this. But he's parsing out as things unfold, what does this vision mean? Well, Peter had a lot of time to meditate on his trip to Caesarea. And he eventually arrives, by the grace of God, to an understanding of what Christ is seeking to communicate to him. And you can see his understanding come to fruition in verse 28. God has shown me that I should not call any man common or unclean. You see how he's connecting the vision to what has happened, and that he is now in a Gentile's home. That's Acts 10, 28. But Peter doesn't stop there. He has made further connections. He knows the scriptures and he understands this particular situation, therefore, in accordance with the scriptures. You will see a quite a developed actual theology in verses 34 and 35. Then Peter opened his mouth. Now, this is to signal that this is very important It would be like Cicero beginning his speech. Or more importantly, it's very similar to how Jesus began the mount, the Sermon on the Mount. And then Jesus opened his mouth and said, It is to signal to you that he has something very important to say. And we can see that whatever he has to say is the accumulation of the experience understood in light of the scriptures. He's giving you a summary and a conclusion of what he has realized, what the Lord Himself has taught him. And he says, This: In truth, I perceive that God shows no partiality. But in every nation, whoever fears him and works righteousness is accepted by him Now, this is just right there in front of you in the scriptures in verse 34 and 35. I'm just reading it word for word. And Luke does this on purpose because it's a summary of what the early church needed to learn about what God is doing in the world. And it is very important for us to understand it. So we're going to need to clarify the meaning a little bit, just be because when I read verses 34 and 35, I do know that you have some sense of what he's saying You have some experience of what he's saying. You've already heard it in this service, and you heard it in the confession. But this is a pretty deep truth. So let's clarify just a little bit more and see how Peter came to understand this according to the Scriptures. If you were on your own time to turn to Acts chapter 15, verses 7 through 9. You will see that Peter and Paul are trying to convince the leaders in Jerusalem as to what God is doing with the Gentiles. And Peter will specifically bring up this example. Now it looms in the background. Paul's only going to bring up the miracles that Christ did. doing amongst the Gentiles, but Peter is going to give a pretty full-fledged argument there in Acts chapter 15. It's like a Presbytery meeting. And each person is coming forward to give their argument. Peter comes first, then Paul, and then James stands. In chapter 15, verse 13, and following, and he explains this the most robustly. He gives a thick explanation of what's happening here with Cornelius And James quotes Amos 9, according to the Septuagint or the Greek translation of the scriptures. All the words of the prophets agree. Says James, mankind will seek the Lord, even all the Gentiles. And that is how they explain this. That God is working in the Gentiles in such a way that they are starting to stream to him in seeking him out. Now no man of himself seeks God. No, no one. But when God works in a person, he can call them to seek him Now there is another prophet, remember it says all the prophets agree. There is another prophet, and he's referring mostly to the minor prophets. Zechariah. Now, Zachariah, we talk to him about him a lot in terms of the Holy Week service. And Zechariah gives us a lovely picture of what is happening here with Cornelius so that you can understand this in a thick way. He says this, Zechariah chapter 8, verse 23. Thus says the Lord of hosts, in those days ten men from every language of the nations. Shall grasp the sleeve of a Jewish man, saying, Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you. You see what's happening? With that explanation, with the explanation of Peter and James in Acts 15, then you can see that what is happening here with Cornelius and how they themselves understood it. is that God is calling the nations, that they are, in a sense, grabbing Peter's sleeve and yanking him into Caesarea and literally saying to him, Tell us what God commanded you to say to us. That's literally what that passage says. Cornelius has sent men to Joppa to grab Peter by the sleeve and drag him to Cornelius' house so that Peter can fill the Great Commission. Verse 33. Peter acknowledges in verses thirty-four and thirty-five all of this. He's pulling it all together that God is gathering in all the nations. He is making them his people, and here it is, on an equal level with the Jewish saint. There is no distinction between Jew and Greek in terms Of their engrafting and becoming Christians. And so here is our truth this morning. Christ has grafted us Gentiles into his body, the church. With all of the saints going all the way back to Adam in the garden, we too have become the bride of Christ. Now what it what is left for us to do now you have you heard that before? I mean that's a pretty regular truth. Maybe you maybe it's the first time. It's a marvelous truth. Please don't let uh familiarity breed contempt. This is a marvelous truth. But when we start to look at the way that Peter is looking at this, that we are joining them on an equal ranking. That we too have become saints, you know what ends up happening, which is really going to drive our instruction today, is that we have just, by way of the grace of God, inherited a tremendous responsibility. A tremendous responsibility. If you truly recognize what God has done, that you have become the saints, that you are God's people Then you will also realize that you have a tremendous responsibility to God and to this world. And you will also, I think, have a little bit of fear So, what I would like to do is just talk on those two points in relationship to this truth. Christ has grafted us Gentiles into his body, the church With all the saints of old going all the way back to Adam in the garden, we too have become the bride of Christ. This is leads us to a responsibility that we have, that we've inherited, a legacy to continue. And I want to address some of the fears that Come along with that. So responsibility and fear. So let's start with responsibility together this morning. Since God has made us his bride, We have the responsibility to carry forward the legacy of the apostles. None of us are apostles. I think the Pope is the Antichrist. That's not what I'm saying. Please don't be offended by that. Just talk to me afterwards if you didn't like what I said. When God was drawing Cornelius and his household into the kingdom of God, The angel sent Cornelius to Peter. He did this because Peter was commissioned by God to disciple the nations, teaching them to obey all that the Lord has commanded him. And now that job through many generations has landed on your lap. That is the kind of responsibility that you have. We are the inheritors of the Great Commission. When God is drawing people out of darkness to Himself in the light, God will lead them to guess who? His church. That is what is happening. It will not surprise me if you are eating lunch at Lores And you are interrupted because Christ sends somebody to you to hear about the gospel, to try to put it in terms of what happened to Peter. Peter just wanted to eat some lunch. That's all he wanted. But Christ had other plans. Now this whole vision of this this thing that we are inheriting, this great responsibility, it reminds me of the scene in a movie called The Finest Hour, not sure if you've seen it. It is about the courage of a few men in the Coast Guard. They go offshore at night in a winter storm in the northeast. It's basically a death wish. What makes it even more of a death wish is the boat it looked to me like maybe it was 25 or 30 feet Maybe. What they need to do is get out of the harbor, past the bar, which is going to be difficult enough because it has become low tide. And there's a storm off the coast that is so strong that it has split a tanker in half. Well, long story short, because I'm not here to give a movie review, they save the crew. But in the process, they lose all of their navigation equipment to be able to return. They therefore are in low gear, they put it in low gear, they're keeping the wind on their right because they went out with it on their left, and they're following the currents that they've known since they were boys back to the harbor. Their hope is to eventually see the lights on the shoreline. But here is the problem. The storm has wiped out all of the electricity in the town. So, eventually, one of the townsfolk realized this, and they came up with a plan To park all of their cars facing out toward the ocean along the coastline, and they all turned on their high beams. And it worked. Out in the cold and the dark, those men who are seeking to return home and harbor, they see the light and they steer right into safety. And this is a picture for us to remember what our responsibility is to this world. Those in the world are wandering in the cold darkness with no compass. Have you noticed? But here is the truth, as Peter has told us, God will lead some of them into the light. That's what Zechariah tells us. All the prophets agree. It is our job to always be parked along the coast with our high beams on. God will bring them to our light, and we, by His grace, will bring them in safely to the harbor of the church. We will not leave them out there in the cold. That is not what it looks like to make disciples of Christ. We will lead them in that they can be surrounded by community by way of our high beings. In other words, to put it in the words of Christ, we are the light and the salt of the world. That's what those things mean. It's the same vision. Now, if we want to step out of the metaphor for a minute and ask, well, what you know, what do you mean, the high beams? What are the high beams? It is essentially that we are a witness to the whole world, specifically our area. And we, with a bright light going out into the world, are essentially saying, Hey, we know who God is We are his children. We are the bride of God. We know what he's doing in the world. Are you confused? We know how to have peace with God. We know how to live according to the designs of our Creator. And he gives us the power to do it. Hey! And since God has grafted us Gentiles in with all the Jewish saints, We every single day have the responsibility to carry forward this legacy and to keep people from trying to cover our headlights. Because that will happen. And if it becomes bad enough, you know what we do when a person decides that they want to cover our headlights or they want to be there parked with us but their headlights aren't on, the car gets towed That's what happens because you can see, I'm not being cruel, but there is a lot at stake here. It is bigger than an individual. This is about the salvation of the nations. And so that is a question that we have for us. Are our high beams on? Are your high beams on? Are you taking the time to learn how to explain who God is and what he requires of us? If you'll notice in the passage, which we'll get to when I return from vacation, you'll see Peter opens his mouth and he says quite a bit. Is that how you would explain what God is doing? It may mean that we need a little work on being able to explain to this world that they would be able to understand if God lets them. Are you showing the world how to be a man? Are you showing the world how to be a true woman Are you showing the world what it means to be a small business owner or a parent or a widowed man or woman or a student? Are you showing them how to live before God and what God requires of us? May God establish us in every good word and work. As we take up the legacy of the Great Commission. Now that is our responsibility. What do you think? It's exciting, right? It's also a little scary. And I think that's good. I'm not going to try to talk the adrenaline out of you. I think you should have a little bit of adrenaline. I think you should be ready to go. But I don't think that we should live in fear And don't think we should live in fear. We need to have a good, healthy respect for what God has given to us that keeps us on our knees. But we should not live in paralyzing fear. And that's our second point. When our responsibility becomes clear, many people develop fear in the face of this I know that some of you think you cannot be light, you cannot be salt, because you think that's not my gift. And you've reduced everything down to thinking that you have to be some picture of an evangelist standing in the center of Wall Chapel doing open-air preaching while people flock to you. And at this point, I would like to take away that picture of what it looks like to be a light to the world because it's an old model that just needs to go into the recycling bin. I'm fine with open-air preaching, but not with the fear that accompanies it. Let me give you a different model of how we as a church need to be approaching this And I want it to be the model that Peter gives us here, or Luke rather, relaying to us what happens to Peter. Peter is praying. That's good. That should be a part of our model. We should pray. That should alleviate some of the fears, realizing that God is in charge and He's here to help us, really to do everything. And then Peter gets hungry Three men knock on his door, they grab his sleeve, according to Zechariah, and they drag him to a room full of people who want to hear about what God is doing through Jesus Christ. That's the model. That's it, right there. We all need to calm down and recognize that God has got this. He is the one that calls people. He is the one that starts the work, and he's the one that's going to finish the work. You're not as important as you think. But he does allow us by his grace to participate in his work with him, and we get to just show up We don't go out there and make people Christians through our methods and amazing arguments. Here's what we do: we pay attention, like Peter did, to who was pulling on our sleeve. Now, I am tempted to start a ministry all my own and call it the Pulling the Sleeve Ministry. Pulling-a-sleeve evangelism. It's going to be hot. You're gonna want to be a part of this. Pulling the sleeve explosion. No, okay. I'm not getting any fans Okay. We pay attention to who God has pulling on our sleeve. That's the basic idea. That's the model. Now I want to give you an example, and this is an example of many, many, many, many times. Okay, I'm just going to give you one example. This is how it pretty much always happens in my life, and I'd be interested to hear about your life Back in the day, I was working with a young man who at the time was rejecting Christ and the whole church. And he took off across the country. After a while, he wanted to return and visit for various reasons. And this time, upon his return, he brought home a non-Christian girlfriend, the whole reason he went out there to begin with. Holly and I invited them over and we invited some others over also to try to have a you know a little get together so it wouldn't be awkward We welcomed him back into town, and he decided that he wanted to hang out in the backyard with the other guests. And I expected all of them to go out there, but his girlfriend didn't. She stayed inside. She kept staring at me. I'm not attractive, so that's not it. So she wanted to go sit down in the living room. So I sat on one side of the living room, Holly sat on the other side, and she sat directly across from us. I thought we were going to strike up some kind of You know, just civil conversation. What are the first words out of our mouth? All the way from across the country. Can you tell me about Jesus Christ? I'm telling you right now. That is basically how it went down. Now did she know that she was pulling on my sleeve? She didn't know. She's just there Did she know what God was doing and what God would do? No. She was just in the moment. But Holly and I knew it. We knew that, I mean, it was, I don't know what you'd call it, but my sleeve is ripped off. At this point. Holly and I knew because we know By God's grace, that we are members of the church, and therefore we are always on the lookout for those whom God will cause to pull on our sleeves. We invited them over, which was a version of having your high beams on. And there it was. All the way across the country. And she is doing very well. Very strong Christian. And this same thing happens over and over again. I don't know another model to be able to explain the way that this happens. Because we are not smart enough. We are not eloquent enough to draw people into the kingdom. You think you can talk people out of their sinful nature? That's not going to happen. It's God who brings them to us, and we have to pay attention to who he has pulling on our sleeves. Our job is not to drag people into the kingdom. That is impossible. Your job is always to ask a single question over and over and over again, which I ask wherever I am and I see another person, what is God doing with this person? Why are they here? Why are they talking to me? Why are they looking at me? Why did I accidentally rear-end them? Whatever it is, what is God doing? And then I wait to see if there's a sleeve tug. Now this happened actually a couple of months ago. I'm terrible with time. It could have been a week ago. Maybe it was a couple months ago And I could see that God was working in one of my children the other day. I brought them up to the prayer meeting and a member of this church, Saul That there was a sleeve being pulled, and they ministered to the person in my family with the scriptures. That's exactly how it happens every time. When she came to prayer meeting, The one who helped me me and my family, she did not know that this was going to happen. But she was attentive enough to know that God was working, and so she did her work That's always how it happens, or at least regularly. Do you have people grabbing your garment That's a good question. Do you have people grabbing your garment? Does God have people grabbing your garment? What do you think? Could you tell me some stories afterwards that maybe so, I don't know, the verdict's still out, but maybe so. You know what? I feel a couple pools I wonder if you if some of you say no I don't have anybody pulling on my sleeve. I wonder if you do, but you're overlooking some of the most important examples. Let me give you a couple overlooked sleeve poolers. Mom, why do we have to confess our sins in the church? That's a sleep pull They usually make it easy for grandmothers. Grandmother, why is there evil in the world? That's a sleepful. This is one of my favorites. It was asked me when I was younger in my fatherhood. Dad, did Jesus really use the bathroom just like us? And that is a sleepful because it's an excellent opportunity to speak about the full humanity and divinity of Jesus Christ. And here is my favorite of all. And I bet you a lot of you are getting your sleeves pulled on this one. Whether you're a mom or you're a dad or you're a member at this church or you're a grandmother or whatever it is, here is a major one. Do you think I could take the Lord's Supper someday? Now that's a sleep pull. We often overlook the little children that are among us. But as Christ says, keep not the children from me. The truth is that Christ has grafted us Gentiles into his body, the church. And I don't care how many times you have heard that, it should never get old. And I think you can begin to see that when you realize that it is not just some abstract statement, but it is a declaration of responsibility. With all the saints of old going all the way back to Adam in the garden, we too have become the bride of Christ. And remember the words of Christ, to whom much is given, much is required. God has given us the responsibility to be his salt and to be his light. To keep our high beams on. And our responsibility should not create fear, but an attentiveness to who is pulling on our sleeve. Who has God sent to us that they may be gathered into the church to be cleansed and to be put into his service? Let us keep our eyes open. And here's another thing that I can't talk about. I have about 50 more pages I could add to this. But here's another one that we need to keep our eyes open for. Who has Christ already brought into his church who is still pulling on our sleeve because they don't know how to live for Christ yet? We have to pay attention to them too. Here's the bottom line. You are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood A holy nation, his own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light Amen. Let us pray.