Chapter twenty four, verses fourteen and fifteen. It's also printed in your bulletin. Now therefore, fear the Lord, serve him in sincerity and in truth. And put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the river and in Egypt. Serve the Lord. And if it seems evil to you to serve the Lord, choose for yourself this day whom you will serve. Whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the river, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Let us pray. Lord God, give us ears to hear your word, and do not let it be ineffective. And I ask you to please protect Severn Run from anything unworthy of you. In Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. G. K. Chesterton once said that fable is more historical than fact. Because fact tells us about one man, and fable tells us about a million men. I'm going to tell you a story. And this is a story that is true. It is factual. But it also tells us about a million men. It tells us about the children of Israel, and it tells us about ourselves today. So once upon a time there was a city. It was a small city, and it had a big wall around it. And the people were secure. They knew they were protected by this wall. But when then one day they heard news, and this was not good news at all. This was the news that they heard. A God named Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, was on the move in the land of Canaan. The Hebrew nation was on the other side of the Jordan River. But word spread that the Hebrew God Jehovah had given this land, their land, to his people. The king of Jericho heard of this unwelcomed army and resolved to do whatever it took. To stop this God Jehovah. He heard that they had sent spies into his city, and he was prepared to turn the city inside out. to hunt down and kill these Israelites. He was not going to give up without a fight. The king of Jericho feared Israel's military might. And so he was preparing to meet their military might. But he was afraid of the wrong thing. The people of the city also heard this news, and their hearts melted from solid to liquid. Their pride and their courage in their great city turned into a puddle. This was not good news for this city. And everybody knew it, and they shook in their sandals. From what they had heard, Jehovah was not like their gods. This was a city of heathens. They did not know the God that had created them. They did not know his word. They did not know his commandments. They were God's enemies and they knew it. They wanted to kill God's people. But in the city of Hedens. There lived a prostitute, the lowest of the low, the sinner of sinners. Now, if there's anybody hardened against God, surely it would be her. If there's anybody in the city not worth saving, surely it would be her. But somehow For reasons that God only knows. And I mean that, God only knows. When this prostitute heard of this new kingdom that was coming, Her heart didn't melt. It leapt. When everybody else heard bad news, she heard good news, gospel news. There is a new kingdom coming. And Rahab wanted more than anything to be part of it. Joshua, the leader of the Hebrews, sent out spies to the city of Jericho, and they, by God's providence ended up lodging in Rahab's inn. But the city was on alert. They were looking for spies, and word soon got to the king. that the sp spies had gotten into the city and they were staying at Rahab's inn. So the king sent his men to arrest them. And when the troops reached Rahab's door, she had to decide where her allegiance lay. Is it a good thing or a bad thing to betray your country? Is it a good thing or a bad thing to sell out your neighbors to people who want to kill them? To people who want to burn down your city and destroy your neighborhood We tend to think of hospitality as whose turn it is to bring donuts to Sunday school. But God has a much richer, deeper, and a much more dangerous definition of hospitality. Rahab was called to be hospitable to God's servants. This is divine irony. We could say that Rahab was in the hospitality business, but it was in a corrupt and home-wrecking kind of way. Her expertise in the hospitality industry is exactly the opposite of what God was calling her to do. And citizenship in God's kingdom required Rahab to make a radical allegiance decision. Her hospitality was treason. So she betrayed her king, her country, and her neighbors. Why did she do this? She did it because she had a new king. She responded to the gospel news that God's kingdom was coming. Rahab turned away from her heritage. and away from her culture, and God blessed her and saved her from death. Not just death is the destruction of her city, but he blessed her with eternal life. And right now that's all in her future. Right now, Rahab is thinking of this new kingdom and of her family. Rahab intercedes on her family's behalf, and God listens to her, and they are also saved. She knew what was happening. And by her hospitality and by her lies, which is a sermon for another time, she was making a statement. She was saying, as for me and as for my household, we will serve the Lord. The people of Jericho and the surrounding lands all packed inside the walls and hoped and prayed to their useless gods that their technology The great big walls of Jericho would save them. They thought that maybe something they built could stand against Jehovah. And when they did that, they drew a line in the sand, with God on one side and them on the other. They did not do what Rahab did. They could have opened their city to God. They could have turned to God. But they drew that line between them and God. And the wrath of God fell upon Jericho. And every man, woman, and child and animal was slaughtered by the commandment of the Lord. This is a hard teaching. And is one worth pondering. If you set your household against the Lord You set yourself up for death. Just as Rahab's family was saved by her allegiance. Everyone else's was destroyed by their allegiance. So the king of Jericho stood against God. He used counterintelligence methods. trying to catch spies. He used technology, his big bad wall. He was afraid of the military might of the Israelites. Again, he was afraid of the wrong thing. Joshua is just filled with irony. How was the king's counterintelligence forces defeated? They were defeated by a woman who heard the gospel. How are his walls torn down? It was not by siege weapons. But it was the triumphant yell of joy in something that hadn't even happened yet. It was by faith alone That they fell flat down, and the children of Israel ran up, and that was the end of the king. Almost. The king is remembered Not by name. We don't know his name, but he is remembered. When Israel goes up later on in Joshua against the king of Ai, God says, Do to Ai and its king what you did to Jericho. And its king. And when scripture tells us what happened to the king of Macada, it says Joshua did to him what he had done to the king of Jericho. So while the king of Jericho's name is forgotten, his position is not. His title is used by Scripture as a byword. What happens if you stand against Jehovah? The same thing that happened to the king of Jericho. That's what happened to the citizens of the kingdom of Jericho, and that's what happened to their king. But what happened to Rahab? When the book of Joshua is written, it said she still lived with Israel. She had a new king, and a new home, and a new neighborhood. She's remembered and honored for her faith, and by her faith, her action. Her head, her heart, and her hands all aligned in faith. The author of the book of Hebrews tells us that Rahab the harlot was saved from destruction by fate. And James tells us that by Rahab's actions, we can see proof that she was declared just in God's sight. So she did not live in Israel as an outsider, but she ended up marrying Salmon, a descendant of Judah, and they had a son named Boaz, who followed the family tradition Of marrying godly women when he married Ruth. And from this line came King David And from this line came Joseph, who married another extraordinary woman, Mary, the mother of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. In this historic record, we see that God fulfills all of his promises. His salvation and justice, and not one thing has failed. In this story, this true story, we see that citizenship in God's kingdom requires a radical allegiance decision. And that's the main point of this sermon Citizenship in God's kingdom requires a radical allegiance decision. And we see this truth pointed all through the book of Joshua. Later on, when Joshua sets up memorial stones, we see God's people deliberately setting up a reminder of what God has done so that they and we never forget. When God's people are right outside the enemy's door, they find out that that's when God wants them circumcised. Now that may be a sub-optimal time for elective surgery, could they submit to circumcision? Because it is not by their strength that Jericho will fall. It is by obedience to God That is their salvation, and obedience to God is their wall. There's a man named Aiken who's there The son of someone who came out of Egypt, the son of someone who saw the Red Sea parted. He was there, he was circumcised. By Joshua. He was there when the wall fell. And in the commotion of the battle that followed, he scooped up a rather dapper cloak. and some silver and some gold. And he made a decision. God had said to burn all the cloaks. And to take the silver and gold and put it into the church's treasury. But Achan hid them in his home. And no one except for Achon and God knew about it. So Aiken made it clear where his allegiance lay. As for me and my household, Aiken said, we will serve Aiken. And bad, bad things happened because of it. When Joshua then renewed the covenant with Israel, he read the whole book of the law. Which at that time was all of Genesis, all of Exodus, all of Leviticus, all of New Numbers, and all of Deuteronomy. Joshua hadn't been written yet, so you didn't read that Now why would he do this? Why would he sit there and read through their entire scriptures? Because God's people must know God's word in order to know God. We know God through his word. We God's people must know what God wants and what he doesn't want. And we also need to know what his promises are. And that way we can shout with joy as they're being fulfilled. Later in the book of Joshua, when the five kings aligned themselves against those under God's protection, what happened? God stopped the sun in his track for a whole day to allow for the slaughter of those who would dare set themselves against God's kingdom. And Joshua, with these stories and so many other stories, we read page after page of God fulfilling his promises. He secures an inheritance for his people. And who can help but being overwhelmed with joy reading through what Joshua wrote, knowing that this is a God who does good things for his children. He fulfills his promises. It is our job to remember the promises and see them being fulfilled and remember what he has done. And to look forward to the good things that he has promised us, so that, like Joshua, we can be strong and courageous in our allegiance to his kingdom. At the end of Joshua's life, he called everyone together. And he starts to explain everything that happened in his life in terms of who God is and what God is doing. And I just think that's a wonderful way to wrap up a life. If if God would be so merciful to allow me to die of old age, surrounded by kids and grandkids and maybe great grandkids, and be able to look back at my life and say, this is what God did, and then God promised this and then God did this. What an amazing blessing that would be. So Joshua gathers everybody together, and he reminds them in this final sermon. He reminds the people what they have seen God do to the nations of the world that stood against them. God drove them out. Why did God drive them out? He did it for his people. God has done all these, God has done to all these nations because of you, for the Lord your God is he who has fought for you. God provided his children with an inheritance. Joshua is encouraging. Not encouraging like, don't worry, be happy. Everything's gonna be fine. Joshua's not a Hallmark card kind of guy. Joshua put the courage in encouragement. Real encouragement. The kind of encouragement that I need and that you need. Courage to do what? This surprised me. When Joshua is talking about courage, he wasn't talking about the courage to go into battle. Rather, he was talking about the courage to do all that the book of the law commanded. It takes courage to do what God says to do. It takes courage not to get pulled into the nations of the world and their teachings and their delights. It takes courage to refuse to bow down before what the world holds up. Is it hard to do what God says to do? No, it's not hard. It's only hard if you're a coward. So be courageous. And the next time we feel like it's hard to do what God says, pray for courage. Joshua also said not to let anything or anyone into your home that would pull you away. We're building a kingdom here, a new kind of kingdom. Joshua said that introducing something from the outside Like a spouse, would be adding thorns that stick in our eyes. So Joshua, in addition to being a brilliant tactician, a brave leader, and a godly man, was also able to turn a very vivid and disturbing phrase, I don't want thorns in my eyes. Joshua said that everything the Lord has promised has come to pass. Not one word failed. And Joshua reminds the congregation that the Lord can bring blessings. He can also destroy them because the Lord keeps his word. When we read Joshua's sermon, it's great stuff. And you can imagine the men and the women and the children sitting there Spread out before him, hanging on to his every word, nodding as they remember what he's talking about. Because they saw it happen. But how does any of this apply to us? Does Joshua have anything to say to you and me tonight? So let's look at what Joshua said and see if it applies to us. Let's look at what he points to. Let's stop and consider our roots. Where do you come from? If you know anything about your family history, You probably know something bad. There's something in your heritage that does not belong in the new kingdom that God is establishing right now. If you look at your lineage. Maybe it was several generations back. Maybe it was last week. But all of us come from roots that worship a false God. Maybe like Achan, it was a god of gold and silver. Maybe like the king of Jericho, it was salvation through technology. Maybe like Abraham's father, it was demons. But no matter who you are, you come from tainted stock. But If you are someone who has made allegiance to the king of heaven and earth, then you aren't trapped where your forefathers were. Somewhere along the way, God brought you out. Maybe this is to your parents, great grandparents, maybe you're a first generation in the kingdom. But the important part is this. You're not who you were supposed to be because God brought you out. And as surely as God brought Israel out of Egypt and into the promised land, God brought us out and we can't ever forget it. We live in a new state, in a new kingdom, and in a kingdom that is here and still being built. A kingdom that is built on the foundation of the law and the prophets, with Christ as our cornerstone. We live in a church made up of people claimed by Christ, captured from the enemy, like Rahab, and repurposed or redeemed for his kingdom And this is the great plot twist in scripture. This is all for our good. This is breathtaking. The rich community of saints is not something that we built, but something that the Lord prepared for us. So do you love Jesus? God saved you from destruction. God saved you from his wrath. He pulled you out of the city that he set aside for destruction and put you in a new kingdom. So then how can we respond? What should we do? Joshua tells us exactly what to do. Just like Bradley's sermon this morning. Joshua lays out a series of arguments based on history with a very strong set of conclusions. This first conclusion is, therefore, fear the Lord. Now if you've been in churches for a while, a lot has been said in Christendom about the fear of the Lord. And a lot of it I found is trying to soften what fear of the Lord means. To make it more palatable. But Rahab knew what it meant to fear the Lord. She knew his wrath was coming. And she knew that her household would not survive unless she changed who her king was. To her, the wrath of God was good news. On the other hand, Achan did not fear the Lord. He allied his household against the law of God. Maybe he told himself that God is gracious, which is true, so he didn't need to be afraid, which is false. Do not be like Achan. God is gracious. Therefore we fear him. But that's not where we end. Fear of God is where we start. We fear God, therefore, we serve God in sincerity. So like hospitality and like encouraging, sincerity is another word that's been kind of watered down. What does it mean to be sincere? Sincerity means completely. It means soundly. No part of our life is left out. If we hold anything back, a little bit of treasure we stole, it means we aren't sincere So we take every thought captive. We pray every moment. We check every action we take. Does it serve God? If not, don't do it. It isn't sound, it isn't solid, it isn't sincere. Joshua goes on to say, therefore, put away the family gods. All of us have temptations. Unique temptations in our life because of where we came from, how we were raised. These are our family gods. Put them away. An example could be maybe you had a mother who was prone to bitterness. Or maybe you had a father who self-medicated with alcohol. Or maybe you come from a family in a culture whose pride is the identity of their skin color or their ethnicity. Or maybe it's their academic achievements. Or maybe you come from a culture whose or family whose pride is their lack of academic achievements. We can find pride anywhere. We can boast in anything, but that is a household god we need to put away. Maybe you come from a family that just delights in gossip and tearing other people down. Or a family that's so overcome with busyness that we don't have time to be still and know that He is God. Maybe you come from a family that wears the Christian jersey like a sports team because you were born in a Christian area. And Christ is not your king. It's just kind of in the background. These are all household gods. But we fear God. Therefore, Joshua says to serve God in truth. Our service must be firm and reliable. In our service to God, we take the battle to the heathen. It's not enough to have safe homes and safe little churches and hope we aren't going to be attacked. We are at war. Just like everybody since the Garden, we are at war We are called to serve God in truth by tearing down the idols of culture where we live. Outside the church and not way too often inside the church, there are idols, and our job is to expose them and defeat them Matthew 16 says, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overcome it. The gates are not attacking us, we are attacking the gates. They will not prevail, and that is the good news. We're not called to encircle Jericho and slaughter the inhabitants like Joshua was. So what are we called to do? We are called by God to fight against false hope. The culture, the surrounding nations. Those who are allied spiritually with the King of Jericho have false hope. And we are to proclaim the real hope. We are to offer salvation to the Rahabs, just like salvation was offered to us when we were against King Jesus. The name Joshua means Savior of His people. The Greek spelling of Joshua is the same as Jesus And it is not a coincidence that Jesus was named after Joshua. Joshua gave his people victory in part. Jesus gives us victory in full. The book of Joshua all points, all of its stories towards this, forming the kingdom, defining citizenship. And isn't that what all of Scripture points towards? So Joshua asks us a question, is serving God evil to you? Then don't do it. Because serving the Lord is either good and very good, or it's evil and very evil. There is no middle ground. So choose deliberately. Do not live an unexamined life. Make a decision and then follow that decision all of the time. Revelation 2. 11 says, He who is unjust, let him be unjust still. He who is filthy, let him be filthy still. He who is righteous, let him be righteous still. He who is holy, let him be holy still. And so Joshua challenges us, which one will you be? Pick one. Know who you are. In all of these warnings, there's a hope. God says, to forsake your family gods, that means that we can. God says not to get tangled up in the cultures of the world. And that means we don't have to. Rahab saved her father and her mother and her brothers and her sisters, and that means we serve a God who saves families. We need to make a decision for our households. We need to decide if we're going to ally ourselves with the kingdom. of the king of creation over the king of Jericho, and there is no middle ground. So you and I need to make a decision. And I'll tell you my decision. As for me and my household, we will serve the Lord. Let us pray. Oh Lord God, Joshua can be a difficult book to read. We read of your servant Rahab and we think his mercy endures forever. But then we turn the page and we read of the destruction of your enemies. And the white, hot, burning goodness of your holiness. And sometimes we pull back. Horrified at just how good you are and what it means to be good. Lord God, use this tension to propel us closer to you. Let us be like Rahab, who did not treasure what she had, but treasured what you offered. Let us see Jesus leading the shout for joy, as all the walls that stand against you fall down. And let us find no security in the walls of Jericho. But only in you, the one and only mighty fortress. In Christ's name alone we pray. Amen.