Command those who are rich in this present age not to be haughty, nor to trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God. who gives us richly all things to enjoy. Let them do good, that they may be rich in good works, ready to give, willing to share, storing up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come that they may lay hold on eternal life. Amen. Let us pray. O Lord, may we not just be hearers, but Doers of your word, and may you accomplish this through your Spirit. We ask these things in your name, Christ. Amen. You may be seated. While we are uh officially We've completed our Advent series with Isaiah and John and then we had the privilege uh last Sunday of sitting under the preaching of of Arch. I was telling uh Holly uh a week ago, just after the sermon, I wish I could sit under Arch's preaching every Sunday. That would just be Excellent, but I cannot do that because of my vocation. But it says a lot of what I think of his preaching, and I'm thankful that he's that he comes and still preaches with us to us. So we're done the Advent and we had the blessing of hearing from Arch, and now we return back to 1 Timothy. It is from this letter that we've been gaining a picture of what it in part looks like to be a healthy church. And boy, have we hit on a lot of different topics with regard to that What we're going to do this morning is we're going to add to that picture, and we're going to begin with just noticing a few things about these couple of verses that are in front of us. 17 through 19. Here's the first thing that I want you to notice is that throughout this letter, you know this already, Paul tells Titus Certain commands or instructions that he needs to give to a different people that are in the congregation For example, I wonder if you can just remember some of the commands that Timothy's supposed to give to this church in Ephesus. He's supposed to instruct and give commands to men. He's supposed to instruct and give commands to women. He's supposed to instruct and give commands to men that want To become elders or men that want to become deacons. He's supposed to command and give instruction to the younger men and how they're supposed to talk and treat the older men and the older women He's supposed to command the older women and how they're supposed to guide along, uh like mothers, the the younger women He is supposed to command and help children and grandchildren know how they're supposed to treat their moms and their grandmothers or their mother-in-laws once they become widows. There's uh all of these different kinds of people. And here, you find in this passage that he wants to, besides all of those, and I haven't even listed all of them He also wants Timothy to command and give instruction to those who are wealthy, those who have some money in their pocket, perhaps those who have no need of work in this particular culture. But it's those who have riches beyond necessity. That's the first thing I want you to notice right there in verse 17, is that he is to command those who are rich in the present age. Now, the instruction begins, the command begins with uh two way two things that uh we're to avoid with riches and then the instruction will continue with two positive visions for wealth. So what are the things that should be avoided? You can see it right there within our our passage. First, if you have wealth, if you have riches that are beyond necessity, then you need to avoid becoming arrogant. You need to avoid becoming conceited. You need to avoid, he uses the word here in the NKJV that you need to be careful that you don't become haughty, thinking that wealth puts you at a different social tier and status and significance and importance than those who have less money than you. That would be we we uh were reminded by Joe that money is the root of all kinds of evils. Well one evil that can happen is that people It can be like money can be like a gust of wind that just puffs up your pride. And I'm sure that you've been around people that have their nose in the air because of how much money they have in their wallet or the kind of car that they have. And Timothy is to command the rich to avoid that pitfall. But the second thing is that you are to Avoid placing your trust and your hopes in riches. Now there's a lot of teaching in scriptures on this. It's mostly on the temporary or the transitoriness of riches. It looks like you could put your foot on it, but before you know it, all your money is gone, and what you put your hope in was uncertain. It was like the wind. It came in one day and it left the next day. And plenty of people have experiences like that. James talks about this in terms of how one day it's the most uh uh those who are wealthy and have wealth are the most beautiful flower in the field But we know when the sun rises, he's quoting Isaiah, that that flower gets burned up and goes the way of all grass. It's just a mist. And it's it's so uncertain, wealth is so uncertain that you should not be putting your hope in it And that's the second pitfall that he wants Timothy to command the church at Ephesus. But then he moves on to a positive social vision for what we are to do with our wealth. The first thing he says here is that instead of trusting or hoping in money or wealth or property or resources, however you want to think about that, that you should put your trust in the living God. who in fact gives richly for our enjoyment. Now I want you to notice here that that's the alternative. That you don't put your hope in money, you put your hope in or riches, you put the God who blesses richly. There's a little bit of a pla there's a play of words going on here. Notice in verse 17, command those who are rich. Not to put their trust in uncertain riches, but in the God who gives richly That you might be rich in good works, ready to give, willing to share, and then storing up as a kind of richly compiling or piling up for yourselves a foundation uh in the future laying hold of eternal life. And that first part of that rich theme, that play on words here, is that you are to trust in the living God who gives richly for our enjoyment. Not just out of necessity, but for your enjoyment. And then second, that Timothy is to command them that they themselves should give richly sharing what they have. So that's the second thing I wanted you to notice. The first is this is a command that he's supposed to give the congregation. The second is the content of the commands are first negative and then positive, and I've gone over those with you. And then thirdly, I want you to notice this. That Paul incites the wealthy to store up wealth for the life to come by taking his command seriously. And what he does here is he evokes with this language of building a foundation, he's evoking the teaching from Jesus on wealth. You see here where he says, store up for yourselves a good foundation for the time to come. This is very similar, though phrased differently, to Jesus' teaching: do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth Where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. And then as one who's running a race, as we saw in verse 12 in an earlier sermon They are to do this, that they would lay hold of that finish line, which is eternal life. So you can see this passage is just a couple verses, and it's clearly on one theme, and that's on riches. And so we have another takeaway or doctrine for us this morning as a church, and it is this: a healthy church puts wealth or riches in its proper place. A healthy church puts riches in their proper place Now, I want to look at this under two parts. A healthy church puts riches in their proper place. I want to look at this under breadcrumbs and basis. Two B's. Two Bs this morning Bread crumbs and bases. As we saw in the observations, wealth or riches, if they become misplaced, they can be used to fuel your pride They can be used to fuel your conceit. They can be used to fuel your sense of superiority, all in unhealthy ways. If they are misplaced, they can also become a source of hope This morning, however, I want to focus on the positive, and to begin to do so, instead of those negative commands, I want to focus on the positive commands on what is the right place for our wealth, not what is the wrong place And I want to do so by following first the breadcrumbs of Paul's thought. Now you know why I use breadcrumbs? It's from that old I'm just saying let's follow Paul's full line of thought here and go back and review the letter a little bit. You'll notice in our passage, particularly in verse 18, take a look down at your scriptures. In verse 18, it says, to the rich, to the wealthy, let them do good. And this idea of good works shows up again. Let them do good that they may be rich in good works. Well, this idea of doing good and good works, boy, are there a lot of breadcrumbs throughout 1 Timothy on that theme. Earlier we witnessed that women are to dress in good works, especially in how they conduct themselves in worship. That was from chapter 2, verse 10. If a man desires to be an elder, then he desires a good work. Chapter 3 verse 1 If children and grandchildren take care of the widow and their families, or widows and their families, then they are doing good works, it says. A widow is only a true widow if her life is well reported for good works, among good works such as housing the stranger, washing the feet of the saints. caring for the afflicted, and making the household of faith strong, generally speaking. That's chapter 5, verse 4. And now what we have in front of us with doing good and good works, we add to this picture the good and the good works which the rich must do. And so I hope what you can see here, just with just those little bit of breadcrumbs that have been scattered on the trail of Paul's thoughts from the beginning, what we have on our hands here Is another example of Paul showing the church at Ephesus what it really looks like to live out the Christian faith. What does it really look like to manifest the new life that has been given to us by the Spirit of Jesus Christ? What does it look like to begin our eternal life in this age as we wait for the age to come? Like a good minister, Paul helps us locate our callings and our vocations in our ordinary lives and what we do with our wallets and our pocketbooks. No matter what age, the church always has these same kinds of questions, don't we? As women, you ask, now that I am a woman of Christ, how should I love my God and my neighbor in the different spaces of my life As men, we ask, now that I am filled with the Spirit of Christ, how should I bring good into this world? And those whom God has given resources like a house or money or food and clothing which go beyond present necessity, that's how I'm going to define wealth, by the way. are those things which go beyond necessity. I want you to think about this culture and how little they had compared to every single person sitting in this room, even if you're pretty young. And so this definition works quite well. If you have resources that go beyond present necessity, Then there is a kind of wealth that you have that they do not have, or that they did not have, though there were among them some who did have it, just like we do. And he calls them to living a consistent Christian life full of the Spirit, even in the way that we use those resources. That just as the children and the grandchildren were called to good works with the new widow, just as men were called to good works In terms of how they would lead a congregation as an elder, just as women were called to good works in leading the younger women, So too, if you have resources beyond the day's necessity, you are being called to good works and a good for the total community. according to the breadcrumbs of the Apostle Paul. Those whom God has given resources like a house, money, Food and clothing which go beyond present necessity should ask a question in the remainder of their life. And it is this What is the place of my riches now that I am a servant of Jesus Christ? And we know the answer because it is super clear. He says right here in this passage that you know if you really want to be rich. Do you remember this theme of uh real or authentic versus fake that runs through this letter? If you really want to be a real elder, If you really want to be a real widow, this is a theme that runs through the whole thing, and now he's doing it again with those who have riches. If you really want to be rich, then you will be one who gives of their resources and shares, especially with the household of faith. What he's calling us to here, what we see accumulating here when we gather up the the thoughts of Paul, which we've Called breadcrumbs is a kind of compensatory living, which we've mentioned before from the pulpit. That if you want to know what your vocation is and what your money is supposed to be doing, then you need to keep your feet grounded right here in front of you with the people that are next to you. The family that you're a part of, the co-workers that you see each day, that that is our ordinary calling That we are to be doing good and bringing good, particularly in how we give and how we share in the things that God has given to us. This is what it means to have a robust, faithful witness and new life in Jesus Christ as those who are Americans who have tons of wealth. Now those are the breadcrumbs. So what I've done now is I've just situated your riches in line with what Christ is doing in his salvation, especially as he prepares you to perform all kinds of good works that he He planned beforehand in his name. So those are the breadcrumbs. Now I want to go to the basis. I not only want you to notice the breadcrumbs that we can learn from here and just following Paul's thought, but the basis for Paul's thought. on us giving and sharing. Giving and sharing is not something that is isolated to just Christians. Sometimes I actually find that non-Christians give and share more than Christians can give So that's an interesting thought. But what we do find here within these scriptures is that the basis for why the Christian would give is different than any any other reason why people would give for why they give or why they share. I want you to think about that for a moment. Why are you motivated to give? What inspires you to share your resources? Well, I bet you there's a lot of different things. But Paul ends up focusing in on two bases for why we should give and why we should share. And I hope that you can take this into your prayer life and that you can talk to one another about these things And really get to the heart of the matter in your own personal life. The first basis that I want you to see for sharing and giving Is that we are renewed by the Holy Spirit to be like our Father in heaven. Now, what is our Father like? It says right here in the scriptures that God is the one who gives richly for our enjoyment. You end up having a picture here of God the Father who loves to give things. Not just because they're of necessity for you and it's just going to meet your most basic needs. I mean, is your life full of God just handing you boiled potatoes and you don't get anything better? He fills our lives with colors and taste. The way that the scriptures end up communicating this is that he does not just give you the grape, but he gives you wine. That is a highly produced and manufactured item brought to the apex of the particular group by way of human culture under the providence of God for the ultimate enjoyment and merriment of mankind. It ends up being the ultimate example of the kind of God that you have, that He loves to give to you because He loves for you to be able to enjoy the things that He gives you in your life And the argument that I'm giving you here, the very first basis for why you would give or why you would share, is because you are being created or recreated by the Holy Spirit to be just like your Father who is in heaven. You love to share and to give because you love to see people around you enjoying the things of life. That is the first basis. The first basis for sharing and giving is that we are renewed by the Holy Spirit to be like our Father in heaven, and our Father gives richly. Specifically says that in this passage. Now let me put it this way. Does everybody know what Providence is? I'm seeing a quarter of us not. Basically, providence is God preserving and governing all of his creation. Now you can see this all over the scriptures. God preserving and governing all of his creation. You can see this in all the tiny details within the scriptures. In the creation account, for example, that's how we're supposed to read it, as God walking along, so to speak, casting out seeds as a farmer We see God taking chaos and ordering it into habitable spaces where all of the creatures of the air can enjoy themselves. Where the creatures of the sea can enjoy themselves. Anybody seen dolphins playing? That's beyond necessity. Or on the land, we can flourish. We end up seeing uh large uh paintings of this, so to speak, within Psalm 104, for example. a famous depiction of it. The birds and the lions and the storks and even humanity are thriving. And why are they thriving? Because there's this picture of all of these blessings coming down from the heavenly mountain watering the whole valleys that the grass may grow and then the cattle may eat the grass and then the lions eat the cattle And eventually it makes its way to the vineyard where the grape may grow and man may make wine that his heart would be glad And this ends up being a picture in Psalm 104 of this. This is the conclusion that Psalm 104 draws. And if you know this by heart, I encourage you to just you can uh mouth it with me. These all wait for you. That you may give them their food in due season. What you give them they gather in. You open your hand, and they are filled with good. You see that good word showing back up again? Do you see how all of a sudden the basis is connected to the breadcrumbs? And do you see that the way in which we connected the basis to the breadcrumbs is by way of what Jesus Christ is doing in recreating us in the image of the Father. This is a picture of Psalm 104, 27, and 28 as the Father giving good things and filling every living thing with blessing. And this is your calling too. This is one of the bases. The creation account tells us also that we, we could put it this way if you want to, with a lowercase p, that we are also in our Father's image providential beings. All of you are familiar with this kind of thought under the category of dominion. I've heard many of you speak about the acts of dominion that we are to undertake. That we have dominion as God's vice regents ensuring the preservation and the order of his creatures. And now he's giving you a fuller picture of what that is supposed to look like as you have resources and wealth That you would act just like the Father, who is the capital P providential one, and we in his image, lowercase P, may also exercise a kind of secondary providence under his sovereignty. And of course, after the fall, we brought chaos. But now that we have the Spirit, now that we all speak the same language after Pentecost, we can begin to bring order again. Because of the Spirit's work within us. We are recreated in righteousness that we may be sons and daughters of the Father. I want you to hear this. Because this is another way I'm really repeating myself over and over again here. Here's Ephesians chapter 5 verse 1. You might want to put this on your refrigerator. It's with scotch tape if magnets don't work. Therefore, be what is the conclusion of the of the work that Christ is doing through his Holy Spirit? Paul says this to the same church, Ephesians 5. 1, therefore be imitators of God as his dear children. This is where all this is headed, even in the realm of dominion and providence, particularly with our resources In short, as recreated in God's image, we bring or we give richly, just like God gives richly. We open our hand, and the people around us are blessed. The picture that we are meant to have. For the Christian community is not this. It is not a tight-fisted group of people who do not share their wealth, but rather an intelligent and wise group of people of people who open their hands at just the right time, that those around them, those whom God has providentially put in your life, may be richly blessed and you may act in And that's the first basis. The first basis for you giving or sharing and not being tight-fisted, but opening up the fist is because you are being recreated by the Holy Spirit in the image of the Father who richly blesses. Now there's another basis here for sharing and giving. And it is this. We give and we share out of a sense of gratitude because God gave and shared with us. And this is really where it begins to flow from the heart and our emotivations, emotions or emotivations. It is out of the sense of gratitude we have from receiving gifts from our Father who is in heaven. That we are now open to being cheerful givers. Now, I say that But those words are not enough. To be a cheerful giver requires a great deal of wisdom, which is given by the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit using tons of experience. within our own lives. This is not something that comes easy. But I want to s I want to talk about it anyway, and I pray that the Lord would make all of us have a sense of gratitude. But that does not come naturally. That's a super natural act. And our gratitude grows as our life grows in the Lord. This is a great wisdom This is a great wisdom and very difficult within our culture. There's a lot to talk about here. It is a great wisdom to realize that all of the good that you have That all of the enjoyment that you have is from God. That requires a tremendous amount of wisdom for that to be a reality to you. All that you have and all that you enjoy is not deserved. It cannot be taken for granted, and that can be hard for us to get our heads around Let me put it this way and and really challenge you. Even if you work hard for everything that you have, and I know that you do, I'm looking I'm literally looking around here and I'm looking at a bunch of hardworking people. But that even being the case, the reality, when you get down to the bottom, when you go all the way through to the ultimate reality, the reality is that is the Lord Who has established the work of your hands? You could have worked all day long and come up with nothing if he wanted it to be that way. But the fact that you have gotten enjoyment and not curse, that you've tasted the sweetness of the vine and not poison. Is because of him. It goes all the way back. Now, does he recognize your hard work? Of course, he does. But I'm talking about your wisdom and recognizing the basis One of the bases is for this to this gratitude to flow out of your heart, and this gratitude is not going to flow out of your heart if you do not acknowledge That God is the giver of all good gifts and really believe that. That even though you have sawdust all through your hair because you've been doing carpentry 24-7 You still must have gratitude to God because of what He has given to you. That at bottom you know that it is because of Him that you have anything, even though you have drywall mud. in your hair. Those are just some examples. I'm actually reminded of examples like small dust and drywall mud. Because a long time ago, working with a young man from Guatemala who received his first paycheck after working tirelessly for a company Uh looked at his paycheck and the first thing he said that he was just so thankful to God to have one He did not write a poem about his how amazing he was. He did not write a poem about the strength of humanity and how we will overcome all challenges on our own. He had a kind of wisdom where he recognized, even with the calluses on his hands holding that check, that he must be grateful to God for what he has received. I know to some in this world that makes no sense. That you look at the work that you've done and you give yourself credit. That would be like something Oprah would encourage you to do. But I'm telling you here that biblical wisdom and the basis, if you really want to find this second basis and have gratitude, then this is where it must begin. This kind of reality. When we take our place before God and we are always the beneficiaries, then the natural response for those who have the Spirit is overflowing gratitude. Now, every once in a while I resurrect a a favorite passage of mine to get this gratitude idea across. And so I hope that I I don't bore you with this. If I do, you actually have the problem because I'm quoting Scripture. So it's it's Luke chapter seven, forty-three through forty-seven. It's always uh such a lovely passage to get this idea across, though it's this is a little different. And I'll explain in just a second. So listen to this. This is Luke 7, 43 through 47. And I'm giving you this as an illustration of someone who has the wisdom of gratitude, someone who really sees the world And they're placing it relative to God correctly, which is a rare thing. Jesus says this I suppose the uh he says, and he said to them, You have judged rightly. Then he turned to the woman and said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered your house. You gave me no water for my feet, but she washed my feet with her tears and wiped them with the hair of her head. You gave me no kiss, but this woman has not ceased to kiss my feet since the time I came in here. You did not anoint my head with oil, but this woman has anointed my feet with fragrant oil And therefore I say to you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven. For she loved much. But to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little. Now I know you've heard me quote that before, but do you see how that principle would apply here? Do you see the difference between Simon in that moment and the Pharisees and the Sadducees and that woman in that moment and its connection when we talk about gratitude and the overflow of being grateful for something? Now, this is an example of her being grateful of the great forgiveness that she shall receive from Jesus Christ. And we're talking about a gift of a different kind, being grateful for the other kinds of riches that He also pours out on us. That he does not just give us freedom and liberty from sin, but he also gives you everything that you have. And the principle therefore still stands that those who can see the reality of how much God gives them Those who see the reality of how much God actually gives them are full of thankfulness and gratitude, just like this woman. But those who can't see it have little gratitude. They have little gratitude. And so the question becomes, so what Well, we can keep comparing this to the thoughts on forgiveness. And this is the next step that I want you to take here with this gratitude basis. As the Lord teaches in his discourse on prayer, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Do you see the connection? Knowing the grace of forgiveness, really knowing the grace of forgiveness, it being sealed to our hearts and our minds. We ourselves are now able to extend forgiveness to others. We can actually forgive the unimaginable And in the same way, knowing the generosity of our God, we ourselves are now able to give generously. These are the same kind of ratios that we see with forgiveness. We see the same thing with riches Knowing the grace of forgiveness, we ourselves extend forgiveness to others, and knowing the generosity of our God, we ourselves give to generously. It is the natural or supernatural overflow of the recognition of the reality of God as the giver. And it is the second basis for why we would give and share. If we follow Paul's line of thought and the breadcrumbs, then we notice that in Christ Jesus we are created for good works. This even includes the good work of giving and sharing among each other, and even in our civil capacities. Why? Why would we give and share? Because we are to imitate our Father, and because it is the proper expression of our gratitude for the gifts that we have received from Him. So let me ask you, brothers and sisters at Severn Run, how is your relationship with your money? Do you use it for status? Do you place your hope in it? How is it going? There's a different line of questioning. How's it going, folks, as a new creation in Jesus Christ? Are you imitating your Father who is in heaven? Do you take the time to be thankful? Did you know that staying grace before a meal is not just some arbitrary tradition passed down from Idiots? I don't know. It's an exercise of thankfulness. Are you taking time to be thankful? How do you express your thankfulness towards your neighbor? And have you become really rich by giving richly? It is true, we read earlier in this letter that money can be the root of all kinds of evil. But according to this passage, it doesn't have to be that way for Christians. As those filled with the Spirit, we may live new lives, even financially. As healthy people and as a healthy church, by the power of the Spirit, we may now put wealth in its proper place Amen. Let us pray.