Well, good evening, everyone. See you all. Let's open our time together with a word of prayer. Please join me. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for gathering us here this evening. Lord, this is a day that you've set aside that we can remember you as our creator and as our redeemer, that we might orient and locate our lives as you intend. Pray Lord that as you reveal yourself, we, your people, would respond in praise. And we ask, Lord, for your blessing on our time of prayer. Pray, Lord, that you would guide us in the prayers that we lift up to you and that you would make them effectual. That even our prayers would give us a sense of agency. And we ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm 149. Praise the Lord, sing to the Lord a new song, and his praise in the assembly of saints. Let's start this evening by singing together, let us love and sing and wonder. Let us all that sing and wonder Let us praise our Savior say He has touched the law of wonder He has best felt the He has brought us night to God. Let us talk our Lords, give He's when we call us by His grace and hard us, give us ear than He has washed us with his cause, he presents our soul to God. Let us sing for fierce temptation, friends and hard to bear us now for the Lord our strong salvation, holding you the heart. Convert Brown, he who walks us with his blood, soon will bring us home to God. Let the wonder, grace, and justice join and point to mercy store When through grace in Christ our justice, just want to And ask no more he who wants us with his blood and make your way to God Let us praise enjoy the Lord of us and thrown on high. Here they trusted before us. Now they're praised. You are worthy Lamb. Let's now consider the portion that will lead us into the confession of sin. It's Matthew 7, 1 through 5. Judge not that you be not judged, for with judgment you judge, you will be judged, and with the measure you use, it will be measured back to you. And why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye, but do not consider the plank in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, let me remove the speck from your eye, and look, a plank is in your own eye? Hypocrite, first remove the plank from your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. Amen. You may be seated. Please join me in a time of confession. Oh Christ, we thank you not only for this saying on judgment, but for your whole what is known as the Sermon on the Mount. We thank you that you have come as our prophet and our priest and our king, and that especially in that sermon you have straightened out what others have twisted. Lord, we can still twist. We can twist how we evaluate those around us, how we judge those around us. Lord, we know from considering your whole canon and the fact that you do not contradict yourself, that you're not eliminating judgment as a good thing here. But a judgment that has no sense of proportionality, and a judgment that is hypocritical. O Lord Christ, we confess to you both sins. Lord, our lack of proportion happens when we judge and we are cruel, when we take salt and we rub it in the wound Or Lord, our sense of proportion is off when we see someone destroying and enable them to continue. you to destroy. We don't stand up and protect from harm as we should. Both, Lord, is a sign that we don't know how to act. Or how to judge or evaluate in each situation. We also, Lord, apply a greater standard to others than we do to ourselves Which leads us to poorer and poorer evaluations as time goes on. The plank becomes larger in our own eye, and we are unable to see what is actually going on with others We lose our attentiveness. We lose the sense of the degree of the situation. Lord, we honestly can become a people. That don't know how to judge at all. And we confess this to you, all of the ways that we were too harsh this week. Or too licentious. And we ask that you would forgive us. We ask now, Lord, that you would hear us as we confess our sins particularly. Each in our own private prayer time before you. Ask that you hear the confession of your saints. Lord, we ask especially that you would forgive us when we use an unnecessary rigor on people. as an expression of our uncontrolled anger. And we ask that you'd hear all of our other confessions. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. We also have an assur assurance of pardon this evening from Romans six twenty-three. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. Let's stand and sing, Arise, my soul, arise All right, my soul, alright, shake off your guilty fear, Love me in that red pie, it might be back on me. Before the broad my surety stands, before the from my surety stand, my name is written on the He never lives up for me to interesting. It's always eating false, his precious but to me Is God not so for every race? Is God out so every race that sprinkles down the road of race? Oh, I believe it was even breathing on the glory. They forever Stay strongly for me For give them for if they cross for give him for My God is my God's dog is points, boys like it. He owes me for his child. I can no longer fear Live Conference I now with confidence I Amen. Amen. Let's open our scriptures together to Proverbs chapter ten. Our reading tonight is verses fifteen through sixteen. The rich man's wealth is his strong city. The destruction of the poor is their poverty The labor of the righteous leads to life, the wages of the wicked to sin. Let's pray. O Lord, we ask that through the preaching of your word you would accomplish good things. We pray, Lord, that you would give your word power tonight. In the name of Christ. Amen. You may be seated. We have seen the picture of two paths or a crossroads from the beginning of our Proverbs series There is no difference with paths here tonight. Children entering the age of discernment must choose a path. They will either choose the path of the faithful, who live on the life-giving words of God through Christ, or they will choose the path of the wicked, drinking speech that is destructive to themselves and spewing forth destruction to others. That's what we learned last week. But it was our prayer that God would give blessing. To us, and especially to our youth entering into the age of discernment, that they would be a blessing to others, especially in their speech. Tonight, I'll make a few observations and then a few applications. The first thing I'd like you to notice with verse 15 and 16 is that we've moved to a different topic We've moved away from the wisdom with words, back to the topic from the beginning of this same chapter, which is wealth and wisdom. In verse 15, wealth and poverty are contrasted in terms of the security or insecurity that each one provides Solomon uses the image of a city in both. Now, in the second example, it would take a little bit of Hebrew work to see the city there. But it's there. And I'll point that out in just a moment. But you can see in verse 15, the city is right there. Just as a strong city with high walls. As a defense protects the citizens, so too does wealth offer us protection. On the other hand, the city which has fallen apart, and that's the word there, the destruction The idea of the destruction of the poor, it's talking about something that's in has been laid waste, usually referred to as a city. So you can see how the images contrast. But on the other hand, the city that would that falls apart or is destroyed, that's the poor, and it offers no security. So I wonder if you could think of a modern example where we bear this out. This may be a surprising teaching so far in what we've observed As Christians, sometimes we think wealth can be bad and we should have nothing to do with it. And here we see it as proclaimed as good. Proverbs will go on in many chapters to talk and warn you about money. being the root of all evil, even from the lips of our Lord. But here it's spoken about positively. And I wonder if you can think of a modern example where these contrasts show up. If a pipe bursts in your home and you have money to call a plumber, then you have secured your property and you can still meet all of your bills. But what happens when you're poor? If a pipe bursts and you call a plumber, you will wonder how you will make ends meet. For the rest of the month. That's a reality. And in this way, the proverbist is bringing out the spirit by way of Solomon that wealth is better than poverty. That's the first thing I wanted you to notice. The second is now moving on to verse 16, and it gives us another contrast. It's the labor of the righteous which leads to life. And the wages of the wicked lead to sin. And you should see there a resemblance to that Romans verse that we just mentioned. I'll just mention that as an aside. The main point that I want you to see here, or the main thing I want you to notice or observe is that this contrast of the labor of the righteous leading to life and the wages of the wicked to sin is meant to pair up with and qualify verse 15 from our first observation. If so, this is what I mean. Take a look at verse 15 really quickly. The rich man's wealth is his strong city. See that? Is that true? without qualification. Is that true without qualification? If verse 615 is taken absolutely and without exception, then we would be saying anyone in all of the world ever to exist who has had wealth will be secure, and anyone who is poor will be insecure. And we know that that is not true just from basic observations. Verse 16 ends up bringing in a qualification. so that we can see the point that he's making. Solomon points out, in other words, that if that if a person is wealthy but wicked, then that wealth will actually be a part of their damn That's the kind of interplay that's going on here. Their wealth or wages will lead to sin and sin to destruction and death and death. Wealth in the hand of the wicked will not be a strong city. It will actually destroy them. That's part of what's going on here. He wants you to look at these proverbs as a kind of ecosystem where they each contribute to each other and relate. And it takes quite a bit of meditation actually. The third thing I wanted you to notice is something that goes beyond the the words on the page. It's what Solomon himself is doing and how Solomon himself thinks about what wisdom is. This is very important. You probably heard me say it. hundreds of times, but I'm going to keep saying it until I notice it as a more regular practice among us. I want you to see one major way that Solomon thinks of wisdom. Notice that the way we make sense of these proverbs is through qualification. I just brought one to your attention in verse 15. That it's not any wealthy person that will have security. It's going to be the wealthy righteous. And they'll also bring other people security. Verse 15 and 16 do not give you an absolute law that never changes in any situation. And that's the main point actually It's the main point with all of the Proverbs. Solomon is showing instead that real wisdom, and in this case we see it with wealth, real wisdom is gained when we pay attention to the sermon. circumstances when you not only have the law, but you are attentive to the situation. Take verse 15 as absolute, for example. No matter who you are, wealth will always be your strength, and that is patently false. What about the drug addict? Go ahead, let the drug addict win the lotto and see how well it goes. Is that the lesson that we learned from Scrooge in the Christmas Carol that he just did really well with all of his wealth? No, it's not actually. It turned his heart black. Actually, that's That's not the main point of the story. But that was a part of it. In both those cases, wealth will was the catalyst that corrupted and killed them. So that ends up raising a question for us. It inevitably comes up all the time. Okay, well then are the proverbs true? Are they not true? Are they false? No, they're true. But that's the whole point that Solomon is bringing out and showing us what real wisdom is. The proverbs show us that there are many good things. And the choice of what the good thing is that we are to do, the choice of the right path, depends upon many different circumstances. as to which one we should choose and how we should act. That ends up being Christian wisdom cannot be gained from a YouTube channel or just reading a book. book, but by the ministry of the Spirit through many years of experience in the knowledge of His Word. And so I want to go a little bit beyond wealth and just the case of wealth, though I'm going to come back to it. And I'm going to state the doctrine tonight like this. Real wisdom about wealth in this case, in verses fifteen and sixteen, is gained when we pay attention and we act in accordance with our circumstances. Real wisdom, real Christian wisdom is gained when we pay attention and act in accordance with our circumstances. So I would like to begin with just bringing to your attention an ancient debate and then a practical example and then we'll get back to the wealth. So let me just remind you or maybe tell you for the first time of an ancient debate. I've heard that when they were trying to decide whether or not Proverbs belongs actually in the canon of the scriptures that there was a disagreement. And do you would you you know care to take a guess as to which verse made some people think that Proverbs does not not belong within the canon. It was Proverbs chapter 26, verses 4 and 5. And this is what it says. Do not answer a fool according to his folly, lest you also be like him. Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes One group argued that since this verse obviously contradicts itself, and God does not contradict himself, then this cannot be considered God's word. Another group who prevailed, apparently, because it's right here in our Bible, another group who prevailed argued that the first group misunderstood the nature of Christian wisdom. Which is captured in the book of Proverbs. Proverbs shows us the path of wisdom. The path of wisdom is the path of doing good works in life True good works done on the truly good path are always done in accordance with and in consideration of the circumstances. And so, in the case of Proverbs 26, 4, and 5 with the Fool, if you were to flip to Proverbs 15, 23, you would find the resolution. I'll let you flip there actually so your eyes can fall upon it. A person finds joy in giving an apt reply. And how good is a timely word! Sometimes, depending on the circumstances, you should say one thing to the full or nothing at all. In other words, sometimes, with some people, at some places, with something, it is best to not answer a fool the question. according to his folly, and at other times, with other people, at other places, with other things, we should answer a fool according to his folly. And the person, this is what I want you to make sure you're catching. We're going back to the doctrine now. The person who knows when to do which. And the fear of the Lord is considered wise. Now, let me give you a practical example. I wonder if some of you have this experience. I had it a lot because I was always underfoot. Growing up, I wonder if your mother or your grandmother or your aunt or your uncle was tired of having everyone in the kitchen get giving advice of how something should be cooked or or um mixed up or whatever it is and inevitably they say too many chefs spoil the broth. Anyone ever had that happen I'll explain it to you later or you can ask your parents what that means. It's a very deep proverb. I was uh very young and I knew exactly what it meant. It meant get out of the kitchen. Too many chefs spoil the broth. Now, here was the interesting thing. After the dinner was done and all of the dishes and food needed to go back to the kitchen, the grandmother would say, Many hands make light work. Which was a proverb that meant get back in the kitchen with all the dishes and clean them. So during that meal, the good thing to do changed based upon the circumstances. And the aunt or the uncle or the grandmother had a proverb to capture that kind of wisdom about broth or about many hands. What they're really doing is just continuing the tradition that has always been a part of the human race when they are wise. It would be the same tradition that pens Ecclesiastes 3. 1. There is a time for everything and a season for every activity under the heavens. Now, what if we were to start bringing that back to the exact topic of verses 15 and 16? I want you to answer this question when you think about our specific passage tonight. If wealth provides security And poverty insecurity, should you give the people around you as much wealth as possible? The answer is it depends on the circumstances. And in fact, when you ask me a question, I wonder if you hear me often say, well it depends. Early in chapter 10, if you'll hopefully remember, earlier in chapter 10, wealth came from not just working diligently, but working at the right time. The doctrine of circumstances has always been a part of Proverbs, because it is always Christian wisdom. In our passage, wealth provides security, but not in the hands of the wicked. But in the hands of the righteous. Wisdom with wealth, therefore, at least includes the circumstances of time and the people involved. Now, I'd like you to just consider a few questions. What are the good works you are considering in the Lord and by the power of his spirit. What are you thinking about doing? What actions are troubling you and you're not sure what to do? This is a lesson tonight is that part of your moral deliberation process must be your situation and your circumstances. Let me ask a different set of questions that are a bit more convicting and hopefully will motivate us towards goodness. Are you nitpicky? Are you cruel? Are you harsh? Do you not know when to leave something alone? Are you an enabler? All of those terms describe people who lack wisdom because they are not attentive to the situation around them. When you drive a two-year-old into the ground through your discipline as if they could handle the weight of a 40-year-old year old. That is a lack of wisdom and it's called harsh and cruel. It is a lack of being aware of the circumstances of the age of the child, who is the person that is before you. If you rush someone who's handicapped because it takes them 45 minutes to get their shoes on and you become aggravated all the time. and impatient. It is a demonstration of your lack of wisdom not seeing the situation before you Tonight, Proverbs has presented yet another crossroads, especially for those who are entering into the age of discernment, but it's true for all of us. We fall off the path all the time, just like pilgrims. And we have to get back on. We always have two paths. One leads to death and one leads to life. You can apply on the one path, you can apply the law and rules without considering the people and the places and the time or any other circumstances around you, and you can watch everybody die under your leadership. Or you can join the wise, and you can take the road of real wisdom, wherein we consider our surroundings and by God's grace We do just the right thing at just the right time and in just the right way. And our name will be a blessing. People will rise up to praise the great work that we do by the power of God Himself. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, we thank you that you are the perfect demonstration for this. I love that you flipped over the table of the teachers, but you got down on your knees for the children. Oh Lord, you knew just the right thing at just the right time. We thank you. And we pray, Lord, that you would pour out your spirit of wisdom on us, that we would be just like you. you especially in this regard that we would know how to evaluate, that we would know how to judge, that we would know when to encourage or when to admonish or when to rebuke. Oh Lord, we ask for your wisdom. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's rise and sing to our God our final song, May the Mind of Christ my Savior. And lies Savior living me from day to day, for it is all and not controlling all I do transit. May the word of God dwell richly in my heart from our two, so that for maybe I join us. Only through his mind. They love me of God my Father, who lies life in everything. My name to birthday sorrow. May the love of Jesus will be as the waters will see in their closing self basic. May I run the race before me nor yet to face the May his beauty rest upon me as I see. We are both to win, let me forget the shadow single. And now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ and his wisdom be upon you all. Amen.