It can derive no force whatever but from its own justice, the approbation of an impartial public, and the countenance and blessing of the great head of the church Is that actually titled that way, Presbyterian Baptist? We see the qualifications, the description of a man who is to be an officer. Who is it that takes part in preparing the Passover lamb? That's what they're called to. These titles do not indicate different grades of office, but all describe one and the same office. He that fills this office should possess a competency of human learning, and be blameless in life, sound in the faith and apt to teach When a teaching elder is called to such needful work, it shall be incumbent upon him to make full proof of his ministry by disseminating the gospel for the edification of the church. Does this sound familiar? The resources given to the church, the deacons put together our budget, the deacons put together uh in the deacons fund how they're going to help the those in our congregation, and there are those in our congregation who have need, have desperate needs. I as a homosexual and be ordained to the office of elder or deacon in the Presbyterian Church. Are there other bishops, under bishops? But also in that which is to come, and has put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. And the benefits of all his offices are effectually applied by the Holy Ghost. has appointed officers not only to preach the gospel and administer the sacraments, but also to exercise discipline for the preservation both of truth and duty or union or association of particular churches is entitled to declare the terms of admission into its communion and the qualifications of its ministers and members, as well as the whole system of its internal government which Christ has appointed. In the exercise of this right it may, notwithstanding, err in making the terms of communion either too lax or too narrow, yet even in this case it does not infringe upon the liberty or the rights of others The Constitution of the Presbyterian Church in America, which is subject to and subordinate to the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, the inerrant Word of God. against and we can also spend another men's breakfast entirely going through that. A Presbyterian church. Likewise, their wives must be reverent, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things. But if there is no desire to serve in that way, and many of us may have had some experience with this, you end up with a very knowledgeable person who has very little heart for the church. Because he's been thrust into a role of authority because of his learning or something like that. And they said, We want you, the people, and there were about 120 of them, to pick of these who they should be. in the exercise of church discipline that may happen. And they voted for the man. Who are the people that are judging Jesus? The office of deacon is set forth in the Scriptures as ordinary and perpetual in the church. It expresses also the communion of saints, especially in their helping one another in time of need. They shall have the care of the property of the congregation, both real and personal, and shall keep in proper repair the church edifice and other buildings belonging to the congregation. In matters of special importance affecting the property of the church, they cannot take final action without the approval of the session and the consent of the congregation. and to govern well in the house and kingdom of Christ, he is termed presbyter or elder. He should exhibit a sobriety and holiness of life becoming the gospel. They should visit the people at their homes, especially the sick. Ruling elders possess the same authority and eligibility to office in the courts of the church as teaching elders. We have the same authority. episcopal system, where you have some teaching elders who feel like they must be heard and listened to over other elders. We talk it through, sometimes it takes months, sometimes it takes minutes, and then we make a ruling for the church based on our role, our calling, our ordination. The Missouri Presbytery found him not guilty. And it has nothing to do with the Constitution. They just ruled that the Presbytery didn't err in its process because the person who made the complaint made the complaint based upon process. And they say it's okay. of Presbyteries. Please forgive me anybody um because I don't mean to bring dissension or or any uh confusion as to is the PCA a a good denomination. examined everything. They are bowing before the Lamb, casting their crowns at his feet. And people are getting upset about it and things aren't moving and a lot of the ruling elders are starting to say, what is happening over there? We are talking fundamentally about a system of government. in the Methodist Church. He is apostle, teacher, pastor, minister, bishop, and the only lawgiver in Zion. and teach the church through his word and spirit by the ministry of men, thus immediately exercising his own authority and enforcing his own laws unto the edification and establishment of his kingdom. And to which things he commands that nothing be added, and that from them naught be taken away. further than may be necessary for protection and security, equal and common to all others. It is incumbent upon these officers and upon the whole church in whose name they act to censure or cast out the erroneous and scandalous, observing in all cases the rules contained in the Word of God. No opinion can be more pernicious or more absurd than that which brings truth and falsehood upon the same level. truth and duty. There are truths and forms with respect to which men of good character and principles may differ. Nineteen seventy four. consists of its doctrinal standards set forth in the Westminster Confession of Faith together with the larger and shorter catechisms and the Book of Church Order comprising the form of government, the rules of discipline, and the directory for worship. The system laid out in the Westminsters. They can take an exception to parts of the confession or the catechism, uh either of the catechisms. If it's a matter of substance, they then have to judge is it a matter of substance in one of the preliminary principles? For education purposes, things like that. And I'm sad to say it, but most people who come for ordination take exception to the fourth commandment and the recreation clause and the catechisms and the confession. propaganda. referred specifically to those who were Calvinists. About that. There's a calling that God puts by his Spirit into the heart of a man. of good behavior, hospitable, able to teach, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for money, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous, one who rules his own house well, having his children in submission with all reverence. For if a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the Church of God? of what elders should be. those who've been nominated by the church to serve in these offices, and we've been talking to them about the future and the possibility of their service. We see the fruits of this kind of faith in their lives. And we don't have enough time to go into the whole process of ordination or what that's called or where that comes from. Right? In Acts chapter 6, there's an issue that comes up. Deacon. I mean deacons and elders, we can't function without each other. seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom you know to be the elders of the people, and officers over them. Sometimes they play an important part doing good things, sometimes doing bad things. They're the ones being blamed for the sinful bent of the people of Israel for going astray from God's word. They are given the very Word of God to deliver to the people. Accompanied by miraculous signs. Right? So if God were to be giving us prophets nowadays who are giving us new revelation, right? We do still have elders. To make a decision, to make a ruling and a judgment on behalf of the whole church. It is their duty also to develop the grace of liberality in the members of the Church, to devise effective methods of collecting the gifts of the people, and to distribute these gifts among the objects to which they are contributed. In the discharge of their duties, the deacons are under the supervision and authority of the session. Now there's a little bit more in there about how they're to be organized like into a board of deacons, and that's why we call it the Book of Church Order. And the deacons are there for that. As he has the oversight of the flock of Christ, he is termed bishop or pastor. They should set a worthy example to the flock entrusted to their care by their zeal to evangelize the unconverted, make disciples, and demonstrate hospitality. They should pray with and for the people, being careful and diligent in seeking the fruit of the preached word among the flock. When a man is called to labor as a teaching elder, it belongs to his order. PCA, that's where the power lies. to call a congregational meeting. to reclaim those who are stupid when you're dumb and you think that because of whatever goes on in your brain, you're the one who this these rules don't apply to. in that mindset. Who make bad rulings and bad judgments and put people's rights at risk. And the General Assembly sent it to the Standing Judicial Commission, which is the Judicial Commission of the whole denomination. Where the Supreme Court comes back and says, um, yes, that is allowed. The adultery. of conscience, a crisis of faith. Getting all back to the very first point, there's only one king. Future that can harm our survival for real. I want. how we practically function sometimes. And that's Christ. Mm no say at the congregational level because of the Book of Church Order and how it lays it out and because they're not elected. We are not winsome if we if we declare that you can't be a homosexual elder, people will think we're mean. Starts back in the Old Testament, is carried through to the New Testament, and I'll leave you with this. We have an OPC teaching elder, we have an OPC member, we have some folks who attend from the ARP, Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church. and talk about all the different denominations. Does anybody know what the other term is? Known as Papism. And there is a an expected allegiance and obedience and submissiveness to the different hierarchies. That is our document, part of the Constitution of the Church that codifies how churches are to conduct themselves and things are to go. Ephesians 4, 10-13. contains in himself, by way of eminency, all the offices in his church, and has many of their names attributed to him in the scriptures He, being ascended up far above all heavens, that he might fill all things, received gifts for his church, and gave all offices necessary for the edification of his church and the perfecting of his saints. Christ, as King, has given to his church officers, oracles, and ordinances, and especially has he ordained therein his system of doctrine government, discipline, and worship, all of which are either expressly set down in Scripture or by good and necessary inference may be deduced therefrom But only makes an improper use of its own. Therefore, the rights of private judgment in all matters that respect religion are universal and inalienable. While under the conviction of the above principle, it is necessary to make effective provision that all who are admitted as teachers be sound in the faith. officer investiture, the power to elect persons to the exercise of authority in any particular society resides in that society. No church judicatory may make laws to bind the conscience. These are the preliminary principles upon which the PCA was founded. Now the last part of this preface, part three, is the Constitution. All as adopted by the church. It is the system of understanding what the scriptures say that we subscribe to in the PCA. Right? Moreover, he must have a good testimony among those who are outside, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. Not greedy for money, holding the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience. So the first verse of that chapter says that if you desire the position of a bishop, that's episcopas, that's the other word for elder, it's a good thing. And part of that is the testing of ministers, the testing of what we call candidates. internal call and the church says, yeah, that guy should be an elder. Then while they're good men, and they could be good Christian men, that's not somebody who should be put into the position where they are then authoritatively declaring what the Bible says. In the PCA, that can never happen. The power and the authority. Just be one of those guys in Midian. Do you know who did it? We find Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel saying to the elders of Israel that it's their fault. Because we are all capable of making the sacrifice that is pleasing to God by the power of the Holy Spirit, which is given to us through Christ Jesus We see that the elders are starting to be mentioned in a very different way. They're the elders in Jerusalem collecting these guests. The uh controversies that were coming before the church, they write a letter out to the whole church. study his word and be able to tell you what God means from it and what he is requiring of you in it But there is only one who fulfills the role of prophet and priest currently. The uh administrative committee of the PCA puts it together every single year. Repute exemplary lives, brotherly spirit, warm sympathies, and sound judgment So that means that the deacons can't just decide we're going to build a five hundred person sanctuary next to the church and then the session say, Well, what happened to all of our funds and what happened to everything? The session is the authority, the elders, and we work with the deacons to make those things happen. This office is one of dignity and usefulness. Enter therein. All those duties which private Christians are bound to discharge by the law of love are especially incumbent upon them by divine vocation and are to be discharged as official duties. As he is sent to declare the will of God to sinners and to beseech them to be reconciled to God through Christ, he is termed ambassador. As he stands to proclaim the gospel, he is termed preacher. This is one of the unique parts of the PCA. Now there's another court. uh vote. So now the Presbytery. And we have to exercise church discipline against them. There's a LGBTQ theater group that meets at his church and they performed a mock Does their work, gives their ruling. It doesn't. So I'm going to close with letting you guys in on some of the things that are happening in our denomination. You can tell, be part of the gay community and tell everyone that you are gay, and that's fine so long as you don't engage in the homosexual activities. When the Lord is talking about adultery, he says to the that if you've looked at a woman with lust in your heart, guess what you already did? at the General Assembly, something that a lot of us were very surprised, and they passed by a huge majority. the two options. The office of teaching elder and the office of ruling elder are delineated through the administration of the sacraments. I'm part of. That it was the ruling elders who showed up in NAS. They are free and have the right to attend session meetings. I tried to lay it out. Positions to the presbytery and represents the church at the presbytery. particular church in our presbytery who had eleven pastors there to vote. So if we want more votes in the presbytery, we either need to hire another pastor, and I've already told you that we don't like assistant pastors, so that ain't happening, and we or we need to grow large enough to be able to send more rolling elders It's a bunch of people buying books and stuff like that. And they are there. And what happened this last General Assembly? Twenty eighteen, it's this weird theater group that does this bizarre thing in a PCA church building And like Roger said, there m it was the highest ruling elder attendance that there's ever been. Okay, but technically I think in our d in our um fellowship we have people from PCA, we have people from OPC. And you can see that very clearly by looking at the Presbyterian Church in America and then the Presbyterian Church in the USA. Both Presbyterian, both very different, both claim to follow the same kind of organizational structure. Jesus Christ, upon whose shoulders the government rests, whose name is called wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. To the whole book of church order of the Presbyterian Church in America. 6. And Principle eight. The person's allowed to come in and that's kind of the last you ever hear of it. the images, right? Rules his church through the ministry of men. Now, these elders are men, and they're fallible men. Which shows itself in the fruits of a life that's called the ministry, and that's what we see in verses two through ten Right? What we end up doing is we end up putting these men forward for examination by the session, and then they're put forward for acceptance by the church, and that's the election of the officers. How God in His mercy allowed the church to go through this terrible period of twisting of all things so that he could bring it back to a much more healthy and a vibrant church. Now the Presbytery may come and say, Hey, we've heard some things about your pastor, and this is not the man who will be your pastor. Says something, it's only true if it's in the Bible. Every church that they applant, they appoint elders. This is the role of a deacon according to our church. As the Lord has given different gifts to men and has committed to some special gifts and callings, the Church is authorized to call and appoint some to labor as teaching elders in such works as may be needful to the Church. different various vocations. There's a there there are situations where that arises. They have opinions, they make judgments, they make rulings on how laws should be applied or whether or not laws are valid. And so he guides the discussions and he leads the uh organization of how we discuss materials. church to any ordinance that has been put forward by any of the civil magistrates. So it a lot of weird things were going on at this church. Now it's interesting because sometimes we can get confused by the rulings that come from the SJC. who had studied so much and knew so much that they couldn't even see the plain reading of scripture anymore. And unfortunately, I think that's 250. um United Reformed Church of North America, the Presbyterian Church of North America, the RP Reformed Presbyterian Church of like there are all there's so many United Church of Res United Reformed Presbyterian Church like there's so many out there Of the increase of whose government and peace there shall be no end, who sits upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it with judgment and justice from henceforth, even forever. And that through Christ, it has been his pleasure that he would organize his church and order his church through men, through the ministry. 1. 17th century or directly from scripture, and you'll notice they use the King James Version in their references. Images. They are Presbyterian in government. Presbyterians all believed the same things, and that's what I learned. While they're trying to understand all these other scriptures. Elder-led church, that's the Presbyterian church. He desires a good work. For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a good standing and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. These are the biblical requirements for the character of a man who's going to be an elder or a deacon, and those are the two offices in the church. And these are good things, but is that all that's necessary? Right? Somebody who has been following, who has been a disciple of Christ just as long as all the other apostles had. After he murdered that guy and he went out into the wilderness and he ended up having a better life than being a prince of Egypt, he found a good wife, got married, became a shepherd, was going to live a very simple life. He says, gather the elders of Israel. You got some terrible sons, and they are not doing the work of a prophet like you did. Now, they had fallen astray. They did not serve Israel, the church, well. The rulers of the people and elders of Israel. You do not need me to offer a sacrifice for you. The elders and the brethren. The Church of Jesus Christ is led by elders. duties in some denominations. Courts in in America. He doesn't sit down and tell us what we're to think about a thing. because of our size. Examined the response from the presbytery. And uh if you're familiar with what happened at the last General Assembly, there were overtures that were put forward to put changes into the Book of Church order to add specific language saying that you cannot identify And early on, the Presbyteries that voted on these as soon as it was possible to be voted on overwhelmingly passed them. I don't know if you saw the article. I don't know any nice words for it. And this is where we are. That a person is. An assistant pastor can only be called by the session. Well, the interesting thing about the assistant pastor, because they're not called by the session, or not called by the congregation, not elected by the congregation, they have no vote on the session. But he has a vote down here. General Assembly is a five-day long party and uh there's a day and a half of business that must be done and that's always waiting until the very end after all the parties. And you could be a church of twenty-five people and there's ten teaching elders in that church. That we may not be aware of. The elders are there, enthroned by Christ. Now there are are different methods for governing a church body that other than Presbyterianism, I wonder if we could think of different ones together. In the Roman Catholic Church, that head is the Pope. That's not Presbyterian. Having all power given unto him in heaven and in earth by the Father, who raised him from the dead and set him at his own right hand, far above all principality and power, and might and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world. Preliminary principle four. The second, the Westminster, Confession of Faith, and larger and shorter catechisms. Why do they do that? It's a good thing to desire that. It's the opposite of internal. When we ordain a deacon, we are setting them apart to be the stewards of the resources of this church. Tell the people, choose from among you seven men of good reputation, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, appointed to serve the tables. So Christ gives to his church elders and deacons to guide, to protect, to teach, to steward the resources of his people, to shepherd his people. It belongs to those in the office of elder, both severally and jointly, to watch diligently over the flock committed to his charge, that no corruption of doctrine or of morals In some denominations, there are multiple offices of elder. Yeah they judge. Based on the authority of scripture. They ruled that the Presbytery followed what the Book of Church Order says they should follow. uh encouraging General Assembly. That's our denomination. What witness does that have to the world? So this is where we are. But this is how it works. And so I whatever whatever denomination you choose, and we could have a whole conversation about Presbyterian church history. And so we have this General Assembly is going to be another challenging one. For a book of church order is surprisingly beautiful. The Presbyterian Church in America, in setting forth the form of government founded upon and agreeable to the Word of God, reiterates the following great principles which have governed the formation of the plan. Principle seven All church power, whether exercised by the body in general or by representation, is only ministerial and declarative, since the Holy Scriptures are the only rule of faith and practice. Finn, did you know the Constitution? There's also many people take exception to the exposition in the catechisms of the second commandment. That's the very first part of it. And he does this in a man who deserves to serve him, or who desires to serve him. So if you're in a Methodist church, and I had many friends growing up who were Methodists, and they would they loved going to church until they hit uh they were twelve years old and their church got a new minister. They didn't want a new minister. There's a term for them, the Sanhedrin, which we could get into more detail about them at another time. Think about the apostles and the min the miraculous ministries that they had. Elders are not priests, like I said. And so these deacons have all these duties, and all and their duties are, even though it's a spiritual office, primarily dealing with the stewardship of physical resources. The next court is the presbytery. And if you followed any of this recently, it happened. Side B, which is very prominent in our denomination, is trying to say that God has no problem with homosexuality. God has a problem with homosexual actions. There was a lot of excitement going on. Because we have got to use Presbyterianism in order to guard the glory of Christ. Practically the BCO says that we hold to two offices. BCA was founded by ruling elders from the PC USA, who were just flabbergasted at seeing these teaching elders who had been educated into imbecility In the PCA, there is there are two types of pastors. Any teaching elder. Now these men, called presbyterosts, are the elders, and that's where we get the term Presbyterian. If you go and check them out, if you Google them, or well don't Google, Duck DuckGo, if you if you use a another search engine that will give you actual results and not Judas, terrible guy, did terrible things, killed himself. We see the elders playing an important role in Ezra as the Israelites returned from exile. Are there priests any longer? That a homosexual lifestyle is not contrary to the Word of God or to what God expects of people. This is kind of sad to say. Okay. In that system, it's the Pope. day, age theory, framework, all that stuff. There are mention of the elders as early as Exodus 3. To give them a king. I'm usually not that depressed. It's important that we recognize that there is a difference because sometimes in the systems where a teaching elder is put above another kind of elder, you end up having a pseudo-hierarchy, kind of like the Different part of Presbyterianism and this discussion about polity. Well, the process uh laid out in the Book of Church Order for how to change the Book of Church Order says that then after that overture is passed, it has to go to the presbyteries. Rolling elders and teaching officers, teaching elders would both be able to administer the sound. I mean, right? Basically what they're saying is um well they're saying that they didn't read what the recre the book of recreation was, and they didn't go back to the historical time in which the Westminster Confessions were written to see what exactly those men were speaking about. It's not just his wife. Does he run his household well? There's a lot of other information here in chapter 8 talking about different ways that the elder can be used within uh Many cases where pastors screw up, and sometimes they screw up little, and sometimes they screw up big surgery on an individual who was changing parts of their body to make them look like other uh another trying to be really diplomatic here. No, I on the other side. Something very interesting. Our church is allowed to send three votes. The government. Just to want it? That's why w one of the reasons I wanted to talk about this is we're about to do this in a couple weeks. This is important. Unfortunately, that's not a very loving thing to tell people. That's all I've got to say to you guys for this morning. Can say, hey, we like this guy. Hence Presbyterian. Then uh you'll you can find them. So there are no priests. When the session here gets together and meets, we are moderated by Pastor Jesse. This is what the PC USA has done. Anybody take civics? They are not going to be going into the Book of Church Order. But they can at the presbytery and they can at the General Assembly. Now I want to read for you also the preliminary principles. Anybody know? So as an example, a lot of gentlemen who come for ordination in the PCA, they take exception to any parts of the Westminster Confession or Catechisms that talk about six-day creation. How is it that sinners? It's basically, yeah, they didn't say he's right, he's wrong, you're right, you're wrong. Right? It needs a supermajority. This is a faithful saying. They cast lots. Make arguments if necessary for the various things that that happen. An episcopal comes from the Greek word episcopos, which means overseer or guardian. Nineteen seventy-three was the beginning of it. Yeah, no, we don't need to. Images, thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image of any creature in the heavens above, earth below, waters beneath the earth, all that. In other words, do you think this is only a New Testament concept, or is this something that's been present throughout the scriptures? You don't have to then go all the way through it to then be an adulterer. I believe it is really important that we hold the two opposites however functionally we do not. Yeah. Otherwise it would be of no consequence either to discover truth or to embrace it. And that's when Matthias is chosen. So we see those two offices of Christ's Church. And so uh the last thing I'll read is section nine of chapter eight, because it makes it very clear, and this is very important in the PCA, especially if you're from a different uh Presbyterian denomination. We have the same vote. Presbytery examines teaching elders and pastoral candidates. Who came up with these terms? They work all the time. Christ. Though the character, qualifications, and authority of church officers are laid down in the Holy Scriptures, as well as the proper method of They make judgments. In our church, we're dealing with something really important. Good faith subscription means that a person who comes for ordination in the PCA can take exceptions to parts of the Westminster Standard. Now, and this is funny, because I didn't know it existed until doing some research for this morning. Throughout the existence of the church, and I mean that, the whole church, Old Testament Church and New Testament Church, the Lord has governed through elders. They must exercise government and discipline, and take oversight not only of the spiritual interests of the particular church, but also the church generally when called thereunto. If we're really honest with ourselves, the active sins that we commit are born of the sins that started before then in our minds and in our heart. A lot of those teaching elders are assistant pastors who are not representing any congregation. There are many different kinds of church government, and I want to just point out that when we're talking about Presbyterianism, God alone is Lord of the Conscience, and has left it free from any doctrines or commandments of men, which are in any respect contrary to the Word of God, or which in regard to matters of faith and worship are not governed by the Word of God. These men are elected. What do the courts in our system in America do? You got one. And they say, well, it's just for worship. There's another court above well I shouldn't say above because that seems hierarchy. And then they could have a meeting and they could say, hey, elders, answer for your ruling, answer for your judgment. And this is where our culture is leading to a full and absolute acceptance of homosexuality and of all of the various things that go along with that, right? Well go ahead, Dwayne. I was, you know, at one point an officer, so I I do respect uh the denomination as it is written. That's why they exist. Who knows what the next court is? And some of us have experience with discipline. It's a very bizarre concept because they're not taking into account that sin is not only the deeds that we do. You can have elders who have great kids, who are great people, but if they've never read their Bible and they don't know how to help somebody see their life through the lens of scripture. What it means is that the Standing Judicial Commission took the complaint from the presbyter in that presbytery, examined the evidence he gave If you do want, then I would recommend we also in that email talk about a time to get together so we can talk through it, because there's a lot of parts of it that could be confusing, or parts of it that may seem more important than others. So you don't have you can be a teaching elder, you know, uh retired and you have the vote there. First term is episcopos. Since the ecclesiastical discipline must be purely moral or spiritual in its object and not attended with any civil effects, How does one become an elder? Okay, your wife might think that you're the greatest guy in the whole world and you should be an elder. So we already talked about the two Greek terms, episcopoi and presbyteros, and this is where we get elders, but I wonder if you have ever given any thought to where the concept of the elders comes from. If you look at the book of Titus, you see that Titus was left there by Paul for a very specific purpose. The power at the top of our denomination is the congregations. Now the constitution of the Presbyterian Church in America. And the church, through representatives, through the elders that are elected, rule the sessions take the church's And last year, well 2020, GA was canceled. Well there have been uh study committees and lots of professors and seminary teachers, etc. It was the elders of the people. Saturday's the day off for them. There are so many, some that you probably have never heard of, like the Cumberland Presbyterian Church or the Bible Presbyterian Church or You guys know what the Papists believe? And we see this because even though the elders, the authorities of Israel, are shown in a very negative light early on in the Gospels, because of what they're doing with Jesus, and in Acts, by Acts 11. It has nothing to do with anything. Uh uh an associate pastor, or to use you know plain English, a real pastor, sorry, has to be called by the congregation. Who is he representing? We don't just do what we want, we follow the order that Christ has given. But nope. Our vote counts exactly the same. After the presbytery, say the presbytery is full of a bunch of knuckleheads, right? If they begin to believe the scriptures and they begin to believe and the Spirit is working on them and then they say, the scriptures don't say what the church says, then you have to have a whole bunch of But it's actually the same kind of thing, right? Does anybody know the difference between those two? So yeah, I'll go ahead and end us there. And then who might know the third biggest exception that's taken? They rejected Christ. It can't just be fifty-one percent or fifty point one percent. I think we need to hit 250 before we can have a third. They didn't choose a new minister. It it is I believe it is the best that we have. Who knows? Godliness is founded on truth. Now, you may have heard this term, good faith subscription. It's the external call. We have to figure out how to guard the PCA from erroneous ideas that are creeping in that can damage our children, that can damage our witness into the future. It is. Episcopal. A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, temperate, sober-minded It's a good thing to want to be a servant. They set up a guidance system and said, Hey, we need somebody who's been with us the whole time. There are not. If you are giving the Word of God to the people of God, he validates that calling in a very special way. So here's what the Book of Church Order in chapter eight says. Just bull honky. People started to see the writing on the walls. There are no prophets currently. We are a two-office system. And you guys are very familiar with this. Most often that's myself and Elder Jeremiah Horner. We don't believe that a person is so self-sufficient that they can define themselves. They are Baptist in their theology on the sacraments. And the interesting thing is they also have a lot of other weird things. Because I'm a sinner and I'm an elder. In Acts 15, just a few verses after that, we see that there are a bunch of elders and apostles who gather together Right? And only two of them were associate pastors. In an Episcopal system, it's the Archbishop. In other words, somebody could be a teaching elder and not not only be a pastor of a church. The congregation has the power. It was it was wonderful because we had all started to see this slide. Christ alone. The reform math has always twisted my head too about how but how are you a but remote? Is it just a desire to want to do it? And it says he was numbered among the eleven. Jesus, the mediator, the sole priest, prophet, king, savior, and head of the church We are not prophets. Now the elder, which is in chapter 8, and I'd like to read this for you too, because I find that even as somebody who's really fascinated by these things, I rarely read the book of church order. A teaching elder, you must be a teaching elder to have a position on a standing committee. They they are paid to go to General Assembly and paid to go to Presbytery. So they take an exception to that and they'll say, well, I don't believe it was six actual days, I believe it was this or that or the other thing. Reformed was a distinction against Lutherans, because Lutherans had a whole and that's another thing. In the PCA, the Presbytery will never come to Severn Run and say, this is the man whom you must ordain as your pastor. He's given to the people in the church. This is what the Presbyterian Church in America says a deacon is. The man who fills it has in Scripture different titles expressive of his various duties. In this case, they ruled that the Missouri Presbytery did not err. We could we could have a whole men's breakfast about the different ways that people twist scripture to believe what they want. They get these guests to then disperse to the brethren in Judea because there was going to be a famine. They don't make laws, do they? So our Constitution, first and foremost, the Word of God. If we went to 1 Timothy 3, in fact, you know what, does anybody have a Bible with them? Now we we've got to ask ourselves why do we elect the elders? What's the other term? Where else do we have a constitution that we're aware of and hear about on a daily basis? It's not. That's the external call. The session, this is the local level, right here in the church, pulled from the church. It's just they got enough votes and that's their opinion. If you see it, the title itself says Gay Christian Pastor in Conservative Denomination. Nope. How does the perfect king of all the universe actually exercise his authority and his dominion over his church? They misled their people to reject Christ. If you want to pray to your God, guess what you can do? And if it's in the Bible, then we don't need that prophet. They even did a little bit further investigation of their own to ask some questions. Because as n none of us are in a vacuum, we all know that the world is moving in a direction where we're the weirdos because we don't believe It's nine thirty-six. Obviously the estate. But very good. That's the Presbyterian system. If a man desires the position of a bishop, that's that word episcopoi or episcopus. Does he have an understanding of the scriptures that can be of value to the church? God had a different plan for him. And it's never never easy. And so somebody within the presbytery asked the presbytery to examine him and examine these views and examine those things that were going on. The the proposed change is made, the proposed change is sent to the general to the presbyteries to be ratified, and it needs two-thirds They can talk at session meetings. Got some officers in the PCA here. He was a prophet. And if you go back and look at how the Word of God was delivered to the people of God, that it's almost always, and I only say almost because I don't want to seem too confident. There's not an equitable distribution of church resources among the different communities, and so the apostles It is the duty of the deacon, section two, to minister to those who are in need, to the sick, to the friendless, and to any who may be in distress. You can also think there's an episcopal system that's very, very popular on the planet. I'm going to go ahead and read it for you today. Uh I forget what they're called. He should rule his own house well, and should have a good report of them that are outside the church. As he dispenses the manifold grace of God and the ordinances instituted by Christ, he is termed steward of the mysteries of God. And so a member of that court of the Presbytery said, I disagree and think that you erred. We're not really talking about theology, we're not talking about particular beliefs. Now a lot of these systems, the the episcopal system says that there are those, uh there's a a firm hierarchy amongst the clergy and the ministers The most important principle is that Christ alone is the head of the church, that this is derived from the Scriptures, which are the only source of authority It's not just the high priests. There is no priesthood. I've got more energy to read other fun things. And it's generally not at the church level in the Presbyterian denominations, it's at the court level. And I think this is the main point, right? We thought it might be a little bit simpler, but since the overtures are failing, we might need more overtures to do the same thing again. I I don't believe that the Westminsters had it right because there could be images of Jesus that we could use Presbyterian is truly just a system of government. It is. He is the one who gets to determine what his church believes and how his church operates, and he's laid it out for us in the scriptures. Let's hire him as an assistant pastor. They should instruct the ignorant, comfort the mourner, nourish and guard the children of the church. Is what what is the authority of the elder? And this is part of the preliminary principles. So, how did God establish a way for fallible, sinful men to be able to exercise authority? And that means that the fruit of God's calling on a man's life is then recognized by the church. But because of the prerogative of what Christ has done, he has given to his church the church He doesn't declare to us how it's going to go, that it has to go such and so and do that. This is what uh many of the liberal denominations in America have done Our teaching elder, and that's another thing. Somebody at the top in the diocese said, you know what, it's time to shift some things around and this guy goes there and that guy goes there and yada yada yada. I myself have personal experience with church discipline, and I see that it is a it really is a tool that Christ gives to his church In Acts 11:30, we see that they are the ones who are receiving the collected gifts from the wider church As it is his duty to be spiritually fruitful, dignified, and prudent, an example to the flock In addition to those functions he shares with all other elders, to feed the flock by reading, expounding, and preaching the Word of God, and to administer the sacraments. There's a teaching elder, which is separate from a ruling elder. We can serve on committees. I'm gonna do it just to break up the the mood that you just ended us in. Congregational. But don't really feel like doing that. Think about the prophets of the Old Testament and the miraculous ministries that they had. Do you remember that? In other words, you can call yourself a homosexual, you can identify as a gay pastor And that's the reason why it was an overwhelming majority. Congregation doesn't have to have anything to do with it. Which to me is a party. Mark's a sinner, he's an elder. And then they are brought into if they have not been serving before, they are ordained. They wanted to replace his position. And that's where the elders of the various churches and representative elders, so our church, we get to send two commissioners to presbytery Are there any questions? Because some people don't think that the creation account has much bearing on the rest of life and and the Bible. That change is not made. All church courts may err through human frailty, yet it rests upon them to uphold the laws of Scripture, though this obligation be lodged with fallible men. Did you guys know that the PCA, the Presbyterian Church in America, has a constitution? We had to do it just a few weeks ago, where the session made a ruling not to bind the conscience of any person in this So they hold them on Tuesdays, so we've got to take time off of work in order if a ruling elder wants to attend They believe that all of that hierarchy, that episcopal system, ends up rolling up into one single head Preliminary principle three. As you notice, there's not a whole lot of nineteen seventies language in this. There's one final process and that is the examination. It's elders and deacons. In a church in which it is impossible for any reason to secure deacons, the duties of the office shall devolve upon the ruling elders And I don't say that to think to make you think like, oh, where are the elders? A test of truth is its power to promote holiness according to our Savior's rule. There's just obviously some major differences. And it's a calling, a desire to spend his life in service of the church. There is only one office of elders. And the session, we can make a ruling, and if the congregation decided we ruled wrong, they could call a congregational meeting. The Missouri Presbytery investigated a certain teaching elder for his doctrinal views. Yeah, yeah. I have been very excited. Because in 2017, all that nonsense goes down with revoice. Does anybody know what constitutes the Constitution? But let these also first be tested, then let them serve as deacons, being found blameless If you were present for the talks on early church history, we were talking about how things went so wrong that the Reformation was necessary. He's just himself. Moses doesn't prepare every Passover lamb for all the people. We have a role similar to prophets in that we will forthtell the Word of God. And that means that the authority in the church and the decisions for leading the church rest with the elders. Give you guys a chance to turn there if you want. That's what diakonoi, that's what deacon means, servant to the church. So we need something from you, Samuel. That's the Jerusalem Council. And in our church I mean the PCA. Because they're going to come through the doors with one idea, and when they read the scriptures for themselves, they will have a crisis They can make arguments, but they cannot vote. This is the second section of the preface to the Book of Church Order, and it lays out some very important things for us to consider. There must be deacons. They needed a king. In the same way that the session would exercise church discipline against a member of the Did you know that? Let deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children in their own households well. Now, if the assistant pastor has no vote up here Well guess what? If you read in Revelation, elders are there too. It is Presbyterian. Do we want to have a discussion about Presbyterianism or anybody have anything? The office is one of sympathy and service after the example of the Lord Jesus. The Presbytery is the one that exercises discipline against pastors. And we're like, Huh? Okay. Or is it just say it thinking? Well, there is first an internal calling Right? And we see this in Acts chapter 1, with the replacement of the missing apostle. Honestly, seeking a king was not the best thing that could have been done for Israel. You're already an adulterer. Um there are another one that is uh questionably uh equally best. Functionality it's very difficult. Now, so this is what happens. The first section of the preface of the Book of Church Order is the King and Head of the Church. Is it just that desire to devote yourself to God's word and and the ordered government of his resources? Now that's the first part. Prophets have an inspired role. I serve on some committees at Presbytery, and I'm not a teaching elder. There's one other level, and that's the General Assembly. Alright. The polydodecahedron. What kind of witness does that have to the church? But functionally, the PCA holds to three offices. In all these it is the duty both of private Christians and societies to exercise mutual forbearance toward each other. Because wanting it may be the first step towards becoming an officer. Now God can bring about these fruits in another man, of course. In the Greek translation of the Old Testament, that is the word presbyteroi. And in the Gospels, the elders are shown as the authorities over the people. And then they get to Presbytery and we saw when when we were voting on these overtures, there was a So only two of them had been called by their congregation. It was supposed to be dealt with then. They represent the church. Not a novice, lest being puffed up with pride he fall into the same condemnation as the devil. It's a term for the same people. There is the priesthood of all believers If you have any more questions, we can talk about them or I'm I'm happy I'll stick around and get some food and we can we can chat. It was almost forty percent of the assembly. In Numbers 11, verse 16, the Lord has Moses gathered As he expounds the word, and by sound doctrine, both exhorts and convinces the gainsayer, he is termed teacher. And then we see a dissenting opinion, right? They said the process was followed. They get to vote at Presbytery. God is the one who brings out this fruit, that this fruit is born in their life, by their fruits you will know them That word for elders, presbyteros, presbyteroi, presbyteri. And then there's one court that goes beyond president They don't rule, they didn't rule on the theological views of this individual. The congregation can be told one day, hey, you have a new pastor among you. What the Presbytery then does is examine that exception and rule whether or not it's a matter of substance or not a matter of substance. It's not just the Pharisees and the scribes. And so you can live as a homosexual and be a Christian at the same time. And you can hear that it's not language. A person who wants to be an elder We also see a similar process happening with the deacons. These overtures pass They are just voting for themselves as voting members. And I'll read the section from the Book of Church Order about deacons for you in case you've never heard it. God met him at the burning bush and gave him a message. We don't need that person to say it. And this is where why I think it's important to talk to you guys about our system of government. You can go to Him through Christ. Again, you can email me for a PDF of the Book of Church Order if you want. Did you have your hand up, Roger? Two types of teaching elders. Did you know that there is a Presbyterian Baptist Church denomination in America? We have been over the course of the last six or seven months talking to different men in the church And we go to the Presbytery meetings and we sit through the presentations and we In many ways, we get confused by the rulings from the Supreme Court, don't we? People are saying we want the witness to the world that we're an open and accepting and loving and wonderful place. Anybody heard that? Joe's really a sinner. We're named for that term for uh elder, presbyteros, presbyterian. And a church that is only has deacons is going to be lacking. These elders are the rulers and leaders of the people. I'll go back to that John Owen paraphrase. Someone uh one of the elders in the PCA has put up a tracker, uh Google document where they're tracking how the presbyteries have voted. That is the very first section of the preface. Two, in perfect consistency with the above principle, every Christian church They picked two of them, right? He wasn't called as an apostle by Jesus. It has to be the majority of the church. So this is what happens at the Presbyterian General Assembly levels. Because you get a bunch of teaching elders standing up arguing for why Methodist, yeah. Did you notice that what that is called is called the doctrinal standards? An assistant pastor has no power. Since the ascension of Jesus Christ to heaven, he is present with the church by his word and spirit But ordination basically is a person being set apart, set aside to the specific Those men whose role was to guard the people and guard the doctrine had failed. Section three: to the office of deacon, which is spiritual in nature, shall be chosen men of spiritual character, honest It orders things for you. But this is important. Ryan, go ahead. Any teaching elder is entitled to a vote at Presbytery or General Assembly. What we have to understand is that in every church there is going to be a head. Our blessed Savior for the edification of the visible church, which is his body, You remember Moses and what he was doing, and he went out But this office, if you think about it, the office of elder is the only office that hasn't been abrogated in the New Covenant Church. And in Acts 15, 23, it begins this way: the apostles This is why we have deacons. They should, moreover, cultivate zealously their own aptness to teach the Bible, and should improve every opportunity of doing so. How could you do that? And it's one of the two primary terms for elder that's used in the Greek New Testament. Principle five Every officer who takes an oath to the PCA takes a vow saying that they will abide by that system. To me, that was very fascinating because I thought If you have your Bible with you, go to 1 Timothy 3. But it's not just your wife. It's kind of to the side. I'll start with side A. It was a very The Constitution. And throughout the prophets, He is also the only one who fulfills the role of king of his church. So Section 9 says elders being of one class of office Not supposed to. So when you are making the distinction and and how important it is that we hold The church is the authority and the power over the PCA. And what we have in the PCA is we have a lot of assistant pastors who have Who is the head and the king of the church in the Presbyterian system? It belongs to His Majesty from His throne of glory to rule It's not just weird that they're Baptists, Cratobaptists and Presbyterian, but they also have some That's the internal call. I mean that whole thing with revoice started in 2017. Where you have to say, well, the scripture doesn't really mean that. You guys got five more minutes? You go to Presbytery level and the teaching elders, this is their full-time job. On the contrary, there is an inseparable connection between faith and practice Section one That's why Presbytery meetings are on a Tuesday, because nobody wants to give up their Saturday for Presbytery meetings. And when they make their judgment, when they rule on the They have different authorities and different And I hope this has helped you see a little bit better how the order of elders ruling God's church Okay? No religious constitution should be supported by the civil power Oh well we could we could do that another time. In 1 Sam Samuel chapter 8, that's when they go to Samuel and they say, Your kids are awful. So let's see how this works out. And we'd have to answer for ourselves. Go ahead. We all know that the second commandment is No, I'm just kidding. Likewise deacons must be reverent, not double-tongued, not given to too much wine Section two They judge? That was a decision that the courts, this court of the session, made What is the elder does an elder have the authority to say, well, uh I don't have to believe that homosexuality is wrong, I can do whatever I want. That's what this church is founded on, and that's what all authority rests It's strange. If not, while while you're turning there, I'll go ahead and just read it. And the final step in that will be the congregation saying, yes Presbyteros. Are they disagreeing with one of the primary points and features of Christianity? Do you remember what the elders of Israel asked Samuel to do? And what did they determine? Polydodecahedral sexuality. And while I it seems to be significant So I don't know how familiar you are with the uh PCA's Book of Church Order Know what that means? In some systems, right, the episcopal system, did you know that ministers are appointed? You do not need a mediator in the church. Actually, you know, I'll do chapter nine first. As he bears glad tidings of salvation to the ignorant and perishing, he is termed evangelist In the PCA, that's not the case. But do you know what Pastor Jesse doesn't do? Now, what does that mean? So a session It is the church who worships Christ and is served, who serves Christ, and is served by Christ. They can do that. And I would put forward to you: it's there from the beginning. You don't have to reinvent the wheel just because you became a deacon and didn't know what that meant. Every elder in the church uh that sits on session has the same voice and the same So side B is trying to say that that's okay. Right now we have this same pastor who's being written up in Newsweek. It's an issue. They cannot, in any way, rule on the church level. Ouch. We only get three votes because of our size, we can only send two ruling elders, two commissioners, and we get our one pastor. Presbyterians don't necessarily all have the same kind of theological beliefs. Most of the time they're did you say Methodist? These are the elders, the presbyteroi, who are the authority over God's people. Gave a bunch of people a whole year to figure out their plans. , who have come up with different ideas for how one could interpret Genesis 1 and 2. He's the teaching elder. A whole presbytery full of idiots Where the other guys are saying, no, those those jerks didn't do it right. One has to be confirmed by the congregation We are a church made up of courts, right? That's a violation of the Constitution. Anybody heard of side A homosexuality? All right. That was fun to say. And reading through this is helpful for us. And they investigate and they make rulings and they do things. There's the associate pastor and the assistant pastor. Now let's talk about the elders and the deacons. Joe's a sinner, he's an elder. There's a very similar thing that happens in the Presbytery. Now see how sad that is? It basically means elder-led. It is strange. Section four Which helps no one, but it is what's happened So a lot of people take some exceptions to how the catechisms work out Who knows what the second part is? So they didn't have a fist fight to see who was the best elder. Who did they pick? So we do not have prophets, we do not have priests. This is why we are always encouraging folks. Sorry. It's like BPC, the Baptist Presbyterian Church? It's not just your children. If you've never looked at it, I'm going to read for you the preface, which is This is the Constitution defined, section three of the preface. We could talk about the difference between Lutherans and Calvinists for a long time. It's the elders. I thought somebody was going to say nothing, but that's Ha ha ha. And it's not the priests, because guess what? In Acts 14:23, Paul and Barnabas appoint elders in every church It's a little expanded. Our session is considering whether or not to put forward a an overture to do that. And that's kind of Do you know what that purpose was? I'm sorry to tell you that those overtures have failed. In Acts 4, verse 8, that's when Peter has been arrested and he addresses Yeah. And we don't want to be mean We examine him. Because in examination and in the testing of a person A human being is defined by God. I'll pray and end us in a very better mood. Especially since the term reformed uh back in the in the time of the Reformation Now, so we can see, we see that elders have played an important part. And so that he sent it up to the General Assembly. They determined that the presbytery followed the process How many of you are familiar with the um what's termed side beat homosexuality? So that's where you'd have your archbishop, your bishop, your I don't know what's after that. It's an important chapter, and we'll look together at this scripture, which is the description. Everybody's as excited as I am about this, aren't you? You already broke the commandment. There's a lot more brotherhood amongst us. A lot of it is just being derived from the Westminster Divines, from the Does that mean that this individual teaching elder is not guilty of doing anything wrong? And this is the this is the thing that makes this so strange. And do you know who he sent him to deliver the message to? And if you don't have a copy of the Book of Church Order, feel free to email me. I'll get on a pet subject. It is uh something that was adopted in the, I believe it was the early aughts of In the PCA, every teaching elder and ruling elder are one office, same office. What are those elders doing? By their fruits ye shall know them, Matthew 7:20. Gather the elders of Israel and deliver this message. Um when I say parties I use that term loosely. And if it's been accepted by the Presbytery generally Everyone in this room's a sinner. Well, God didn't really mean that. You have huge numbers of teaching elders that are able to go Who knows the year that the PCA was founded? But today we are talking about Presbyterianism. If a prophet, a modern-day prophet Because there's usually a bunch of big changes every single year He shall make a report to the Presbytery at least once each year Um I believe that uh It's very clear in Matthew 26 and 27 or Mark 14. We'll start with the D They don't make laws. If we truly held the two offices And then we see their reasoning behind it It's not just your friends in the church Does he believe? But then the Lord Himself has to work the faith in that man Um side A basically are people who want to say that God has no problem with homosexuality. And every presbytery then has to ratify Here's I'm going to read 1 Timothy 3 verses 1 through 13. I'm on the Presbytery Judicial Commission and we have So hide A side A is basically people think Yeah I know. Yeah. What is our Constitution made of? It gives their duties. So here's the section, chapter 8 on the elder Um however Now, and this is what I'm going to close on because this is probably the most But the point is the session and the congregation in the Um however, um this is a denomination Less than half of the assembly was ruling elders, but it's the most ruling elders that have ever been there. Who might name a system of polity, church policy If you ever have any trouble whatsoever, talk to the deacons. We as elders get together. You may have heard of the Revoice Conference. There wasn't a priesthood yet. You already sinned. To appoint elders. And then you have to twist things all around. If you look in Revelation Does he know what to believe about God and what God requires of men? Matthias. I'm not up to speed on how many there are or what And it's been many years that this has been going on Assistant assistant uh pastors are teaching elders and they're ordained and But there is still government of the church that needs to take place. And the congregation can say, I've never seen this guy before in my life. And that word to serve is Diakanain. It doesn't take very many. Because Um quickly Ephesians one twenty to twenty three That is Jesus Christ. These are the two offices of the church. We have a familiarity with courts. They cast lots, they voted The Book of Church Order helps you see that We could very well be called the Presbyterian Diachinoi Church. I don't even like talking about it And I'll do the same with elders. There is a king, there is one in charge. It's very similar. Do you remember how they picked him? And a church that only has elders is going to be lacking. Above the church, there's only one. And he does it through these fallible men. Is everyone in this room an elder? It's like And they end up with a person they've never known. I think it only takes ten, ten people. And we are defined by the Lord. We are talking about how Christ He thought he was going to just God reclaims people who have that mentality. The Standing Judicial Commission So You may have heard of this I'm pretty sure it's always I'll send you a PDF. In Exodus 12. Is it enough? Sure. It's weird.