Are done and are presented to us. And so Matthew is building a case here. And now we're moving into the next section where there's going to be teaching associated with the Acts as he continues to confirm uh what is uh before him and also what he has come to do. So now here at chapter nine first nine verses if you will follow along with me as I read please So he got into a boat, crossed over, and came to his own city. Then, behold, they brought to him a paralytic lying on a bed. When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Son, be of good cheer. Your sins are forgiven you. And at once some of the scribes said within themselves, this man blasphemes. But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why do you think evil in your hearts? For which is easier to say, your sins are forgiven you, or to say, arise and walk, but that you may know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins. Then he said to the paralytic, Arise, take up your bed, and go to your house. And he arose and he departed to his house. Now, when the multitudes saw it, they marveled and glorified God, who had given such power to men. As Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax office, and he said to him, Follow me. So he arose and followed him. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. I want you to get in the mind of a beach. I uh am not a real beach person myself I much prefer the mountains, but I hear there are people out there who actually like that thing. And so I I would imagine I would ask you to think of the beach. You're walking along the beach and you're observing the waves. Okay, the waves are rolling in And it seems to me, without any scientific basis for it whatsoever, just on my own personal observation, but it seems like waves always come in sets of three. The first wave is kind of just a ripple, if you will, if you're talking about ordinary waves, not that driven by a storm, but you've got the first wave coming in that's kind of a uh uh a ripple, large ripple And it may not even reach a crest. It just washes up, washes up on the beach. It goes a little ways up on the beach and then it recedes. And then the second wave, which is following in succession behind it, has more energy in it. And so you may see it as it comes up to the beach, you may see it begin to curl a little bit. And then it it washes up even for a little further than the first wave does. And then comes the third wave And it is, in my observation or notice, or whatever, uh it appears to be the most powerful of all. It rises up. And if you're watching little kids out there playing in the waves You'll see them as they see it coming, you'll see them kinda hunk her up like this because they're expecting the wave to to break over their back As they wait for it to come splashing over their head, and this wave then washes up on the beach, and it washes, and you can see the waters come up to the furthest extent of how the tide is going or the uh uh tide is going to push it that day. And along the way comes the little pieces of driftwood and the shells and whatever is coming up there Now once again, I you may dispute that, you may say that's a bunch of hokey, that there's no three groups of three or whatever, but that's at least the way that I have seen it in the past. I'd just like your to follow along Matthew's account of Jesus' miracles in chapter 8, leading up to chapter 9, the first eight verses, is kind of like that. Matthew groups these great works that Jesus has done in Matthew 8 and up into 9. And he groups them and there's a progression to them, a building to a crescendo, if you will. He presents these works significantly different than Mark and Luke do. Matthew doesn't give us a lot of details, as I've mentioned throughout. He just gives us these short, quick, hammer-like blows That come to us with showing Jesus in a particular light with each of the works that He has done He's hammering a nail, and each blow is driving that nail further and further into the wood until finally there comes that last hammer blow where it drives it all the way home. And in verse, these first nine verses of chapter nine, that nail gets driven home in spectacular fashion. We see Jesus of Nazareth as these accounts of his mighty works prove, beyond a shadow of a doubt, being presented to us that he is the Son of God. And here we have the capstone that he is also the Son of Man, as he himself proclaims, who has come to save his people. And if we go back and if we immerse ourselves in these stories, if we imagine ourselves and and enter into the ethos of these words, if we if we kind of take on each one of these stories that have been presented to us and and and think of what it would be like to live there, be there when they happen, you will, as you progress, if you read one right after the other straight through, you will feel a rising energy It's like that idea of standing in the ocean with the waves. And when a wave hits you, each successive wave lifts you up so that The last wave lifts you up so that you lose your traction on the floor and it pushes you towards the shore. This man Jesus healed a leper by touching his face. He healed a centurion's servant by saying a word. He spoke a word to the raging seas and the howling wind, and he calmed them, something only God can do. As we saw last week, he judged the powers of darkness and sentenced them metaphorically to death by having them cast into the sea. And now we see the culmination of his personal authority He does more than we could ever possibly imagine, certainly more than the people who were there imagined he could ever do. Jesus, by his own authority, by his own word, by a mere statement of his own will, pronounced a man's sins forgiven. More than forgiven. The word that is used here does not translate easily just to forgiveness. It means that they are lifted up. The word is Afiami. That they no longer rest upon that individual. The yoke of sin has been lifted from his shoulders and he bears them no more. Jesus of Nazareth is doing something, another work that only God can do. But it is a work that is so far removed from the others that it is astonishing, even compared to casting out demons. judging demons, and calming the oceans and the howling wind What an incredible thing we see here. God gave a man, this Jesus, the authority to forgive sins. No wonder, as it says in verse 8, that when the people saw it, they were amazed. Amazed. Who can blame them? This work, this testimony is the capstone of all the others. And if we really take it to heart, then we should be amazed also. We should be awestruck And that same sense of wonder should fill our hearts also. That's the point Matthew is driving home. That's the sequence, that's the energy that he is intending for us to do. This man, Jesus. He's special. There is no other man like him. None ever existed like him. None has existed like him since. Because all authority in heaven and earth has been given to him, even the authority to forgive sins. That is the point that Matthew is making. That is the point that we must consider today. Now I'd like you to notice here, it's not like Matthew is being subtle about it. He doesn't give any extra details, as we've already mentioned. He just hits us with the bare facts. He wants us to focus on that sharp reality Matthew, for example, does not tell us, as Mark does, that there were four men bringing this man on a litter to be before Jesus. Matthew doesn't say a word about the huge crowd that was gathered all about him. He doesn't say a word about the fact that they were in the house. And that this man on this litter had to be let down through a roof in order to get to him. Matthew doesn't want us to be distracted by all that detail. Matthew's got a different agenda, he's got a different purpose. He tells us that they, some indefinite number, brought this man on a litter He tells us he was a paralytic. The eye, he doesn't tell us where he was born like that, whether it happened last week or what. He's a paralytic. He's suffering. He's at the mercy of the world because he cannot move. And we see Jesus speaks directly to the man. Matthew, Mark, and Luke All, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, all say that he speaks to the man based upon their faith. Who's the there? The people who brought him. He says he saw their faith, and then he speaks to the man on the litter. Jesus saw their faith, the united faith, that present faith, that single face that was present in all of them that they saw Jesus with as being the one who has the power to heal and the power to demonstrate God's grace in this world. And he saw that and it moved his heart. It stirred him up. And it moves him to speak with great tenderness. Listen to Jesus as he speaks to this man. Enter into that situation. He looks at the man, and the first word of his mouth out of his mouth is, son. Son. Jesus was somewhere in his early 30s. This man could have been ten years older than he was. Certainly he was an adult. And yet Jesus uses the same word a grandfather would use. When he lifts up his firstborn grandson, and he says, son, you're my son. Or when the when a father looks at his son and there's the he sees in him something that encourages him. And he looks at him and he says, son, you are going to be a good man. And there's that sense of pride, that tenderness, and joy that's associated with this word. Now what right does Jesus have to say that to this man? What's he saying about himself that he is speaking to this other man and he is calling him son? If you're sit sitting there listening to me, what does that say about how he views you How does he think of you in your life? When he looks down and he looks at you, Poor and broken in life and spirit as you are, as you feel the weight of the world upon you, As you're seeking to figure out what it's all about and what's going on and where you're headed and how in the world are you going to get through whatever it is you're facing and what does your future hold and And perhaps concerns about your children or perhaps relationship issues within your home or perhaps somebody is sick or whatever it is where the weight of the world is on you and you are broken before our Lord in Christ. What does it say to you when you hear him speaking and saying, son? Daughter, brother, sister of our father, beloved child in my family Right away when I think he said these words, I think an electric chill went throughout that whole community who heard him. He called that man son. What in the world is going on here? This is Jesus. We're in Nazareth. This is his hometown. What's that boy grow up? You know? I don't know if he chunked rocks at chickens or not. I I just don't know But they knew him and and here he is calling a man perhaps from that community. He's calling him son. I wonder what they thought. I know it got their attention. You can imagine the reaction that they had. And then he goes on, he says, son, be of good cheer, because your sins are forgiven you. I'll get to the sins. And he says, son, be of good cheer. He's talking to a paralytic. Your sins are forgiven you. And the crowd says, well, wait, what did he say? He doesn't say be healed. Wait, I came here to see a healing. What's he doing saying forgiving sins? This man was brought here to be healed of his broken body. Why is he talking about his sins? What kind of expectation governed them such that when they heard this, that it it influenced how they thought? He didn't say be healed. He said your sins are forgiven you. And he says then, or he said first, be of good cheer, because this is what's happening. Now I want you to stop and think about that for just a minute. I want that breaking wave to carry you all the way up the beach. I want it to lift you right off your feet as you think about it. Jesus is saying, come to me with your paralysis and be of good cheer. Stop worrying about the health of your body. Stop worrying about the issues of your life. Stop worrying about the brokenness of living. in this world where our bodies are afflicted, and what is far more deadly, more devastating than being born of heralytic. You have a condition that is deeper than being a paralytic. You have a condition that is more devastating than having a broken body. You have a much deeper problem that is affecting you, whether you think about it or not, than simply that which is preventing you from walking. Be of good cheer. Take on a hopeful attitude, an attitude that enables you to have joy in the midst of it. Because I'm doing something to you today, for you today That will make a difference far more important than simply healing your body. And I want you to realize That even if you have to live the rest of your life on that litter Even if you have to beg your friends to carry you wherever you need to go Even if you have to depend upon others to bring you your food, or perhaps even to feed you, depending upon your paralysis. Though you may be facing the rest of your life in pain, throughout the rest of your days, Yet, praise God, you cannot help but proclaim through this good cheer that I'm continuing to you, that your sins are forgiven. They have been lifted from your shoulders. They have been removed from your account. And compared to that, brothers and sisters, what is mere paralysis? Compared to that, what is a passing life of pain, of heartache, or of disappointment? Those things will pass. In time they will sink back into the sea from whence they came. But forgiveness of sin, the removal of guilt, the washing of your soul. Brothers and sisters, that's forever. That is eternal. In comparison to that work No other work of God comes even close. The calming of the winds and the waves, the casting out of demons, the healing of a leper That is mere child's play for this man. For this man is the son of God, the promised son of man. The great work of Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, is this. He has been given authority on earth in his own blessed person to forgive sins. And that's the point that Matthew is driving at here today. He puts all of Jesus' other great works in relation to this. We see that from Jesus' own words and the way that he speaks to the scribes who were raising uh up objections to what he's doing. This man blasphemes. Now remember, the man's still lying there on a litter He's still a paralytic. Jesus could have left him there. His sins would have been forgiven, but he would have kept the paralysis. They look at him and say, this man blasphemes. Only God can uh forgive sins. Well, yeah, that's the whole point. But he looks at him, he looks at these blind scribes, he looks at these unbelieving legalists, he looks at this Pride-filled hearts that they have who are refusing to believe the evidence of their very own eyes and what Jesus has already done, and he speaks directly to them And notice how differently he speaks to them than he speaks to the man on the litter. You saw the tender face. Even faith as a mustard seed in the man and in the friends who brought it But he looks at these scribes, and he sees that hard, stony heart that is within them, and there is no tenderness in his reply. What do we learn from that? We learn from that that the heart of unbelief is far more deadly than any condition of mere paralysis. A heart of unbelief, brothers and sisters, is the sin of ingratitude. It is the sin of pride. It is the sin of rejection. And it distills into one seething cauldron of slime. A heart of unbelief is like a witch's brew of disgusting pus And unless it is cured, and unless some incredible work of power is accomplished on it, it will spread from that cauldron and it will infect every aspect of our being. Imagine a basement in your house that remains damp, and behind the drywall in your basement, you get mold What happens if that is not addressed? You betcha. Does it just stay there in that one little spot? Now the mold goes everywhere and it grows so much that after a while the basement becomes uninhabitable So it is with a heart of unbelief. It never stays in one place. Jesus looks at these men and his entire tone changes. Don't you get it? He says Why do you think evil in your hearts? Look at what I have just done And you have the audacity to question me when I tell this man his sins are forgiven? You ought to be dancing in the street. You ought to be rejoicing with all the angels in heaven that this sinner has been saved from the jaws of hell. I am making a statement about myself. I'm making a statement about sin. And you're distracting the whole conversation. Why? Because your heart is hard, and you do, and you refuse to believe. All I am doing, Jesus is saying, is making sure that you completely understand what's going on here. I'm going to heal this man's body. But I want you to know the only reason I'm healing this man's body is a sign to you and your unbelief that what I said first is true. His sins are forgiven. And that's the only reason I'm going to heal his body. Pay attention, you unbelievers. Look and see. If you persist in your unbelief, then let the evidence of your eyes that you will see here today stand in judgment against you when you stand before the Lord your God. Because you have looked and seen what I have done, and you have refused to believe He turns then and he says to the man, My son, arise, take up your bed, and go to your house. There's no conversation. We don't see the man jumping for joy Matthew doesn't point to us and and talk about the whoops and the joy and the exclamation and all the patting on the back that I'm sure that his friends and buddies and family members he doesn't point to all that. He only says this. Yes, sir. Takes up that bed and goes to his house. He rose up from his broken condition and he started out a new life. He started out a new life of obedience. A life given over to bearing witness that Jesus of Nazareth had done a great work in his life, that Jesus had forgiven his sins, and oh yeah, by the way, he actually healed me from being a paralytic. You see that? That you may know Beyond a shadow of a doubt, that the Son of Man has been given the power on earth to forgive sins, arise, take up your bed, and go Brothers and sisters, in conclusion, there's a lot more that can be said about this passage. But this is the main point. What Matthew is driving home here is that the greatest work of redemption. The greatest power of the redemption that the world can ever know is Jesus' work in forgiving sins. The great work of Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, is this. He is the Son of God and the Son of Man come to this earth to accomplish that work. And I tell you and proclaim to you today that Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ of God, the Son of God and the Son of Man, Is still doing the work of forgiving sin. The greatest work of healing that Jesus did on that day in Nazareth was a mighty thing. But you know that earthly body that he heals that day, that paralytic body? That body is in a grave somewhere right now. The physical pain that Jesus took away on that day probably did not remain away for the rest of that man's life. We don't know. We can only speculate. But we do know that at some point this man who was healed by Jesus faced physical pain again, as he faced perhaps even grief again, and at different levels may have remained in pain for some significant time for his remaining days on earth. And then at some point physical death took him. But do you know what his testimony was for the rest of his life? Do you know what his testimony is today? As he is in paradise, rejoicing with the man who has uh taken away his sin. His testimony, no matter what he faced, is this. It was worth it. It was worth it. Whatever the rest of his life entailed, nothing could compare to the grace of Jesus Christ that had been shown him in the forgiveness of his sins. Nothing could be compared to the breaking wave of Jesus' authority and power that washed him all the way up to the furthest reaches of the beach. Nothing can be compared to the incomparable glory that God the Father has shown and God the Son who has forgiven his sin. Brothers and sisters, I ask you in conclusion, do you know that joy? Is your testimony to that end? Is that the essence of your witness? Do you know what this man must have felt? Is it your story that no matter what you have gone through in your life, no matter what you're going through now in your life, whatever it is that God has led you through, it is worth it Because nothing compares to the glory of Christ that has been shown in my life because He has forgiven me my sin. Do you know that? Can you testify that you came to Jesus broken in your spirit? Recognizing that you're unable to move, there's nothing about your condition that you could change. Perhaps a friend brought you, as friends brought these, this this man. Something to cause you to see Jesus as the one who is the answer to your most immediate problems. Perhaps you are moved by despair, by living in a world that is broken beyond comprehension. Perhaps you came to him originally seeking to have your life made better. Perhaps you came to him because of what we call felt needs. Perhaps you came to him because there were issues in your life that you lacked wisdom to deal with. Perhaps But did you discover when you came to him that he in his infinite wisdom, his infinite love, and his compassion for you gave you something that was much more than you ever expected? Something far more precious. Can you testify that you heard him say, My son, my daughter? Your sins are forgiven. From that point on, was your life changed as this man's was? Did you arise from that condition in which you were first brought to Jesus? And did every heart, every beat of your heart from then on comprise this? I will say I will do what my Savior has told me to do. As your whole life changed as a result of that, because you have been shown grace, infinite grace. So that you took up your bed, your litter, whatever that was, for the remaining days of your life. You dedicated yourself to serving the living Christ Brothers and sisters, that's what grace is all about. We come in faith. We are received with grace. We are healed of our pains and our suffering in the spiritual sense, so that we may know that the Son of Man has authority, the power. To forgive sins on earth. This is your Christ, this is your God. If you are here today and you are still remaining in unbelief, then I call upon you to rebuke Satan, rebuke the doubts that he is raising in your hearts And in your mind, and I call upon you to turn to Christ, to trust in Him, to believe in Him, and to know in doing so. That your sins are forgiven. Let's pray.