If you want to see a premier example of this, besides chapter 1, verse 8, flip to Proverbs 31 and just notice the editorial remark there before those Proverbs begin. And the emphasis is really on their chaotic love lives. And it says here with the strongest language, she will slit your throat like a s a double-edged sword, and she'll bring you right down into hell I didn't obey any of the voices that came from my church and my teachers or my Sunday school teachers or my pastor. He says, if you come to me in repentance, there is forgiveness even for you. Or the winds and the waves that he quiets while he's in the boats. Please notice first the emphasis on the two voices that we see within the passage. That's what makes this so difficult. Pray that you do that as a mighty work here at Severn Run in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen Um, uh Pastor actually compares this song and the lyrics to what Martin Luther said. The liberating joys of justice and psychological and social harmony are promised to those who become servants And bound by God's teachings, instructions, and sayings, that that is what limits their heart, their hands and their feet, and their mouth. As say to a 10-year-old in Egypt, that would have been a marriage marriageable age. Grandchildren, etc. Man and woman. And this is what ends up happening within a youth that this actually take in which it takes residence. Sweetest of the sweet. Better than everyone. And the description here is entirely Middle Eastern. Canaanite religious festival. Saying she wouldn't tell the mom. All of a sudden it's boom. In chapter three. And Solomon expresses this metaphorically in terms of a cistern in verse 15. Starting in ver in verse 15, a cistern, running water, a fountain, a stream. What he's saying, first and foremost, is that the water source is private and it is exclusive. means the one that the one that you were married to. Because some people like to act like pure animals and they will abuse the relationship. He has forgiveness for you even if you have been a prostitute Man, if he were a prophet, would know who and what of kind of manner of woman this is who is touching him, for she's a sinner. One owed five hundred deneri, and the other fifty, and one and when they had nothing with which to repay, he freely forgave them both. You did not anoint my head with oil, but this woman has anointed my feet with fragrant oil. And are still tempted by it that there is forgiveness for us in Jesus Christ, even from sexual perversion. Lest you ponder her path of life. And do not depart from the words of my mouth. Lest aliens be filled with your wealth and your labors go to the house of a foreigner, and you mourn at last. Instruction. This is especially for our high school students and our college students, but of course, the prayer is for everyone. Joy in us and giving us your word. Let it go, let it go. continuous. Going to sing this for you. Both said, here I stand. at all. anymore. City. Oppressive. Preserve discretion and your lips may keep knowledge. He does have the daughter in mind also. And for them to love you and for you to love them. Adult version of Frozen. Look at verse four real quick. It's it's not sweet. The father cries aloud again in verse 7, and then in verse 8, he says, Remove your way far from her, and do not go, and you could even say, even, even near the door of her house. Treacherous men to have a part of your community. With the way that they had their justice system set up. home. Scathed. husband's sexual identity or with his marriage with other things like if you stole his goat or hurt his eye And it then moves into a lament, actually, in verse 12. that you thought you would gain, that led to oppression. And just as I struggle with that, but this is the basis for our practices of remaining chaste until marriage, as well as monogamy afterwards. They're not trying to ruin your life for you. It's an illusion for them. It really matters. But just as in the other chapters, the world is not on autopilot. For why should you, my son, be enraptured by an immoral woman and be embraced in the arms of a seductress? For the ways of a man are before the eyes of the Lord. choose. And she began to wash his feet with her tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head, and she kissed his feet and anointed them with the fragrant oil. And Simon answered and said, I suppose the one he forgave more. I entered your house, you gave me no water for my feet, but she washed my feet with her tears and wiped them with the head of her hair. And they are now under my reign and within my boundaries. From taking place this morning. to hear your words and to store them and to find true freedom. I'll be referring to major sections in chapter 6 and chapter 7. And always be enraptured with her love. And in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray. Preached by turning to Proverbs chapter five. Let them be only your own and not for strangers with you. For the ways of man are before the eyes of the Lord, and he ponders all his path. makes everything seem small, and the fears that once controlled me can't get to me at all. To test the limits and break through. It keeps us from straying into a chaotic world with no boundaries, and especially the chaotic world of the wicked man and the woman of the city. My son, pay attention to my wisdom, verse one. Really pleading. This is meant to show a real competition against the words of the Father. And that I want you to notice that run through this proverb. He commands and pleas with the church, the sun, to pay attention. You would be a good planner. But you have the discretion, even though both are appealing, to always choose the right one. Then the child looks inward to the biblical teaching that has been given to them, that they stored within their hearts, that they took seriously. The Father actually comes across in a kind of Puritan plainness, doesn't he? Generally, when we go back to chapter two, we know that they are those who have turned their backs on God's covenant community. Totally implausible. Their lips drip honey. Your desire for security and material things, to be a part of a particular group. They really turn the table here, although we have the second voice. is the idea. And she's going to devour him. This first choice and the way that the Father sees it from covenant eyes is so true for you to be able to see that it looks sweet in the beginning, but boy is it bitter in the end. Child support, broken homes, hurt, jealousy, divorce, loneliness, murder, STDs. Why didn't I just listen from the beginning? And that's what's taking place here. And you've seen this structure before where at the end God comes in and he says, the reason why wisdom works is because I back it up. I will establish the wisdom. He will never support adultery. The net comes down on the birds, or whatever. That's the picture that we have. That second voice can be, and there are two choices before you as you come to this fork in the road. And behold, a woman in the city who was a sinner, this is that immoral woman in the city that we read about in Proverbs. People. To where we can have true freedom and turn our backs on the folly that we had in our youth. through the power of his Holy Spirit will exercise his great power and he will say, No further will you come. And when you set that in contrast to what Elsa is saying, it brings it out even more. There is another voice though, and you can see this in verse 3. And to give ear to his wisdom and his understanding. that our discretion would make everything black and white and we would know the path. That we would see a woman lay before a man. And um he's without his family and someone uh one of his friends made an offer to him and uh he said yes. Verse 11 it says, and you mourn at last when your flesh and your body are consumed. And I hope that particularly you high school and college students realize from this description that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are not calling you into a life of existing in a straitjacket. Has been set for them and boom, before you know it, the the jaws clamp on the fox's foot and they never knew they never saw it coming No further will you destroy my children. And her mouth is smoother than oil. And chaste hearts. And so I'm going to be a little euphemistic. Get the giggles out of your system, and that's what I mean by romantic. And you can see the outline right there on your bulletin for you to be able to take notes. My son, hear the instruction of your father and do not forsake the law of your mother. So, as usual, these commands are followed in verse 2 by the father's aim or the goal. That's the price that you have to pay. Notice that this is in fact everything that was offered, the promises in chapter 3, social honor, long life, wealth, the profits from your labor. And there would be anger, and anger would subside. That's the point. I never inclined my ear to those instructions. It's not meant to share. So that we don't misunderstand and wrongly emphasize the act. The Bible is saying, the Holy Spirit is teaching us something completely contrary to the same, to what our culture teaches us. In fact, the limits given in Proverbs keep us from straying into the chaotic world, if you remember chapter 2. We're dealing and if I could if I could teach this to you in the Hebrew, it is erotic in marriage. They can actually look at the person who is wicked and say, honestly, in the end, I think you're a fool. In verse 3, only the immoral woman is mentioned, but considering daughters, we should also see the immoral man. And this would happen especially in the case of a romance with another person's wife or husband. crying and mourning at what he has done with his life. We have to look at the whole proverb as a whole, but there is a biological drive component to this. That's not the description of all. And that is that we had two voices, we had two choices, and now we have one God backing up the right choice. And I see it in Luke chapter 7, verse 36. For she loved much, but to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little. Those who have strayed, but have come to the place where they are broken and they're tired of ignoring your instructions. Turn away and slam the door. And it won the twenty thirteen Oscar Best Original Song. Here I stand. Okay? Now that is the competition that we have, and we'll see it even further in chapter 8 another time, but those are the two voices that we see here. They seek romance with those who are married to others. Little flatteries that we love. Interestingly, Christians and non-Christians alike acknowledge this. For example, and I don't recommend this, this show, but I know about it and have watched it. And it's the same with all of those shows. Don't even go near the door. He's warning us against all of those things. But I've made it exceptionally difficult for them with the shame that I've brought to everybody. Covenant commitment to one person is the biblical picture and the boundary of God where you can find true freedom God sees all. And God has structured the universe so that sin will entrap you itself and enslave you to trouble, verse 22. Make sure that you do. And it's still a struggle for us, and this is what we need to hear. And that is good news for people like me and for people like you that have gone to this woman or to this man in this city and gone to that chaos and lived in that kind of life. That is the good news of the gospel, but the good news goes past just forgiveness. you will find it to be your pleasure to submit to him in these ways, in these romantic ways. And of our friends and of our brothers and sisters. Of the utmost importance for anyone, but especially you high school students and college students, discretion here is used mostly in relationship to planning an independence of thought from the culture. So I came out to meet you. Still with this first choice. The f notice the language here. It's the idea of being thirsty and being able to fulfill it. I want you to observe, you can do this on your own now, okay? And this is the point where it really comes through in the original language that it happens all of a sudden. And he does so actually quite pragmatically, doesn't he? Jesus answered and said, Simon, I have something to say to you. Everyone recognizes that that famous song, Let It Go, by Robert Lopez and Christine Anderson. The author of Proverbs argues that freedom is found within the forms that God sets. Now this isn't just about boundaries on everything. The words of King Lemuel, the utterance which his mother taught him. This is honey right off the honeycomb. And there a woman met him with the tire attire of a harlot. And that's what we see here in seven: the lowest of the low, those who are romantic outcasts within his culture, he does not keep from them. There's no reason for you to stay in your guilt and your immoral lifestyle. Father, I pray that these words would set in, and I pray that you would bring to Severn Run. And I pray that as your representatives, we would welcome them with open arms and that we would disciple them, that they would be under your reign and find freedom within your forms. So you can see how relevant this is when you consider especially the seductive second voice of the two voices. In the end, is so important. We don't need Netflix to prove this. To break through the boundaries set by God like a heaving tidal surge. Lend your ear to my understanding, that you may preserve discretion and your lips may keep knowledge. The telling nature of our own hearts. The cold never bothered me anyway. It's the same thing, by the way, that Moana says. For obvious reasons. She's away at college in order to make extra money, that's what she's doing. The purpose of the water metaphor that he uses: drink water from your own cistern and running water from your own well. The fountains abroad and the streets shared with strangers. Here we see the seductive second voice, though. But here's the thing, and let's take a look real quickly here how this is filled out a little bit in chapter six. And so the second choice we see leads to true freedom. So our main point then is that stepping outside God's romantic boundaries is oppressive. So let's start with the two voices that we see within the passage beginning here in chapter five Those are the boundaries of God. Even my brothers or my sisters who grew up in the church have done this and nothing really happened to them. Drink water from your own cistern, and running water from your own well. And my heart despised correction. Those two characters show up again. Because he look there at verse two, because he wants them to preserve discretion and he wants them to keep knowledge. That's the point. That God will leave a gap between the choice of a person and the consequences. You can see the two voices. She said to him, See, this is these are her, this is the honey words of her. Look at those muscles. Don't even glance over there. And so later the offer knocked on the door as he waited in the hotel, and he opened the door, and it was his daughter But we have a choice too. The water source stands for something else too. That already listened to the woman in this story, or to the man. But here the Father prays for the youth and for all of us here, that in we would have discretion, that even in the midst of such what may seem gray ethical matters sometimes It's during the height of the nectar flow. Now you can ask how can this be true? Now, I want to conclude by by I'm going to end up turning to Luke chapter 7. That's all present here within this word discernment and the knowledge that he wants them to have stored within their heart as a parent longs for within And notice that it moved from our earlier chapters from child to children. Really, the whole church here at this point, all those who are in the covenant community, the Father is crying out to you to please listen to what he has to say about romance Yeah, chapter seven, I apologize. It raises a question that our culture is asking all the time. How do they admit that the honey is sweet? And that we have here in the next set of next paragraph, which begins in seven, in the second point on your bulletin there, there are two choices. The first choice is that you can step outside God's romantic boundaries, and you can see this represented by a door and a house in verse 8. I'm not sure why in verse 17 it would be attractive to a young man for her to have cinnamon all over her bed, but that must be an ancient Near Eastern thing. And that can bring a an old saying that we have even in our our culture, the honey is sweet, but in the end the bee stings. But here's the question. And how will that take place? And socially, really, although we don't have everything set up the same way, socially we're not the same. But this is what Luther meant. We know folks that are like that, and by God's grace only are we not like that at this moment. Your honors and your years, your wealth and your labor. This is a private thing. The picture here is intense freedom, but it's always within God's boundaries of monogamy and remaining chaste until marriage. If you leave God's instructions, it says in verse 23: if you lack discerning knowledge, then you will live the tragic life of the fool, and God will personally It is the ability to see, more particularly, multiple paths, and both of them look really good Everything is lost in that moment. When she knew that Jesus sat at the table in the Pharisees' house, brought an alabaster flask of fragrant oil and stood at his feet behind him weeping. That's what she would say. You can see what is behind the door. I want to turn to Luke seven. I'm one with the wind and sky. Very interesting. Any insecurity that you have, they prey upon and make you feel secure in them. That's what's on offer here. I will establish those ways. The main point this morning is that stepping outside of God's romantic boundaries is oppressive. It would take away his social honor. Can one walk on hot coals and his feet not be seared? What you see though, the Father saying is that the first choice, even though it seems so appealing in the beginning, it leads to oppression. We're still talking about choice one. Her ways are unstable. Even for me, it would be too embarrassing. True freedom is found within the limits set by God. And I'll be reading the whole chapter this morning. And so we so it is equally applicable to man and woman here. And the same thing would go for women. In fact, I I just heard a story from another pastor who said that there was a businessman who went off He says, Should your fountains be dispersed abroad, streams of water in the street? Whatever it would be, I know that that's superficial. Don't even acknowledge that she has a residence. Look, it's the ruin of my life. This is still the Father speaking. And an adulteress, as you can see, that's, will prey upon his precious life. Two people said that. This is honey not mixed with fake simple syrup or imported from China. Even the non-Christian world recognizes that it's sweet in the beginning, but bitter in the end, and will drag you right down to hell. Don't even allow your heart to meditate on the fact that she has a home and that there is a door. Now if you look at that in the Hebrew, basically what she's saying is she's playing on the pride of the man. And he's going to lament in the end. The lament, and that's how you have to read the rest. You think that you're going to get away with these things by doing them in the dark and secretly? Remove your way far from her, and do not go near the door of her house, lest you give your honor to others, and your years to the cruel one The daughter is applicable. The immoral woman or man lives outside the covenant community, and so in this case it would be another nation for a young Israelite, the Canaanites, for example. Chapter seven, verses thirteen through fifteen. The immoral, this is exactly what would happen in their culture. We didn't listen to instruction. No right, no wrong, no rules for me, I'm free Pray that we would not go outside your boundaries. That's what this is filled out here. You can read them on your own. For why should you, my son, be enraptured by an immoral woman and be embraced in the arms of a seductress? I don't want to be unnecessarily provocative up here, but I you know the verse that I already read. I'm not going to draw out what the Hebrew poetry is doing. Lend your ear to my understanding. And look at the severity of it in 27. You thought you got away with it. It's exclusive. He will always support marriage. Pray that we would receive your word with meekness and humility. No one gets off the hook here. But here you can see in chapter 7, verse 16, she does everything she can. I hope that you're persuaded by the Father this morning. It really happens if you stay within the bounds that God has given to us. You never thought it was coming. And he said to him, You have rightly judged. Just as he said in the bulletin with the waves that we see, with the ocean wanting to come up on land. No further. That's what Elsa would say. Had never ever done anything like that before. The persons of the Trinity are calling you to true pleasure and true freedom, something that the world doesn't know about. Luther meant he was free from fear and from other authorities because he was bound by the Word of God and its norms. But then you have the honey-dripping lips and sweetness of the immoral man. Sin seems sweet in the imagination, and some it sometimes still seems sweet when you first begin, but in the end it is bitter. And now look at me, I'm on the verge of total ruin. Father, we thank you for this great teaching, although uh difficult, especially with all of the different age groups. They're not ultimately concerned whether the culture accepts them, and they can stand up against the temptation. I know I'm butchering this, but it's funny how some distance Is greater freedom found within the boundaries set by God in His Word or no boundaries at all? It's highlighted with the immoral woman. You must give yourself romantically, is the picture that we see within the passage. Does it look like people are not having fun? I have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined my ear to those who instructed me. Because they say in the end. The water source also stands for quenching loving biblical drives. Verse twenty one. But in the end, she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. I don't care what they're gonna say. It would be like me taking you on my backyard, pulling out a comb from the hive and handing it to you. In the name of Christ, Amen. In fact, the next set of verses documents clearly the ensuing bitterness of the oppression resulting from living outside of God's boundaries I look outside and I see everybody looks like they're having a good time. God Himself upholds the moral order of the universe. Quite pragmatically. So he said, teacher, say it. But when you mess with this item, the jealousy and the rage will not subside until you are completely destroyed and enslaved to him. The second choice is that you would stay within God's limits. And that's what he says here. Although spoken metaphorically, you can't miss the seductively sweet and smooth speech of the immoral man and woman here. And I'm really trying to tell you this isn't a good choice if you haven't picked up on that. When we read the word how, that's a signal within the Hebrew for us to see that he's now moving into a time when he's on his face That's what's present. Verses fifteen and sixteen. The voice of the Father is also coming out very clearly in verse 7. Take a look, for example, at Proverbs 1, verse 8. That's the word that's being used here. I pray that you would deliver us from the smooth speech of our culture. I pray, Father, that you would give us over to you and your ways, and that you would protect us through this wisdom from the chaos of immorality. She must go out past the reef and past the traditions of her elders. The way that this is described, the provocative nature is already present Take a look at verse 3. Look at how the father speaks back up and does two main things. And it's something I'm not going to exegete word for word, to tell you the truth. In the Hebrew, the description are even more intense than I can translate here. You thought you were just going to go on your merry way, and that was it. This is my child, and I have chosen romantic wholeness for their life. I pray, Father, that these words truly would be heard and stored within our hearts. It meant two totally different things. The voice of the Father first, he continues the same theme that we have saw in the other Proverbs. And they are sweet because they appeal to your biological and felt longings. I want you to observe the description of enjoyment and freedom within the marriage. And therefore I say to you, her sins, which are many, and of the worst kind, are forgiven. Let your fountain be blessed and rejoiced with the wife of your youth. We see the Father, as we've seen throughout this whole book You do not know them. Let it go, let it go. Two voices, two choices, one God. Let's pray. Whatever it is you want, you can have it, but the price that you're going to pay is physical immorality You see, this is what happens. In whatever perversion you have been a part of, there is forgiveness for you. I had so much placed before me, so much opportunity. It's not just about an instinct that other animals are driven by. If you, with humble repentance and belief, bow before Jesus, then he And he's going to recognize what the Father told him I'm just going to read you the words. You can see this also in verse two that you may uh The youth are protected from the immoral man and woman because when the wicked try to seduce them with their honey lips She goes on, and she caught him with a kiss, with an impudent face. But that's what's going on here. It would drain him of his wealth and perhaps enslave him. And I say loving biological drives because we've got to take all of the scriptures together. The text that we look at this morning will meet those two will meet uh really both of those characters, the wicked man and the the woman of the There's no wrong, there's no right, there's no rules for me in my love life, if we saw perhaps so. You're longing to be beautiful, to be valued for your thoughts. Verse 18 says that you are to do this as you rejoice with the wife of your youth. There are no Pharisees here, brothers and sisters. It is ironic to compare the sung speech of the character Elsa and Frozen with that of Martin Luther before the Holy Roman Emperor All of the tragic consequences, though, you can see here in the progression of this text, take a look now at verse 11. Then he turned to the woman and he said to Simon, You see this woman? And tell me that's not what's happening with the two voices. That's why I'm saying five, six, and seven go together. This is a very short point. That's all you really need to hear. On the consequences that we see within life and even after life, because we know this moves past into death. You really wanna be a part of something that everyone's been a part of? These three chapters for your own reading go together and fill each other out. 19. Thank you. Can a man take fire to his bosom and his clothes not be burnt? It would have been a man-to-man talk, and he would not have been euphemistic. For the lips of an immoral woman drip honey, and her mouth is smoother than oil. Now, although their lives are chaotic, the problem is that on the surface they are persuasive Just turn the page to verses uh thirteen through fifteen. They don't say in the beginning it's not sweet. So it is he who goes to his neighbor's wife, whoever touches her shall not be innocent. Oh, how I have hated your instruction. Do you see that there? Sexual perversion. But just for example, a net a Netflix show and they multiply like breaking bad, in the end there's complete and total destruction of everything that he ever wanted. That's what it says there in nine and ten. He lost everything in that moment. There was a certain creditor who had two debtors. So he's speaking not just to his son, but he's speaking to all of those who will come in generations afterward. Although he is pleading, and he won't be too plain by the time we get to verse 19. You shall not pass. Oh sorry, that's one second. My heart despised correction. That's the picture here of choice one. I have peace offerings with me. He uses just about every possible word you could for water. And this is the basis, although you don't hear much teaching on this any longer, and of course all you think they're smarter than the scriptures. Why would you ever want to do that knowing what you know about God? That's what he does So please uh know that it is speaking to you as a as a woman, even though it does use the word son here So you gotta bring Hasidva Ahmed into this also from chapter three, covenant faithfulness For example, if you look in Solomon, water means the same thing, to quench your thirst and your beloved And here's the main thing that's taught us. For by means of a harlot a man is reduced to a crust of bread. And that is severe. Not only does Jesus forgive, but he will recreate you to take great joy in his rule. She's appealing to those things that we long to have fulfilled, those little insecure And verse 18B shows you what all of this is standing for, and rejoice with the wife of your youth. Our culture is completely confused romantically, and yet Jesus still opens his arm and he says Jesus sets us upon a romantically strong rock, and he shows us how to be human again. It can seem like that for people. And one author observes about this song. You see that? Here the power of discernment is coupled with the knowledge the parents give That's the point here. True freedom is found within the romantic limits set by God. Watch a series on Netflix Because everything that I've told you that you could gain through wisdom in chapter three, it will every one of those things will be taken away from you. I just I thought I had it all together. And everyone at the church is is ashamed of me and my family. It's like when you're walking along, if you see animals, they're just going about foraging in the wilderness, not knowing that a snake And then Jesus says to her, Your sins are forgiven. Do you see what's happening there? Take what I'm saying seriously Both the man and the woman are immoral in many ways It's time to see what I can do You'll never see me cry. Elsa speaks for the contemporary culture by saying she can be free only if there are no boundaries. From the beginning of the book. There might already be past the question and not asking it. Okay? So the mother has been instructed in this also. He's being driven into the ground by God's chastisement that we read about. Boom. His own iniquities entrap the wicked man, and he is caught in the cords of his own sin. Lopez was sung in the Disney movie Frozen Pray that we would find joy in you. Who was right? But please know by verse 19, all you teenagers, go ahead and read it again. I'm the underwriter. Because quite honestly, there are a lot of us in this room. You gave me no kiss, but this woman has not ceased to kiss my feet since I came in So in this culture it would have been obvious to them, should you really be sh You see the two voices, and you can see how persuasive But this is what Jesus is like, because Jesus isn't like that And sometimes he leaves a long gap. Then one of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him, and he went to the Pharisee's house and he sat down to eat. You don't have to look at this metaphorically. The prior points establish an order to the world. Therefore, hear me now, my children. Should your fountains be dispersed abroad, streams of water in the streets? The second choice is that you can stay within his limits. You should be used to that by now. Verse twenty one points out that God will personally make sure that his moral order of the universe will will stand And I want nothing to do with that. They seek romance outside of marriage. You can see this, there's a transition verse in verse 20. That's how it happens. And the Father seeks to persuade you that his words are the ones you want to. And although your romantic desires may seem When your flesh and your body are consumed, then you say, We have enough stories to show that stepping outside of God's romantic boundaries leads to anything but freedom. This is a very important point. You big hunk of a man. The lion is crouched. That's the whole point, is that true freedom Does it look like God is a prude and doesn't want you to enjoy yourself How his own iniquities entrap the wicked man, and he is caught in the cords of his sin. It's like a heaving tidal surge that you can't hold back. In this context, however, it moves away from just a general turning their back on the covenant community Now if you turn to 716 And and the point too, which we'll get to later, is that it happens quick. And let me just say that looks can be deceiving God sees everything. For the lips of an immoral woman drip honey Because both Elsa and Martin Luther said, Here I stand. And we've got to talk about this. Let the storm rage on Today I have paid my Should your fountains be dispersed abroad? So both sons and daughters are instructed in this obviously because it's a mother here who's passing down the church the I have seen lots of immoral men lay the same temptations before a woman. What a fool I was that I have to learn the hard way. And I pray, Father, that these words would go into our hearts and that we would choose My son, pay attention to my wisdom. As a loving deer and a graceful Joe Joe Doe, let her breast satisfy you at all times. They say in the end it's There's a little interlude in there where it talks about three We've moved into immorality. But Jesus has come to offer salvation to such Oh Father, the seriousness of these words Let it go. And that's a play on word, in the end of the bee. Now take a look at the last part of this passage. That's what he's saying here. It would be embarrassing, to tell you the truth. These lectures could have been given as early as This is You have the voice of the father, and you long to remain with your family You can see her work here. True freedom is found within the limits set by God. I pray that you would give us purity Therefore, hear me now, my children. Why did I do that? Now, when the Pharisees who had invited him saw this, he spoke to himself, saying, This man They maintain an independence. It's not that they are wavering and indecision. Any biological longings they will play Notice, though, what the parents do that is very proverbial in four. I thought I was I knew all the answers It's the s Tell me therefore which of them will love him more It doesn't look like Sin will ensnare you I was on the verge of total ruin and in the midst of the assembly and congregation. They they do admit that the honey is sweet. All a part of our culture because of the choices And it is only those who have true freedom. Now I use the word romantic We have got Here I stand, and here I'll stay. The father wants the children to heed his words. The daughter actually ended up blackmailing himself Let's pray. I saw you back This is literally what would take place. He normally doesn't do something like that. God is there. Her feet go down the death. Although I love you because you're my enemy. Take a look at chapter 6, verse 26. Stepping outside God's romantic boundaries is Take a look at verse 9. We didn't stay within God's romantic boundaries But let me bring out the last point in this sermon here. And that is the good news of the gospel. It starts in ten And so let's take a look at choice one that we have. I am not You all heard it We thank you for always finding joy in you. If I lit some logs on fire and I throw them on your lap, are you going to get away on? The purpose is twofold here. Now what do we know about God You can see the seduction that is taking place. Sure, they try to quiet their hearts and not slander. I pray, Lord, that you keep any offense 5, 6, and 7. It doesn't mean a a young woman. If you do this, then in time God will God will establish it. I mean verse 13 now I know that sounds crude, but that's what he's saying here We could be in it at present, or it's a part of our past. Let it go. Here we have a mixed audience. I can't just say biological drives in this culture You don't see it coming, but then The point here is that when you mess with a a Grandchildren, great grandchildren Don't even look at it A harlot here means someone who won't stay in her husband's Her steps lay hold of hell Jesus They have decided, God in that way is not for me. He's out of town, he's away from everything. I pray that you're convinced of that That's where in chapter 7 she's coming back from again. He will take everything from you. Alimony He shall die for lack of instruction. Isn't that interesting? Why? And then it Why?