Please turn with me to Deuteronomy chapter ten, and let's stand for the reading of God's Word this morning. Apparently Christians are really serious. I mean between the pair and the prayer and the songs about angels and God becoming man, we are more than just people that hide Easter eggs in the backfield. And praise God for that. Praise God for that. This is Deuteronomy chapter 10, and I'll read 12 through 11. 1. And now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you but to fear the Lord your God, to walk in all his ways and to love him? To serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, and to keep the commandments of the Lord and his statutes which I command you today for your good. Indeed, heaven and the highest heavens belong to the Lord your God. Also, the earth, with all that is in it, the Lord delighted only in your fathers to love them And he chose their descendants after them, you above all peoples as it is this day. Therefore, circumcise the foreskin of your heart and be stiff-necked no longer For the Lord your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the great God, mighty and awesome, who shows no partiality nor takes the bribe. He administers justice for the fatherless and the widow and loves the stranger, giving food and clothing. Therefore, love the stranger, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt. You shall fear the Lord your God, you shall serve him, and to him you shall hold fast and take oaths in his name. He is your praise, and he is your God, who has done for you these great and awesome things which your eyes have seen. Your fathers went down to Egypt with seventy persons, and now the Lord your God has made you as the stars of heaven in multitude Therefore you shall love the Lord your God, and keep his charge, his statutes, his judgments, and his commandments always. Let's pray. Oh Lord, I pray that you would write these words on our heart. In the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. All right, normally um children you have to remain silent during the entire service, but now's your chance. Where you can speak up. I'm giving you permission to speak just for a little bit. It's going to have to stop here in a minute. Who made you? Who made you? What else did God make? What else did God make? God made you in all things. Okay. Why did God make you in all things? For his own glory. I heard that. Yeah, that's the children's that's the children's catechism. What is the chief end of man? Alright. And the scripture verses that prove that? All twenty-one? No, just kidding. Okay. Very good. You know, that's called catechism That was the children's catechism, the first one, and then that is supposed to lead up into the shorter catechism, which was the man's chief end. Catechisms have been a part of God's people for a very long time. You know what we actually see in our text this morning is a catechism. There are basically two questions that are being asked, one explicitly within the text. In this divine catechism that's given to us, the first one is: what does God require of you? And the second one is: what are the motivations that He gives For you to keep moving forward and persevering in those requirements. And that's what the sermon is all about this morning. There's five requirements, and I'm just going to touch on two motivations, although I do believe that you You could squeeze out more if you'd like. I just ran out of time to be able to talk about more. And so, here we are. God's catechism. Five requirements, two motivations. Let me just point out to you where I'm getting this in verse 12. Notice that it is a kind of catechetical question. And now, Israel, and here's the catechism question. What does the Lord require of you? And then he goes on to give the answer. You could see the family raising the children in the home in this exact way. What does he require of you but to fear the Lord your God, to walk in all of his ways, and to love him, to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, and to keep the commandments of the Lord and his statutes which I command you today for your good So let's just begin going through this catechism and answering. What does the Lord require of you? The very first thing we see, Christian, is that the Lord requires of you for you to fear Yahweh, your God, Elohim. The fear of the Lord cannot be studied by looking up each one of the individual words. You can't look up fear, and then you can't look up Lord, and you can't look up of and you can't look up the and then glue it all together in any You couldn't do that with the word butterfly either. If you studied butter and then you studied fly, you're not going to understand monarchs. It is the same thing with the fear of the Lord, and you've heard me say that before The phrase is used many times and involves both a rational and an emotional side. They're both intertwined. The rational side of the phrase comes out clearly in Psalm 19. Listen to this. You are familiar with this. This is right after David speaks about the sunset. He says, the law of the Lord is perfect Converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. What are we talking about so far? What are the repeated synonyms? Scripture. I have one more that I haven't listed from Psalm 19. The fear of the Lord Is clean, enduring forever. You see, this is the rational side of things. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous. The Psalmist is obviously not taking a pit stop into some other topic. He's continuing with the synonyms that he had listed all along, and the fear of the Lord is another name for the word that the law or the law of the Lord that has been given to us. It is one of the synonyms. That's the rational, objective side that we have a content to our faith. It is not a blind leap in the dark. But there's also an emotional side that comes out in Proverbs as the Father seeks to teach. My son, if you receive my words, and if you treasure my commands within you, so that you incline your ear to wisdom and apply your heart to understand. Yes, if you cry out for discernment and lift up your voice for understanding, if you seek her as silver and search for her as for hidden treasures Then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Studying an objective revelation As he talks about here in Proverbs 2, is part of this whole picture still in Proverbs. But the Son is encouraged to prayerfully and humbly pursue the wisdom of God. Do you know what that would require? It requires more than just a brain. It requires the whole soul of man engaged in seeing something of ultimate value, that they would sell everything that they have in order to obtain it. That is the fear of God. Those who are willing to do so. Those who are considered lukewarm In the book of Revelation are not commended as those who have the fear of the Lord. It is those who are hot for God. As this father instructs his son to be hot in moving toward and understanding the wisdom of God, it is an attitude of humility, it is an attitude of deep reverence, it is a teachableness in all. And that all pulls together with the objective revelation that He has given to us and is called the fear of God. That's the first thing within the list on the catechism. If you were a child within Israel, you would have to memorize that and you'd have to know what it meant. Here's the second one. Walk in his ways. Fear, walk. That's number two. Walk in all of his ways, it says. To walk in all his ways. In this phrase, the word walk and his receives special emphasis. Walk is a really helpful metaphor, especially if you were to think that this is in fact a kind of Catechism. It brings the idea of a path, something that we're supposed to walk down, and a destination that we're supposed to head toward. If you've read uh Pilgrim's Progress, you can see that the whole story takes Place is supposed to take place on a path. And he diverts off. The path is marked out for you in God's law, and you are to stay on the path. It was A summary, really, this path of everything that has been said by Moses' sermons in the book of Deuteronomy. And he emphasizes that this is his ways. He could have just said walk in ways, but he says, his ways. Because he's placing special emphasis, understanding the human problem. His reinforces the idea of the path by emphasizing that we should not walk on other paths. It's not all paths that lead to God. An earlier scripture is helpful in this regard. Your eyes have seen what the Lord did at Baal Peor, for the Lord your God has destroyed from among you all the men who followed Baal of Paor, but you held fast to the Lord your God. You who held fast to the Lord your God are alive today, every one of you. The word followed and you followed Baal Peor is the word walk. Some of God's people choose to walk not on his paths, but to walk on the path of Baelpayor, the main deity of the land of Canaan. So he tells us very clearly here, another part of the catechism. It's as if there has been a path or a road laid for you And you were to follow that yellow brick road. That's the first two. Fear. Walk. Does this feel childish? Because it is a catechism. I mean that's part of the point. Fear, walk. Number three, serve. Serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. Now serve and walk can be synonyms. But they're not always exactly the same, but their meanings can overlap greatly. And they are meant to be compared, actually, within this scripture verse. These ways that we're seeing in the catechism are actually rippling out from a center, which I'll show you at the end. And on either side, each side is supposed to be compared because this is a chiasm. Like ripples in a pond, when you drop the rock and it goes out, you have a ripple on one side or the other that is supposed to be compared. And serve is supposed to be compared with walk. To serve is to walk, but he also mentions some further components, namely the heart and the soul. Moses emphasizes the complete engagement of the whole person on what God requires of you. And if you were to continue to look up these words within the scriptures, you would see that as he says here, that you are to serve him. That one of the primary ways in which we see this word is in the act of worship itself. Have you thought about that? The purest moment of complete service, the pinnacle of all of our lives, is to be worshiping God in worship service. Take heed to yourselves, lest your hearts be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other gods and worship them. Deuteronomy 11, 16, it's getting ready to come up. Did you ever stop to consider what you're doing right now is called a worship service? I brought that up in the beginning of this service. This is meant to be a place where you are able to humble yourself before God, giving him all honor and praise for who he is. The songs and the scripture readings emphasize him, who he is in his three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. We sing directly to him in the songs And then we will sing to each other by direction of the song to encourage one another to sing more to him. Those are Christian songs. We sing about who he is in the in his Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, but also what he has done. Who he is and what he has accomplished moves the true people of God to a response of service in worship. This is what he requires of you, according to Moses' catechism. The confession of sin, the prayer, the thanksgiving are all ways for us to move forward. These are all elements. In our worship service, ways that he requires of us loving him. I hear a lot of emphasis across Our culture and especially within the church, focusing on serving the Lord, walking in his ways in the home. Be a good husband, be a good sibling, or in the work, be a good co-worker. But how often do we hear people overlooking this primary use of the word of service in worship? I hear people tell me, I've got to go to sleep early tonight because I've got work in the morning. But I don't hear people telling me I've got to go to sleep early tonight because I have worship in the morning. Instead, I'm going to stay up until 4 a. m. playing whatever we play. And I'm just saying that perhaps you should listen to your conscience, that maybe you are misunderstanding what the Lord requires of you. When worship services get replaced for soccer games, I want you to go back to Moses' catechism and listen to the answers. Have you overlooked the service of worship? Some of you went to bed early and and you came here and you haven't sang one stinking word of any song So just showing up to church doesn't mean you got it right. Doesn't mean you're taking it seriously. It could mean that you're putting up appearances and you've done this for 65 years and it's just comfortable for you. Is that what Moses is talking about here? This is the basic question. Have you overlooked the importance of worship service? Have you come to offer your service to God? When you show up on Sunday mornings. Well, that's number three. Fear, walk, serve He mentions the next key verb is to keep the commandments. This one will be quick. To keep the commandments means many things. It means to conform to that standard, to guard them in your heart so that they are not dislodged. Or unscrewed. Do you get the picture to keep the commandments? That it can't be dislodged or plucked out or unscrewed. Last year, some teenager jumped on my diving board and broke it in half. I don't know which one it was. It wasn't me. There's no way. I only weigh 250 pounds. It was me. I'm blaming it on the teenagers. I'm so sorry, teens. I don't weigh 250 now. I'm losing weight. But back then I did, I was like 243, broke the diving board, crack. We had to put a new diving board on, and if you've ever been on a diving board, which I hope all of you have, if you haven't, you should come over and I'll We'll have that experience together. It's springs. So when you tie it down with bolts in the back, you cannot have bolts that are slowly just going to unscrew. Because at some point the screws will fall off and there will be a tragedy in my backyard So the direction specifically told me, when you put the screw on the bolt, you have to cover the bolt with something called Loctite. Has anyone here ever used Loctite? When you use Loctite, you screw it on and it acts as a kind of glue within the threads and it cannot come unscrewed. That is the same meaning that we have here within the scriptures. You must keep the commandments. They must be loctited. Can you think of all of the vibrations and the bouncing that happens through life? Even if you're on the path of God, isn't it like you're in a Jeep without suspension? Going through some West Virginia hills. We need that loctite. And so he says that we are to keep the commandments. We are to keep the screw from backing out. And it means everything that would include to be able for those things to happen, to be attentive to the commandments. And that was the point. Remember, we've gone over these things before when he instructed the family to Write these things on your doorpost. Make sure they are a part of your everyday living where you can see them. That was all part of the Loctite mentality. And that was to keep the commandments. Now there's a last one here. Let's take a look at the scripture again because we're going just through each one of the verbs. And now, Israel, what does the Lord require of you? We know that from the catechism that we are to fear, that we are to walk, that we are to serve That we are to keep. Did you notice that I went out of order? Because there's a fifth, and it's love. And the reason why I went out of order is because this passage is set in a chiasm, or a chiasm, however you want to pronounce that What would be the center if you looked at it that way? If there's five, what's the center of five? You have two and two, and it's love. It's exactly what Moses is communicating through this poetic device, is that the center and the summary of the two that surround it, the fear, walk, keep, serve. Are all summarized by understanding that God requires of you love. Right there. And that changes everything. And you know why I can do this? Because it's a children's catechism. And Moses wants you to have your children count what it means to love God on all of their fingers. Or at least on the one hand to have the summary, if you wanted to tell the whole law, you know how many fingers you'd have to use? All ten. But it's still just like a catechism for the sake of memory and mnemonic devices that they would remember a lull on each one of the fingers and the summary on one hand with the most important thing and the summary of all right on the middle. And so we as the Christian church get to redefine the middle finger. It means love. And on either side, love is explained. The summary of what God requires is meant to be in the form of a kind of catechism. And Moses asks and expects even children to be able to give an answer. Whatever the age. And thus Moses gives the five requirements. The requirement for each finger, for every, for easy memorization, fear, walk, love, sir, keep. It should be on a list within our homes. To the Hebrew mind, as I said, the center of the five is the climax, that's the summary, it's the pinnacle. It deserves all of the special attention And Jesus himself confirms this for us when he summarizes and he says, What is required? We asked Jesus, what is required? He would say, You love the Lord your God with all your heart. With all your soul, with all your mind, and you love your neighbor as yourself. Love, right in the center, an easy catechism for you to understand all that the Lord requires of you And this is one real benefit of the passage that is before us. Our culture uses the word love all day long. The LGBTQ plus movement says love wins. They have redefined love. According to their own terms. And we as a church have been lost as to what is real love, and how would we ever prove what real love is? And here we have in a basic catechism question and answers exactly what it is. That's what it means. Have you ever wondered what it means to love God? Here's the answer. Don't give vague answers. Don't rely just on your emotions. The term is defined for you in the short catechism. What does it mean to love God? To love Him is to fear Him, and everything that that means. To walk in all of his ways and all that that means, to serve him and all that that means, to keep his commandments and all that that means. Jesus has repeated all of those things for us. If you love me, he says in John and that great discourse, keep my commandments. He is not teaching anything new, he is explaining to us Out of the errors of the Pharisees and the scribes, what has been spoken all along within Deuteronomy. Love is defined, if you want to put it this way, by the So I would recommend that you would memorize this catechism, that you would know what all your fingers mean. All ten, and in summary, all five. That you'd have a meaning for every finger And that you'd be able to explain that to yourself and to your children. And if you're ever wondering, Am I loving God right now, by the grace of Jesus Christ through the Holy Spirit, you can always look to your hand and recite the Catechism and have the answer. What great grace and benefit the Lord has given to us. The basic catechism is helpful as we seek to relate to God. What does God require of you? Five things, five main verbs. And yet Moses knows that even if we were to memorize, even if we were to write it on all of our little fingers, That people quickly lose motivation. And so he reinforces these five requirements with: I'm just going to give you two motivations because of time. Why should we love God? What should get us up in the morning to love him? And that's what he's going to answer now. What is required of you? Love. What will motivate me to love? And here's the second. Motivation number one, verse fourteen. Indeed, heaven and the highest heavens belong to the Lord your God, also the earth with all that is in it. This is the first motivation. Now, this is a poetic device known as amerism. You know what amerism is? Those of you who are English majors, amerism states two opposites So that not only are the things at the extremes included, but everything in between. So when God says that He will remove or that east and west, He's talking about that he would own everything in between, the whole earth. Here you see within this passage that he says heaven in even the highest heavens, which reveals a uh Israelite cosmology, and the earths And with that poetic device, he's saying, you can go as high as you want to go, and you can go as low as you want to go, and I own it all. That's the whole point of it. God owns from top to bottom. Now, this truth was pronounced, and the basis of this truth was pronounced earlier in a book that Moses also wrote, namely Genesis. And it says that in the beginning Elohim created the heavens and the earth. God created the heavens and the earth, and that's what this passage is pointing out here. And since he is the creator, he is also the owner. Now here you might be surprised by this, but if you grew up in America and you are 45 and under, there is probably a 95% chance that you will have trouble accepting this teaching. At least in living your life. Most who are 45 and under, who grew up in America, even if you grew up in the church, are brainwashed to think That you have freedom to choose everything. That you have freedom to choose your identity. That you have freedom to choose your gender, that you have freedom to choose your occupation, that you have freedom to choose your sexuality, that you have freedom to choose your hashtag life goals. Let me tell you something. If you were to read older literature than is our country as our country is old, something older than 300 years perhaps. This is what you would find within that group of people. People believed that all of those things that I just mentioned were defined for you by your Creator. For example, if you are created biologically as a boy Then you are a boy, because God the Creator said, You are a boy. The talents that are given to you And the present needs of your society were God's way through his providence of showing you what your vocation is, which is the Latin word for calling. Everything was connected to the supernatural and to the Creator. Whatever He wanted is what you were to do. You were not your own. Listen to this. Marriage was God's way of joining you with the opposite sex so as to get more work done for Him by serving society. But now, if you are 45 and under, not everyone, it's a generalization, you feel the right, there's something inside of you pulsing Where you feel the right to define and create yourself. Let me ask you. From the switch where people used to think about the Creator like that and that he would determine everything, to now where we think that we can create everything and define ourselves. How's that working for us, America? How's it going? People are not meant to define or create themselves, and so now what we have, and I believe this is a direct correlation to the new philosophy accepted. We have a rise in suicide, anxiety, confusion, drug and alcohol, etc. Just to try to eke out a kind of human existence Let me try to put this in plain terms. Do you have allergies? You know someone that does have allergies? Some people have really bad allergies. And usually they don't know at first. Like there'll be a small child, and they won't you won't know that they had an allergy, and then all of a sudden their tongue itches or their throat bothers them, or they break out in hives, or their stomach turns, or they can't breathe right. And now you have to go to a doctor. You need to watch your diet. You need to have a doctor do tests on you where they prick you with all of these different things so that you can then see what becomes red, so that you can send then see what your allergies are. And then they can begin to isolate the cause and say, you should remove this from your diet so you don't die or continue to become sickly. Our culture is breaking out in anxiety. Our culture is breaking out in drug use. Our culture is breaking out in purposelessness and suicide and a general mental illness and confusion. What major philosophical food was introduced to America that is causing all of these outbreaks? Tell me it is not the teaching of evolutionary naturalism. That there is no creator, that we have developed from a single-cell organism, and that we get to define ourselves in the progress of evolution. As people continue to eat this philosophy, we should not wonder why America is in anaphylactic shock. Why your own children are not an anaphylactic shock. Now here's the idea What I'm trying to show you is that when you rail against God and who He is as the creator, He's the one that holds true reality in place. He is in control, and when you rail against that in these false philosophies and try to adopt them, you become sick Trying to define yourself and create yourself. Return to God as your creator. Find out how He defines you. He is your creator, He owns you, and therefore you should be motivated to obey Him by just all of the danger that happens. In disobeying him. Where if you look at the passage, you can see this is for your own good. Now, motivation number two. Not only is he your creator, but he is your redeemer. Now I'm speaking to you specifically, Christian. The Lord chose to love you with saving love, verse 15. The Lord delighted only in your fathers to love them, and he chose their descendants after them, you above all peoples. as it is this day. I cannot tell you, isn't isn't a court isn't this sentence the most offensive thing you've ever heard in your life Look at that word. It's as if God said, I know people are going to have trouble with this, and I want them to have even more trouble because I'm going to put the word only there. The Lord delighted only in your fathers to love them. And he chose their descendants after them, you above all peoples. He rubs it in God has created all, but he chose to redeem some. We talked about that last week in the week before. In this example, the obvious point is that God created everyone on the face of the earth, but chose to work in a special way with Abraham and his descendants Verse 15, he chose you the Israelites above all people. That's the literal rendering right there. He's just speaking to that group of people. It's obvious that he chose them above others. He has given his grace to them above others. They would all be able to recognize that. During that time, God's electing was generally limited to Israel. There were some exceptions, like Ruth. And now God has opened his electing love to all nations. We heard that in one of our readings today in the service. It is not limited to the Jew. It went from Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the outermost regions of the earth. Understanding that the person next to us sins and forgiving them that they sinned. And I can understand that. I can understand why you would want to do that. Because we understand that even those who are called, that our progress our sanctification is progressive, and it will take our entire lives, and as we are translated instantly at our death, or when Christ returns for us to receive our glorification. But when we look at the pages of Scripture, are we supposed to treat sin as it is no big deal? That it's no big deal that it is in our lives. I just heard a man say That Christians, when they consider sin and being engaged in sin, it is the same as thinking about drinking your own vomit. That it is not enjoyable for a Christian. Because we are thankful We want nothing to do with separate what with what separated us from our God. And so we take that seriously. We take this it seriously that He elected us. That he chose us, that he gave us knowledge, that he opened our eyes, that he took the walls out of our heart, that he restored our relationships, all that he has done for us, and he didn't have to do it for you, he could have done it for somebody else. We take that seriously by taking our sins seriously because we want nothing to do with what kept us from our God before. That's what a real Christian thinks. A real Christian doesn't look at sin and say, ah, that's no big deal. We're all human. That was great for an 80s song. But not in real life in the reality that God has given to us. Not if we're truly motivated with Christian motivations Someone whom God has chosen. Now you hear this. Someone who God has chosen will increasingly be overwhelmed by the mercies of God and want nothing for their life except to serve God in love. That is what the Christian does. What that means is as we look across the landscape of America, is we've got a bunch of people that think they're Christians and they're not. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy, acceptable to God, which Is your reasonable service? Why? By the mercies of God. It's by the mercies of God that Paul just said in all of the book of Romans All of the work of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, all of those mercies, the effectual call, every one of them. What does the Lord require of you? We're still just in catechism class. What does the Lord require of you? He requires you to love Him through walking and fearing and serving and keeping the commandments And why should you love your God? Because he is not only your creator, but he is your recreator. He has, Christian, given you the Holy Spirit. He has changed your heart that you might be able to answer with your life the first question of the catechism. How dare you let sin dominate your life. He is your creator and has chosen you, Christian, above all other people. In that choosing, God the Father, through Jesus Christ, has given you a new heart. It is a heart that is now soft as clay to be molded by the Creator for his purposes. Let me end with this. Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit? Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own. For you were bought at a price Therefore, glorify God in your body, in your spirit, which are God's Let's pray. Father, these words are difficult because there are so many different people in so many different places. Lord, I do pray for those who feel crushed by their sin that this that these words would not break your reeds. I do pray that you would strengthen and that you would comfort Them. I pray that they would see their hope that you have given to them in Jesus Christ for their sins. Lord Jesus Christ, I pray for those who have tricked themselves in calling themselves Christians. But have never treated you as creator or recreator. Lord, I pray that you would convict them of their sin, either of backsliding, and so Or that you would convict them of their sin and there would be repentance onto the first life. That there would be a resurrection from the dead. Lord Jesus Christ, the alternative is for your church to be weak and limping. We are humble, but we are not weak Because you have filled us with your Holy Spirit. We are the kingdom of God. And with that we have legions of angels. I pray, God, that you would take these catechisms questions for your people and that you would write the question and the answer on our hearts. That we would know how to love you and that we would have the motivation to do it. Thank you, Holy Spirit, for all we being present, taking the motivations, these instrumental causes such as the Word, and using them to drive us forward in growing from grace to grace, glory to glory. You are our King, you are Lord of Lords, and you are King of Kings. Lord, you have conquered our sin Please give us the mentality to realize we are not losers, but we are winners. I ask these things in your name. Amen.