It's a command, so it lets us know that this isn't optional, and that's why memorizing it is really, really good to do. It's man-centered. And he has the knowledge, the wisdom, and the power to make sure that all that happens, all that which occurs, happens according to his holy will. And it's a good thing too, because if we're honest with ourselves, we need a whole lot. Brothers and sisters, we are not taking full advantage of this marvelous and awesome privilege that's given to us as sons and daughters of God. Okay. We need him to give us the desire to know, obey, and submit to his will. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. So let's look now at the first section, the preface, that teaches us to whom we pray, and it is in these words, our Father in heaven. The name of God can be understood as all that whereby he makes himself known. And so we pray that God will gather to Himself all those for whom Christ lived and died. And we do not pray in doubt, rather we pray in hope. And with his glory. It's a Hebrew word, and it means verily, truly, it will be, it is so, it is true. And so we say Amen after our prayers because we really do believe that God has heard us. To do one for each Sunday. Perhaps you know it as forgive us our sins as we forg forgive those who sin against us. That you will make us pray in a way that pleases you, and that by praying in this way, we will draw closer to you. Sometimes we memorize different versions. Basically, a paragon is a perfect example. We must understand exactly what is happening when we pray following this perfect example. And so that we can pray in the very same way. And then we will examine the conclusion, and this teaches us why we have hope that God will answer our prayer. Believing who he really is, who he has revealed himself to be. Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent? We are taught also by this preface that he's our Father in heaven. Especially to a superior authority. So what is our calling? And we're taught by the catechism again, that by these words we pray, that Satan's kingdom may be destroyed, that the kingdom of grace may be advanced, ourselves and others brought into it and kept in it, and that the kingdom of glory may be hastened. Pray for the conversion of every person you come in contact with. Forever. By redeeming us, God makes us a new creation. We need Him to direct us away from those situations which tempt us to sinful thoughts and words and deeds. Will be heard and answered. He is the most holy and wise God, and he is powerfully preserving and governing all his creatures and all their actions. Nothing God wants to do is beyond his power to do it. It's actually a time to rejoice. Reach out to one of the officers of this church if you are confused about prayer or you want uh help in developing your prayer life. And so we we ask you that you would help us for the rest of today and in this week to come. Experience that wonderful blessing of being in your presence and of praying in a way that we know you will answer because we prayed in a way that brings you the most glory. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. But I am very glad to tell you all that most of the children in our kids' Sunday school class, we were going through these questions in the catechism today, most of them have this passage memorized. Because it is the paragon of prayer taught to us by the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. of how we are to pray. That God will do it. Now, last week we looked at the preceding passage, verses 5 through 8. Which teaches us to whom we pray. He is the Father of all His redeemed people. His design is always to perfect you, to sanctify you, to make you more like Jesus. We go to him with grateful wonder that he has adopted you into his blessed family. And so we go to God in faith with our petitions after the pattern of this perfect example. So we have the first petition, and we pray in the manner of the first petition because God's name must be hallowed. And this is why they're not just six statements, there are six petitions. The catechism teaches us that in this petition we pray that God would enable us and others to glorify him in all that whereby he makes himself known. If God is to be hallowed or glorified, we recognize that he must give us the ability to do that. And to pray as this prayer models, you must pray, regardless of your circumstances, that God would be glorified through it all. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven, we see that God's will must be accomplished. Because we need God to give us the ability to know, obey, and submit to His will. Only God can persuade and enable you to embrace the gospel, the good news of reconciliation with the Father through Christ Jesus the Son. And so we have the fourth petition. If you recall from last week, these are all those things that God already knows you need. To forgive others. For the good that I will to do, I do not do. We say, And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. God must preserve us in faith and deliver us from the evil one and deliver us from ourselves So, praying in this manner, you are asking God to do what only He can do. Our confidence is that everything that is is God's. It's not because he somehow didn't have the power to answer our prayer as we wanted. This must be the focus of every one of our prayers. This is true in your life. Do you know that this is a real word? We really do believe that he is going to glorify himself. We have to find a way to pray always and be at all times. And asking him to guide you, to strengthen you, to keep you from falling to it. others as we forgive our debtors. Pouring out our wrath on them is because of how much God has forgiven us. And pouring out our wrath on someone else. than what we've seen just in the words. The one who gave us this paragon of prayer, who gives us the perfect example of prayer, he has given his own life and opened the way to the throne room of the Most High God. That is what this table signifies. As that paragon of prayer teaches us. We want your kingdom. We want you to be bringing them into our fellowship, that we can show them the love that you command us to show. We pray that you will help us, Father, to set aside our own desires, and that our goals would always be geared towards bringing you glory. part of verse nine, in this manner therefore pray, and then all of us together, let's read the Lord's Prayer. Amen. Now there can be value even to praying just the very text, just reading it out loud, but in order to keep from being guilty of the vain repetitions that we talked about last Sunday Now, if we aren't careful, we can end up thinking of each of these phrases as merely statements about God, or perhaps just recognition of some of our desires. And what I'd like to do, since all of us are familiar with this, rather than me just reading it, how about if I just read the first And it's crucial that we have the Lord's Prayer memorized because it is so important for our lives. Our Father is the only true and living God, and so we must go to Him and to Him alone. These teach us for what we are to pray. In the first three petitions, we are asking God to give us what we need to glorify Him forever. We pray in this manner by recognizing the awesome grace of our Lord in allowing us to continue living in his wondrous creation and enabling us with faith to believe in him and to glorify him. Only He can give you the faith to flee to Christ to deal with your sins. He's aware of it already. We sin against each other all the time, and yet we know that we must be forgiving, ready to forgive, ready to recognize that we are not justified. In every prayer, we must do this, and in every prayer we can. And so, Father, I ask that you would help us. And so this brings us to the petitions. To enjoy God forever, you've got to be alive forever, right? I would strongly encourage you to meditate on this. Our confidence is in God's kingdom. When we pray, as this paragon of prayer teaches us, we are going to God in faith, and we believe that He hears and answers us for Christ's sake Praying in the way that glorifies God the most. Father in heaven, thank you for this word. For all we need to live out our calling, confident that He will do it. We must go to Him as one who truly loves Him, one who really respects Him and trusts in His authority. Brothers and sisters, you must have the same faith and confidence in God's love that a child should have in their father's love. Our Father is ready and able to give us all the good things which are agreeable to His will and which He knows we need to fulfill our calling. He is good at it, and he loves to do it. The Greek makes it really clear. We know how sinful we are. So that's the first two petitions. We pray that God, by His grace, would make us able and willing to know, obey, and submit to His will in all things as the angels do in heaven. Harkens back to Ephesians chapter 1, doesn't it? Pray with all the saints. And praying in this manner, you are praising God for his provision for your whole life, and you are humbly requesting that he continue to sustain you as you enjoy his blessings. in the first three petitions, demonstrating our absolute dependence on Him for all we need to glorify Him. Pray, recognizing that if you have any portion, if there's anything in your life that's good, it is only because of God's gracious generosity. As I said before, we can't hope to enjoy him forever if we're not living forever. Only through the redeeming work of Jesus Christ are we pardoned from all of our sins and accepted as righteous in his sight, and so given everlasting life through his redeeming blood. We know that what the Apostle Paul says of himself in Romans chapter 7 is true of each of us. And if that is the case, then we must understand that it's not because God couldn't do it. He's ordered all of time and space to bring about his glory. And so we have confidence that it is God's kingdom, that God has the power, that everything is being arranged for his glory, and so we say together, Amen. We sin against God always. Eager to help you order this aspect of your Christian walk unto God's glory. We pray, Father, that you would help us to cooperate with you, to do things that are agreeable with your will, that bring about your glory and your ends. He cannot make mistakes. And we are also taught that by these words we pray that He would dispose all things to His own glory Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And so he is always aware of the most recent sin we had. be more and more in love with you, and attuned to what it is you are doing in this universe. He will never lie to you. Any good thing that we see in our fathers is a reflection of the perfect goodness of our Heavenly Father. Even with the best of intentions, our earthly fathers can make mistakes, can't they? Well, we pray in the manner of the second petition because God's kingdom must come. In essence, we pray for the unfolding of Christ our King's victory. The gifts of the church, of pastors and teachers. By God's grace, you can submit to His created order and His designed purpose, no matter what rebellion is happening all around you. We are taught that when we pray this petition, we pray that God for Christ's sake would freely pardon all our sins, which we are able to be rather encouraged to ask, because by his grace we are enabled from the heart Praying in this manner, we recognize that our forgiveness of others is not because of anything special in us, but because of God's grace alone, which transforms us and enables us to forgive others. And if he doesn't want it, it doesn't happen. Every single time. Now, when we are praying, we're supposed to be praying without ceasing. I know how much I've been forgiven. We are in your home, in your family. Show us how we can set aside our will for your will. So we go to God in faith for all we need to live out our calling. We believe that He is God and that He alone can alter or add to His creation. And so when we are praying, and I would encourage all of you, every single time that you pray, confess your sin. God's holy word. And we're continuing on in verses 8 through 13. He is our father. His holy decrees, everything that he does. We are taught in the catechism that when we pray this way, we pray that of God's free gift we may receive a competent portion of the good things of this life and enjoy His blessing with them. We all need God to guide us. The enemy seeks to spoil the witness of those who are committed to living a life which glorifies the true and living God, to enjoy him forever. He knows far better than you or I do. He will always glorify himself, and he does not tolerate his glory, the glory that should be going to him to go to anything else. Boy, if you want to pray in a way that will never leave you disappointed, pray that God would glorify Himself. So we pray in this way because we need God to give us the ability to know and to obey and submit to His will. We pray these petitions because we know that all we need must be provided by God alone. We pray in the manner of the fifth petition because we need God to redeem and transform us. Remember, he is our Father in heaven. Only by his opening your eyes to what's really happening in this universe can you know what his plan is. In many ways, Lord, we find our prayer lives lacking. Please be seated. And really ask yourself, would you want God to forgive you as you forgive others? And so we come to the final petition, the sixth petition. I pray that you will remember the Lord's Prayer. How good it is to be in your household. And the right way to pray is focused on God. And maybe we could do that in the future. Most of us feel really terrible when our rights are trodden upon. He wanted things to be other than you did. It's true in my life. Some of us say trespasses. We pray in this manner, showing that we are confident that God will do it. It doesn't take very long to acknowledge that you know you need God to forgive you. You don't have to feel crippled because of all the sins that you've committed in the just the last hour. And put simply in the context of this paragon of prayer, a petition is something that we are asking God to do. We want you, Lord, to be convincing sinners of their desperate need of salvation in Jesus Christ. Think about how good you are at forgiving others. We must go to God in faith. Maranatha, come quickly, Lord Jesus, because you really wanted the kingdom of glory to be hastened A debtor is someone who owes us something. What is man's chief end? And this morning we will, in agreement with the wisdom of our Reformed Heritage, examine this prayer in its easily recognized three sections. We need God to redeem us, to give us everlasting life In this manner, therefore, pray, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. He will never lead you down a false path, even by accident. Because your God loves you so much that He is not going to do something that would harm you, even if it's what you want Him to do. Each of the verbs in these petitions is in the imperative. Without his amazing grace, all of us would still be blind. Pray for the conversion of the entire world. If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? God must be glorified, his kingdom must come, and then the third petition, in which we ask God. We need Him to plan our steps to make our paths straight. Please pray with me. We pray for all that we need to live out our calling. It's true in the life even of unbelievers, whether they recognize it or not. Through his perfect life and death, we are enabled to glorify and enjoy him forever. He is in no way limited like our earthly fathers. And we pray this in the manner of the fourth petition because we need God to sustain our physical lives. Now uh when we were praying it for memory, some of us said, Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us. And the way that we can recognize that someone sinning against us does not justify us Help us to pray in the way that this prayer teaches us so that we would Most of you know how much I've been forgiven because most of you I've had some sin against you. God gives us these signs and seals of what he has done But I just want to focus on one of the petitions and apply it for you. Brothers and sisters, through this paragon, this perfect example of prayer, Jesus the Christ shows us that in our prayer we must go to God in faith You can't just break it apart. Praying without ceasing is being aware that God is always hearing our thoughts. Some of us say debtors. He is God. And Jesus teaches us to go to God as our Father. But the evil I will not to do, that I practice. The first part of verse 9 is very important in this manner, therefore pray. There are six things which must happen. And so, brothers and sisters, I want to encourage you: you don't have to rehash every sin you've ever cr ever committed when you confess your sin to God. We saw that there's a wrong way and a right way to pray. It is God-centered. The dictionary defines a petition as a solemn supplication or request. God can do all his holy will. And that is exactly what this prayer. He loves to give good things to his children This is the transformation that we desperately need. The whole cosmos, the whole universe, everything is God's. Because that's what we want. Only by his gracious gift of the Holy Spirit are you empowered to trust the gifts that he's given to you. This is why we pray. And so, brothers and sisters, we must follow this example of prayer. He is our father. In all of these ways and more, God is working to bring about his glory. We can get into a really fun conversation about textual criticism and why there's different versions of this thing. And we pray in this manner because we need God to guide and to deliver us. He's not like our fathers on earth, and so we must be careful not to think of him as being capable of error or flaws like our earthly fathers. Only he can convince you of your sin and misery and enlighten your minds in the knowledge of Christ, renewing your will. You don't have to ask him for them. He is our Father. It's his attributes, it's his word, it's his works. And this is very difficult for us because at times our requests can appear to go unanswered, can't they? He has planned it all to culminate in his glory. It's to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. We will look at the petitions, and these teach us for what we are to pray. That doesn't mean that you have to quit your job so that you can just be a full-time prayer. Ask yourself this question. We can talk later about why that's perfectly fine and totally okay If we're left in our state of sin and misery, is there any way that we can bring him glory? You can't break it into ah men or ah women. We want your name to be hallowed, God. Only He can keep you from following the lies of Satan and walking down the path which leads to destruction. And in this final section, the conclusion, we find the source of our hope, that our prayer And so if the prayers that we make to God are only ever concerning the things that a human father, an earthly father, could help with. So we must trust him. We must go to God in faith for all that we need to live out our callings, confident that He will do it. We want your will to be done. And so, having not answered your prayer, it is not a time to be despondent or depressed. It's his kingdom. For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, nothing good dwells, for to will is present with me. All of us have had struggles with our own earthly families. You need his free gifts of all the things which keep you alive physically. And it is no surprise to us then that the perfect example of how we should pray would begin focused on God. He alone can order His creation. For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. We pray that by it you will make us more like your son. We need him to deliver to us that which we need. It's because somehow, in some way, our prayer was not in line with God's will. We need to see what this prayer is modeling so we understand why it is a paragon. If you are one who confesses your sin and has faith in God that He has forgiven you of your sin, you know how much He's been forgiven. Your heavenly father never makes a mistake And for God to be glorified, there are three things which must happen Only by His gracious gift of faith can you believe His word. You will remember what you have been taught by it, and that you would order your life unto the glory of God by praying Show us the ways that we can give you glory. We pray that He will do what must be done, that we may glorify and enjoy Him forever. He gives you many wonderful things to equip you, his saints, for obedience to his will. And so we say, your kingdom come Giving glory to God is what you should want most when you pray. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. We pray for all that we need to fulfill our chief end. And a lot of the times when someone owes us something and they don't give it to us, we can get downright cranky, can't we? Hallowed be your name. He provides them before you even ask. Now I wish I could have done a sermon on each of the petitions. Pray that God will preserve in faith unto the very end all those who are called by his exceeding power. Nothing you could ever ask for is too much for God to accomplish. We'd be seeking our own will and our own glory. In this petition we pray that God would either keep us from being tempted to sin, or support and deliver us when we are tempted. But then there's that other side to the petition, right? And we must go to him as children go to their fathers. He's the God of all the universe. And so we say, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. I noticed that a lot of you had it memorized. A paragon is defined as a model of excellence or perfection of a kind So, brothers and sisters, pray not only for your own conversion, but pray for the conversion of everyone you know. But now we have this amazing privilege. It's a command. For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. I encourage you, do not hesitate Because you don't have the option. Later in this same Sermon on the Mount, Jesus will say, Or what man is there among you who, if his son asks for bread, will give him a stone? We want your kingdom to come. But it's not because we don't have a good example But our confidence is also in his power. And I pray, Lord, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be accessible in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. Some of us call it the disciples' prayer, most of us call it the Lord's Prayer. The wrong way to pray is focused on us. So let's look now at these petitions. We know that you must be glorified. God is love, he will never abandon you or cause you harm, even when his discipline is unpleasant at the time or painful. And lastly, brothers and sisters, our confidence is in God's glory So be it. Everything he does is ultimately for your benefit The head of the serpent has been crushed, the Church of Jesus Christ has been established on this planet. We must go to Him in faith. This teaches us why we pray. And so we are to go to God in faith. It is a prayer He always answers. Christian, you must go to God in faith for all you need to live out your calling, confident. It's not my Father only. It's an actual word There are six things which must occur, and God is the one that we ask to do it. And now we'll see in the next three petitions that we are asking God to give us all that we need to enjoy Him. We need God to deliver us We know our weaknesses, that we are prone to wander from the way of salvation. He alone can direct it to bring about His perfect will. We really do believe that He is going to do what we want most Again, the catechism helps us He's the sovereign ruler of every aspect of creation. And yet, we do it to God all the time. Ask yourself, what is your track record of forgiveness? What you need to be doing is constantly confessing that you're always prone to the temptation to sin. It's a very important aspect of the life of a Christian, and we are all But we also need to pray because we need to. And so we learn that we are to pray with and for others. We go to Him with holy reverence. Our Father in heaven Or think about how poor you are at forgiving others We need to be able to recall this exact prayer. And so, brothers and sisters. We cannot allow ourselves to think of God as we might be able to think about them. He is at work bringing about his glory. Yes. It's also printed in the bulletin for you there. That word pray is an imperative. He knows what we're thinking Everything is his If we do, we will end up. At times, it is good to know that no matter what happens You know your heart, you know your own nature This is how we are to pray. We are all tempted in this life. Forgive us as we forgive We are to pray for all we need to live out our calling. It's not your Father only. We need everything to be provided by him That fifth petition is tough. We get to see more We recognize that you alone deserve our worship We have confidence that our God hears and answers our prayers. We don't want our own kingdoms to be expanded. He is able to do it There's the preface He is the one true God who spoke all things into existence. God can and does do whatever He wants to do There's probably enough in each of them. We say, give us this day our daily bread. Regardless, they mean the same thing No request is too big or too difficult or too costly. It's not just the Father of all the Christians in this room. You need your daily bread That's exactly what this prayer is. Amen. Amen. And we pray this petition. But how to perform what is good I do not find. Please pray with me. God is truth. It is the perfect example.