Be able to worship with all of you by looking at God's word and examining his teaching on prayer. We are in Matthew chapter six Matthew chapter six, we're gonna look at verse nine. And I would um Ask you to please stand once again. We stand out of honor for our God whose word this is. And you know what? Since we all know this by heart and we've got it all printed in the bullsen, how about we do it this way? I'll say that first part of verse nine, and then why don't we all read the Lord's Prayer together? In this manner, therefore, pray, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, it is good to hear your people pray in the way that you have given us. This is such a familiar verse to us, such familiar passage. It is easy for us to become complacent about it. We need you. We need you to expound this for us, to make it clearer, make it absolutely clear. So that we can go away from here this morning different, so that our prayer lives will be different. I pray, Father, that the result of this sermon will be More prayers offered to you in true faith. Prayers that are pleasing to your will, that are given to you in your Son's name I pray, Lord, that you will bless us through this passage and through the time we spend here now. Lord, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Jehovah, my strength, my rock, my high tower and fortress, my Redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. Now uh it was good to hear all of us pray the Lord's Prayer. I noticed some of you have it memorized. Might even be the most memorized passage in all of the Bible, huh? It could be that passage. It could be this one we're looking at this morning. It could be Genesis 1-1, right? In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. That might be the most memorized passage. Or it's probably more likely that position is filled by the easiest to memorize passage in the whole Bible. You know what that is? John 11, 35. Jesus wept. Regardless, what is undeniably true is that this is a very good passage for us to memorize because it's something we need to have in our minds and in our hearts at a moment's notice. We need to be able to recall this exact prayer because it is the paragon of prayer taught to us by the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. A paragon is defined as a model of excellence or perfection of a kind. In short, a paragon is a perfect example. That is exactly what this prayer Jesus taught to his disciples, what we call the Lord's Prayer, is. It is the perfect example of how to pray. And the first part of verse 9 is very important in this manner, therefore, pray. That word pray is an imperative. It's a command. This isn't optional. So we can see how memorizing this prayer is a good idea. There can be value even to praying the exact words of the Lord's Prayer, but it is crucial that we don't allow ourselves to be content with mindlessly repeating it. To keep from being guilty of vain repetitions, we must understand exactly what is happening when we pray like this. We need to see what this prayer is modeling so we understand why it is the perfect example, so that we can pray in the same way. Brothers and sisters, through this paragon of prayer, Jesus shows us that in our prayers we must go to God in faith. For all we need to live out our calling, confident that He will do it. Christians, you must go to God in faith. For all you need to live out your calling, confident. That he will do it. Well, we are going to study this passage in agreement with the wisdom of our Reformed heritage by examining it in its easily recognized three sections. The first section is the preface, and this teaches us to whom we are to pray. The second section is the petitions, and these teach us for what we are to pray. And finally, there is the conclusion. And this teaches us why we have hope that God will answer our prayer. This is why we pray. I'll do that again. The preface teaches us to whom we pray. The petitions teach us for what we pray. And the conclusion teaches us why we have hope that God will answer our prayer. It teaches us why we pray. Pray. Last Sunday we looked at the preceding passage, verses 5 to 8, and we saw that the wrong way to pray is man-centered, and the right way to pray is God-centered. It is therefore then no surprise to us that the perfect example of prayer would begin focused on God This first section, the preface, teaches us to whom we pray and is in these words, our Father in heaven. Our Father is God, and we must go to Him as God, and we must go to Him alone in faith, believing who He really is. He is our Father. Not mine alone, not yours alone. He's not just the father of every Christian in this room. He is the father of all his holy people. Everyone he has chosen to belong to him has the blessing and privilege to go to him, to be with him. We are not alone in God's household. And by this we learn that we pray with and for others. We pray to the true God with all his church. The sun never goes down on God's praying people for across the whole planet. There is but one church, one body of the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray for all our brothers and sisters, for we all share this special relationship to God, which gives us our special relationship to one another. He is our father. And we must not imagine him as anything else. We must go to him as children to their father. Go to Him as one who truly loves and respects Him and His authority and His headship. Go to God with holy reverence. He's the one true God who spoke all things into existence. Go to him with grateful wonder that he has adopted you into his beloved family. Now, children I trust that you don't go to your earthly fathers with false hearts, just pretending to love him so that he does what you want. That's not what you do, is it? Well, Christians don't do that with our Father in heaven either. We go to him with real, true, sincere love for him. You must have the same faith and confidence in God's love that a child should have in their father's love. Later in the same sermon, Jesus will say, Or what man is there among you who, if his son asks for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, we'll give him a serpent. If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father, who is in heaven, give good things to those who ask him? Our Father is ready and able to give us all the good things which are agreeable to His will and which He knows we need to fulfill our calling. He knows all that we need, and he is able to do it. He is good at it. God loves to give to his children Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and comes down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow of turning. James 1, 16 and 17. That is our Father above. Our Father in heaven. And we have to remember this. He is not like our earthly fathers, and so we must be careful not to think of him as being capable of error or flaws like our earthly fathers. Any good thing we see in our fathers is a reflection of the perfect goodness of our Heavenly Father. We cannot allow ourselves to think of God as we might be able to think of them. God is truth. He will never lie to you, nor lead you down a false path, even by accident. God is love. He will never abandon you or harm you. Even when his discipline is unpleasant or painful at the time, his design is always to perfect you. To sanctify you and to make you more like Jesus. Everything God does is ultimately for your benefit. And he has the knowledge, the wisdom, and the power to make sure that all that happens accomplishes his holy will. Even with the best of intentions, our earthly fathers can make mistakes. God can not He never makes mistakes. He is not limited like our earthly fathers. He's the God of all the cosmos, the God of the whole universe. He owns it all. And that's a good thing, isn't it? Because there is a whole lot that we need. In fact, we need Him to provide us with everything. And this brings us to the next section. This next section is made up of six petitions. And the dictionary defines a petition as a solemn supplication or request, especially to a superior authority. Put simply, in the context of this paragon of prayer, a petition is something we ask God to do. The English translations we have are very close to the original meaning. They are very reliable translations, and you can trust them. However, because of the way that the English language looks Verbs can be in exactly the same form but be used in different ways with different meanings. We can find ourselves thinking of each of these phrases as merely statements. About God, or possibly even just some desires that we recognize we have. The Greek makes it absolutely clear. The principal verb in each of these phrases, each of these phrases, are imperatives. They are all commands. And this is why they are not the six statements, but the six petitions. They are six things which must be. And God is the only one who can do them. So we go to God in faith with petitions in the manner of this perfect example. We look now. At the second section of our passage, these petitions, which teach us for what we are to pray, we pray for all that we need to live out our calling. We pray for all that we need to fulfill our chief end. What is man's true calling? What is the chief end of man? To glorify God and enjoy Him forever. And in the first three petitions, we are asking God to give us what we need to glorify Him forever. For God to be glorified, three things must happen. We pray in the manner of the first petition, because God's name must be hallowed. That's the literal translation of hallowed be your name. God's name, your name must be hallowed. The Schwarter Catechism teaches us that in this petition we pray that God would enable us and others to glorify Him and all that whereby He makes Himself known. If God is to be hallowed or glorified, we recognize that He must enable us to do it. We know how sinful we really are. Without his amazing grace, all of us would still be blind, seeking only our own glory and dying in the pursuit of it We pray in this manner by recognizing the awesome grace of our Lord and allowing us to continue living in this wondrous creation and enabling us with faith To believe in him and glorify him. We are also taught that by these words we pray that he would dispose all things to his own glory The name of God is best understood as all that whereby God makes himself known. It's his attributes, his word, his works. His great works of creation and providence, his holy decrees, all that which comes to pass. In all of these ways and more, God works. He works in and through them to bring about his glory. To pray as the paragon of prayer models, you must pray regardless of your circumstance, that God will be glorified through it all. We pray in the manner of the second petition because God's kingdom must come. Again, the literal translation translation, your kingdom must come. And the catechism again teaches us that we pray that Satan's kingdom may be destroyed, and that the kingdom of grace may be advanced, ourselves and others brought into it and kept in it, and that the kingdom of glory may be hastened. In essence, we pray for the unfolding of Christ our King's victory. The head of the serpent has been crushed, and the Church of Jesus Christ established on this earth So we pray that God will gather to Himself all those for whom Christ died. Pray not only for your own conversion, but for the conversion of the whole world. Pray that God will preserve in faith unto the very end all who are called by the exceeding power of His greatness. Pray with all the saints. Maranatha, quickly come, Lord Jesus Pray, understanding the purpose of all things, which we saw in our reading from Ephesians 1, that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth. in him. And so we pray in the manner of the third petition, because God's will must be done That's that literal translation. God's will, your will must be done on earth as it is in heaven. And again, the catechism helps us greatly. We pray that God, by His grace, would make us able and willing to know, obey, and submit to His will in all things, as the angels do in heaven We need God to give us the ability to know, obey, and submit to His will. Only by His gracious gift of faith can you believe His Word, His special revelation of Himself, His plan for the cosmos. And so know his will. Only by his gracious gift of the Holy Spirit are you empowered to trust his gifts to the church, the apostles. who wrote the scripture, the prophets who wrote the scriptures, shepherds and teachers and pastors and elders, all those that he gives to equip you, his saints, for obedience to his will. By God's grace, you can submit to His created order and His designed purpose for the human race, no matter what Insane rebellion is going on in the world around you. We need God to give us the ability. To do these things, and we need God to give us the desire to know, obey, and submit to His will. Only He can convince you of your sin and misery Only He can enlighten your mind in the knowledge of Christ and renew your will. Only God can persuade and enable you to embrace the gospel, the good news of reconciliation with the Father through Christ Jesus, the Son of God. Only He can make you flee to Christ alone to deal with your sins, submitting to His plan of salvation. So go to God in faith, as in the first three petitions, demonstrating your absolute dependence on God for all you need to glorify Him forever. Well, now we'll see in the second three petitions that we're asking God to give us what we need to enjoy Him forever. We pray these petitions because we know that all we need must be provided by God. We pray in the manner of the fourth petition because we need God to sustain our physical life. Give us this day our daily bread. Again, you must give us our daily bread. Bread. To enjoy God, you must be alive. You need his generous provision of all the things which keep you alive. You need your daily bread. If you remember last Sunday, these are those things that your father knows you need before you ever ask. Pray, recognizing that if you have any portion of the good things in this life, it is only because of his gracious generosity. Praying in this manner, you are praising God for his provision for your whole life and humbly requesting that he continue to sustain you as you enjoy his blessings. Well, we pray in the manner of the fifth petition because we need God to redeem and transform us, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors To enjoy him forever, you must be alive forever. And to be alive forever, we need God to redeem us, to give us everlasting life What hope of enjoying Him can we have if we are left in our state of sin and misery? Only through the redeeming work of Jesus Christ are we pardoned of all our sins and accepted as righteous in his sight. This is only possible because God graciously imputes to us the righteousness of Christ's perfect obedience, though our sin is like blood staining every part of us He has covered us with the perfect white garment of Jesus' righteousness, his blood. That is the transformation we need, God, to work in us. You know your heart. You know your own nature. Would you honestly want God to forgive you as you forgive others? Praying in this manner, you recognize that your forgiveness from God is not because of anything special in you, but because of God's grace alone, which transforms you and enables you to forgive others. We pray in the manner of the sixth petition because we need God to guide and deliver us and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. We all need God to guide us. We need Him to plan our steps and make our paths straight. We know our weakness, and that we are prone to wander from the narrow way which leads to salvation. We need Him to graciously direct us away from all those situations which tempt us to sinful thoughts, words, and deeds. We need God to deliver us. We know that what the Apostle Paul says of himself in Romans 7:18 and 19 is true of us. For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, nothing good dwells For to will is present with me, but how to perform what is good, I do not find. For the good that I will to do, I do not do But the evil I will not to do, that I practice. We will be tempted in this life The enemy seeks to spoil the witness of those who are committed to living a life which glorifies the one true God. To enjoy him forever, we must he must preserve us in faith and deliver us From ourselves. So praying in this manner, you are asking God to do what only He can do. Only He can keep you from following the lies of Satan and walking down the path which leads to destruction. We go to God in faith for all we need to live at our calling. We pray that He will do what must be done, that we may glorify and enjoy Him forever. We do not pray in doubt, brothers and sisters, do we? We pray in hope. In the final section, the conclusion, we find the source of our hope. The source of our hope that our prayer will be heard and answered. We pray in this manner, showing that we are confident that God will do it. Our confidence is in His kingdom. The whole universe, everything that is, belongs to God. He is the sovereign ruler of every aspect of creation. He is most holy and wise and powerfully preserving and governing all his creatures and all their actions. We believe that he is God, and he alone can alter or add to his creation. He alone can order his creation. He alone can direct it to bring about his ends. Our confidence is in his kingdom. But our confidence is also in His power. Nothing God wants to do is beyond His power to do it. God can do all His holy will. Nothing you could ever ask for is too much for God to accomplish. No request is too big or too difficult or too costly. Remember, he is your heavenly father. And if the prayers you make to him are only ever concerning the things a human father could help with, you are not taking full advantage of this awesome privilege given to the sons and daughters of the Most High God. God can and does do whatever He wants to do. If He doesn't want it, it doesn't happen And this is hard. Because sometimes our requests may seem to go unanswered. And if your request appears to go unanswered, you must understand that it is not because God could not do it. Somehow, in some way, our prayer was not in line with God's will. He wanted things to be other than the way we did, and so we must rejoice. He knows far better than you do. He knows what will bring him the most glory. He is God Lastly, brothers and sisters, our confidence is in His glory. This must be the focus of our every prayer. This is why we pray. Giving glory to God is what you should want most when you pray. Giving glory to God is what you should want most when you pray. Christian, you're never going to be disappointed when you pray sincerely for God to glorify Himself. It will always be answered, because your Lord Jehovah does not tolerate The glory which belongs to him alone going to any other thing, person, whatever. He's a jealous God And he will not allow his glory to go to any other. He has ordered all of time and space to his own glory. He has planned it all to culminate in his glory. He is at work bringing about his glory. This is true in your life, in my life, in the life of every single person on this planet, whether they know it or not, whether it seems like it or not. And so we say, Amen. This is a Hebrew word. Did you know that? It's properly pronounced Amen. So we can put aside the amens. Just kidding. It's a joke. They're both the same. It is pronounced Amen. And it means verily, truly, it will be so. It is true. It is faithful. So be it. When we pray in this manner, we believe it will be so. And so we say Amen after our prayers We say Amen because we really do believe that God is going to do what we want Him to do most. God is going to glorify Himself. This perfect example of prayer shows us that in our prayers we must go to God in faith for all we need to live out our calling, confident that He will do it. In every prayer, we must do this. And we can do this. We have the paragon of prayer, the perfect example of prayer. Please, do not hesitate to reach out to any of the officers of this church if you have any questions about how God wants you to pray. Getting this aspect of your life ordered unto Christ's glory is of great importance to all of us. Now, saints and children of the Most High. We are blessed to participate in the greatest of privileges right here. The one who has given us the paragon of prayer has given far much more. Than just an example. He has opened the way to the Father through everything that this table before us signifies. Through his perfect life and death, we are enabled to glorify and enjoy him forever. Pray in the manner of Jesus Christ, the one who makes this communion possible, and you will order your life unto God's glory. Let us pray together.