The two masks, comedy and tragedy, they still represent the art form of theatrical art to us even now. and my Redeemer. And here in our passage, Matthew 6, verses 5 through 8, we are taught that there is a wrong way and a right way to pray. If you're more concerned about what others think of you and your prayer than what God does, then who really is at the center of your prayer? A kind of fervor. When we pray in the right way, we focus on God first and foremost. When we pray in the right way, the impact, the blessing, the reward is obvious. He has given us the gift of faith by his Holy Spirit. In his sovereign mercy, he has chosen to give us access to his presence by the blood of the perfect atoning sacrifice, Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God. Maybe that's not the right way. S and it serves as an acronym. And so I exhort each and every one of you, even if you feel like you have just the tiniest smidgen, the smallest mustard seed of faith, I encourage you. Therefore, do not be like them, for your Father knows the things you have need of before you ask him. We'll see that there is a wrong way and a right way to pray. Remember, this sermon on the mount was not delivered to a general audience of all kinds of people. It's false. but the attention of man. So they use many words and vain repetitions. They're hoping to have some kind of spiritual experience with the universe or whatever. Can you hide from God? We certainly don't want to be distracted with thoughts of what other people might be thinking about our prayers. Or husbands, if you want to take your bride out on a date, you don't bring the kids and the cousins and your parents and the dogs and the goldfish. And there's the answer. keeping loving kindness for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, and that will by no means clear the guilty That's not debatable. And your father who sees in secret will reward you openly. Assuredly, I say to you, they have their reward. They really liked theater. They play at being something else in order to convince everyone who sees them that they really are what they're portraying themselves to be. And this is why it is absolutely crucial that we pay close attention to this passage this morning, for our Lord is teaching us about Well, the first thing that we have to notice about our passage is that there is a phrase that's repeated three times in these four short verses. And it is a fundamental presupposition for this passage. It's a public spectacle. And our Lord teaches us that those who pray in this way will get exactly what they deserve. Does it make a difference if the person saying my prayers go out to you is praying to Thor or to the Easter Bunny or to Santa Claus or to the Force? They imitate what they think is going on when they see and hear truly pious Christians pouring out their hearts to God. It helps somebody lose control. We can't persuade him. That those who pray this way in the wrong way, they really think that they can make themselves heard. that they are completely missing the whole point of prayer. It's not some abstract therapeutic cleansing exercise designed to rid us of that energy and drive away all negativity. It is about what they can accomplish for themselves with prayer. He then tells us and teaches us about the right way to pray. And God-centered prayer genuinely seeks God's attention. It's not about playing the video game. And so we must go to God as our Father, putting Him at the center of our prayer because He's the whole point. Christian, you who put God at the center of every prayer will have the unmistakable aroma of the incense cloud of Jehovah. And so, brothers and sisters, we must avail ourselves of this great gift, this great blessing that is ours called prayer. Putting God at the center with His presence, communing with Him as our goal. If you only get ten seconds of time to be in the presence of the Almighty God, you will still reap a reward and a benefit of being in His presence. Please don't think that you're only going to be heard if your prayers sound like seminary theology lectures. Keeping us prayer journal. Writing can help us organize our thoughts into words and help us really make sense of what is going on internally and what we're trying to say to God. Are you speaking to God in a way that is consistent with believing that He's actually there and actually hearing you? It is a way to worship him, to adore, and to thank him. Ask him to give you friends that you can speak with about it. That we can be vulnerable this morning and allow your word to transform us. They want the audience to believe that they really are this character. And as we just heard, being hypocritical is playing a part. It is wrong to pray in a way that puts man, ourselves, or even others, at the center of our prayer. And what makes the right way the right way? And this principle is self-evident to us, isn't it? The Lord will give grace and glory. From this passage, I think we have enough to fundamentally revive our prayer lives. What it means to come into His presence and to be with Him, this special communion of the Lord's Supper, which declares to us the goodness, the love, and the mercy of the one and true Holy God. It's a word that's going to show up in our passage this morning, and it demonstrates that the Lord Jesus Christ has got a really great sense of humor. That's right. Yet in Jesus' day and in ours it has changed to mean a person who acts in contradiction to their actual beliefs We can see how this word has made such a transition in meaning. The true nature of a very vital part of what it means to be a Christian, our prayer We don't merely want other people to believe that we are Christians. Jesus is teaching his disciples about prayer. It is man-centered. Sometimes people may try to use every Christian prayer phrase they've ever heard in every single prayer. Or in my house looking for some more food. It's a good thing to be asking for things for others. It's helped me remember that prayer is so much more significant and special than simply having a way to request things of God. That we must do is center every prayer on God, on Him. Do not hesitate. You don't need to know everything that you want to say. You can glorify God by centering every prayer on Him and faithfully trusting that He is pleased when you sincerely place your hope in Him and demonstrate that hope in your prayer life. And when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. Because it is so disordered, the act of praying itself is what's important, not the substance of the prayer, and certainly not the one to whom the prayer is being offered. We believe his word, which declares to us who he is. We must examine ourselves, and we must be sure that we haven't bought into a wrong idea about what prayer is. Brothers and sisters, if we're going to pray in the right way, with God at the center of our prayer, then we also need to examine the content of our prayers. Although, if I'm honest with all of you and myself, I would really love it if there was a track your prayer button. I've received great benefit from something that I learned while I was at BSF. By the time that Jesus was born, that word had changed from its original meaning, which was actor, into a word which once I tell you the Greek word, you'll probably guess. We'll see that in verses five and seven. There is no discussion in our passage this morning about whether or not we should pray. God's people are a praying people. This is how the heathen, the non-believer, prays. This isn't a prayer made in faith to the one true God, believing that He will hear it. The one who prays that way has put man, they have put themselves at the center of their prayer. Acting like we're someone who has faith. Fervor. But you, when you pray, go into your room. We pray as an act of worship, demonstrating that we trust him, demonstrating that we love him, that our only hope is in his love for us, which has been proven in Jesus Christ. If God, the God we're praying to, doesn't know what we need before we ask it of Him, then we have to ask ourselves, is that the God we should be praying to? We must focus on not praying in the wrong way, not praying as actors playing a part, as hypocrites But we must focus on praying as true believers, those who really believe, praying in the right way. Praying is important. Remember that God is not looking for many words or vain repetitions that go on and on and on. Are you praying to God? If we're going to pray in the right way, with God at the center of our prayer, then we must not treat praying to Him like placing an order on Amazon. We direct our prayers to Him. That God has given you faith to trust that God has given the Lord Jesus Christ to prove his love for you. I often thank him for making air molecules vibrate in such a way that we can have music, that we can enjoy sound. And now, brothers and sisters, we are blessed to engage in the perfect signification of what it means to commune with the Triune God. Let us pray together as we prepare ourselves to receive the Lord's Supper That through your Scripture you would make us more like Jesus Christ this morning. Well, if you feel a little bit of tension right now, I think that's probably a good sign. So let's first look together at the wrong way to pray in verses five and seven. So, man-centered prayer, it's trying to convince others that our religion is true, that our faith is real, but it is also trying to convince ourselves that our faith and our religion is real. They don't really know that a real personal God is going to hear their prayer. right way to pray. Putting God at the center, glorifying Him, submitting our thoughts to Him, recognizing who He is, rejoicing in His presence, then it doesn't matter if your prayer is only 10 seconds long for air in your lungs. The word here translated reward is at other places translated as wages. Well, perhaps they're trying to sound deep and philosophical. In many false religions, where predative phrases or nonsense languages serve that very purpose. Despite what it may seem in some households, the child going to the father isn't always just asking for something. Communing with the Lord of all creation is itself a marvelous reward. Therefore do not be like them, for your father knows the things you have need of before you ask him. Jehovah passed by before him, and he proclaimed, Jehovah, Jehovah, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness and truth. Our God sees all things. Declare to him what you know of him. Give thanks to God for the many things that He has given to you without you ever asking for it. Next week, we are going to examine that perfect example, the paragon of prayer, the Lord's Prayer. Well, praise God. We go into the secret place, yet we're not alone. Go to him in the privacy of your soul and beg him to hear you for Jesus' sake. Thus, the purpose and the focus of their prayer is to manipulate their own emotions and to fool themselves into believing that they have demonstrated true faith in something. Their vain repetitions, the word is literally babbling, can fool them into thinking that they really get this prayer thing. It's not a chore. The point is that we don't want anyone or anything to intrude into this wondrously special activity. This is our God, the God who should be at the center of our prayer, the God with whom we want to commune every time we pray in the right He is the only true and living God. Do you find yourself thinking of prayer as a chore? Try to think of prayer not as another thing you've got to do. Thank God for his word. Are you someone who feels like you just can't ever find the right words to pray? All the time we hear this phrase, don't we? God-centered prayer is an act of faith. Well, if you uh if you like history, you're probably well aware that the ancient Greeks were big into theater The word is hypocrite. Perhaps they use many words and vain repetitions in an effort to work themselves into a kind of emotional frenzy. Are you trying to stir yourself up emotionally to provoke some kind of religious experience? God-centered prayer is intentionally focused, it is intimate, and ultimately it is very beneficial. Declare what you know to be true of yourself. It's deceptive. And if we give people like this the benefit of the doubt, maybe they're just trying to rekindle a feeling that they once had. It is in Christ's name that I pray. Sometimes our prayers can be dominated by supplication, by asking God for things that we need. Almighty God, we thank you that you have given us your word. That word openly could be misunderstood. That's not what's happening here. Maybe you don't think of it as a chore, but you know it's something that you should want to do, but you just can't really find the time or the energy or the motivation to do it It rubs us because it strikes at the Christian's deepest longing. It's an active theater. Um if you're interested in talking about that, I'm happy to talk with somebody about prayer journals. Every one of us is facing different trials, different situations, but the principles at work here are the same God-centered prayer is intentionally focused. God-centered prayer is intentionally focused because it is intimate. Thank God for the Lord Jesus Christ. Adoration, confession, thanksgiving, and supplication. Go to God in prayer. Thank God for making this world a wonderful place to live It's an act of intentional manipulation. We can't persuade him to do anything, let alone to do what we want. That is the man-centered way to pray. It's not about doing the thing. We know to whom we are praying. And we'll see first in verse 5 that man-centered prayer is trying to convince others that our religion is real. And when you pray, do not use vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. They had uh some of the most impressive amphitheaters that were built outside. And then we'll examine the right way to pray. They call these things mantras. Declare even the simplest things you know, that he created all things, that he so loved the world that he sent his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him will not perish but have everlasting life. For our great high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ doesn't just leave us here knowing the wrong way to pray. Well, if the wrong way was man-centered, it's because the right way is God-centered. Praying is beneficial. For a nervous system. But if our prayers are dominated by re requests, then we're risking praying in the wrong way. It doesn't matter to them if it's nonsense. Can you fool God? No good thing will he withhold from those who walk uprightly. Or is it more like you're praying at Him or around Him? Now you and I must be aware that this sinful attitude can infect our prayer life. Ask him to give you a deep and abiding love for it. And when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites, for they love to pray, standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. And it's a little funny. He alone is worthy to receive our prayers and to receive our worship. Christ has cleansed us of our sin, recreating us in his image as one fit to enter the holy place of God's throne room. And when God's people pray, we must be careful because there's a wrong way, and there's a right way. It's not some ritual that we must perform to appease a vengeful and petty deity of our own imagination. If you're trying to have a conversation with somebody and the radio's on and the TV's playing and you're on a phone call, it's really hard to give that person the attention that they require We glorify Him in faith by communing with Him The wrong way to pray, the man-centered way to pray, is hypocritical. Our thoughts and prayers are with you. Ask him to give you the gifts that he promises in Ephesians that will help equip you for all the good works that he has in your life Amen. It's about being with their daddy. It's about what they can get out of it. Nor should we be superstitious, reducing the Almighty God to a lifeless statue that we have to bring to life with our imaginative words and our emotional frenzy and Instead, this word openly should be understood as plainly or obviously. They want to seem wise. The Lord Jehovah knows all things. And when you pray, do not use vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Actors in their profession are simply pretending to be a certain way. They love to pray where the most attention can be gained. He already knows what you have need of before you even ask him. And we'll get into this a lot more next week because we're going to look then at the Lord's Prayer itself. But you, when you pray, go into your room. For an immune system. And if we are his disciples, then he is also teaching us. And when you have shut your door, pray to your father who is in the secret place. I couldn't find the definitive origins of this, but it's uh it's a word. Do you see it there? We know with whom we are communing. That you're a sinner, that you can't do anything at all to save yourself, that you need him and you need him alone Beg Him to increase your love and devotion to Him. Please be seated. The reason they're going to their daddy is because they want to be with him. But it isn't just the act of praying. We want truly to be Christians. We're going to look at this in two divisions this morning. It's acting in such a way as to make people believe that you really do love God and you really do love prayer. They don't understand what it is and what it accomplishes. It's not as though we we say a prayer and then a treasure chest falls down from heaven right next to us in front of everybody. Desire to spend time with him, to be in his presence. Prayer is not a box to check off Because originally hypocrite meant an actor on a stage. And we'll see that in verses six and eight. Its purpose is to be with Him and to commune with Him. And they achieve that by playing the part as best that they can. When Jesus went up on the mountain, it was his disciples who came after him and were taught by him. The hypocritical and the heathen way, the unbelieving way, the wrong way. And this is why we're to go into a a secret place. Psalm 84, verse 11: For the Lord God is a son and shield. For a circulatory system. We go to be with God. They will get exactly what they've earned. Perhaps you have an idea in your mind of what it sounds like to pray, and you just can't seem to make that come out of your mouth. They want to sound knowledgeable. Is it something that you, well, yeah, maybe maybe a chore is not really fair Rather, there is an assumption that everyone who loves God and is called according to his purpose will pray. The motivation for this kind of prayer is not God. After all, the truly pious prayer probably sounded like nonsense to them. It's basically just babbling. If someone really believes what God has revealed of Himself in His Word, they know it is futile to try to manipulate the Almighty God. But sometimes writing it out can help us get past what can be a kind of awkwardness if we're not already in the habit of regular prayer. In a way, that describes every single one of us. Can any of us convince him that we're something we're not? You have preserved it for us. To them, it's more of a cathartic exercise. And we'll see this in verses 6 and 8 And indeed, when the hypocrite or a pretender is praying, they're only going to get what they've earned, not the blessing of God. We gladly exclude all external and internal distractions We don't need to be worried about what people are hearing from us in our prayer. Rather, think of prayer as one of those glorious things you get to do. He created all things. We pray that that is exactly what you would do. When you pray. What makes the wrong way wrong? But know that by God's grace you can reject the wrong way to pray, and you can pray in the right way. We don't want to act apart, do we? It serves the purpose of helping someone reach a point of ecstatic emotion. But here we're told Ask him to give you wisdom that you can understand it. Do your prayers resemble a list that one might send to the North Pole? Look at verse eight with me. It's what happens when we pray in the right way that is so good for us. It's been really helpful for me because it reminded me that only one of the four is asking God for things. Well, does it matter which God to whom their thoughts and prayers are directed? Our Father who sees in secret rewards us openly. The main thing Adore him. Now, the circumstances of each of our lives is very different. Give thanks to him for gravity. And like Moses, whose face shone with a radiant light after he was in the presence of God, so too. If I knew that by Friday that prayer was going to be answered, I could get through a whole lot This is God's word. Or from Exodus 34. Well, brothers and sisters, this is the wrong way to pray He sustains all things. Well it'll be no surprise to you that the ancient Greeks had a word for actor. The first is we'll look at the wrong way. Or maybe they just use a lot of Christian terminology, trying to mask that there's really nothing Christian about their prayer at all. Ultimately, this kind of prayer is an act of superstition. And when you have shut your door, pray to your father who is in s in the secret place Give thanks to Him for Father, I pray, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength. So who are they actually trying to convince All you need to do is to trust. They're not just always looking for permission to play Xbox. Put God at the center of your prayer life, and you will not regret it. We thank you that we can trust it. That's the point. You can even go and still visit some of the ruins of these amphitheaters even today You and I both need to be that new creation which is called a Christian Many find that writing or typing out their prayers can be really helpful with this. Sometimes it's not for ourselves. It's like a child going to their father. Worship him It's as the hypocrites pray. The attention for them is the point of prayer Regardless of who they really are, they act and they play a part. We must not be hypocritical, playing a part. Please pray with me. Seek him. They really know what they're doing. The word here is literally a closet, but I don't think God is telling you you must sit in your closet every time you pray. Is communing with Him your ultimate goal, or when you pray, is there some other motive going on? We'll examine the paragon, the perfect example of prayer. It's a healing and cleansing experience. And your father who sees in secret will reward you openly. This is, in effect, the preface to the Lord's Prayer, our Father in Heaven. Let's look together at verse 6 He is the giver of all good things. Communion with Him is the reward and the benefit of prayer. It is a way to commune with Him. Look at verse 5. They're trying to recreate an experience that they thought they had with God. It's not his blessing. That is our purpose. The word is acts. Sometimes it's Cry out to him. You won't be able to give the necessary attention to your bride. We risk putting humans at the center of our prayer. Assuredly I say to you, they have their reward. This is the Greek word, huppocriti. It's the reason we're praying in the first place. While at the same time, it demonstrates So we go away from everyone else. It's not his presence which is sought. He reigns over all things. If we pray in the right way, It's like having a good cry. Is it just the thought that counts? But right now I've derived a lot of benefit from just Look at verse 7.