Bible with you, I encourage you to turn to Matthew chapter 6, where we will be hearing from our Lord today. Also want to point out to you there is a follow-along sheet. For the sermon this morning, there's only two people in this room who are required to use that sheet. They have red hair. But everyone else is free to do as they please with that. God's Word from the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew chapter 6. I'm going to read through the entirety of the Lord's Prayer. Starting in verse 5. And when you pray, you shall not be like the hypocrites. For they love to pray, standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men Assuredly, I say to you, they have their reward. But you, when you pray, go into your room, and when you have shut your door, pray to your father, who is in the secret place And your father who sees in secret will reward you openly. And when you pray, do not use vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Therefore, do not be like them, for your Father knows the things you have need of before you ask him. In this manner, therefore, pray, our Father in heaven Hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Let us pray. Awesome God, you have given this to your people. You have given this to your disciples. We pray, Lord, that we would take heed of it. That it would transform us, that it would make us more like your son, Jesus. We pray this in his name. Amen. Please be seated. Well, it is well known to fans of history that the ancient Greeks, they were big into theater. The ruins of some of their massive outdoor amphitheaters can still be visited even to this day. They've left us some of the earliest examples of acting and drama. The two masks, the comedy mask and the tragedy mask, they still represent this art form to us even now. Well, it'll be no surprise to you that the ancient Greeks had a word for actor A word which shows up in our passage this morning. And proving that our Lord has an impeccable sense of humor, by the time Jesus was born, that word had changed from its original meaning, actor. into a word which you could probably guess. You could guess this word because this word describes a lot of the actions of some famous celebrities and actors of our time. I wonder if you can guess the word I mean. I'll give you one more hint. The Greek word is hypocriti That's a little bit funny, isn't it? Originally, hypocrite meant an actor on a stage. In Jesus' day and in ours, it means a person who acts in contradiction to their actual beliefs We can see how this word has made such a transition in meaning. Actors in their profession are simply pretending to be a certain way. Regardless of who they really are, they act and play at being something else in order to convince everyone who sees them that they really are as they are acting They want the audience to believe that they are this character, and they achieve that by playing the part as best they can. If you feel a little bit of tension right now, I think that's probably a good sign. Because in a way, that describes every human being that has ever lived, you and I included, with one obvious exception, the Lord Jesus. It rubs us because it strikes at the Christians' deepest longing. Christians don't want to act apart. We don't merely want other people to believe that we are Christians. We want truly to be Christian. You and I both need to be that new creation which is a Christian. And this is why it is absolutely crucial that we pay close attention to this passage from the Sermon on the Mount. Our Lord is teaching us about the true nature of a vital part of a Christian's life. Prayer. Here in our passage, Matthew 6, verses 5 through 8, we are taught that there is a wrong way and a right way to pray. There is a wrong way and a right way to pray. We're going to look first at the wrong way, which we see for us in verses 5 and verse 7. And we will see the right way, which is found in verses 6 and 8. Now the first thing we have to notice is a phrase that is repeated three times in these four verses. If you have your scripture there, take a look. In these four verses, There's one phrase repeated three times. It is a fundamental presupposition for this passage. Do you see it there? When you pray. There is no discussion in the passage about whether or not we should pray. Rather, there is an assumption that everyone who loves God and is called according to his purpose will pray. Remember, this sermon on the mount was not to just the general audience. It wasn't just laddie dadi and everybody. But when Jesus went up on the mountain, he was seated, and his disciples came to him. And he is teaching them. And brothers and sisters, he's teaching us. He is teaching us that God's people are a praying people. And when God's people pray, we must be careful because there is a wrong way and a right way to pray. So looking first at verses 5 and 7, let's take a look at the wrong way. What makes it wrong? We're gonna find it is man-centered. Man-centered prayer is trying to convince others that our religion is real. Look at verse 5. It is hypocritical. It is as the hypocrites pray. It's playing a part. It's acting in such a way as to make people believe that you really do love prayer. It's false. Deceptive. It's actually an act of intentional manipulation. The motivation for this kind of prayer is not God. It's not his blessing or his presence which is sought It's hypocritical playing a role, but it is also a public spectacle. It's an active theater They love to pray where the most attention can be gained. This is not a surprise to us. The attention is the point for them. Our Lord teaches us that those who pray in this way will get exactly what they deserve. The only thing they will receive is the attention which they crave. Interestingly, the word that's here translated as reward is is in other places translated as wages, like in Romans 4. 4. Now to him who works the wages are not counted grace, but debt. Indeed, when the hypocrite and pretender praise, they get only what they have earned: disappointment. Christian, you must be aware that this sinful attitude can infect your prayer life. If you are more concerned about what others think of you and your prayer than what God does, to whom are you actually praying? Who is at the center of your prayer? Man-centered prayer is trying to convince others. that our religion is real, but it is also trying to convince ourselves that our religion is real. Look at verse 7 Because it is so disordered, the act of praying itself becomes what's important. Not the substance of the prayer, and certainly not the one to whom the prayer is made. How many times do we hear the phrase, our prayers go out to all the people who are affected, or our thoughts and prayers are with them? Does it matter which God to whom prayer is directed? Is it just the thought that counts? Does it make a difference if the person saying, My prayers are with you is making prayers to the tooth fairy or to the force? This is how the heathen praise. Non-believing They don't understand what it is and what it accomplishes. They imitate what they think is going on when they see truly pious men pouring out their hearts to God. So they use many words. They use vain repetitions. It doesn't matter to them if it's nonsense. After all, the truly pious prayer of the truly pious man just sounded like nonsense to them anyway. Well, perhaps they're trying to sound deep and philosophical. They want to seem wise and knowledgeable. They try to use every Christianish prayer phrase they've ever heard in every single prayer. Maybe they use Christian-sounding terminology to mask that there is nothing remotely Christian about what they're praying. We have a lot of experience with this if you've ever seen one of the prayers at the opening of U. S. Congress recently Perhaps they use many words in vain repetitions, trying to work themselves into a an emotional frenzy and emotional fervor. And if we give them the benefit of the doubt, maybe they're just trying to rekindle a feeling they once had Maybe they're trying to recreate what they thought was an actual experience of God. Did you know that in many false religions, repetitive phrases and Nonsense languages serve that very purpose of reaching a point of ecstatic emotion. Basically, they're trying to lose control. They just keep repeating themselves over and over again to get to lose their mind and get carried away in prayer. The word that's translated there, it's literally babbling. They're just babbling. And so they falsely believe that they're having some kind of religious experience. They don't really know that a real personal God is going to hear their prayer. It's cathartic. It's a cleansing exercise. It's like having a good cry. Thus the purpose And the focus of the prayer is to manipulate their own emotions and to fool themselves into believing that they have demonstrated faith in something, right? The goal is to have a spiritual experience of the universe or whatever. Well while it may be using many words and babblings and Vain repetitions, it may just be a nonsense activity. We can see how the motivation behind their prayer is superstition. It is an act of superstition. This isn't a prayer made in faith to the one true God, believing that he will hear it. If someone really believes what God has revealed of himself in his word, they know it is futile to try to manipulate the Almighty God Can you hide from God? Can you fool him? You can't convince him that you're something you're not. You can't persuade him to do what you want, follow your agenda. But here we're told that those who pray this way really think they can make themselves heard. So who are they actually trying to convince? They are trying to convince themselves. Their babbling can fool them into thinking they really get this prayer thing. While at the same time demonstrating that they are completely missing the whole point of prayer, prayer is not a box to check off on the I'm a holy person checklist. It's not a chore. It is not just some ritual that we must perform to appease a vengeful and petty deity of our own imagination. It is not some abstract therapeutic exercise designed to cleanse us of bad energy and remove all thoughts of negativity. The one who prays that way has put man. They have put themselves at the center of their prayer. It's about what they can accomplish for themselves with prayer, what they can get out of it. Brothers and sisters, this is the wrong way to pray. It is wrong to pray in a way that puts man, either ourself or others, at the center of our prayer. We must not be hypocritical playing a part. As one who has faith in the true God. Nor must we be superstitious, reducing the Almighty to a lifeless statue that we bring to life with our words and our imagination. That is the man-centered way to pray. The hypocritical and the heathen way. The wrong way. Well, our great high priest and king, the Lord Jesus Christ, doesn't leave us here, just knowing how not to pray. He also teaches us the right way to pray. And we see this in verses six and eight. Now what makes the right way to pray right? It is God-centered. God-centered prayer genuinely seeks Him. It seeks God's attention. Its purpose is to be with him and to commune with him. Look at verse 6. We see that this prayer is intentionally focused. We gladly exclude all internal and external distractions. When we pray in the right way, we focus on God first and foremost. This is why we are to go to a secret place. The word here is literally our closet, but it doesn't mean that we have to actually go and sit in our closets. The point is that we don't want anyone or anything to intrude into this wondrous, special activity. We certainly don't want to be distracted by ourselves. or by thoughts of what others might be thinking about our prayer, so we go away from everyone else Yet we're not alone. We go away from everyone else, but our point and purpose is not to be by ourselves. We go to be with God. We go to be with our Lord. He is the point. He is the purpose. He's the reason we pray in the first place. And this principle is self-evident to most of us, isn't it? Husbands. If you want to have a wonderful date night where you and your bride can focus on each other, you don't bring the kids, you don't bring the in-laws, you don't bring the cousins and the dogs along for the show. You can't give the proper attention to your mate with all those distractions. The God-centered prayer is intentionally focused, but it is also intimate. True God-centered prayer is a child going to their loving father. Despite what it may seem in human relationships, the child going to the father isn't always just asking for money or permission or in my house for food. The child wants their daddy. They want the presence of their father. Being with him is the goal. And so we must go to our God as our Father, putting him at the center of our prayer because he is the whole point. We pray as an act of worship, demonstrating our trust in Him, our love for Him, our hope in His love for us, which is proven by Jesus Christ. It is an intentionally focused activity. It is an intimate activity. And praise God, it is a beneficial. Activity. When we pray in the right way, the impact, the blessing, the reward is obvious. Our Father, who sees in secret, rewards us openly. That word openly can be understood plainly or obviously. It doesn't just mean that you're going to pray and then a bag of money falls down right next to you openly. No. It means it will be obvious. The benefit that is given to you because of God-centered prayer. It's like Moses, whose face shone with a radiant light after he was in the presence of God, so to the Christian. Who has God at the center of every prayer will have the unmistakable aroma of the incense cloud of Jehovah. You can't fake it, and you can't ignore it Well, brothers and sisters, we see now in verse 8 that God-centered prayer is an act of faith. There is nothing superstitious about it. We know to whom we pray God has given us the gift of faith by his Holy Spirit. Christ has cleansed us of our sin, recreating us in his image as one fit to enter the throne room of the Holy God. We believe his word, which declares to us who he is. He says it everywhere In Psalm 84, 11, he says, For the Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from those who walk uprightly. Where it says, the mighty one, God the Lord, he has spoken and called the earth from the rising of the sun to its going down. That's from Psalm 50. Or if you were to look at Exodus 34. And Jehovah passed by before him and proclaimed, Jehovah, Jehovah, a God, merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness and truth. keeping loving kindness for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, and that will by no means clear the guilty Or from Psalm 73, but it is good for me to draw near to God. I have put my trust in the Lord God, that I may declare all your works. Or from Isaiah. Have you not known? Have you not heard? The everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, neither faints. Nor is weary. His understanding is unsearchable. He is the only true and living God He alone is worthy to receive sacrifices, as on Mount Carmel, and now he is the only one worthy to receive our prayers, to receive our worship If he does not know what we need before we ask him, what business do we have praying to him? That's not God. Our God sees all things. He knows all things. He created all things and sustains all things. He is the giver of all good things. He reigns over all things. In his sovereign mercy, he has chosen to give us, you and I, Christians, access to his presence by the blood of the perfect atoning sacrifice, Jesus, the Lamb of God. And so we must avail ourselves of this great gift and blessing that is prayer. Not in the wrong way Not as the heathens or the hypocrites, not as actors playing a part and trying to convince ourselves and others that we really do believe. No, we must pray in the right way, with God at the center, his presence as our goal, and knowing who it is to whom we pray Now, the circumstances of all of our lives are different. That's sure. That's not debatable. But the principles from this passage are still at work. We must not pray as the hypocrites. We must not play the role of a Christian. If our goal in prayer is to be approved or validated by man, we're praying in the wrong way. So we must shun every temptation to make ourselves appear to others to be more virtuous or more pious than we really are. Now you don't go to synagogues, I don't think. But we can still relate to this. You don't want to twist opportunities for public prayer into uh you know opportunities to get a bunch of likes from everybody in earshot. That's not what it is. That's not what we're doing. And in this day and age, earshot is clear across the whole planet, isn't it? When it says the corners of the streets, it might as well be saying the Facebooks and the Twitters. It's time for us to examine ourselves in this. To examine whether or not this bad attitude of prayer is starting to creep into our lives and into our practice. Ask yourself this. Every time that anything happens in the world, do you feel that you need to go and offer a hot take so everybody knows where you stand on that issue? Do you rush to express your agreement with opinion X shared by a well-known teacher, pastor, comedian, theologian, random person on the internet? Do you feel bad if no one agrees with you? No one likes your post? Or perhaps it's more important to ask: do you feel really good when everybody does? We need to be very careful, especially when we know that what we're going to say or the opinion we're going to express is going to bring us approval and validation from a specific group of people. We have to be careful, but that's not the point. Are we trying to convince others of how holy, how pious, how compassionate, how understanding we are? Are we trying to convince People who don't know us how Christian we are? What does it really say about who we truly are if we have to expend so much energy to convince others to think of us as Christian? Now, I'm not saying it's inherently wrong to share a prayer or a passage of scripture or a quote or even your own opinion in the public sphere, but we must be on guard against our own sinful hearts. Christians should never try to use our love of Christ and devotion to Him to draw attention to ourselves. If you find yourself in this kind of pattern, you need to get in the habit of taking a step back and asking yourself. Why do I need to broadcast this? Do I need to feel validated or approved in my belief? Do I need to know who agrees with me? Why am I not content to be in agreement with the Lord God? Is He not enough for me? Do I need to be in agreement with the majority? That passage about Elijah springs to mind, doesn't it? We also need to consider the content of our prayers. Are you speaking to God in a way that is consistent with believing that He's actually there? That He is actually hearing you? Are you praying to Him, or are you praying at Him? Or maybe about Him? Is communing with God your ultimate goal, or do you have other motives? Are you trying to stir yourself up emotionally to provoke a religious experience? Maybe turn the radio up a little louder, maybe maybe repeat that song twelve, fifteen, eighteen times in a row just to get yourself going. Do your prayers resemble a list that you might try to mail to the North Pole? We'll get into this a lot more next week when we look at the paragon of prayer, the perfect example. Which is the Lord's Prayer. But right now this morning, we have enough to fundamentally revive our prayer lives The Westminster Shorter Catechism, Question 98, teaches us that prayer is an offering up of our desires unto God for things agreeable to His will in the name of Christ With confession of our sins and thankful acknowledgement of His mercies. The main thing we must do is center every single prayer on God alone. This is, in effect, the preface to the Lord's Prayer, isn't it? Our Father who is in heaven We direct our prayers to Him. We glorify Him in faith by communing with Him. Simply being here this morning, brothers and sisters, means that the Lord wanted you to hear this message And to see this passage and to learn that there is a wrong way and a right way to pray. And even if you have the tiniest smidgen, the tiniest mustard seed of faith, do not hesitate Go to God. Desire Him alone. Seek Him alone. You don't need to know everything you have to say. You certainly don't need to know everything that you need. Remember, he already knows what you need before you ask Him. All you need to do is go to the true God in faith that because of Jesus Christ and what he has accomplished, that God in heaven is your Father Go to him in the privacy of your soul and beg him to hear you for Jesus' sake. Adore him, worship him Declare what you know of him, that he is the Creator, that He so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, and whoever is a believer in that Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, they will not perish. But have everlasting life. Declare what you know to be true of yourself: that you're a sinner, and that you can't do anything on your own to cleanse yourself of that sin, to change that condition. It is entirely the grace of God. Give thanks to him for all the many things he's delivered to you before you ever thought to ask of it. Thank him for every breath in your lungs. Thank him for every sniff in the air. Thank him for the taste of food. Thank him for your life itself. Thank him, thank him for not changing the laws of physics so that we can still see visible light. Thank him for your immune system. Thank him that you have a circulatory system. Thank him for all those invisible processes that you don't even know are happening right now to keep you alive. Thank him for his word. Ask him to give you a great love for it, to give you wisdom so that you can understand it and apply it to your life. Thank him for every single person that he has ever brought into your life. Most importantly. Thank Him for Jesus Christ. Beg him to increase your love of Him and your devotion to Him. Put Him at the center of your prayer life, and you will not regret it Next week, we're going to examine, as I said before, the paragon of prayer, the perfect example. But know that by God's grace you can reject the wrong way. And you can pray in the right way. You can glorify God by centering every prayer on Him and faithfully trusting that He is pleased when you sincerely place your hope in Him and demonstrate that sincere hope. In your prayer life. Now we are greatly blessed, aren't we? For we get to engage in the perfect sign and symbol. The perfect representation of all that makes it possible for us to commune with God in prayer. This special communion of the Lord's Supper In which he shows us his great goodness, proves to us his great love, and impresses us that he is the one true and holy God. Please pray with me.