And it's Mark chapter 8, verses 14 through 33. We're going to make uh an exception today and stop our Deuteronomy series to look at this passage. And let's stand for the reading of it out of honor to this supernatural word that has been given to us. I'm going to read Mark chapter 8, verses 14 through 33, and that is what the preaching will be on us. This is right after some religious leaders had asked Jesus the Christ for a sign. And then we see in verse 13 that Jesus leaves them, left them, and getting into the boat again departed to the other side. And now it's going to start Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread, and they did not have more than one loaf with them in the boat. Then he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have no bread. But Jesus, being aware of it, said to them, Why do you reason because you have no bread? Do you not perceive nor understand? Is your heart still hardened? Having eyes do you not see? And having ears do you not hear? And do you not remember? When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of fragments did you take up? They said to him, Twelve Also, when I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many large baskets full of fragments did you take up? And they said, Seven. So he said to them, How is it that you do not understand? Then he came to Bethsaida, and they brought a blind man to him, and begged him to touch him. So he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the town. And when he had spit on his eyes and put his hands on him, he asked him if he saw anything. And he looked up and he said, I see men like trees walking. Then he put his hands on his eyes again, and he made him look up. And he was restored, and he saw everyone clearly. Then he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town, nor tell anyone in the town. Now Jesus and his disciples went out to the towns of Caesarea Philippi, and on the road he asked his disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am? So they answered, John the Baptist, but some say Elijah, and others one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ. Then he strictly warned them that they should tell no one about him. And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed, and after three days rise again. He spoke this word openly. Then Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. But when Peter had turned around and looked at his disciples, but when he had turned around and looked at his disciples, he rebuked Peter, saying, Get behind me, Satan, for you are not mindful of the things of God, but the things of men. Please pray with me. Oh God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we ask that through Jesus you would let us see. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. I'm wondering if you have had a similar experience that I have had. where you're you you you see something in the sky uh it could be a cloud formation or it could be one of the blue angels let's take it as a cloud formation It it is shaped like a the perfect shape of a dragon. Or or maybe it's a convertible Volkswagen and you see it clearly and and then you say, Look, it's a it's a dragon in the sky and they go, What are you talking about? I don't see a dragon, I don't see a Volkswagen Or which blue angel are you talking about? I don't see which one you're talking about. And so what you do I don't know if you do this. Maybe this is considered rude But you make them put their head kind of where your head is, and they say and you say, look straight down my arm and off the tip of my finger. Can't you see it? Maybe you just do that with little kids. Don't try that with adults That could that could be weird. But I think you understand the experience, and lo and behold, by the end of the experience, they still don't see what you Are you seeing? Have you ever had that experience? Pointing out something and people just could not see it. I would say that the experience, however, when we look at humanity overall, man, woman, child, whatever. Doesn't just stop there. It goes beyond trying to point out clouds or airplanes. There are folks within our lives who are making grievous, grievous mistakes And we see that it's destroying them. It's eating them from the inside out. And we keep pointing at it, and they can't see Bad decisions or truths that they deny and they cannot see. We even look at ourselves. We lie in our beds at night Or if we have a moment where the radio's not on and we're driving alone, we can feel like we're just overlooking something, that we just are missing out, that we just can't see. This is just pointing out that whether it's yourself or it's your family, or really humanity in general, we have always been known to have a son. Problem. Things are there and we have difficulty seeing them. Sometimes we see them vaguely, sometimes we don't see them at all, and very rarely does see someone see something clearly. That's just our experience. A sight problem isn't new. It's been around almost from the beginning. It's been around a long time, as you can see in this passage actually. This passage is over 2,000 years old. And yet there's a sight problem. So let's look at the page of our scriptures here at this sight problem. And see the situation, see the illustration, and see the interpretation. Those are the three parts of this as we look at humanity's sight problem, a situation an illustration and an interpretation. The situation begins in verses 14 through 21. You can see it's almost silly what's going on here. I tried to bring that out in the tone of my voice. I hope I didn't make Jesus sound too exasperated with them. I'm sure he has more patience. I'm absolutely sure he has more patience In 14 through 21, humanity's sight problem is brought out in a situation between Jesus and his disciples. It's not a discussion about bread, but they think it is. In verse 15, Jesus told his disciples in no uncertain terms and sternly to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. Now that's a metaphor that he's using. He's talking in the domain of bread and baking about a different domain of teaching. He's using a figure of speech and they didn't catch it. He's actually been using this figure of speech for some time now. In one sense, to say to avoid the leaven of the Pharisees or these religious leaders, the leaven of Herod Jesus is warning them against their influence. He's warning them against their inner motivations. He's warning them against their attitudes. He's warning them against their explicit teachings and their criteria for truth. And Jesus has been doing this for quite some time. He's been using bread as a metaphor for his teaching and the kingdom for a while. If you flip back to 7, chapter 7, verse 27. You can see the metaphor there, and it's not that far away. But Jesus said to her, Let the children be filled first with what? Bread. For it is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. But the woman replies, Yet even the little dogs have breadcrumbs from under the table. See, this has been going on. There's a metaphor that's being used for teaching. Teaching from one kind of kingdom or teaching from another kind of kingdom. Teaching from one set of leaders with a certain attitude, or teachings from another set of leaders with a different attitude. But here's the question for you. It's the same question to the disciples. Is Jesus talking about bread? Is Jesus worried about whether they're going to have enough to eat? Because that's what the disciples think They obviously haven't been following. He's not concerned about bread. But the disciples were so confused, the sight problem. That in verse 16, they start to think that Jesus was upset about how much bread they had brought. Look at that verse in It says, Is it because we have no bread? And then in verse fifteen it points out, in verse fourteen it says, And they had only one loaf of bread You see that? They they went on this trip, they only brought one loaf, and he they think Jesus is upset because they didn't bring enough for the picnic or the trip or for all of us to eat But they really were missing it. Jesus wasn't talking about bread, but they couldn't see it. Jesus was pointing toward a real danger, and the disciples were confused. This is The situation. And so then Jesus seeks to show them that he is not concerned about having enough bread. I mean, come on! He asks them essentially this: weren't you just with me? When I took a few loaves and fed thousands of people and had leftovers. That's the point. That's why he says, Is your heart still so hardened? Do you not get who you're with? Have you not seen what I am able to do? And he comes right out and says it in verse 21. How is it that you don't understand? But they didn't understand. And Jesus knew that because that's the situation. It is not just a situation that existed 2,000 years ago. It is a situation that existed Today. Jesus puzzles people. Wouldn't you agree? Jesus puzzles people. It takes even his followers' time to get on the same page with him. It is a journey, like a pilgrim's progress. And really, when we look at this and we look at the characters that is depicting human life, there are at least two responses to Jesus, right? See within this passage, there's two responses. There's the Pharisees and Herod. They must have been confused. They had a sight problem. They couldn't see Jesus for who he was. And they choose, out of that sight problem, to reject Jesus. But then there's the disciples, and they can't see very well either, but they accept him, yet they don't understand foolishly. And the same two people exist here today, the same two people exist across the globe. Those who reject, and those who are drawn to Jesus but feel more or less confused. And I guess the question has to be, which one are you? But it's not the final question because we have more points. But I just asked you at this time, which one are you? Which character? This is the situation. This is your situation. The story moves forward, and he's not content, Mark, nor the Holy Spirit. With just leaving us with this situation of confusion and people not seeing. He now wants to take us to an illustration to help us to begin to go deeper and to understand why all these things are written. And so what we see, beginning in verse 22, is the illustration. You know, it's not entirely fair to call this an illustration. I should say, to be precise, it's at least an illustration. Because it is so much more. Jesus really did in history meet a blind man, and he gave that blind man sight in the way that he describes here. Again. But Mark's overall purpose really is not to show us another healing, is not just to show us another miracle. He has a bigger thing that he wants to do here, and he wants to illustrate what just happened in that situation, and he wants to illustrate what's going to happen after this part of the verse, also, which I'll show you in the next point. So let's look at this event. And then we'll seek to interpret it in the very final point. But let's look at this illustration that Jesus gives. It's a living illustration, if you want to put it that way, a historically accurate living illustration, and it begins in verse 22. Jesus arrived at Beth Seda and a blind man was brought to Jesus. This had become pretty regular. Verse 23 now, take a look at it with. Jesus took the blind man I love this this is so gentle if if you if you picture what's exactly happening here. He's blind, so he would stumble perhaps, or if he had his stick he would not be able to walk as as fast as he would I don't believe they had dogs helping them at that time. So Jesus takes the blind man by the hand and he leads him out of the town. Can you picture that? The gentleness that he has, the time that he's taking for this person that other people perhaps would despise. Jesus, stop Outside the town so that he could do this in private. He wasn't trying to make a public spectacle, and so too did the man. And then here we have this unusual uh uh practice that the this only time we see it That Jesus then spits on the man's eyes and he on his hands and he puts his hands on him. And then Jesus asks him, Do you see anything? And it's the most wonderful thing that happens here. The man looked up in verse 24 and he says, I see men like trees walking. Does everybody understand what's happening? Do you see what's going on here? You may have experienced this in coming out of a surgery in recovery when there's still stuff on your eyes. They put some kind of grease on your eyes sometimes I remember speaking to one woman who recalls her childhood. Her eyes were not checked until later in life, maybe when she once she was finally six or seven or nine, and she remembers The day when the ophthalmologist first put glasses on her face, and she could just see, maybe for the first time that she could remember, the distinct look on her parents' face Before, you know what they were like to her, how she described them? That people were like trees walking, indistinct shapes. And that's kind of what this guy is saying here. In fact, if I had bad enough eyesight, if things were blurry enough and you all stood, you would look like a small forest to me. That's the whole point Now, of course, Jesus here is the man. He had been holding his hand the whole time. This is a personal connection. And so we look in verse 25, knowing that this isn't the perfection of sight, Jesus then takes the next step, he puts his hands on him again, and he makes him look up. And at once his sight is restored and he sees everything Clearly. No more just like trees, but the real human beings. Jesus really did this. And if you were there, you could have watched it happen. You would have heard him say it. They look like trees. Whether you were there or you are here, everyone ends up having the same question after you hear this illustration, this living historical illustration. I wonder if you already have the question inside of your head. What is it that you're asking about? This now that you know that it's an illustration. Everyone's always asking, what is the interpretation or the meaning of this illustration? What is it that Jesus is trying to show if it's not just showing his power If it's not just another example of a miracle, then what is it trying to show? Why all the drama? For example, could not Jesus have just brought all of his sight back in the one moment? Why the two stages? You see, something else is going on here. There's something deeper happening that Jesus wants to teach. And you know why he has to do it this way? Is because his disciples have already been proven to never get it on the first try. He has to take them through stages. Just like in the movie, What About Bob? Jesus takes baby steps. And that brings us to our final point, the interpretation. That's what we need at this point. And that's what happens in the next set of verses. Jesus, through questioning, is going to bring the whole thing home. He's going to bring it all together for us in 27 through 30. And you can see that Mark had that plan. He wanted all generations to see the nature of discipleship, what it means to be a Christian What does it mean to be a follower of Jesus? He wanted to answer the question, what would it mean for us to be Christians? So if you look at these verses, Jesus will, through questions to his disciples, start tying all the pieces together. And he begins in verse 27. Now Jesus and his disciples went out to the towns of Caesarea Philippi, and on the road he asked his disciples, saying to them, Who do men say that I am? He's going to take them through a kind of Socratic method and dialogue here. And that's the major question. Who is Jesus? It's on the front of your bulletin. Who do you say that I am? We hear all kinds of answers to this question today. And I wonder how you would answer it. I've heard people tell me that Jesus is a political leader, he's a moral revolutionary in the same way that Gandhi was, that Jesus is a fairy tale. That Jesus was a hippie. That he would have used essential oils. I've heard all kinds of things. What you see here in the text is how they would have responded based on their cultural options. They had their own speculation. And in verse 28, you can see them pooling together the opinions of all the crowds. There was a real buzz about Jesus. Everybody wanted to know who he was. But everyone was still confused. And so in verse 28, they say: some think that you are John the Baptist, some think you are Elijah or one of the prophets. But this isn't good enough for Jesus. He's talking to them personally, face to face. And so that's why he says in verse 29: No, no, no, no, no. Who do you say that I am? And here's Peter. Peter answers, he's always quick on this. And he says, You are the Christ. It's actually the climax of the first part of the book, this statement. But you know, although it is the climax of the first part of the book, this is still just part of the puzzle. Do you know what Peter is saying, by the way? When he says that Jesus is the Christ, you've heard the word Christ before, have you not? Don't you hear it all over the place? I I heard it a lot when I I was with adults that like to cuss. But all of us in one way or another have heard the word Christ. It's the Greek word for Messiah. It has a long history that's not connected too much to our history anymore. It is a word pointing toward the great world ruler who would make the whole earth peaceful and beautiful again. And there's a lot to that. There's a lot of moving parts on how that means to be done. But that's what it would mean for Peter to call Jesus the Christ. He would be saying all of that about Jesus You know, C. S. Lewis sought to capture the idea of the Christ in his Narnia series. Has anyone here read the Narnia series or seen the movies? I'm seeing some nods. In the Lion, the Witch in the Wardrobe, an evil witch has magically covered all of Narnia with ice. Can you picture that? And they always put the phrase in, but they weren't allowed to celebrate Christmas. The ice in that book and in that series is an analogy of the total domination of evil in the land. It is the physical representation and manifestation of total depravity. And yet the Narnians knew that the time of evil was ending because news of Aslan was reported. And do you know once Aslan's name started to be spoken in Narnia again, do you know what happened? The ice started to melt. That's the kind of person he was Evil could not stand in his presence. You already saw the beginnings of the restoration of eternal spring. And that's the same thing that's being said here. When Peter stands and he says that you are the Christ, you should be asking yourself these questions. What are the evils of the world that I want to melt away? What are the evils that are a part of my own past and a part of my own life that I need to melt away? And the answer is what Peter gives you. You need Jesus the Christ. That's who Jesus is. That's what Jesus does as the Christ. He falls the world And Jesus affirms this. You see this? He doesn't say, Peter, you don't know what you're talking about. Later he'll say that to Peter. But he goes one step further and he says, Yes, Peter, you are right. And then he develops this in verse 31. I am the Christ, and the Christ or the Son of Man must suffer and be killed and rise again three days later. You see what Peter does? I tried to bring it out in the initial reading. Can you believe it? Did you ever notice this that Peter rebukes Jesus? Did you see that? in the text? The nerve. There was only one way that man could learn. He'd have to deny Jesus three times and then be restored. That would give him some humility. He'd have to be confronted in public by the Apostle Paul. That would teach him humility. But some humility is going to be learned right now because Jesus then, the same word, turns and rebukes Peter. Peter could see that Jesus was the Christ. Do you see it all coming together? Do you see how this is the interpretation of the illustration of the situation? Peter could see that Jesus was the Christ, but Peter's vision was still blurry and he could not see the detailed picture. Jesus was just a tree to him, not the suffering messiah. My daughter was gifted with a Polaroid camera for Christmas, I think it was. It was some day that you get a gift. And it brought back memories. I couldn't believe it. Why was my daughter asking for a Polaroid? We had finally gotten out of the Polaroid age where you could see what the picture was. You take the picture, everybody raise your hand if you don't know what a Polaroid is. I see your faces. Okay. Okay. So you take the picture and it makes a real noise, makes a real click. And then the picture is is inside of the camera and it magically takes it onto a little piece of film that then comes out with a mechanical device And you have to grab the little piece of film and you have to wait for it to develop while you shake it, like a Polaroid picture, which is also a rap song. You hold the edge shaking it and you wait for it to develop. But here's my point. It happened to you today if you take the picture with a Polaroid camera. It is first blurry. It takes a little bit. And then the lines start to crisp up and you have a nice picture. And that's what we see here within this present. passage. Peter was like that Polaroid. He was stuck with the blurry stage of development. He was stage one. He could see Jesus as the Christ, but he couldn't go to stage two and see that the Christ had to suffer for the sins of you and me. That would happen later in the book. But that was the whole point. This is the whole trajectory, the whole journey that we just went on together as a congregation, is the same journey that these disciples needed to go on. Even continuing in the book of Mark, there's the situation. The situation is that the disciples are at first blind, like the blind man that was talked about earlier. Jesus was not talking about bread. They shouldn't have been talking about bread. The disciples were too blind to see, but then Jesus healed them. And in a moment, at least Peter could see an important reality that they had not been able to see since chapter 1, verse 1. Jesus is the Christ. Everything is falling in his presence, evil is dissipating and running off. But Peter's sight was still only half-healed. He saw indistinctly. His vision was blurry. He knew that Jesus was the Christ, but he couldn't acknowledge that Christ must be crucified. That's the interpretation of the illustration of the situation. But it ends up being, and I hope you can see how when the Holy Spirit through Mark crafts Something like this in his gospel, that is not meant to be time-bound. It is not meant to be, what I mean by that is not meant to be limited to a single culture far, far away. It is meant to transcend cultures. It is meant for you this morning. What I'm saying is that it's everybody's story. And I encourage you, as I did earlier, to become a character in this. Those are always the best stories where you can't help but to become a character. You are blind to the reality of Jesus and what it means to be a Christian. You could put that in the form of a question. Are you blind to the reality of Jesus and what it means to be a Christian? Would you like Jesus to give you sight? Did you notice that no one in the story was able to just give themselves sight? They had to run to Jesus. Maybe there's something about your life that lets you know you just don't see straight. I'd encourage you to run to Jesus. That's what everybody, almost everyone in this room has done. They've run to Jesus. They couldn't see straight. Like blind Bartimus later, or like the blind man earlier, come to Jesus and let him lead you gently by the hand and have his private moment with you. And introduce you to the community. Do you see that Jesus is powerful and more than a man as this character in the story? If you're standing there and you're in the story, don't make up your own story. You look at Jesus, you've got to see that he's more than a man. But you don't understand why he had to die. It's never made any sense. You've seen crosses and But you don't understand. Well, that's a you know, things are still blurry, right? At this point in the story, Peter doesn't understand why the Christ must be crucified. But you know, we could get together and I could share with you the rest of the story. We could look at the rest of Mark together. We're going through it in Sunday school. We just finished the halfway point. You can jump in right now All the answers end up being revealed. And here's a really deep one. I'll just whet the appetite. There is actually a deep evil inside of you. And Jesus needs to fall. And that evil has led to a separation between you and God. And the relationship To be restored. And that can only happen when the Christ dies and his blood is shed for you. That's pretty deep. The overall question you need to ask is this. And I've put it on the front of the bulletin, but I'll flush it out just a little bit more. Let's go back to the scribes and the Pharisees. I'm going to talk to you for a moment, not about bread. Are you ready? Let's see if you get it yet. Are you tired of the bread that this world has been feeding you? Jesus says, I charge you, avoid that bread, and come and eat of me. I am the bread of life. Join his people and learn to sing again. You know, there's all we're getting ready to sing a song that we just sang again last week And I can do that. I can put a song in this week that we just saw last week and not get fired. If the song is good enough. And this one is. There's a song that we're getting ready to sing, and everyone loves it here who is a member of Severn Run because we all relate to it. Listen to the words. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound, that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now am found. I was blind, but now I am I see. We all had sight problems, but Jesus came and he gave us sight. Please pray with me. Father, we thank you for our Lord Jesus Christ. And Lord Jesus Christ, you are so good to us, we can't wait, in some sense, to end this prayer so we can get to singing to you. So we just give you praise and we ask that you take these words and you drive them down into our hearts. Help us to see. In the name of Christ, Amen. Amen.