I'm going to give you just a very short moment to go right back into prayer. So they said, Some say John the Baptist, some Elijah, others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. And we must answer it. And that's exactly what they were. And so they provide an answer. And he was gifted by God with special powers. They talk about the power of love. The answer they give falls short. They are falling short of the glory of God, and they may not be saved at all. That might possibly in tongues or else in in prayers of great passion and and doing all kinds of things because their experience is lifting them up. I'm a sinner. I am entirely yours. Or do we answer like Peter? Therefore, he provoked a crisis. Now they did not ask this question humbly. What it means to can I really believe this? will be made into a new nation. Perhaps you're the Messiah. The Son of the Living God. Perhaps raising money for poor people in other countries or doing works that would count as that. they don't answer correctly. With their heart. The Christ, the Son of the Living God, means to embrace Him as He really is and for all that He stands for. That's answer to the question, Who is Jesus? With head knowledge but with no heart? what you would teach. Verses one through seven, actually, one through seventeen. God acted to reveal it to him. That he was in fact a man. Categories. When it comes down to it, they treat him as just a great man. Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Answering it with the mind alone, with the answer that you would find in the back of the textbook. For God as a result of it. can answer the catechism question with perfect clarity. the Son of the Living God. Does not come from a transformed heart. as well as love, spiritual experience. and the answer given by Peter. that the Lord wants you to hear from his word today. We are working our way through the Gospel of Matthew with an eye towards being able to finish by the first week in March. seventeen. And in the morning it will be foul weather today, for the sky is red and threatening. You have brought no bread. But my Father who is in heaven. Stands or falls ever since it first was asked. question ever since. an answer to this question because what was happening in their age was that Jesus was doing stuff. Is doing all this stuff. On the Roman Empire or the people that are oppressing the people of Israel. submit to our judgment, perhaps we will acknowledge you. do not give the most obvious answer. in their teaching and in their political influence and in all of the things that they affect other people. and he died on the cross. to the world-shaking reality of Christ as he really is. come of it. Jesus because he was a great teacher. Is the only answer that all the world, every generation, and every person in it must give, or can give, should give. A great prophet who did great works. Answering the question in that manner is not answering the question at all. Growing in knowledge about him. In and of myself, by nature I'm the same as all of those who gave the wrong answers to the question. cross. In the womb. For uh richer or for poorer. Of what it means to answer this question truly. It occurs to me, and occurred to me throughout this week as I pondered on exactly how to present this passage And how they are to fit into that world under the framework of seeing God at work in the world. Of the Old Testament, that are anyone of their age or any of those people there, other than Jesus Himself. was supposed to be do when he came. Witnesses and the absolute authority that the scriptures have presented to themselves over the last two thousand years, even to the early closely aligned with and probably more open to. But what these people do is that they don't actually deny the facts about Jesus. Who is Jesus? Will. The Son of the Living God. You came to do this and you did it. You and unto you and for you. you say that I am Do we answer like the Pharisees and the Sadducees? A wicked and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and no sign shall be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. people of our day, the religious leaders of the day, we want our own sign. have to answer this question. And so as a result of this, the question of who is Jesus is important to all of those people that are out there to whom they are speaking. They have to provide some answer to what Jesus, the question Jesus poses, presents. When they're in church and they love the hymns and the spiritual songs and they get all weepy at the idea of Jesus, and they perhaps even move to some kind of expression of religious affections that could not. They deny what eyewitnesses saw. But Jesus is a great prophet. You can always feel the joy coming up out of that. You are the one who will be with me in death. To the extent that in my war with sin I overcome. But to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees. We know you raised a few people from the dead. Do something that fits within our categories of understanding what the Messiah is going to do when he arrives. They do not ask the question of who is this man, Jesus, with integrity. Recorded instances of anybody commenting about Christ. They still have to come up with something that fits into their worldly frame of reference. This passage teaches us that there is only one acceptable answer to this question. Only Peter got it right. People need to know how to serve God in those times, the actual times they face. So they said, give us a sign. It was their job to interpret the signs of the times, to teach people how to understand the world about them. And he was doing it in such a way that it could not be denied. The truth does not fit with their idea of what a Messiah ought to be, or what he should do. Because this is something that was revealed to him by God Himself. And so with some truth in it, they say they love Jesus. differenti differentiate between him as he is and the warm loving feelings they get in experiential religion. You are the one, the Lagos, who was with God before the creation of the world. That the question, who do you say that I am, is a question that every nation and every person had uh by which every nation or every person Now this is very close to an ancient heresy called asceticism, and you can look it up. Nor the seven loaves of the four thousand and how many large baskets you took up. When Jesus came into the region of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Now, they were the religious leaders of their day. And apart from you not one thing was made, which stands as having been made. And think of it that they are there speaking to Jesus because they had to deal with this question. In this life. But by admitting that much, they then are forced to ask the question, yes, these things happened, but who was he? Certainly their condemnation is just. That even God worked through him. Well, I've talked about how not to answer it. A kingdom of righteousness and power and peace and love for others. And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have taken no bread. They could not help but deal with the question of who is this man, Jesus? A large group of people in the world, and these are the ones who more closely come to what the disciples identify And unless they repent, these folks are perhaps the most pitiful in the world. They put together some kind of ministry, or you hear them talking heads on TV, talking about stuff that they don't have a clue about Now when his disciples had come to the other side, they had forgotten to take bread. The world in general gets it wrong, as the answers that the other disciples than Peter gave They do not plead with Jesus to reveal to them the truth of his word. So they explain it by saying, well, maybe God was working through him. But that's not all. The Son of the Living God. Because this man, Jesus, is a historical fact. Their intent is to prove this guy is not the Messiah. And today in our academic institutions, in some of our religious organizations, sometimes from political offices, we hear people who have been educated They know that he died on a cross. It has to answer from a mind that has been astonished by this truth, and from a heart that has been overwhelmed with love for Christ. But nothing else. And then there's the other group, those who love the idea of Jesus, but it is apart from knowledge. My heart was dead, but now it is soft, and I know you. You are the one who will uphold me and keep me and protect me from my enemies and from yours. I call on each of us here today to examine our hearts and see how it is that we are answering this question. Let's pray. He was teaching not as other human teachers, but teaching as God Himself would teach. We're worthless as religious leaders if we don't help people understand their lives in terms of the times in which they live. They acknowledge that he lived back there a couple of thousand years ago. Jesus asked his disciples, Who do you say that men say that I am? They do not submit to the astonishing importance and implications of this statement. It means that every generation, you and me, we must face this question. Let's walk through this passage and see how it develops what I just spoke of. For on the last day, unless they change, they will hear our Lord say, Depart from me, for I never knew you. And then we come to Peter. For it's in your name we pray. They only address those few things that he lived, he taught, and he died on a cross, and they ignore all those things that are attested by hundreds of them. He was, or perhaps they will even admit he is a special man. It is this that they really don't believe, no matter what they may confess with their lips, because the Holy Spirit has not opened their eyes to see him as he really is and was. You are the Christ. You are the Christ, the Son of the living God, and that means you made me. Well they go beyond that. Then the Pharisees and the Sadducees came and testing him asked that he would show them a sign from heaven. Spiritual people, like worldly, religious, and political leaders, have also faced this question: who is this man, Jesus? There are those who are caught up in the emotion of religious experience. Choose one of the following options. That makes it the most important question in the world in one sense. It is a whole life. That's a whole rifle. It means that some men, some women, some kids can say the right questi right answers, the right words. And these religious leaders could not just ignore this question. They don't give the answer that fits with all the other facts of Jesus' life that is presented to us in the gospel. But still these answers fall short because these answers do not break through to the crisis of Christ Himself And so they can allow for such ideas like gurus or saints or somebody that somehow another uh they they are able to do stuff and good things can But even there, we must recognize that it's more than just giving that answer, because we must not give that answer as if it's the answer on a quiz. Do you not yet understand or remember the five loaves or the f of the five thousand and how many baskets you took up? Our lives and our generation will be judged by the answer we give or accept to this. I have sinned in my heart and in my mind and in my deeds. And they, perhaps the politicians, make a politically correct answer. They like his vision of a whole new world where people live together and everybody's in harmony. Like all of the rest of the world, they are falling short of the answer that is to that is only rightly given. But they don't know him in their mind. You are also the Son of the living God. Notice this, give us a sign, with the implication that they would then believe. And because it falls short, they too are left outside the pole pale. You are the Messiah. I'm yours. It didn't pass the plausibility test of that which they had been raised to understand about the Messiah. Today, thousands of people, perhaps even millions of people, asked the same question and with the same intent. But there's no movement in the heart that goes along with this. Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. You are the Messiah. Lord, who am I to do? Then and only then is the question answered rightly. You are the one who has guided my steps, and you have directed me to this place You know, that that's not what you see here. Or do something like Joshua and gather up an army and lead our armies to victories over our foes. Yeah, that's a little bit bigger deal. They have to express an opinion about Jesus. But that's it. See, Jesus was not just a great man, a man like you and me in that sense. C, Christ, the Son of the Living God. And you opened up this kingdom to me. And so it is with many who answer the question with the right words, but in their hearts they do not know him. They don't know and therefore they don't embrace Jesus as he is presented in the scripture. His very person and his ministry provoked a crisis. He showed us a a new pathway to follow. I am entirely yours to use as you see fit. Do we answer like those who love the form of religion but do not do so from knowledge May the Lord add his blessing and reading and to the understanding that comes from his word. But they didn't like what he was teaching. Now, what we want you to do is to do stuff like perhaps Moses did. There's room in their universe for a spiritual dimension. Some of them teach our kids in college or they go on the internet and make statements. And therefore, we cannot say they've been born again. Because God has revealed the answer to us, and we can say with integrity, Thou art the Christ. They were not struggling with their faith as many of uh Bruce Reed or someone that might be uh struggling with what Only Peter receives the blessing as a result of his answer. And that's what makes this question so vitally important. These are all historical facts to which they will readily acknowledge, be they atheists or not. I'm one of those. My brothers and sisters, that means in the end the answer is wrong. But when push comes to show, they only confess that he was a man, like any other man. They can score perfectly on a Bible exam. In conclusion, that's what I want to consider now. Amen. And I would ask if you turn there as we work our way that uh through the scripture and that And therefore, my Lord and my God, I am yours, lock, stock, and barrel. Submit yourself to the Lord and pray that He open up your mind and heart to what His Word will say to you. And so they suppress the truth and unrighteousness. How should we answer it? And I ask that you pray that you your ears are opened and your heart is made soft to the words Since Jesus first asked this question, particularly directed to the disciples, men and nations have been judged by the answer they gave to that question. I was blind, but now I see It's the most important question in the world, and it's one that we should take very seriously, indeed. You are the Messiah. But it gives us a place to start, and it gives us a place to end this particular sermon We go to their liberal churches. A. We want to see something that fits into our worldview so that we can therefore bless you and say, okay, yeah, we'll uh we'll acknowledge that perhaps And so they're seeking to test him. We want you to do that by invoking and bringing down the thunderings of God Himself upon them so that Israel So these two also fall short in answering the question correctly. This is what the Jews say to this day. And then they understood that he did not tell them to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and Sadducees. They said, well Jesus is a great prophet. They would not do that if they actually recognized he was the Christ. And we come to the answer he gives. You are the one who will bring me to yourself in eternity, even as you brought me to yourself. Lock, stock, and barrel. Hypocrites. And and they came up with answers in general that the world in general would probably be more Who am I that you should do such a thing for me? And you have saved me. And then Jesus said to them, Take heed and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sabbath. They were the ones who were supposed to be speaking the truth to people. They dispute the time. They go further than that first group that only says, yeah, he was a historical fact and he lived and he did, he taught some really crazy things These are people who can only see Jesus dimly, Christ dimly. You are the one who came into this world to open up a new way of living called the Kingdom of Christ. And so this is the duty of every religious leader in every age. I'm yours, and you are mine. They agree that Jesus did things that can't really be explained Grace us with understanding, Lord, and grace us with a heart that is broken and ready to receive. He was a religious leader who lived in ancient Israel. All things are by you and for you and unto you And Jesus says, hypocrites. And when they say he is the Christ, the Son of the living God, they are doing But not enough. Is that one which has been revealed to the heart and to the mind also by God the Father? You are the one who fashioned the universe. But Jesus, being aware of it, said to them, O you of little faith, why do you reason among yourselves because you How is it that you do not understand that I do not speak to you concerning bread And they cannot avoid this question. The answer to the question, who is this Jesus, is not rightly answered when it comes from Look first at the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Now what is really sad is that some of these folks call themselves Christians. D, none of the above. They knew that Jesus was doing all things well. There's another group of people out there about us And they do not, they just pass over this. Perhaps some know the scriptures, have been raised in the church, and they can They do not ask it as a humble inquiry into what our Lord has revealed to us through the scriptures. Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you. You know how to discern the face of the de of the sky, but you cannot discern the signs of the times They ask with animosity, they ask with evil intent. It's nothing new. And since he was only just a great man, they can pick and choose from his teachings, you see It's uh a bit of a stretch. He was doing things that only God could do. And in effect, they're saying, we know you've healed people. You are the one who came into this world to save your people. But what we see in the Pharisees and Sadducees is them suppressing the truth in unrighteousness. That's all of it. The passage we're taking today is Matthew 16 And people know about him. But it has to be answered by the mind and the heart together. And they like the spiritual things that happen. These don't folks don't know Jesus as he really is. Do we answer like the liberal Christians that I've mentioned? They can allow that there are people in this world like prophets, people who are I love the King James version of it because of the elegance of the writing I am yours in sickness and in health, for better or for worse, for This is the duty of every religious leader before and after. Now they didn't like the answer that seemed most obvious. His teaching, you see, did not fit into their tradition. A very special man through whom the powers of the spiritual world worked. They comfort themselves with doing some good things. You, Jesus, came into the world to do all that you did in order to save me. Brothers and sisters, that is the answer, and it's And so therefore it doesn't register in a diligent study of his word, and they're not You can look at the scripture and you can say that the scripture's whole purpose of being given to us is to provide us with what we need to answer that question. And he said to them, But who do you say that I am? Even Satan and his angels know that Jesus is the Christ. That leaves us with the only correct answer to the question that was posed. You did that. There is no righteousness in me And you have welcomed me into your kingdom. He was teaching stuff Therefore, we can acknowledge perhaps that he was a great prophet The Pharisees got it wrong, as Jesus demonstrated Yes. You are the one who is with me in life. What we see is them asking with malicious This is only a sketch. Many are deceived and many perish Choose one. So they put Jesus into one of those cabinet. There's no change of their will Because, like the Pharisees They like his talk about love. Why? And like the Pharisees, these also He answered and said to them, When it is evening you say it will be fair weather, for the sky is red. I am yours to command. They also know that he taught strange things. They are blind guides leading the blind. Perhaps the most important question in the And then, okay, perhaps then if you They say without hesitation, this is Jesus the Christ. That's what you brought And he left them and departed They don't know, for example, the truth of the words of James that pure and undefiled religion is more than spiritual experience. And Jesus tells him he got it right because For the same reason that the Pharisees and Sadducees The point is they have to answer the question The people were asking: who is this man? And we, the religious We want you to bring ruin Now through the power of the Holy Spirit, I see you and I understand you as you really are. By nature, I am the same as those who nailed you to the cross. We come to the only answer he could give. And the life I live, I no longer live in the flesh, but I live in B They ignore that thing or disparage it. The correct Now, what does that mean And they love, therefore, the idea of Jesus. This is only a skimming of the surface And they've heard about him. Or he had the spirit of some great prophet that was operating in him They cannot break away from their worldly way of thinking. By your hand were all things made. And therefore these particular religious leaders had to come up with That was their whole problem. And this requires knowledge. Do we answer like those with no head Chapter sixteen, verses one through six These works will count nothing for them Jesus was also God. Big deal. They knew the scripture The Muslims acknowledge You knew me before I was fashioned. They know that he was born into this world, they acknowledge that But There is my knowledge. I love this experience And therefore They follow Jesus. Yes, Lord. And I'm one of those. And because of this They don't And I will willingly obey But the answer is Because it doesn't Perhaps they admit He was doing the stuff, the Messiah Can you believe that?