Morning is from Judges 11 through 26. And I'd ask that you'd follow along. Now after the death of Joshua, it came to pass that the children of Israel asked the Lord, saying, Who shall be first to go up for us against the Canaanites to fight against them? And the Lord said, Judah shall go up. Indeed I have delivered the land into his hand. So Judah said to Simeon his brother, Come up with me to my allotted territory, that we might fight against the Canaanites, and I will likewise go with you to your allotted territory. And Simeon went with him. Then Judah went up, and the Lord delivered the Canaanites and the Parazites into their hand, and they killed ten thousand men of Bezek. And they found Adonai Bezek in Bezek. And fought against him, and they defeated the Canaanites and the Perizites. Then Adonai Vizek fled, and they pursued him and caught him and cut off his thumbs and big toes. And Adonai Azek said, Seventy kings with their thumbs and big toes cut off used to gather scraps under my table. As I have done, so God has repaid me Then they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died. Now the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem and took it. They struck it with the edge of the sword and set the city on fire. And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites who dwelt in the mountains in the south and in the lowlands. Then Judah went against the Canaanites who dwelt in Hebron. Now the name of Hebron was formerly Tirjath Arba. And they killed Sheshe and Ahiman and Talmai. From there they went against the inhabitants of Dabir. The name of Dabir was formerly Kirjath Sefer. Then Caleb said, Whoever attacks Kirjath Sephar and takes it, to him I will give my daughter Aksa as wife. And Othiniel, the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it So he gave his daughter Aksa as wife. Now it happened when she came to him that she urged him to ask her father for a field. And she dismounted from her donkey, and Caleb said to her, What do you wish So she said to him, Give me a blessing. Since you have given me land in the south, give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs. Now the children of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, went up from the city of Palms. with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which lies in the south near Arad. And they went and dwelt among the people. And Judah went with his brother Simeon, and they attacked the Canaanites who inhabited Zephath and utterly destroyed it. So the name of the city was called Hormah, and Judah took Gaza with its territory, Ashkelon with its territory, and Ekron with its territory. And the Lord was with Judah, and they drove out the mountaineers. But they could not drive out the inhabitants of the lowland, because they had chariots of iron. And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said. Then he expelled from there the three sons of Anak But the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites who inhabited Jerusalem. So the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day. And the house of Joseph also went up against Bethel, and the Lord was with them. So the house of Joseph sent men to spy out Bethel. The name of the city was formerly Luz. And when the spies saw a man coming out of the city, they said to him, Please show us the entrance to the city, and we will show you mercy. So he showed them the entrance to the city, and they struck the city with the edge of the sword, but they let the man and all his family go And the man went to the land of the Hittites, built a city, and called its name Luz, which is its name to this day. However, Manasseh did not drive out the inhabitants of Bethsheen and its villages, and Ta'anak and its villages, or the inhabitants of Dor and its villages, or the inhabitants of Iblam and its villages, or the inhabitants of Megado and T's villages For the Canaanites were determined to dwell in that land. And it came to pass when Israel was strong that they put the Canaanites under tribute, but did not completely drive them out. Nor did Ephraim drive out the Canaanites, who dwelt in Gezeer. The Canaanites, so the Canaanites dwelt in Gezeir among them Nor did Zebulon drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, or the inhabitants of Nahalol. So the Canaanites dwelt among them and were put under tribute Nor did Asher drive out the inhabitants of Akha, or the inhabitants of Sidan, or of Hahlab, or Akzeeb, or Herobah, or Afik, or Rehob So the Asherites dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, for they did not drive them out. Nor did Naphtali drive out the inhabitants of Veshamesh, or the inhabitants of Beth Anat, but they dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land Nevertheless, the inhabitants of Beth Shemeth and Bet Amath were put under tribute to them. And the Amorites forced the children of Dan into the mountains, for they would not allow them to come down to the valley. And the Amorites were determined to dwell in Mount Hares and Ajalon and Shal Albim, yet when the strength of the house of Joseph became greater, they were put under tribute Now the boundary of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabim from Selah and upward Then the angel of the Lord came from Gilgal to Bakim and said, I led you up from Egypt and brought you to the land of which I swore to your fathers. And I said, I will never break my covenant with you. And you shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land. You shall tear down their altars. But you have not obeyed my voice. Why have you done this? Therefore I also had said I will not drive them out before you, but they shall be thorns in your side, and their God shall be a snare to you. And so it was when the angel of the Lord spoke these words to all the children of Israel. that they the people lifted up their voices and wept. Then they called the name of that place Bachim and they sacrificed There to the Lord. Bakim is a translation of weeping. Let us pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for this book of the deliverers of Israel. Lord Jesus Christ, you alone are the deliverer. And we ask that through the wisdom of this book, You would, in effect, preserve your church in an evil age. We ask, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would keep us from apostasy by way of the wisdom and warnings and cautions of this book. That you would keep us from the traps and the snares. I pray, Lord, that the hearts and minds of your people would be open and that they would receive your word in the name of Christ on them. Amen. You may be seated. This morning we begin our new series through the book of Judges, and I should get a raise for all those names. That was I was anxious. We begin our new series through the book of Judges, and I'm really looking forward to it. God plans to teach us a lot through this book. And so I just want to go ahead and get started. Let's just jump right in. I want to make a few observations with you And then we'll have some application which is going to really help, I hope, to orient us to what this series is going to do. Here's the first observation. You can see in verse 1, well, first off, raise your hand if you've read this book. Okay, that's pretty good. Very good. Raise your hand if you've read Joshua. About the same. Leviticus? That was just a joke. That's good. Y'all are lying now though. That's okay. Observation one is that you can see in verse one that the book of Judges continues the narrative from the conquest of Joshua. Now after the death of Joshua it came to pass that the children of Israel asked the Lord, saying, So you can see here it's already referencing back Something which it's in continuity. Joshua was the successor to Moses. God, through Joshua and the angel of the Lord, really, went before the nation and they broke the back. of the Canaanites. That's uh the that's a broad word that includes many different tribes across a land At his death, Joshua reminded the Israelites of their commission to continue the conquest among the remaining nations. And that's what you see here just in that first verse. You could go back to Joshua 23 if you want to see more of it. Verse 1, in other words, reminds us of Joshua's charge in Joshua 23 and also marks a new era. That's the point of judges, wherein Israel will continue the conquest, but under new leadership. That's the first observation. Make those connections between Joshua and Judges. Here's observation number two. The problem, however, is that Israel will not listen to Joshua. Israel will not listen to Moses, who came before him. And really the point is that Israel will not listen to God. The way that Joshua will put this and many others is that they will lose their first love. In 1-1 through 136, This is meant to show us that very fact that they are losing their first love. And you will notice through the book of Judges, and you probably have already heard this, it moves in cycles And it's the same thing over and over again with them losing their first love. This is supposed to be And it's even in the genre of chronicles of military victories. And at first, it seems like that is the case. But if you pay close attention in the list that we see in 1-1 through 136, the list is an increasing downward spiral into apostasy. Judah, for example, and this is where you're going to have to have your senses strengthened and become more sensitive to what this author is doing here. Judah, for example, in verse number six, did you catch the little anecdotes that were sprinkled? Whether it's the house of Joseph and how they sent spies into the land, or there was the daughter who went and asked for the springs. because her husband basically just won a desert. And and here, this is the first anecdote, which is with the tribe of Judah and they catch Adonai Vizek. Right? Did you miss that somebody got their fingers and their toes cut off? No, you did not. Right. Well in verse 6, there's the capture of Adonai Bazek. It looks like we're on a campaign and there's military victory. But instead of carrying out the law of what they call harem, which is the execution of everyone and the burning of all things, That's what they were commissioned to do. Instead, they cut off his fingers and his toes, and I think, because of what Adonai Vizek says, they made him eat scraps like a dog under their table. Significantly, after we hear of what the tribe of Judah has done, in verse 7, Adonai Bezekh says, I did the same things. And the reason why that's interesting is because of the main point. There is a slow descent into apostasy in the adoption of worldly practices. What this shows us is that from the first and relatively strongest tribe, the Israelites are already adopting the ethics and practices of the surrounding cultures. The law was the law of Harem, not the law that Adonai Bezek followed with the cutting off of the fingers and the toes. You've got to be able to catch those kind of things because that's what's going on here. In other words, the downward descent into Sheol has already begun from the first That's observation two. Now here's observation number three. If you are hesitant to accept that reading of this, Then hesitate no more, because the purpose of chapter two, verses one through five is to send you a heavenly interpreter of all of their past actions and supposed military conquests to let you know that they did not obey the Lord It was, in fact, a downward spiral. And we're going to see that for the next two weeks. We've got the heavenly messenger showing up this week. Next week will be the narrator's understanding of the same situation, and then the Lord Himself will say it. It'll be iterated three times for you that that is how you're supposed to read this book. Our heavenly interpreter here arrives and gives you the lens through which you are to read all of judges. The heavenly messenger reminds them of God's gracious love toward them, delivering them from slavery. He reminds them of the terms of their marriage, so to speak. They are to make no covenant with the inhabitants of the land. And that word is used when they made the deal with the spy, they offered covenant love. They are instead supposed to tear down all of the altars and enact the law of Harem, which you're familiar with because of the Deuteronomy series. They, however, did not obey God's voice. That's what the heavenly messenger says right there. The heavenly messenger, then, raises a very important question He says, Why have you done this? And then in verse three, he reminds them of what the Lord has said. Chapter 2, verse 3. If you join them, they will be thorns and they will be a snare. Why have you done this? You could put it like this, too. What did you think was going to happen? I think my grandmother said that to me 50 million times. And here we see it here on the pages of Scripture. The question and the message go together, and it can be paraphrased, and something like this. Why have you done this? I told you that if you join them, if you tolerate them, etc. , etc. , then they will not benefit you as you think they will. On the contrary, they will be like a thorn in your side. They are in fact a trap. They are in fact a snare. It will Smell like life at first, but that's superficial, and you will reap death. That's the message And when we pull all of this together, we have a very important doctrine this morning The Lord graciously commissions the church to bring his kingdom to this world. You can say that about Joshua and Judges. The Lord graciously commissions his church To bring his kingdom to the world. That's what they were meant to do. It's what we're meant to do. But here is the thing: the church instead has the habit of becoming worldly. And that's what we're going to see over and over again throughout this really sermon or exhortation to the people throughout all ages. If you want to, you could summarize it in this saying of Jesus in Matthew 5, verse 13. You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt loses its flavor, how shall it be seasoned? It is then good for nothing but to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men. You are the light of the world. You do not light a lamp to place it under a basket, but to fill the whole house with light. It's the same message here, but I'm putting it like this: the Lord graciously commissions the church to bring his kingdom to this world, but the church has the habit of becoming worldly. And so I'd like to just step through, by way of orientation to this book, two main points of application, and that's the guiding analogy and then the guiding question. The guiding analogy and then the guiding question. As we say around here, the scriptures do in fact give us history. But their purpose is more than historical. The Lord gives wisdom to every heir of the church through his collection of scriptures. And you can see the relevance of the book of Judges when you see the analogy between the book of Judges and what they're going through as a church and the modern church today, or really in any era. I hope that you remember that Judges is a continuation of Joshua. We went over that this morning already. Joshua, if you spend some time there meditating on that, you will start to notice that he has analogous language. Describing the commission of the church to the same language that Jesus Christ Himself chose for the great commission of the church. Now that has been pointed out often in this room. Remember last Easter Sunday when Christ said that he will be with his church till the end of the age? Do you remember the repeated phrase at the final point of the Acts series where Jesus told Paul to be strong and of good courage? Take heart. He repeated that phrase over and over again. Both of those ideas and even the statements of them are in Joshua 1. 9 and more. I'm just giving you one example Have I not commanded you? Be strong and of good courage. Do not be afraid, nor be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. That is true, Joshua and his conquest. Those are the same, we're supposed to see the connection between that and what the new Joshua, Jesus Christ, says to his army as he sends them out on their great commission. That's one analogy between what we would see Joshua Judges and the New Testament church. And we're meant to see that. You should see the similarities. He's giving you wisdom by being able to draw from all that he has given the church throughout all ages. In the book of Joshua and Judges, God commissions the church to tear down the moral order in each city devoted to false gods. God commissions the New Testament church to do the same thing, but with different weapons. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty in God, for pulling down strongholds, casting down arguments, and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. Think of the high places. That you'll see them tearing down high places in Joshua and in Judges. Anything that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ. And then in the book of Judges, the church is commissioned to bring the kingdom to Canaan And the Canaanites and all of the tribes which reside there. But instead, they become like the Canaanites In fact, if you want to know what the entire book of Judges is about, according to the greatest scholar of Judges, it is us watching the canonization of Israel. They were meant to bring light to the world, but it is a slow descent into them joining the darkness. Read the final story of Judges, and you'll see what it looks like. So they're sent and they have this commission, but instead we will watch the canonization of Israel, and that will be the case in every era. The commission is given to the church, the Great Commission, and we can watch the church, we can watch the Romanization of the Church, for example. We could watch the paganization of the church. We could watch the secularization of the church. We could even watch the Americanization of the church. In other words, the church has an inclination in every age to become apostate. That is also present here. This is the great analogy between Joshua and Judges and what we see even in the Great Commission under the new Joshua. And that is the main purpose of judges. It is a book from the Son of God to strengthen the church so that we would be aware of the snares and the traps of the former generations. That we would not become apostates. You have the same commission that was the charge last Sunday with Easter That there is a new heavens and a new earth. The old earth is being shaken, and so too are the old heavens. And you are going forth in the spreading of the kingdom. But you are under the same considerations as those who went before you. You will meet analogous traps and snares. And this book is a means that Jesus Christ used in his grand accomplishment of preserving the church through the ages, especially an evil age like ours. He uses this book as a means that his church would persevere in their commission even in an evil age Now that's the grand or great or the analogy that I want you to see between these two sections of the collection of scriptures, between Joshua and Judges, and also the great commission that's been given to us under Christ. But there is also a guiding question that I want you to consider through the whole series. Now that we have that orientation The first instruction that you are to receive, since we're early in on the book, is a general instruction. We must always have this question before us. Why have you done this? What did you think was going to happen? Like my grandmother would say. And you could paraphrase the question like this: I know the surrounding culture seems fascinating and lovely. I know you can't stop thinking about it, but do not take the bait. It is a trap and a snare which brings death Did you not know that this would happen? What did you think was going to happen? Tell me a story where it actually really worked out when the husband left his wife for the secretary. What did you think was going to happen? Now the larger context of this question is this. And this is from Joshua. Therefore, take careful heed to yourselves, knowing this about yourselves and about the world that you live in. Take careful heed to yourselves. Paul would say it like this: be watchful. Walk circumspectly. Do not be a fool. Be wise. And then Joshua will continue and he'll tell us what it means to be wise. It tells us what it means to be careful and to heed, and he says that you would love the Lord your God. It is a battle of loves, as Jeremiah pointed out to us this morning. And Joshua continues in Joshua 23, or else, if indeed you do go back and cling to the remnant of these nations, the these that remain among you, and make marriages with them, and go into them, and they to you know for certain that the Lord your God will no longer drive out these nations from before you But they shall be snares and traps to you, and scourges on your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until you perish from this good land which the Lord your God has given to you. And the fact that that has not happened in any era to the church, a total extinguishing of the church, is a testimony to you of the gracious mercy of our God. But that gives the context to this main question that we have to keep before us throughout the whole series. What did you think was going to happen? What did you think was going to happen when you chose to love not the Lord your God? And what it gives to us, and I understand this is very general, but we're right in the beginning of the book. It will become particular with a bunch of stories. It can be easy to follow This gives us a basic paradigm that you must keep in your mind through the whole series. The world hunts. I don't care what you think about the world. I don't know if you think the world is complacent and they don't really think about you, but in their very core, with the way that it is set up, Even under the influence of Satan himself, the world hunts. The reason why we can say that is because there are snares and traps. That's hunting terminology. They set snares and they set traps. Think about the imagery for a moment. It's all over the book of Proverbs, by the way. Snares catch animals that are not watching where they walk. Traps catch animals that go for the bait in the trap And therefore, first our instruction is that we must learn from this book to watch where we walk. See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Ephesians 5:15-16 And then, second, we must develop self-control so as to not take the bait. And what I'm really talking about there is loving the Lord your God more than these other things. And appreciating his creation in the proper context, not when it's set in a trap. We smell the rich aroma of the bait, don't we? Can you smell it When I leave the session meeting here, we've prayed, we've looked at the Word of God, we're trying to, by God's grace, rule well here. Really just chasing after God and His kingdom. And then on the way home, I just want to stop in the McDonald's. Which I know is terrible for my body. My body just is saying, I want to eat this so bad, and then as soon as I eat it My body says, What are you doing to me? My body asks the question of judges, what did you think was going to happen? But there it is on that corner before I get to my house, a trap set. Well, that's silly, but you get the idea. We smell the rich aroma of the bait. We imagine how it tastes. Jeremiah mentioned Achan. If you read that account, he rolled in his mind. the the idea of having those things. It says it rolled in his mind. He kept thinking about it and what it would be like to own it. We imagine how it tastes, and with no self-control, we lunge for the bait, and we are caught. But with self-control, which is only from Jesus Christ, because it is a fruit of his spirit, we bypass debate and we are not trapped And that's the point of why the book is being given to you. To where we can hear less and less in our lives. A mark of progressive sanctification is to hear less and less. What did you think was going to happen? And there will be one day in glory when we hear it no more. And therefore, third, the positive side of the same coin of traps and snares is this: take careful heed to love the Lord your God. Take careful heed to love the Lord your God. And I want to focus on that positive side of the coin as much as possible in the book of Judges. I don't want us to just look at a bunch of tragedy and walk out weeping every Sunday. I want us to look at the positive that we're supposed to learn. Now I know that this is general what I've said to you. I haven't gotten down into the weeds, but that's for days to come. I know that this probably feels like an outline, and that is because it is, because this is a general orientation to where we are headed in this series. And I've given you some applications so that you can prepare your hearts and your minds to head off under the instruction of Jesus Christ in the book of Judges. Because that's where we're going. Let me ask you. I almost don't really need to ask this. Have you in your lifetime ever seen the church stumble It's funny, right? Have you ever seen the church put their foot in it? Now that's a double meaning. Have you ever seen the church step in a snare or go for the bait and get caught in a trap? We often are not watchful. But isn't it true that we live in an age where you better be watchful? We often take the bait. And as a remedy to both We must take careful heed to love the Lord our God. And may God give us that through this series. Christ gives you the book of Judges to address all of these issues. It is quite relevant for what you're facing today, you and your children. It is not, please listen to this. Do not tune out on me just yet. Okay? It is not just that Christ is giving you this book for you personally, so that you can work on your personal piety. I'm fine with that, but there is a bigger vision going on here, and it connects with the sermon from Easter. He does care for us personally, but there is so much more at stake. We have a larger vision and a larger commission than just a personal commission. A personal commission is not the Great Commission. It is bigger than you. We have been given the Great Commission. The Lord graciously commissions the church to bring his kingdom to this world. And for us, our focus is Anne Reno County. And yet, here is the thing. The church instead has the becoming the habit of becoming worldly. That's the doctrine. And thus to do our work in the world, but to not be of the world, may God Sanctify us through this series as we get to watch the church and her stumblings and bumblings as they walk out on their commission. And may we be kept from such things. May we hear less and less. What did you think was going to happen And I pray that because I want us to be fruitful, that the light would be present and the elect would be gathered to the kingdom of God. Let us pray.