Turn with me to the book of Proverbs, we're in chapter three. And we'll be looking at, we looked at the first part of chapter 3 last week. We're looking at the last part this week, 13 through 35. Please follow along in your scriptures. Blessed is the man who finds wisdom, and the man who gains understanding. For her proceeds are better than the profits of silver, and her gain than fine gold. She is more precious than rubies, and all the things you may desire cannot compare with her Length of days is in her right hand, in her left hand riches and honor. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to those who take hold of her, and blessed are all who retain her. The Lord, by wisdom, founded the earth. By understanding, he established the heavens. By his knowledge the depths were broken up and clouds dropped down the dew. My son, let them not depart from your eyes Keep sound wisdom and discretion, so there will be life to your soul and grace to your neck. Then you will walk safely in your way, and your foot will not will not stumble. When you lie down, you will not be afraid. Yes, you will lie down, and your sleep will be sweet. Do not be afraid of sudden terror, nor of trouble from the wicked when it comes, for the Lord will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught. Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due. When it is in the power of your hand to do so Do not say to your neer neighbor, Go and come back. To morrow I will give it. When you have it with you. Do not devise evil against your neighbour, for he dwells by you for safety's sake. Do not strive with a man without cause if he has done you no harm Harm. Do not envy the oppressor, and choose none of his ways. For the perverse person is an abomination to the Lord, but his secret counsel is with the upright. The curse of the Lord is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the home of the just Surely he scorns the scornful, but gives grace to the humble. The wise shall inherit glory, but shame shall be the legacy of fools. Please pray with me. Father, we ask for your blessing on us. We ask that in the hearing of your word that we would become fruitful and that these truths would multiply in our lives. Blessed are those who hear this word this morning, and we ask that you would back that up with your power and your mercy. In the name of Christ. Amen. Have you ever seen a penny on the ground and stepped over it? It wasn't even worth the muscular movements that it would require to bend down and pick it up. I believe they've done a study, don't quote me on this, to figure out if the penny had any value and they placed a penny On a street and see how many people walked over it. I think everyone did. The principle behind that is that pennies are low in value and it's just not worth it to make it a part of your life. Now let me ask you a question that Rob has already brought up in the confession portion. If the wisdom of God is offered to you, would you pick it up? It's the ultimate question before us. We've seen a great deal in the book of Proverbs, the purpose of the book of Proverbs, the prerequisite in the book of Proverbs, the promises in the book of Proverbs uh promises especially last week. And this week we're asking the question, is it all worth it? Is it worth it to seek and to search and retain and to guard and to do that darn memory verse that Jesse gave us With the seven verses. And the answer is that it is worth it. That wisdom is worth it. That's actually the big idea this morning. Wisdom is worth it. That's what I I I hope that the scriptures here prove to you that it's worth your time, it's worth your effort. And I want to show you this in three arguments, really. The text wants to show you. I'm not any fancy structures for you, although they're there. I don't want to bring them out. this morning. We can talk about it later if you want. Let me just you can write this down on your bulletin if you wish. I'm going to have three points and they're going to be grouped according to the following verses. There's the value of wisdom to man, and that's verses 13 through 18. And then we're going to see that there is the value of wisdom to the Creator, and that's verses 19 through 20. And there's the value of wisdom to the Son or the Church. Which is in verses 21 through 26. Those are the three main parts or arguments here in this passage proving to you that wisdom is worth it. The value of wisdom to man in thirteen through eighteen, the value of wisdom to the Creator in nineteen through through twenty and the value of wisdom to the Sun in 21 through 26. So let's begin with the value of wisdom and its proof in looking at the value of wisdom to Hadam or man in verses 13 through 18. Now take a look at the passage with me because I do want to point something out to you that is blessed. And 13 through 18, the Hebrew here begins, and it should probably in your text in verse 13. Does it begin with the word blessed or happy? And then in verse 18 at the end, it should end, if it follows the Hebrew text literally, it should end with the word happy or blessed. So this whole 13 through 18 is enveloped in the idea that wisdom is valuable because it is it makes you blessed. And that's why you've seen running through the service the theme of the Beatitudes. We sang the Beatitudes, we read the Beatitudes, that's a part of what's going on here, is that 13 through 18 are enclosed. If you wanted to think of the beginning of the passage as the head and the end of the passage as the feet, then blessedness is a blanket that covers the head all the way to the feet of this passage. Now, blessed, that word, it means something different than to bless. Blessed could be translated as how rewarded. I do not like the word happy. Particularly, and that's what's in the NKJB here, and if you look at that in the Beatitudes and you try to keep that translation going, happy are those who are persecuted. How rewarded are those who are persecuted because of what will take place in the future, but happy, I don't think so. I don't think that's the right way to put that. And Arch actually had mentioned that to me years ago. That blessed could be translated as how rewarded. And thus in verse 13 in our passage here, it would be, how rewarded is the person who finds wisdom. And it and then it already has a future aspect to it, that if you commit your life to this, there's something that's of value that comes, even if it means after clinical death, like we talked about. Now, as soon as we start talking about how rewarded we are, the passage really begins to come together for us because if you notice in verse 14, It says, it talks about the proceeds or the profits or the income that you would make with wisdom. We're talking about proceeds and prophets. And so staying with the language of reward, the author speaks of proceeds and prophets in verses 14 and 15. And this is what he says. Wisdom and the profits that she makes for you in your life are more valuable than any rare mineral of the earth. It could be silver, it could be gold, and I'm not sure if your translation says corals or rubies. Coral was very expensive back then. We don't think of coral as being expensive today, so some translations That are dynamic equivalents, say rubies, and that becomes expensive to you. But the whole idea is that wisdom is more valuable than any of those things that people set their lives on. People will devote their whole lives to obtain those things. Even at the risk of perhaps prison, they would do it unlawfully or deceitfully. And wisdom is even more valuable than that. And so wisdom would be worth it. That's what he seeks to prove here. I want you to notice that in the passage, if you wanted to lay this out in one of those patterns that I talked to you about, you could try this a little bit later. But observe that silver, gold, and rubies are symbols. That stand for other things in verses 16 and 17. Length of days, riches, honor, and peace, or shalom, the same things that were mentioned Or promise to you, promise to those who are wise in the beginning of chapter 3. Those are the things that wisdom offers to you. Those are the profits or the proceeds that wisdom gives to you. Things such as length of days, riches, honor, and peace, and you can think about the sermon last week in terms of are those promises too good to be true. These are the same prophets promised in the beginning of chapter 3 in last week's sermon. The point that he's making. Is really, really important for us. The point that he's making is that silver, it may, its proceeds, may get you a house. If he had enough of it, and gold and rubies certainly would. But but silver, gold, or rubies will never get you a home. That's what he He's trying to say. Only wisdom can give you a home. Gold can be given as jewelry, but only wisdom can give you the love you hope the jewelry represents. This is from the American poet Ralph Waldo Emerson, which is itself kind of a riddle. Rings and other jewels are not gifts, but apologies for gifts The only gift is a portion of thyself. Thou must bleed for me. And this, of course, gets back to what he was dwelling on in the beginning of chapter 3. With Hassed Ahmed. He sings sees rings and jewels as less valuable than self-sacrificial love. And that's where a home is built, around someone willing to sacrifice themselves. That's where true love happens within a relationship, is where a person is willing to sacrifice themselves. The problem we have in America is that we have bigger houses but broken homes. Did you notice that? But wisdom can give you more than that. Plenty of gifts in America, but little love. And this is a sign that money is valued more highly than wisdom. Money is not evil. It actually has great value within the Book of Proverbs, but the proceeds and the profits, what you gain from money does not compare with what wisdom will give you. All of your money will be lost and will be worthless to you if you have no wisdom. It will be actually be taken from your hand, or it will be used to destroy you and your family. Money is not evil, but all disciples must learn a Christ-honoring value hierarchy, and that wisdom is above money. This is a sign, actually, that the church is needed within our culture, and that's good news because sometimes I feel like people don't think the church is needed anymore. But the church surely is needed. Perhaps you, in valuing wisdom above money, as the Holy Spirit has taught you, as Christ has sent to you, you could show your neighbors how to not only build a house but to form a home. And not only how to buy gifts, but to show true love that is sacrificial. That would be invaluable for our culture. And we'll talk about that at the end The assumption is that a home and true love are more valuable to you, and thus as verse 18 states, you will take hold of her as one takes hold of the tree of life. You notice that here? She is a tree of life to those who take hold of her, and blessed are all who retain her. The assumption is that you would find this more valuable and you'd see the truth of it. So much so that it would escalate to the point you would grab hold of wisdom as if she herself were a tree of life that you see in the Garden of Eden. I want you to notice the escalation in the passage. In verse 13, it says to find and then you are to gain it. In verse 18, you are to hold and retain it and then you are to guard. That's that escalation. One wave pushing the other wave up further. And it's it's doing that escalation so that you would see there's an escalation in the value of wisdom. That not only does it have proceeds that would provide true love and a home for you But wisdom is as blessed as anyone who has the tree of life itself. Eternal life and immortality. That's the kind of value that we're talking about here. The Holy Grail, so to speak, if you're uh a fan of Indiana Jones. That's the point of the escalation of the passage that wisdom is equivalent to the tree of life. The tree is a symbol for immortality and eternal life, and thus wisdom gained from Proverbs is a gate to eternal life. Often, eternal life within our culture is thought of being able to live for a really long time and not decay. It means long duration. And of course that's a part of it. However, eternal is more about a quality of life that wisdom offers We, of course, know that one giving greater wisdom than Solomon has arrived. Jesus the Messiah has sent his Holy Spirit of wisdom to his church to give them not just length of days. after clinical death for eternity, but eternal life beginning now in the age that has already come. Eternal life such as love and joy and peace. And patience and kindness and goodness and faithfulness and gentleness and self-control. Those are all the things that wisdom promises in the book of Proverbs anyway, and that they would be of benefit to the community. You can see why Solomon would estimate wisdom's value higher than riches. And that's the whole point of the first point. That wisdom is valuable to man. Man has found that the proceeds of silver can give them a house but not a home. Jewelry, but not true love. But wisdom can offer. a home and can offer. Can offer riches in the and the right way to use it. And that's our first point. Rewarded are those who gain wisdom. And now the value of wisdom is seen not only in the prophets to man, but also its worth to God. And so here's another escalating movement within the passage. It moves from the man who was created. The word here is Hadam, and that's him in his earthly existence. There's different four different names for man in the Hebrew text. And there's earthly existence here, and that's meant to escalate to the one who is the creator of all the heavens and the earth. And that's what we see here in 19 through 20 as the next argument for you to believe that wisdom is worth it. It's the value of wisdom to the Creator. I love this argument. I pray that today you would meditate on it. Talk about it with your families. The Lord by wisdom founded the earth, and by understanding he established the heavens. By his knowledge the depths were broken up and clouds dropped down the dew He is not only the creator, he is the sustainer. Those are the two parts of 19 and 20 When it says that God is the creator of heaven and earth, this is a literary figure of speech. They're two polar extremes, and it means God created the whole cosmos, everything from nothing. And he's not only the creator of the whole cosmos, but he sustains all things. In the space of six days, God created the heavens and the earth. God is the creator. Now notice in 20 and 20 B, 20A and 20B, that he speaks here about the breaking up of the depths and the dew that's dropping down this Him as sustainer. The depths were broken up and clouds dropped dew. It speaks of God as the sustainer. The Hebrew believed that the earth sat on water, and that these waters fed the earth. And likewise with the clouds and the dew, God causes rain to feed the earth, and then the earth, the grass growing up, the cows eat it, and then the man eats the cow and eats it. You see how the whole life cycle goes in the ecology. The whole idea is that the Lord God Yahweh is doing these things. And the question that the text wants you to ask is this How is God? How did God create? And how does he sustain an entire cosmos? Because I would like some of that. However, he's doing it, I would like to be able to have something like that, that kind of wisdom. What technology or instrument did he use? And isn't that the question that we all ask within our society? Isn't that like the majority of Amazon sales? Somebody finds out a great way to do something and everybody jumps on to figure out how to do the same thing. If you see someone succeeding, you want to know the method or the technique or the technology they use so that you can replicate the results, so that you can be successful. So, for example, I was thinking how I would love to be able to Make a uh dessert as good as Janet Crab. And I just think that would be as difficult as making the cosmos. I don't have that within me. What's the technique or the method that she would use? And the answer is butter. And so we use butter, and we would find out that there are other techniques from pioneer women. And consequently, butter becomes valuable to us because it helps us to accomplish the great things in our life. And therefore we It's the same line of reasoning, all joking aside, offered here in this proverb. What did God use to create the cosmos? What does he use to sustain the cosmos? And the answer is Verses 19 and 20. The Lord used the instrument of wisdom. By his understanding, he established the heavens. By his knowledge, he sustains all things, not just creating them. It's by his knowledge the depths were broken up and that clouds dropped down the dew. This is the kind of wisdom. This is the instrument that God uses. You ever wondered why rain doesn't come down so hard and and so fast and so large that it destroys all the foliage of the earth? I believe I was listening to a professor say that That there was a gentleman that did their PhD studies on trying to figure that out, and apparently the shape of the raindrop and the fact that it's made in such a shape that by the time it gets down to the the earth it splits into many many other raindrops, slowing the velocity and lessening the weight and the speed the the speed and the size. By the time it gets to the earth there's a gentle rain For all the plants. I'm sure, I mean, of course, there's driving rains, but he found that this was the reason. That's the wisdom of God to make a raindrop and the fluid dynamics of it And what's what the author is saying is here is, don't you want that kind of thing? The kind of wisdom that would make a raindrop? Isn't that valuable to you to have something like that? That's the argument here. is that God used the instrument of wisdom and understanding, and he invites you to use wisdom and understanding in your life. The answer is in nineteen and twenty is understanding and wisdom. God not only used skill in overcoming the obstacle of chaos. But this is fascinating too, if you think about the way wisdom is summarized in the beginning of chapter 3. God created the heavens and the earth from his love and his mercy and faithfulness. Because that's part of wisdom too. He had his creatures in mind, creating a place for them to inhabit. The Lord is the living God who made the heaven and the earth. This is from Acts 14, 15 through 17. He made the heavens and the earth, the sea and all things that are in them. He gives us rain from heaven and fruitful seasons. Filling our hearts with food and gladness. His wisdom accomplishes all these things and fills us our hearts with food and gladness, and he offers the same wisdom to you. If you would just value it I think we can value it seeing it this way. By this point, Solomon is saying, surely they believe that wisdom is valuable, and now it's time for me to talk to them directly. Let me speak to my children. And so he now moves into this next point in 21 through 26. It's the value of wisdom to the sun and the value of wisdom to the church because the sun is. Is not is obviously as a public document. It was spread out through all those in the covenant, meaning the church. So there's a direct appeal now in the last argument for the value of wisdom, which is to the Son, my children. Sons of God, daughters of God, let these things not depart from your eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion. Don't you see the value of them? Hold on to them, like they're better than silver and gold and rubies. So there'll be life to your soul and grace to your neck. Then you will walk safely in your way and your foot's not going to stumble. Let's try to understand some of those. Phrases there, so we can see what he's saying to us. Based on the foregoing arguments, the sun in the passage, and you today are called to commit yourself to wisdom And that's why he's showing you the value of it because human beings commit themselves to things that are valuable. They don't stoop down for pennies, but they do for things that are greater than rubies. And wisdom is worth it. Notice the language of commitment. My son, let them not depart. That should remind you of some of the things you're memorizing in chapter 4. Keep wisdom, verse 21. Yet the father moves right back into the specific values wisdom will have for the son. And in verse 22, he says so they will be life to your soul and grace to your neck. Now this is actually Egyptian terminology, and it would be something that you would wear to show that you are full of honor within the community. You could think of uh um the kind of headdresses or robes that you would see chiefs wear in certain cultures. Uh and uh and we have the same kind of thing within our culture The Father moves back to show this life to your soul and grace to your neck. Grace to your neck refers to social status. Again, going back to the beginning of chapter 3, that you would be the blessed of the community. And then verse 23 says, Then you will walk safely in your way and you will not stumble, still thinking of the social status. In other words, you're not going to lose your social status. You won't become the shame of your father and your mother. You won't become when you show up, everybody tries to figure out a way to go away. Or um they hide their belongings because they know you're going to ask for something. You know the leash has two daughters, give and give. That's what it says later in Proverbs. The goal for the sun instead is to not stumble, but to stand so that the sun will provide health and success to his community. If he fails in his endeavors, he looks more like a mad scientist. Not calculated, uh clumsy and not careful if he stumbles, but instead if he were to grab wisdom and do things like the Lord does them Then he would look wise and he'd be a blessing to the community. And so with wisdom the Son gains security in life, and so too does the whole community. And notice that his security extends to a good night's sleep. That in and of itself is of great value amongst us. To just be able to have some sleep, I think this is what's going on here. We all desire a good night's sleep, and here the sleep is in part due to the discretion, the diligence, the mercy, and the faithfulness exercised during his waking hours. He turned off his hose bibs when he was supposed to, so he's not woken up in the middle of the night with frozen pipes. That would be a summary. That's the idea here. However, there's something more to this also. Security, whether during the day or while asleep, is not ultimately gained through his human effort. And we know that. We know there are a lot of things outside of our control, maybe all things? And this is where verse 26 comes in for the Son and for the church. And we've seen this before in chapter 2. Verse 26 gives the ultimate cause of our security and resting in the wisdom that He gives us to Yahweh. Read verse 26. For the Lord will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught. Referring back up to the stumbling and the falling in the beginning of this paragraph. That is where truly your security comes from. It's your covenant relationship with Yahweh through Jesus Christ. And this is very interesting because Yahweh is named. is the name used for God the Father in Psalm 2. 7. Yahweh is the name used for God the Spirit in Hebrews chapter 3 And Yahweh is used for God the Son, Jesus Christ, in John chapter 12. Now that is significant for us. Because it shows that in being in Christ by the Spirit, reconciled to the Father, in our beautiful covenant relationship with Him, that there is a security offered where we cannot stumble. And this makes sense. There are three persons in the Godhead: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, and these three are one, true, eternal God, the same in substance, equal in power and glory. And of course, the name would be used for all of them, therefore. It makes sense also, since God in his eternal purpose chose and ordained the Lord Jesus to be the only mediator between God and man. And as he seeks to work out his office, he is the prophet, he is the priest, and he is the king to us. And you see all of those offices being exercised in a way for our security. The church. And here's the point: Jesus secures you as your prophet, persuading you with his wisdom that wisdom is valuable and you should set your life on it and not rubies. If you're persuaded this morning, it's because Jesus Christ is working in your heart right now through his Holy Spirit as your prophet. He not only has the words, but can make them gain wings and fly into your soul. He's persuasive, the ultimate persuasive persuader in his sacred rhetoric. Jesus secures you, interceding for you, as you cry aloud for wisdom, as it said in chapter 2. Lift up your voice, cry out. How do you know God will hear you? Because Jesus is there as your shepherd and your interceder, taking your requests before the Father, through his Spirit, teaching you what you ought to pray This is the ministry of Christ. And Jesus lastly secures you as your king, and he protects you by your own accumulated wisdom that he gives you from the The spirit of wisdom, and he does so by his inexhaustible and incomprehensible wisdom, protecting his whole church. Surely Yahweh will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught. And that in and of itself, knowing that, is some wisdom that should help you to sleep. Glory be to God the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. Amen. Wisdom is more valuable than riches. Riches give you a house, but they don't give you a home Wisdom is the instrument of the Creator to establish and establish the cosmos. Wisdom keeps our feet from slipping, but only because Jesus, our prophet, priest, and king, governs his church. The main point in seeing wisdom before man, wisdom before the Creator, and wisdom before the Son. And I pray that the Holy Spirit has convinced you this morning that wisdom is worth it. For you to seek wisdom and obtain her through Jesus Christ. Now, in conclusion, I want to draw out an obligation that we have As we obtain wisdom, we have an obligation, and that's the rest of the passage. I'm not going to exegete all of the particulars of it. because I just want to bring out the main thrust. But I do want you to notice as a way for us to conclude and to apply this passage in the way that this author wants to. That 27 through 35 are all seeking to convince you that your wisdom is not for yourself, but it's for others. It's really for both. That if you are given these things and you gain the proceeds The peace, the long life, the shalom that wisdom offers, it is for you then to take what you have and give to those who are in need. And that is a beautiful vision that we have before us in this passage. 27 through 30 is obviously focused on helping your neighbor. Take a look at verse. 27, do not withhold good from those to whom it is due when it is in your power of your hand to do so. And you would gain power by the seeking that you would do and the granting of wisdom to you through Jesus Christ. Second, you are able to help from the wisdom and the prophets of the wisdom, because part of the wisdom that you gain is Hasid Va Amet. Part of wisdom is that you are merciful to those who are needy. Although you are not obligated to them, you obligate yourself and you remain reliable and faithful to them. This combined with the profits of other aspects of wisdom, including wealth and property, it is to be used to protect a neighbor who is in need. That's how Is to be used. All of these things that you would gain. And so it becomes of value not only to you but those who are around you. The obligation really of what's going on here, once you see we're talking about covenant faithfulness And gaining wisdom to be able to distribute to our neighbors. The obligation is to live out our calling to love as Christ has loved us. Jesus Christ. And this is the essence of what he has done. The similarities actually are staggering between the church and Jesus Christ and their callings or vocations. Now, I want you to listen to this. This is from Colossians 2. 3. In Christ are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. It pleased the Father. This is not Colossians, but a summary. It pleased the Father that all the fullness should dwell in Christ, that he might be thoroughly furnished to execute his offices. All the fullness of his wisdom and knowledge was used to help you, the needy neighbor. As a follower of Christ, you are furnished with the Holy Spirit for your calling, and you are given wisdom and earthly possessions that you might exercise your calling to help those in need around. And the image is interesting of what ends up taking place. The ministry of Jesus Christ in the Holy Spirit makes you makes the wise. I want you to turn to Proverbs chapter 11 and look at verse 30. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he who wins souls is wise. The ministry of the Holy Spirit, seeing the whole picture, turns you into something like the tree of life, as we read about wisdom being in our passage in chapter 3. three. You become a valuable asset and not a consumer and a drain to the community. Through Christ's work in you, you become a source of healing for your community in all of your vocations. And it is very helpful if you are a young person, for example, remember this book is written to you as a teenager. If you're trying to figure out what you're supposed to do with your life Here is part of the answer for you. Whatever you're supposed to do, it's supposed to help other people in the essence of it. It is supposed to love other peoples and show faithfulness and loyalty to them that they would be able to have a more fruitful and beneficial life. You are to become a tree of health that people would that the fruits that grow on you, if they were to take them off and they were to eat them, that they would grow strong and be able to accomplish the things within their life. And I I'd ask you what kind of fruit you have now I bet you it's a mix. And as you think about your vocation for the future as a student now, what vocation will you choose that will develop good fruit for your community? Even for this whole nation? What can you do to be helpful to your nation? You can think of this in terms of your family also, your church, being a citizen, even as a student. The whole idea is that you yourself, through wisdom and the work of wisdom you by the Spirit of Wisdom sent by Christ Is that you are to become like a tree of life within your community. And let me just end with this as a final conviction that we are to be Christ in offering the wisdom that He gives to us to our community. One, we have been given a secret wisdom. It is the wisdom of the knowledge of God the Father in the face of Jesus Christ and eternal salvation through him, and the ministry of the Holy Spirit. You know about the Trinitarian work on this earth. And it is your great privilege to share that with other people. It is one way that you can be healing to your community. And you, if they eat of the fruit that you would give to them, Imagine the shalom that they would gain in Christ even after clinical death. What an urge for us to be a part of evangelistic endeavors. We are to have the mind of Christ and to not consider ourselves too highly, but to be like him. There is no greater honor and no greater command, whether to Christian or to non-Christian, here's the command. And this is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. And how has Christ loved you? Did he not take all the wisdom given to him? All that he was furnished in his offices? Did he not use Is it to your benefit to help you and to lift up the needy to their feet? And to place them upon a rock? And what did he do ultimately for that? And here it is that we are to be imitators of God as dear children. And we are to walk in love as Christ also loved us. And how did he love us? He gave himself for us. It is blood that our needs. neighbor needs. The blood of Christ and our own sacrificial love. Please pray with me. Heavenly Father, these are heavy words that you've given us this morning, but they are life. We have planted before us, growing out of this oak pulpit, words of life. We thank you, Father. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, and we thank you, Holy Spirit, for your ministry amongst us this morning. We ask these things that have entered into our heart, That you would give us a heart that is of good soil this morning, that it wouldn't be snatched away by the devil, that they wouldn't be that these seeds wouldn't grow up and then be choked out. But that these seeds would grow up and they would produce a harvest that is plentiful enough for our neighbors to glean from the resources that you've given to us The wisdom that you've given us in the knowledge of Jesus Christ, our accumulated wealth and resources, financial, whatever it be, our technical and vocational wisdom and resources. We pray, Lord, that you would make Severn Run a tree of life under which our neighbors can rest. In the name of Christ, amen.