I'll ask that you turn to the book of Philippians. We're starting Philippians, which we'll go through the summer. I'm going to ask you to stand for the reading of God's Word. It'll be chapter one. That's the first eleven verses. Philippians 1, 1 through 11. Paul and Timothy, bondservants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi with the bishops and deacons. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine, making requests for you all with joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. Being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. Just that as it is as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you are all, all are partakers with me of For God is my witness how greatly I long for you with the affection of Jesus Christ. And this I pray that your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment. That you may approve the things that are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ, being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, this is the expression of a heart that has been turned to you by your Spirit. We ask for the same thing within our hearts. Lord, there are so many things that vie for our attention and that capture our imagination in our carnal and natural selves, but we seek that which is heavenly. And so we ask for your spirit. To seal these words to us in a special way through a supernatural illumination. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Please be seated. Was anyone here born into a trade? I know that that's not written law, but it can be unwritten law within the family. Anybody born into Masonry? Anyone born into the pastorate? Anyone born into being a mechanic? I was born into carpentry. That was the assumption. Is it would be not just Larry Crutchley contractors, but Crutchley and sons. You can still see the van, although one son's in Florida and the other son's right here. Not doing carpentry. Still. I was born into that and as early as I uh can remember that has been a part of our lives. I remember as early as eleven helping with the subfloor I was finally allowed to use the pneumatic nail gun. My very first attempt at nailing the plywood was five nails in a row. I couldn't control the I couldn't control the gun. Uh but eventually uh I was able to do some cutting and some basic um nailing and that kind of thing. And then eventually I graduated into be able to being able to lay out the walls if you're f familiar with construction. This is kind of of a progression of of someone who's uh starts as an apprentice and gets better. But you know in all of those times I would still go home and not think about work It was one of the the frustrations actually in the family is that I would go uh home and not think about work or I'd be um I I'd get in the van at 630 But I didn't have that mentality because I was just an employee. Has anybody here ever been an employee and then you go home and you never think about the work? And then you get this bright idea that you're gonna be a small business owner because it's gonna be better, and then you can never stop thinking about the work for for what? Maybe like two percent more pay or something? It's ridiculous. I do like small business. The same thing happened to me in that regard also. Once I became a partner with my father, I could no longer go home and not think about the work. It had to always be on my mind, and one way or the other, I always had to have be on call in case especially when it was raining. And so there was a great difference between just being an employee and being a partner. I was born into the partnership, but I had to progressively graduate into the mentality of a partner. I give you this example because it's what characterizes the entire letter of the Philippians. Some will argue that there's no real unifying theme, as you would see, for instance, in the book of Romans. There's no real unifying theme in Philippians, but there actually is. It's all about being a partner in the gospel. And here in this first part, we have an introduction that That reveals all the themes that Paul will cover throughout his letter. It's kind of like an introductory paragraph for those of you who have had the torture of going through Shirley Grammar. You know exactly what I It's an introductory paragraph, and in this prayer it ends up being revealed to us something that's very, very important as we consider our partnership with Jesus Christ. Christ and with his apostles. And that is that God is progressively making you a more and more mature partner in His gospel. In the same way that I began as an apprentice and then matured as a partner in my dad's owner. Company. So too in the gospel, you are born into that as a partner, but then throughout time he matures you progressively to where you can be more and more a contributing and productive partner in the world. And here there's something unique. We are in fact partners like the Philippians with the apostles. It's quite excellent. And so I want to take a look at what is this partnership idea. I think it will really ground Christianity. and help us to get our heads around it. And then also I want us to see and to be encouraged that it's gradual. Our development as a mature partner is gradual and progressive. So those are the two parts, partnership and progression. God is progressively making you a more and more mature partner with Him in the God. So first I want you to see this partnership idea. It actually is not, the word is not there. The only P-word that you see in verse 7 is partakers. In verse 3 and 4 and 5, you do not see the word partner, actually. But that's because of this in verse 5, they're trying to capture a whole lot of different meanings. Now take a look at verse 5 with me, and I'm going to explain how I get to this. This idea of partnership. He starts by thanking God upon every remembrance of the Philippians. He's just thrilled. This is a an expression of his heart, and always in every prayer of Paul's, he makes requests for that And now he's going to tell you why he is so joyful. And the number one thing in verse five is because of their fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now with the apostle. Now you could take fellowship in the sense of a a passive sense like we both I participate as a believer in the same That is, we have the same faith. We've accepted the same words. We've accepted the same gospel. But that's not actually the sense that's being given here, which is why they don't use the word participate. in this translation, which is the NKJV, you'll need to let me know what words they use in yours. What they're trying to get at instead is that there's an active There's an act of partnership. This word koinonia or fellowship is actually used most often in the scriptures and in the area around the scriptures, extra biblical, for a business partnership. So the example that I gave you in the beginning with my father is for good reason. When you think of a business partnership, you think that you have a vested interest in seeing the mission go forward and that you will not only give your space up You'll have an in-home office. You not only give your time up, you'll take calls even after quote unquote work hours and you'll work weekends. You also have a financial Which if you were to turn to chapter four of this book, you'll see that they have been made making financial contributions to the Apostle Paul in order for his apostolic ministry to continue. Now I don't want to get ahead of ourselves, but fellowship here, therefore, has a technical meaning. It doesn't just mean participation in believing the same things. although that's included. It doesn't just mean financial gift, although that's included. It means a full-orbed partnership, if you want to think of like a business partnership with the Apostle in his ministry from the Ascended Lord. That's what it means. And so we here, my argument, are called to a same kind of partnership. You'll remember last week that there's a passing of the baton from Paul to the Ephesian elders and then to the early church and evangelist Eventually to us, where we must take up this apostolic partnership and keep carrying it forward, for they are the foundation, and we must build on that foundation with good. Now the question becomes, and this actually furthers the argument for partnership, is in verse 7. What does it mean for you to be a partner with the apostle? Verse seven starts to list these these ways in which the Philippians became partners with the Apostle Paul. It says, just as it is right for me to think uh this of you all, because I have you In my heart. Inasmuch as both, here it is, in my chains, I'm going to add words because this is his sense. Just inasmuch as both in my chains you were partners with me And in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you are partners of me. That is to say, you all are partakers with me. of grace. That word partakers is that same word that you see the word fellowship. Fellowship and partakers are from that same word group And so he's continuing that thought. He's saying that these are the ways in which your you have elevated my heart with the greatest amount of joy. And this is how the argument goes. Paul's not just listing some things that the Philippians did, and these are some of the things that we could or could not do. Paul is listing those things that were the most important to him, that caused the greatest joy for him in his apostolic ministry. The greatest way in which they partnered with him are these things. In his chains, And in the defense and the confirmation of the gospel. And so I take that as the ideal for us to strive for also if we are to partner with the apostles. And so the very first thing, to some of your dissatisfaction. Is that you are called to partake and be partners, business partners, in the chains of Paul. Now, that already has a bad sound to it. If you were to take a look at the uh Philippians, this is not uh a light change either. There's indication if you read Acts chapter 16, you can see where Paul went to the Philippian church to begin with, and you can read about the great uproar that happened within the city and how the local courts became involved. And you can see that they were most likely placed within jail themselves and received that kind of problem. Persecution. But even more so, there's something dear that uh stabbed at their hearts as a congregation. Paul, when in prison in Ephesus, I believe when when imprisoned at Ephesus needed some type of caretaking. Nowadays, with the way that we have things set up, if you hear a person is going to prison, you think, well, at least they'll get a great meal And they'll be able to play sports or whatever it is. But during Paul's time, you were placed in prison and they had no responsibility to feed you or to give you water. And so they would need to send someone from a congregation in order to take care of his needs. Well they did so, and you can read about him in the second chapter, and his name is a pastor. Epaphroditus is sent by the Philippians to Paul, but while there with Paul, becomes so sick that he he ends up on his deathbed and almost dies. And so you can see in chapter 2 and chapter 3 Paul talking about this sacrifice that the Philippians have given to him in participation or partnership with And the same thing is being asked of us as a congregation. Our suffering will be of the same kind, but not always identical. I doubt if any of you during this generation will be thrown in the jail because of your Christian religion. Perhaps you will. If you go to other countries, it's certainly a possibility. It seems more and more of a possibility now. But you may in fact get sick due to your sacrifice. In fact, there is one lady here who sacrificed and put so much time into this particular church that when the church opened, she was not even able to attend the opening service because she had pneumonia. And maybe you'll have to make sacrifices like that also. Maybe you'll have to give up your own interests, your desires for health or wealth, or for rest. These are all kinds of chains, and some of you will have chains that are of a greater degree than others. Our suffering, therefore, in the midst of this, if you're truly going to be a partner with the apostles Do you remember that incident in Acts chapter 14 when Paul uh is preaching the gospel and then he heals the man and then the people try to sacrifice to him because He then shares the gospel with them again. And then the Jews stir up the people and they stone Paul, throw him outside the city, and he's laying there as if dead. And then the next sentence we read is he He rises and he goes back to work. And that's the exact that now do you want to be partners with him? Because that's what he's asking for. What happens when you are unequally yoked with a partner? When one partner does that kind of work, but you're content to stay on your couch. Do you see the disparity between the two? No. He's asking, and this scripture is asking us. To close that gap of disparity and instead to be a kind of partner that would be willing to suffer, which requires you to rework in your mind how you would even think about suffering. The world talks about suffering in one way, and we'll explore this just in the in fact in the next sermon. These are all themes that run throughout and are detailed throughout the letter. But we as Christians will need to see suffering from a Christian perspective as opposed to a worldly perspective. A worldly perspective on suffering is this. How can I get away from it as quickly as possible? What are the most effective means in order for me to be able to do so? But the Christian actually has a higher calling and will not ask that as the basic question. They will ask they will actually say the Christian who is a true apostolic partner, they will say suffering is to be embraced as the only way for me to glorify God. Now can you Can you say that? Is that the functional mentality that you have? Suffering is the only way for the kingdom of God to progress. I want you to think of the scriptures that are that are uh in reference to this. When you're a Christian, once you become a Christian and you begin your pilgrim's progress, what you're going to have is just feast upon feast and delight upon delight. Isn't that the picture that we see in the scriptures? No, it's not. What's the image that you gain? You will carry an instrument of torture called a cross. Every one of you will bear crosses. Who are you to think that you are better than your master? If your master carried a cross, then what makes you think that you're going to get off the hook? That is the picture of the Christian life, and yet we also see here this great joy within the heart of Paul. It's a mixture that can't even happen within the world. A person carrying a cross, but with great joy and contentment because of who they're doing it for. We'll see that in chapter two in the great uh hymn of Jesus Christ about our suffering and what it means and how we're supposed to be thinking about it. As Christians. And you know what we're going to have to do is we're going to have to shift our mentality. We can become like our culture, and we can be in a hurry for suffering to pass us by and to enter right into our glory. But instead we need to slow down. I remember as a child, I would always be in a hurry about everything. I didn't have patience for anything, and it would cause a lot of harm in just about every domain in my life. Here's a real simple one. I could never wait for the apple to ripen. I could never wait for the blueberry to finish its process or the raspberry. And so I always ended up with bitter fruit. When I was a child, I would be impatient and pick fruit too early. There was a Puritan saying that the delay of your mercies is really for your advantage. The foolish child would pluck the apple while it is green, but when it is ripe, it drops of its own accord and is more pleasant and wholesome. But we have difficulty And that is a mentality that we will need to gain if we're going to be true partners with the Apostle Paul. What our culture demands, but instead wait for his glory, wait for the apple to drop. The other thing that we end up seeing here is not only that we would be partners in his chains, but also partners in the defense and the confirmation of the gospel. These are all ways in which they were partakers of these graces. The defense and confirmation of the gospel is referring especially to what will be developed in this letter in chapter 3. There it speaks about being aware of the dogs. We'll face those who are legalists and we'll face those who don't care about the law whatsoever. And will need to be able to defend and confirm against the gospel, the gospel against them, as well as others that are within our culture. Paul seeks to show the falsity. If you were to look at that chapter, and the ugliness of all opposed to Christ and the surpassing beauty of Christ. Notice how I put that. Because that's actually, if you were to read chapter 3, as soon as it's The service is over. You'll see those two parts. He did not just argue with the mind, but he also sought to persuade through the mind the heart of his opponents. And he did so by showing the falsity and the ugliness. of everything that is opposed to Christ. And he established or confirmed the surpassing beauty of Jesus Christ. Now, some, especially you elders that are present here, and also the deacons to some degree, you are called to this defense and confirmation of the gospel as a public ministry. You will do so in people's homes, you will do so in speaking occasions, and you will therefore need to know your stuff, that is to say, be apt to teach. in a different level. But others you will need to defend and confirm at least privately with your family member. And perhaps even, and perhaps most often, individually in wrestling with your own soul. Thomas Chalmers, has anybody ever heard of him? I've quoted him from the pulpit. Before, Thomas Chalmers. Another man, I don't agree with everything he said. But this is beautiful. He wrote a sermon, and it's entitled The Expulsive Power of a New Affection. Great sermon titled I wish I wish I could have sermon titles like that. As it is, I don't even have sermon titles. You notice? Haven't had one for four weeks Expulsive power of a new affection. And this is his thesis in the in his sermon. The only way to break the hold of a beautiful object on the soul is to show it is to show it an object. You see that? But specifically in your private life and as an individual. Let me say it again. The only way to break the hold of a beautiful object on the soul is to show it, show your soul an even more beautiful object. That's what sin does. Right in the moment, in order to contradict the gospel, it says, look at how lovely this is. It's no wonder in the book of Proverbs, as the father writes to the Son, seeking for the Son's covenant faithfulness, right there in the beginning, a prostitute arises and says, Son, follow me. Because the nature of sin, the nature of that which contradicts and seeks to harm the gospel, is that which is seductive. Satan is not stupid. He knows how to seduce. And the only way to fight fire is with fire. The only way to break the hold of Satan presenting these beautiful objects. to the soul is to show the is to show that it's not truly beautiful and that there is something far more beautiful in this life. You can't in other words You can't just say no when you find out sin is due to the fact that your imagination has been captured by something. When your imagination is captured. When someone's imagination is captured, you can tell them no all day long, and you you can see their eyes begin to glaze over. If anyone has ever worked with a teenager in the midst of sin, and you just say, you know you shouldn't And you just talk to them. No, you shouldn't be doing that. You can just see the eyes blaze over because the beauty of the object has so captured the Their soul has captured their imagination. And so we must fight in that same way. Therefore, the answer to temptation is spiritual passion or confirmation that we see here, not just negation. Not just discipline, not just to say no. You have to help them fall in love with somebody See, it's a war of loves within the heart. Will they love sin more or will they love Jesus Christ more? That's always the decision. And the world, the flesh, and the devil are always seeking for We talked about this a little bit before And that's what's going to give you the motivation to defend to begin with. Have you ever seen anybody really love a movie and someone contradict them and say the movie wasn't very good? You see the passion that comes out in them. What are you talking about? I could sit through all twelve hours of the Lord of the Rings right now. What are you talking about? This is not good. What's wrong with you? Are you Are you even a Christian to say something like that? I I know um I'm partially being funny and extreme, but that really does happen within human beings because the beauty, the grandeur, the majesty of the film has so overtaken them and engulfed them and captured their imagination. To where it it motivates them to defend it. And the same thing must happen to you. Do you see how love is stronger than just the duty Love is stronger than just the duty. You have to bring Jesus out of the realm of the conceptual into the realm of the passion of your heart. And you do not bypass The mind to do that. It is through the mind. You have to bring Jesus out of the realm of the conceptual into the realm of the passion of your heart. Why did Paul stand up after being stoned? Was it because he was just obligated to do something? Is it because he's a perfectionist, or was it because he loved someone so much that it didn't matter. He just needed to keep going because he loved him. Love is powerful. You can't break a person who's in love. And that's what he's asking for here in the defense and the confirmation as we seek to be partners with him in the gospel. Our partnership is like a business partnership. It will involve for different people in different ways a defense and a confirmation which must have a ground level of love motivating everything. And here's the second main point of the sermon, and it's that this will progressively happen. You have been born into this in the same way that I was born into Crutchlian sons. predestined in my father's mind. But it took me a while to get to the point where he would trust me. You know, when I first had that nail gun and I put five nails down right away You know what he did with the nail gun? He took it from me. And he gave me a hammer and some sixteen penny nails. And then I bent those and he had to And he had to take those out. But then I grew and was able to do more. And then the same thing can happen here, and this is really important for you to hear, because some of you are so discouraged right now, um, because you don't really understand what the apostles Paul says here in this passage. And that this whole partnership is progressive. I've said some really weighty things here. Nobody wants to suffer in here. That's something you're going to have to Have to learn through the Spirit. Some of you have learned it better than others. But we're going to progress in this. Here are some things that happen within our mind. When we hear the sermon that I just gave, that first part or other sermons about being partners. You hear and you think, Great, I've heard all this before, but I'm not really excited about this partnership. Sometimes I am. Sometimes I'm not. When I leave this uh setting, I'm gonna be less excited. I probably won't even remember it well enough to talk about it tonight. And obviously this means, this is the conclusion that you draw from this. Obviously, this means that this partnership is just not true. For you. I don't mean that you're gonna give the whole thing up. I just mean you're not gonna sink your teeth into it. It's not your destiny. It's not your identity. It's just a hobby. It's something that you do uh on the side, so to speak. speak. And maybe you would never say that with your mouth, but you would if you were to review your life, perhaps you'd see that functionally you're not all in, so to speak. This ends up reminding me of something that I experienced within high school and my little career in college is that I grew up with great athletes. I grew up with great football players, great soccer players, great lacron players. And there were those who were great. And when they would go on the field, they could score whenever they wanted. And they always made the capital. And they were always the highest scorer. And they realized in that moment, I'm an athlete, that's my identity, that's exactly what I'm supposed to do. I'm going to go to college for it. And that's who I am. This is my destiny. Because I'm good at it and affirmed due to my goodness, it is therefore my God-given destiny. And then there were those who kind of filled the field. They weren't great athletes, but they could get on there because they had legs and could run. And these folks would say, I really enjoy soccer. It's neat. I really enjoy lacrosse. I really enjoy football sometimes But it's not my destiny. I'm gonna end up being a software engineer and own a helicopter, and you're gonna be my employee, great athlete. Just kidding. What they reason is they say the the exact same thing. They say, since I'm not so good at this, it's therefore not my destiny, I'm really good at math or I'm really good at whatever, and therefore this would be my destiny. And that's where the fault lies. You keep trying your partnership and you say this should just be a hobby because I am not excelling at this point. That's what we can end up saying. We can say, you know, this whole Christian life thing is a real struggle for me. I don't seem to excel at it. And therefore it must not be my destiny. And therefore it will just be on the side. Christianity is nice. Just like soccer is nice. But here's the difference between our faith and being partners and competitive sports, and that is that you progress slowly throughout the entire Continuum of your life. It will not happen just in a flash. It's going to take your whole life. You're going to die being frustrated with who you are and not excelling as a Christian. That's the news. You're going to die because it is progressive, and then once you die And you are with Christ, you will be perfected in an instant. And so it will take place, but it will be over the span of your life. If you think of the great children's classic with Pilgrim's Progress, it takes them the whole journey. to get to the celestial city, and he's struggling all the way to the bitter end with the river sticks. This is the same condition that we have. You can see it here specifically within the passage that it's the assumption of Paul that the partnership is not like competitive sports. If you're excelling at it, he's That's not the only way in which you'd be a partner. He expects there to be some kind of progress. Take a look here in starting in verse 5 for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. He's confident of this very thing. Why is he confident that the fellowship would continue? Why is he confident in the partnership of the Philippians. Is he confident because they're innate talents? That they're great spiritual athletes? He says no. He's confidence, because he who begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. It doesn't say that God, as soon as you are born into his family, that everything is perfected. It says that what he has begun, he will finish. It implies itself a spectrum and a graduation. Something gradual and progressive. Really, what he's saying here is that when you are born into the family of the king, you are perfect in parts, but not perfect in degrees It's exactly like a baby. Normally born, a baby has all their parts. They're perfect in parts, but they're not perfect in degree. If they were to stay that same size their whole life, that's a major problem. They will grow and it will be gradual. And you know, if you were to talk to uh a child Or if you were just to remember in your own life, talk to a kid uh at one period and say, uh, Hang, do you remember when you were two inches smaller? No, I don't remember when I was doing smaller. And then ask him six six months later, just to to be even uh more clarifying, I've just measured you. You're a half inch bigger or an inch bigger Do you remember when you're did you feel the progress? No. Because it was so incremental and so gradual. Do you know you're faster now than you were? No, I didn't know that. Did you feel yourself get fastered? No. It was so imperceptual. It was so you're not able to perceive it because it is so gradual. The same thing ends up taking place with us in our partnership. And therefore, if this is the case, and it is, then there's no reason for us to think that it's not our destiny. Judge whether this is your destiny not by your excellence in being Judge whether this is your destiny by whether or not you have received the promise that is here in this passage. God awakens you by giving you faith in Him, and you can't shake your faith, even if it's as small as a mustard seed. This is what the Lord Jesus Christ says. That's how small it's small. Even if you have the smallest faith. You know that you have tried day after day when things are really, really difficult, that another religion or another way of viewing the world seemed better to you. And you wish you could have just chosen that, but you could not get rid of your faith. Because it was down in your bones. And this is a sign that you have been born into his family, that he has begun a good work in you, and he will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ, over time, gradually and progressively. One author says that this life was not intended to be a place of our perfection, but the preparation for it. That's all I'm trying to say. This life was not intended to be a place of our perfection, but the preparation for it. As the fruit is far from ripeness in the first appearance. or the flower while it is but in the husk or bud, or the oak when it is but an acorn, or any plant when it is but in the seed, no more is the very nature of man on earth As the infant is not perfect in the womb, nor the chicken in the shell, nor are our natures perfect in this world. But what does that mean? You are not made for this world, you are made for heaven. That is your destiny, even though it's progressive, even though you're not the most excellent athlete right now in your Christianity. Do not be fooled. You are called to be a partner, and you will progress by the grace and promise of Jesus Christ, your King. You will progress in your partnership. You will be able to suffer with glory. And you will be able to defend and confirm this gospel. Both in your speech. God is progressively making you His partner in the gospel. I want to give you one last illustration and then move into the Lord's Supper. Has anyone ever read the uh the British Minister G. Campbell Morgan? Very good. He's very good. He tells a story that I think illustrates this, the best that I've ever heard, except for the scriptures. He told a story about gradual growth, our destiny, and the power that is resident within that growth. He said that he was in a graveyard in Italy, and he saw there was a huge marble slab over some man's grave. In fact, uh G. Campbell Morgan argues that the man was an atheist and was so set against Christianity that to um and so angry about it that Even if he were wrong and there was a resurrection from the dead, he wanted a huge marble slab placed over his grave so he could never r rise to be with Jesus. And so he actually had the huge marble slab placed there, weighing several tons, with a statue. And G. Campbell Morgan goes to this graveyard and uh it's just phenomenal. Uh one day the slab has split. We're talking about a granite slab or whatever, a stone slab that's several tons has split And coming up through the split is a semi-mature oak sapling. It's actually splitting the statue also He reasoned that a bird must have come by right before the slab was dropped and the acorn fell on the earth. And out of that acorn came a shoot, and out of that shoot came a tree, and out of the acorn had come a tree that had grown up so big and so tall it had split the marble slab in half. Now common sense will tell you here's an acorn and here's a several-ton marble slab. Who's going to win? Who's going to win in your life? The acorn or the slab? Which is your destiny? A thousand pounds down on the acorn, who wins? It's a no-brainer, it's no contest. However, we find in God's kingdom the acorn always wins. That's what I'm saying to you. And that's why you need to believe that this partnership is your death. Destiny. If botanical progressive growth has that kind of power in its gradualness from G. Campbell Morgan, what kind of power will the Spirit of God have who has planted His seed. Because this is not just fruit, this is the fruit of the Spirit. If the Spirit of God is in your life, you will in fact progressively change. You can bet on that.