Titus again, so if you'll turn there please. Huh. Can I have a my Bible is in my office. Thank you. Could I have one just to read for the time being? I'm gonna read and uh I'm gonna read Titus two one through ten. So if you'll please stand for the reading of God's word. And then we'll ask for his blessing. But as for you, speak the things which are proper for sound doctrine. That the older men be sober, reverent, temperate, sound in faith, in love, and patience. The older women likewise, that they be reverent in behavior, not slanderers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things, that they admonish the young women to love their husbands, to love their children To be discreet, chaste, homemakers, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God may not be blasphemed. Likewise, exhort the young men to be sober minded. In all things, showing yourself to be a pattern of good works, in doctrine shown integrity, reverence, incorruptibility, sound speech that cannot be condemned, that one who is an opponent may be ashamed, having nothing evil. Exhort bondservants to be obedient to their own masters, to be well pleasing in all things, not answering back, not pilfering, but showing all good fidelity, that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things. Heavenly Father, these words will fall flat. It is your sovereign will as you work within us to produce fruit. And so we ask that you would illuminate our minds. that we would not just receive instruction, but that we would see your excellence and that we would worship you by Jesus Christ. Amen. Please be seated. Amen. The family began watching uh a show called Grant Flats. Has anybody ever watched that on Netflix? Doug? Well, this is actually one I can recommend. Uh uh hence the family watching it. You know, interestingly, on the show there's a pretty unique thing that's happening. One of the main characters in Granite Flats is uh a pastor. And not only is he a pastor, but he's in the center of the community. As the one who has wisdom to guide the community. Now that's really unusual. Because the pastor in movies or TV shows or whatever ends up becoming a symbol for Christianity. And when he is placed within the majority of movies, he's shown to be uh incredible in the sense of not credible and implausible. His beliefs uh have been outweighed and and And undone in so many different ways that it's no longer even worth taking the time to consider what a Christian would say about social issues. um trying to put you in a straight jacket or just full of bigotry and bias and uh trying to colonize you in in some sense and and just trying to have their will overpower yours so that you would do what they want. These are all different caricatures that get played out in these movies. But in this one He actually is at the center. Even there was a scene just the other day when they were in a judge's chambers, and the judge turned to the pastor to ask him for wisdom in the matter that was going on in the custody battle. Now that's amazing. It brings out though that uh the implausibility is something that we experience all the time. Have you ever felt that? I mean have you begin to beg begun to feel it yet? There are depending on where you live and and there's different pockets, you will feel as a Christian that the culture does not take you seriously. You know, in the past there's been a problem with uh a an adamant and ferocious rejection of God. Now the culture has moved past just the raging atheism and has moved into a total indifference. saying that within college people don't know if there's a God or not and it doesn't make any different any difference. They don't need uh Christianity to explain And so that has contributed to the implausibility, the the indifference that they would have to us as Christians. Now that poses a real problem when we as Christians after reading from the hymnal on missions, that we are supposed to construct bridges in order to be able to share our lives with With other people in order to be able to share the gospel with them. If they think that we we don't have anything to offer, boy, can that be difficult in order to gain some kind of ear. I mean do you feel already this happening within your life? The difficulty in connecting and and for the non-Christian to see that you being a Christian makes all the difference? In the world? That they actually need to take the time to hear what you have to say? Or do you feel like a total implausibility? I've experienced the negative side, feeling like a total implausibility. This passage really begins to address how we as Christians begin can begin to construct those bridges to our culture in order to begin engaging them to get then them again. And I think it does so in a surprising way. The last passages that we looked at was on this the whole letter of course is Paul writing to Titus as Titus is sent to Crete. Paul is giving him instructions as to the different things the things that uh Titus should be doing with these several different groups of people. We know that because it says set up elders in the different cities within Crete or in the different churches within Crete. And it went so far even last week for us to begin to value church government. The main question that we answered last week is how can we as human beings responsibly elect human beings into power? And we answered that question by saying that only because of the grace of the Holy Spirit changing men to where they can responsibly take on an offer. That's a very important message for us. Another important message is this in this chapter two, and it's actually a little bit towards the end of one as well that you'll see. is how can we no longer be incredible in the sense of not credible, how can we no longer be implausible? How can we as uh uh Christians have faith where we are not ashamed and people are not indifferent when it becomes public. In other words, we have faith. Right? Nah, on that one. We have faith But do we have public faith? Add another word. Do we have effective public faith? Now that's a whole nother stretch within this culture. Effective public faith. How can you have a public faith is something that we're considering tonight. How can we bridge between Christian and non-Christian community? And there's three parts and uh It's public, patriotic, and passionate are the three Ps that we'll be considering tonight, just for you to get your head around. They're just useful for you to remember what I'm saying. for you to be able to break down this passage. So let's consider let's consider first, and this is really all over the first uh Set of verses in chapter 2 that we must be public. There needs to be an argument for that. And the argument that I'm going to give you is I'm just going to show you how it's present within the passage. Take a look at verse I just want you to notice the structure of what's happening here. Right in the beginning of chapter 2, Paul is telling Titus that he's teaching That he should teach in accordance with sound doctrine. And then we go off into a long ethical list. But there's these little breaks within the list, and the breaks are purpose statements. And the purpose statements are so important because they talk about the publicity of our faith. And so the first purpose statement is in five that the Word of God may not be blasphemed. 8 That one who is an opponent opponent may be ashamed, having nothing evil to say of you. And ten, that, notice the vats, that they may adorn the doctrine. The emphasis here, all of the the the whole ethical list, all of the words are pushing forward Forward toward this one purpose. Does anybody know what a trireme is? Some of you are sh shamefully shaking your heads. A trireme is an ancient battleship, and it has a point on a beak on the front That would ram other ships. And there were all of these ribs that supported the main beak, and then back behind the ribs you had an individual rower, and there would be many rowers on each side. So that as the ribs supported the row and the row and the and the ribs also supported the beak, the beak would be fully strengthened in order to be able to pierce And that's the exact same thing that we see here within this passage that what Paul is writing, the entire ethical list, all of the individual words, all of the ribs and the row, if you will are moving this beak of purpose forward in order for us to recognize that he's saying all of these things relevantly to our public faith. Everything that is to be done is referenced here to other people not blaspheming the Word of God, other people not accusing Titus of poor deeds or poor language or whatever it is in the list. And then lastly, the unbelieving slave master and the slave, that the slave would have a public faith that is still impressing the slave master with his fidelity. and his submission. The entire passage is public. These are people living in a city that are meant to have not just a faith, but a public faith. And that's how uh I establish it. You know, this is really important for us to realize. I was just having a discussion the other day about evangelism. When we look in the scriptures concerning bringing the Word of God to people, what is the one passage that we turn to To talk about evangelism. It's Matthew chapter 28, right? It's the Great Commission. It is the center of the, it is one of the premier purposes of the church. In order for us to evangelize. But you know, the unique thing is that that struck me as I was having this discussion with a friend, we were saying, I was saying, you know, there's the Great Commission and there's this huge emphasis on mission. there. And of course you see you see the travels of Paul and other missionaries going throughout and around the Mediterranean Sea. But when When you look in his individual letters, do we ever see him mentioning to that group of people that they are to go out and be missionary? And I was blanking in the conversation, but when I began to study this passage, it just the the public nature of our faith became overwhelming. As I looked at these divisions with five and eight and ten, that each of one of us is not just to have faith but pub but public faith. The next thing is that not only is this supposed to be a public faith, I hope that you're convinced of that. Do you see You see that right there in the very structure of the passage? Yeah, I think I think I'm getting an okay on that. Really though we are meant to be public. Expressed statements sometimes, but here maybe they were just hiding from us before. But our faith is meant to be public. Now that opens up to us up to all kinds of challenges. All kinds of challenges We really need to develop some kind of institute where we're just thinking about this all the time, figuring out how we're going to um winsomely make our faith public. That's a challenge. I hope that you can keep thinking about how are you, in your particular arena, going to make your faith public? In a way that's winsome. He suggests here, one way of moving forward for this church is to begin to consider their patriotism. So as he establishes for them that their faith is meant to be public, he then moves them into the next step, which is that they are to be patriotic. Now that's a little provocative, but it's true. I mean they I think it gets a And you can see this in a contrast between verse 12 of the first chapter in Titus and then verse 1, where you see that. That but as for you. Verse twelve, as we discussed we saw this last uh Sunday, he gives this uh testimony. You know how People come up in front of us and they give us testimonies about their faith and the experiences that they've had with God. Well, there's another kind of testimony here. He says, This testimony is true. Well, what testimony? A prophet of their own testified and said, Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, and lazy gluttons. Now that's a really interesting statement because he refers to them according to their natural nationality. They are Cretans, and this is what they are. They are drunks and they are gluttons. That was part of the amazement last week of of finding off seeing officers around Rise out of uh Crete. It has to be a work of the Holy Spirit. But then Paul contrasts that and he says, But as for you, speaking to Titus, speak the things which are proper for you. And then he does not go into a list of doctrinal statements, but rather those which are in accordance or with reference to or consistent with their faith, the doctrinal statements. And he lists a bunch of ethical commands, of ways for them to be particularly within the family. And it takes up the rest of of the verses. And really what you end up seeing here then, if you accept that the uh designation Cretan is one of nationality The theme that you can end up picking up on here is that he's referring to those not who belong to the nation of Crete, but those who belong to the city of God. and that you should be able to clearly see if you belong to the city of God or if you belong, in this case, to the city of man. And so, really, all of these ethical principles being uh are are uh a part of the beak of being purposeful for the sake of our public faith, he's really saying Have true patriotism, not in your earthly country, but in your heavenly country, and look like a citizen there, not like one that would grow up here. Very simply he just says, don't be a Cretan, be a Christian. But those are two statements about which city were Commonwealth to which which you belong. Those are national identities, so to speak. You know, if you think if you go with this a a little bit further, each nation has their constitutional documents. That are foundational for determining how all other things should be done. I bet you the Cretans had theirs. I bet you they had theirs that were written down, and I bet I bet you they had theirs that were just spoken. And we have ours that were spoken and were also written down. And the results of having different foundations should result in different Different manifestations of different kinds of cities, of different sorts of behavior. And so Paul here is clearly saying, Be patriotic, don't be a citizen of Crete, be a s a citizen of the city of God and act like a citizen of the city of And then he lists these different things as to what you should not do and what you should do. You know, this can be a little stark in saying America is not the Christian Homeland. This is not a an anti-American message. I'm just repeating what the scriptures say that it is not our primary primary or foremost country. For instance, it is very surprising to me, uh it was very surprising to me when I began researching Paul. I looked to Paul in regards to citizenship being Because when people quote Paul and citizenship, oftentimes they talk about him being a Roman. So that's the first sign that he takes a great deal of pride within his earthly citizenship. But then I started to notice that when he does drop his citizen his citizenry in Rome, it is for the sake of being able to advance the gospel, to be able to to get out of And then in Philippians 3. 20, if you want to write that down, he says to the Philippians We are not citizens here. Our citizenship is in another country that we wait for. That our homeland will arise. With Jesus Christ. And when we see also in the book of Hebrews, which I'm not sure who the author is, there's this statement of all of those who, although they were from Ur They are not meant to be socially acceptable here. They are meant to be of another city. And if they begin to look strange, then of course they do, because they're not from the city They have weird practices. Just like you could pick up on the weird practices of others that are from outside of this country. So Paul is bringing out the pain. Patriotism that he is seeking within these people. Now he gives a list that's relevant for Crete, and of course some of it is relevant for us. But the question that you have to ask is: how does the city of God How does being a citizen of the city of God make you different, culturally different, than Americans? How may you make your faith public by showing Showing that you do not embrace those American ideals which are blasphemous towards God. Now, of course, I'm sure you could come up with a bunch of them. Perhaps you would be thinking about the expression of your sexuality. That is on the minds of all Americans. What is sexuality? Are we able to change it in the hospital at our will? That's a difference in citizenship. The uh uh America is working Working to where that's not a problem. As a citizen, one can can freely proclaim that. But may we, as members of the city of God, how does your sexuality differ? And how can you make How can you make your faith public by showing that you think of sexuality differently than those that are around you, who are given over to the idol of America? Or whatever country you belong to. It doesn't matter if it's America. Germany or whatever. Or what about property? You know, Americans still struggle with materialism. How do you think and act in regards to your property differently than American ideals. If you in fact if you had to name one, if if you had to say, what does America functionally believe in in terms of property? What would you say? Would you say that we're generous stewards of our resources? Or would you say that that we're we're gaining as many toys as we possibly can in order to be able to to have some foundation and and hope within uh things that should never be a foundation or hopeful. for us. Or if you want to consider power or success, what are you taught in the city of Man about success versus success in the city of Man? Of God. Now that's those are counter-cultural, right? I'm talking about a big picture thing here. You have to answer the question for yourself individually. How is it that you, in your citizenship, in another country, in another home? Which is the uh the city of God, how will that show you to be culturally different than those who are around you who do not also who do not look for that homeland? So you have a public faith that is tied to a new homeland that Jesus Christ is bringing with him. But the whole thing was supposed And so attention is created here before we move on to the last part which is passionate, which is in in some sense In other words, if you're going to be counter-cultural in the ways in which I've just mentioned, if if you're going to live off of a different set of constitutional documents if you will, and sayings, you're probably going to incite some at least discouragement within people or anger You're going to at least make them feel uncomfortable. We can see this all the time. So, how in the world is this supposed to be helping people not to blaspheme God's name? I think that that really could begin to be answered in this last point, which is that we must be passionate. And you can see it again in verses five. And eight and ten, referring to those purpose statements. That the word of God may not be blasphemed, that one who is an opponent may be ashamed, having nothing evil to be If you were to just look throughout the different pastoral letters at phrases that are very similar to that, you'd find one in First Timothy. And it says that The doctrine of God would not be blasphemed, but it also adds something else. It says that the name of God and the doctrine of God would not be blasphemed. Now that ties us Into a much bigger theme that happened throughout all of the scriptures. I'm sure that you can think of some Old Testament texts that talk about God's name being blasphemed among the Gentiles. And in fact, it's quoted by Paul in Romans chapter two, verse twenty-four, when he's referring to Isaiah 52, and all and some say also Ezekiel, we're God is upset with Israel because they blaspheme or cause the Gentiles to blaspheme his name. Now let me read this to you just to start gaining some clarity here. This is From a theologian named John Murray. And this was really helpful to me as I thought to understand this concept of the blasphemy of God. And then I'll tie it into the The reasoning of the Gentiles is to the effect that a people are like their God, and if the people can perpetrate such crimes, their God must be of the same character as to be loathed. accordingly. Did you catch that? Just as the people are, so too must the God be. The tragic irony is apparent The Jews who claimed to be the leaders of the nations for the worship of the true God had become the instruments of provoking the nations to blasphemy. With this indictment, this indictment has reached its climax. In this. Those who were to be the leaders of the nations for the worship of the true God had become the instruments of provoking the nations to blasphemy. And the thing that we see here in this text that that only begins to remedy that is passion. In other words, can you can you believe that in verse five, that he is concerned about God's Word, and I think by implication, God's name, that he's concerned that it's blaspheming the bond among those who are in creep. Is that surprising to you? In other words, when was the last time you were concerned about what people thought of your God? I'm not Talking about a theoretical system, whether they were able to uh regurgitate the doctrine of the Trinity, I meant what did they think about God as a person? I don't have anything against doctrine. I'm just saying a pro a personal attestation or a personal affirmation. When are we concerned about that? And yet We see the apostle here very concerned about it, that others would rightly know who the Father is, that they would know him as he truly Not that they would just be able to say some words back, but that they would actually know who he is. Let me try to get in it this way. Let me talk about prayer just for one second. I'm trying to get to this this concept across. It's very difficult for me. I'm still working on it. When we go into prayer, I think you would agree with me that oftentimes we are forced into prayer because something bad is happening. Our most vital moments in prayer, the ones that feel the most authentic to us, are happening when something tragic is happening to us. We run to prayer. We pour our hearts out in prayer in those moments. Now the interesting thing about that is that you're going to prayer because something bad is happening. Something is being threatened within your life. And you're bringing it to the Father in order to solve that problem for you. But that ends up exposing something about us. That the only reason that we went to him is because there was a greater treasure that was being threatened. That we wanted him to solve. We did not go to him because we delight in him, who he is as a person. We did not go to him because we longed to commune with him, because of who he is. It is almost a foreign concept to us as people that we would just delight in the Lord. And the passion that Paul is talking about here, that should be our passion, that should be our motivation. And that should be our purpose, is that we should be passionate, that those in the culture would have a true sense as to who our God really is. Is our God Really just standing with his arms folded like this, hating everybody? Is he just trying to make everybody miserable? Is he just trying to get you to ask him for something so that he never gives it to you? Is he trying to get you to feel abandoned and to doubt yourself? And you can always tell when you're talking to him that at any moment he's going to be disappointed in you. Any moment. You're just always reading his face, so to speak That is how our culture thinks of him because they're at enmity with him and we have to ask a question as uh as Christ's body on earth, are we contributing to them having that version or that portrait of God, or are we taking it away from it? Are we taking away from it? Are we contributing to the blasphemy of his name? Or are we taking away from it? And that ends up becoming an extremely complicated task and sophisticated because Because, like I said, we also must be countercultural. We may not affirm untruth and that which is abominable to him And yet we with our passion and our love for him, we are still in some way supposed to recommend him to them. And I believe that comes out of our passion for him. Our passion for him. If you could just begin to have passion for him, I wonder if that would change everything, even in the middle of you confronting someone about their Sexuality. Rachel cooley ended up using this in her speech, but it was originally my experience with my daughter. Uh it was one of the first moments of uh what I hope are many more of delighting in the Father. My daughter was very young and we went outside and it was very windy, and I was in a poet Mood anyway, and I've probably already told you this illustration. And the wind went through her hair. And she said, Daddy, why is it windy? And I said, Because Because God knows that it feels good in your hair. Now, to some people, that is absolutely unbelievable. You want to come There's this resistance inside of us that wants to shove that thought away that God would never do something like that. He's not that intimate, he's not that personal, he's not that caring. But we know when we examine those obstacles, those restrictions that God Come up that want to take that away, and we examine the scriptures, we find that's exactly who He is. That the Son did not need to talk the Father into sending the Son. It was the Father's love that sent the Son to begin with. From eternity. He's the kind of God that would just make it windy because he knows it feels good in your hair That is who he is. Does our culture know that kind of God? And if they don't, don't you want them to know that kind of God? You don't want them to just profess meaningless words, do you? You actually want them to know who He is. How loving He is, what He has done for you and for your family. Did you, adults, did you Just hear those covenant children pray. Isn't that what we've always prayed for? To hear them lifting up honest requests from a heart that has been Filled by the Holy Spirit. Oh my goodness. The Father is so good to us. And yet the culture does not know that. I would imagine that I could confront somebody in their sexuality. But if I did so with a love for the Father, and if they could see my love for him, and that's the reason why there's a confrontation, I bet you the converse confrontation would go down very differently He's in love. Jesse is in love. What else did you want him to say? He's in love Love covers over a multitude of confrontations, I guess. I think that our abrasive attitudes will evaporate from the sunlight of That's really what uh I've run out of time, but if you were to continue reading on in chapter three, that's really what this is all about, that the Spirit has come and He showed us His love. Results in humility, even when we are in the midst of confrontation. Maybe it's the passion that's missing for us. I think you understand that we need to be public I think you understand the provocative way in which I was talking about patriotism to draw your attention to this heavenly country that is so important to us. But I'd like you to I'd like you to consider those, but consider Consider even more deeply your passion and love for the Father. The moment that you try to be focused and to love the Father, you we are Are so untrained in it. There'll be so many distractions that get in our way. We will say to ourselves, I just can't feel this way about the Father. What does that say about Well, in this in these same passages, it is the Spirit's ministry to teach you about this love of the Father, and so I'd say for you to have hope. And to call upon the Spirit to do his work. What more would he want to do than to show you the Father and the Son? That is his job. And the other thing that you can begin thinking of is Is that if the Father has shown himself to you and you are in love with him, you can begin modeling that to those who don't really know that love. And you can begin teaching them. And discipling them by making your faith public to them and showing which country that you belong to and that your love and that you are motivated and compelled by the love of Jesus Christ. Christ. That's all I have. I hope that's useful to you. I would love to talk to you more about it. Let's turn to our final hymn, and then we're going to end with Prayer and uh thanks for the food.