Yeah, thanks. Good to see you all. Let's open our time together in prayer. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for gathering us this evening. We pray that you would go before us showing us the way for worship to you and pray that you would be pleased with our service in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's stand this evening for our call to worship from Psalm 149. Praise the Lord. Sing to the Lord a new song and his praise in the assembly of saints. Let Israel rejoice in their maker. Let the children of Zion be joyful in their Let's sing together O worship the King, hymn number one. For self love is nice, for safe love is grace. The woman was out of his face, his chairs on the floor. The earth with sound was going to be the goal. Is that wished in the grace, and God did not speak. Jour comes with old fair, but all these price, in brief and we there is not in the eyes. It streams from thy sweats were not a screen this will say by the rain. Your mercy is content, I'll turn to the end, our bigger prevent. For that your best night in the world, while we'll pray to God. The other creation of the days when the adoration shall sing to your name. Amen. Our reading this evening is from Luke 9. Then he said to them all, If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily. and follow me. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. For what profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world and is himself destroyed or lost. For whoever is ashamed of me and my words, of him the Son of Man will be ashamed when he comes in his own glory, and in his father's, and of the holy angels. Amen. You may be seated. Let us go into a time of confession together. Please join me. O Christ, we come in your name to confess our sins this evening. And we do so in light of your words in Luke chapter 9. 9. Lord, there are times when perhaps we would not admit this with our words, but our actions tell a different story. That sometimes we are ashamed of the way that you do things, the way that you have ordered things. And Lord, we therefore come to you with all of the different examples. Of each of our particular lives, and we come to you to confess the ways where we thought your ways were lesser than our own's And we ask that you would hear our prayers now in the privacy of our hearts. Lord, we confess these things in your name, and we ask, as you hear the ways in which we are lacking, that you would make us whole. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Your assurance of pardon is from First Peter, but you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood A holy nation, his own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light, who once were not a people, but are now the people of God God who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Let's stand and sing, Jesus, lover of my soul. Please gosh of my school and teach you my books of While God gave a water control, while God spill is mine I need on my state or I still lost one of God is God State to God already twice for that Leave all meet me not alone, stealth upwards and turns me. All those not beyond great. Amen. Let's open together to Proverbs chapter 10, and I'll read 1 through 5, and our focus will be verses 4 and 5. Chapter 10, the Proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish son is the grief of his mother. Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but righteousness delivers from death. The Lord will not allow the righteous soul to famish But he casts away the desire of the wicked. He who has a slack hand becomes poor, but the hand of the diligent makes rich. He who gathers in summer is a wise son. He who sleeps in harvest is a son who causes shame. Let us pray. Lord, your proverbs are in many ways the flowering of your Torah. We pray, Lord Christ, that you would Give us lessons from these flowers. We pray, Lord, that we would internalize them by the work of your Holy Spirit. That we ourselves would give forth a lovely scent, that people would know your love and know your wisdom. Ask these things in your name. Amen. May be seated. Well, as we enter into verses four and five and and as we reverse review verses 2 through 3, I want you to keep an image before you that we gathered earlier from the Proverbs. It is the image of a road that comes to a fork in the road. Or, if you would prefer, a crossroads The question behind all of these proverbs really ends up being, especially to those who are committed who are or are uncommitted Uncommitted youth. They're in in many ways still trying to decide the direction of their life. Will you join the path of the faithful in Christ? Christ, or will you take a different path? Last week the question was: how should I accumulate wealth? There were two paths presented in verses 2 and 3. You can accumulate wealth through wicked means. We looked at, for example, James chapter 5, where people were accumulating wealth through fraud. They were keeping back the wages of the workers Or the other path, the other road at the crossroads, is that you could be like the righteous. And instead of Of disadvantaging the community through your fraud or stealing, you could work for their advantage. You could trust in the Lord that He gives good things to enjoy in this life to those who are the righteous. For extra motivation, we learn that the path of fraud leads to emptiness. It's funny to spend your whole life working to be fool, but doing so wickedly You end up empty. But, working your whole life to be full in a righteous manner, you end up fool indeed by the grace of God. Tonight I want to make a few observations with four and five, and then I'll have two brief applications. Tonight we continue with the topic of wealth. These proverbs you're going to notice are put together by way of the Spirit by an editor. into little topical chunks. And here we have the topic of of wealth and work. That's been happening from verse 1 really. And tonight we're going to continue that topic of wealth in verses four through five. Right away you can see that the image of a forked road Take a look at verse 4, for example. Solomon lists two paths. The first path is the way of the slack hand. The second path is the hand of the diligent. The destiny of the first hand, that is to say, the destiny of the lazy person, Is poverty. The future of the diligent person on the second path is wealth. Now, just to clarify, when we talk about wealth in the scriptures, and this will We'll come to this eventually in the Proverbs also. When we talk about wealth in the Scriptures, the Scriptures mean by wealth that you have the necessities of life. In our prayer every Sunday, going through the different partitions of the Lord's Prayer, they summarized it by saying, by asking the Lord, would he give us a a competent portion uh that and that we would be able to enjoy those things in this life. And it's the same thing here. Later you'll see the proverbist uh recording different Wisdom saying where we don't have too little to where we would have to steal, we don't have so much where we would forget God, we have just enough. And that is their picture of wealth. Now you could have wealth and you could have the means to have your necessities for a year. That would mean you're really wealthy. Or you may just have the means to have the necessities for today, but you have them today. And so there is a wealth that you have. Solomon is telling us that diligence is the way to that wealth, and that laziness actually takes it away. The second thing is I want you to notice is verse 5. The next verse ends up building and expanding on the original. wisdom. If you just had verse 4, it looks like you should just work the whole time. You shouldn't do anything else. But that actually would be advice. So he gives It is not just those who work hard and all the time who are wise as opposed to the lazy. It is actually those who know when to work and when not to work It's those who work at the right time. And this again is framed by the two paths. One path is to gather in the summer, in the harvest season. That's the wise path. The other path is to sleep during the harvest. What is the end or destination of those different paths? Well, they're the same destinations as verse 1. You will either bring notice that notice what I just said though, it's verse 1. Not four. It goes all the way back to verse one. He's appealing to your familial affections again. You will either bring gladness or you will bring shame. To your community and to your family if your timing is off. And then the last observation I'll make here, just in looking at the text itself, notice that for Four and five complement each other. Now we've pretty much said that, but I want to say a little bit more. It is not enough to just work hard or work all the time. That's actually called work Alcoholism and it's not a good thing. We are not called to be workaholics. Wise work is not work all the time. It is the right amount of work at the right time. And that can look for certain seasons like you are working all the time. It really depends on the circumstances. That's a lot of what wisdom is. As being able to see the circumstances, to be aware. We can reach this same point by verse 5. Sleeping is not sinful, is it? Sleeping is is not sinful, but it is sinful if you sleep at the wrong time. Sleeping is sinful and leads to shame when you are sleeping during the harvest season, when you should be harvesting. That's the point. And you can see how that would explode into so many different moral applications, just recognizing the season in which you are when you should be diligent. Well, when we look at this proverb, we can gather these things up. There's so much to say, but I'll just give you one doctrine. that uh comes out of this. As Christians, we are called to the path of the faithful, working diligently at just the right time. We are not workaholics. We are not lazy workers. We are wise workers. If you want to think about it in terms of what I said earlier, as the uh uncommitted youth the you would look out at the crossroads and you'd see your different options. I could work all the time and neglect everything else. I could be lazy or I could take the the path of Christ. Christ and his people, and it's working wisely. Those are the three. And the encouragement, of course, in Proverbs is that especially the youth would go down that path Well, I want to start by giving you in our application portion just a clear example, and then I'll list a few other examples besides that. So the two points are a clear So turn with me very quickly to Genesis chapter 41, and let's read uh verses 46 through 49 together. And then we're going to jump to 53 through 57. And I'll do the reading. But I'll give you a minute. Let's turn to Genesis chapter 41 for a clear example, starting in verse 46. I want you to see the embodiment of this proverb. That's what's meant to happen. One way to think about what Solomon is doing is that he is reflecting on the whole history of Israel. Israel and he's condensing it into wisdom sayings. So this is obviously the story of Joseph, and we'll pick up in verse Verse 46 of chapter 41. Listen to this story of Joseph with the proverb in mind. Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went throughout all the land of Egypt. Now in the seven plentiful years the ground brought forth abundantly. So he gathered up all the food of the seven years which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities. He laid up in every city the food of the fields which surrounded them. Joseph gathered very much grain, as much as the sand of the sea, until he stopped counting, for it was immeasurable. And then I want to jump down one paragraph to 53, chapter 41, verse 53. And here we move into the time of famine. Then the seven years of plenty which were in the land of Egypt ended, and the seven years of famine began to come, as Joseph had said. Said. The famine was in all lands, but in all the land of Egypt there was bread. So when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for Then Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, Go to Joseph, whatever he says to you, do. the Egyptians. And the famine became severe in the land of Egypt. So all countries came to Joseph in Egypt by grain, because this famine was severe. Well, here we can see the proverb coming alive in the wisdom of Joseph. Joseph knew that a famine was on the way. He knew the different seasons that were about to strike the earth by way of his interpretation of the dreams of the full castle. What would have happened, for example, to civil to the civilized world at that time if Joseph put off work till another day. No, he didn't do that because he had been given wisdom by the Spirit to be an honor honorable son. Instead, he got to work making sure that during those years they could store enough food while it was available. He didn't sleep during the harvest. Then, notice what happens when the famine arrives. Joseph does not cause grief or shame for his nation. But joy. He actually creates joy for the whole world because they can go somewhere to get food because of one diligent hand. Really leadership in making all of the hands. Joseph, in other words, is what it looks like to walk on the path of the people of God in the area of wealth. Especially as we see that area of wealth in verses 4 four and five. There you have a diligent hand and timely work. Well that's a clear example. I think it's a great way for us to com to take this and analogy analogously compare it to all of our life, which brings to a next very short point, which is many examples. The Joseph example may make you put this proverb in the category That's fine. It applies to your nine to five job. But that is too limited. Instead of perhaps using the word wealth or paycheck, we want to think of the fruit that we are to bring forth by way of a diligent hand and timely work. And that will include fruit in every domain. Parents must work wisely, that means diligently and at the right time with their children, looking for a harvest of righteousness. And the same will be required of us in all of the other vocations we have too. It's the same application, for example, at church or in our civic responsibility Responsibilities, we are to bring forth fruit that we would be a blessing to others, and that fruit is brought forth by a diligent hand and timely work. What you have here in Proverbs, therefore, is a picture of those who belong to God through Christ Jesus. And his spirit. Especially when we are in high school or college, we stand at a crossroads or a forked road. Will we enter the path of the people of God, joining them in their wise work? Or will we enter the path which leads to to poverty and shame, laziness and not knowing what time it is. As Christians, we are called to the path of the faithful. We are to work diligently and we are to work at the right time. We are not workaholics. We are not lazy workers. We are the wise. Please pray with me. Lord, we thank you that you have condensed so uh much history, so much of your work with your people over time into these proverbs. We pray, Lord, that you would give us eyes to see and ears to see To hear, to unfold and see all of the dimensions of what you have to say here. Tonight, Lord, we pray that these prophecies Proverbs would become true in ourselves and in our children. Lord, we long to see our children and to enter through the narrow gate. And join us on the path of the faithful. We ask, Lord Christ, that by your Spirit you would make them wise. And we ask, Lord, for your wisdom. We pray that you would Would make us timely and diligent. Lord, make us a people that are productive. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and respond by singing Psalm number one. You'll find this uh labeled hymn number three. North and Western speech north. In his door, is the light. And in that morning by Is my god deep with the chat drink of water stream? Where did I stay flash and green? In the Lord we thought so you see the Lord so But they are like the last girl's master. I love its best calls. Nor will not be just box. Amen. And now receive the Lord's benediction. The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you all. Amen. Amen. You may be seated