We would be blessed in knowing you during this time, of singing your praises, of encouraging one another. I pray, Lord, that you would uh connect us with the significance of this act of worship. Pray that you would minister to your people and each of the needs that you know that they have here that are private that other people don't know about. Pray that it would be a time where you would refresh them, where you would give them wisdom, and a host of other things, that you would feed them as a good shepherd. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Let's stand for the call to worship. It's from Psalm 54. I will freely sacrifice to you. I will praise your name, O Lord. For it is good. Let's sing together O for a thousand tongues to sing. Oh, for a thousand Tongers seem my great redeemers, great. No my stop is a little bit more than a little bit. Team music, tears by the ease. He breaks the power of brain sin, he says the prisoner. He tweaks a day, saying, For Stoon Light Lake Oh bro, yeah, but we drove all for daily My gracious faster and my thoughts need to go thing. Just everyone be your Amen. Our reading this evening is from James 2, 4. And it'll lead into our confession. What does it profit, my brethren, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister is naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you says to them, Depart in peace, be warmed and filled But you do not give them the things which are needed for the body, what does it profit? This also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. Amen. Let's go into a time of confession. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you for passages like this that ask these probing questions. They provide the right way to view something, and we are able to put ourselves in this situation. Lord, your servant James is speaking to a group of of people who professed the Shema, that you were their God or are their God, that you would love, that they would love you with all their heart and with all their soul and with all their mind. And yet here, Lord, we see that in the midst of even perhaps singing that profession in the worship service, afterward they would not take care of their neighbor, even if their neighbor was naked and destitute. Lord, we find the same contradictions in ourselves We cry aloud in song after song for the new world to come, to be on earth as it is in heaven. Lord, we cr we sing about you returning and wiping out all injustice, taking away misery. And yet, Lord, when we look at our lives, We perpetuate the old world. We are the ones causing the minute the misery. Lord, these two things should not be together. A fresh stream does not pour forth salt water. A good tree does not bear bad fruit. And so, Lord, we must come before you now and confess to you our holy inconsistency, our practical atheism. And we ask, Lord, that you would use this time for our conscience to settle. To acknowledge and admit to you that we are in fact convicted of various sins, that you would reassure us of our forgiveness, and that you would You would motivate us in gratitude to turn from sin and to live for you. Ask, Lord, that you would hear your saints now in the privacy of their prayers before you. Yeah. Father, we ask that you would hear these prayers in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. We don't admit those things to our God in order to be condemned. There is no more. condemnation because we are in Christ Jesus. Rather, it is to stay in step with the Spirit and with the life that He has given to us. And so in that spirit, I encourage you now to hear the assurance of pardon from Acts 16 So they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household. Let us remember our salvation in Christ Let's stand together in this same thought and sing the solid rock. I know this bit of God, nothing less than Jesus God and righteousness. I may have God speakers three, but only on Jesus. On Christopher, on the Christmas, all the crown is sinking sad, all the ground is sinking sand. When darkness fails in lovely days, do I rest on grace unchanging grace In every violence, so we get quiet for both. For the Christmas fall is rock and all over the ground is thinking sad, all over the city. It's from this call and this is far, soft for me, come down the park. For Christmas dollars, Rock I stand, all the other crown is thinking sad, all the other crown is thinking standard. Just right, just to go for the standing for your gold. For virtues all in rock I said, all overground is thinking sad, all underground is thinking sad. Amen. Let's uh turn together to Proverbs chapter ten. Last time we were together in the evening service, our preaching was on verse 1. Tonight we'll be on verses 2 and 3. In the following week, we'll be on 4 and 5. So let's we'll read uh two and three together. Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but righteousness delivers from death. The Lord will not allow the righteous soul to famish, but he casts away the desire of the wicked. Let us pray. Lord, your wisdom literature here is the flowering of the Torah. We ask, Lord, that you would give us this kind of wisdom. And that you would not leave it here on the pages or in the words of the preaching. But Lord, that we would have these experiences and that these things would flower in our own lives. Ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. Well, last time we looked at chapter 10, we acknowledge that undoubtedly God has given us many tools to help children honor their parents and for parents to strengthen their children. Sometimes we bring the law to their conscience, for example. Other times the situation is so extraordinary that the path is difficult to see, much less walk And will require wisdom from the whole community. Other times children manipulate us, but in line with our wisdom from that from verse one Whether you are old or you are young, we are to remember one thing that God gives us family affections for the sake of of the kingdom. Family affections are for the sake of advancing the kingdom. They are a a a motivation and a foundation that uh provides a way for us to stay in touch with reality and in truth that has been handed down to our families. Well I want to make a few observations about these next set of verses that we have as we move away from verse one And then I have a couple applications. You'll notice that the lines in verses two and three, they go back and forth. In fact, commentators will oftentimes take these lines and they'll put a a positive and a negative next to them, showing that they're alternating kind of like magnets, a positive force and a negative Force is one way for you to think about it. Take a look at the scriptures, and first you see that there is a negative side, so to speak. It mentions that the treasures of wickedness profit nothing. is the teaching from Solomon. If you wanted to, you could phrase this a bit more simply. What we would end up saying if we were in conversation is that treasure gained through wicked ways, Prophet That's really what he's after here when he says that the treasures of wickedness, it's the ways in which we accumulated those treasures. And it should remind you of the very first proverb in the lecture series. series in the first chapter. Honestly, however, if you have lived in the world long enough That statement seems patently false. Hear it again. Treasure gained through wicked ways profits nothing. Oh, really, Mr. Solomon? We watch people accumulate wealth all the time through wicked ways like lying, deceit, fraud, stealing, fishing scams. Not F. Cheating, all kinds of ways. And they seem like they're doing just fine. And that's where we really need the positive side of the magnet. These proverbs are meant to interact with each other. to compare and contrast them to see the full flavors. It's like the next sentence adds the salt to bring out the flavor that you need. And this is an Verse two on the positive side of the magnet. Treasures of wickedness profit nothing is the negative side of the magnet, and then here's the positive side, but righteousness delivers from death. Well, that's an odd comparison. There's something else going on here than just cheaters prospering. If we let the positive line add to the understanding of the negative line, then we see there's much more actually going on than just cheaters prosper. Rather, the situation is, will their wealth save them on the day of justice? That's really the question that's being asked here, implicit in the proverb. Solomon talks about it as the day of death. That's what you see. Will he deliver us from death? This is the idea of the day of judgment. And you it's a there's a follow-up elsewhere in Proverbs, just a chapter away. You're welcome to look at this another time in Proverbs 11, 4. This is considered, it's kind of matching verse. And it says this: wealth is worthless in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death. It's the same kind of idea that we see here in chapter 10. That's the first thing I want you to notice is the these magnets going back and forth and the situation that he's seeking to communicate. The situation is still a bit obscure though, even after those first two verses. So we want to move now into the verse 3 and its two parts. We have a picture that is painted more fully with the magnets once again. And it shows us that the reason why things are like this, why there's this proverbial logic, is because it's just how God operates. The Lord operates in this specific way. Take a look in verse 3. The Lord will not allow the righteous to famish. And then you have the negative side of the magnet, but he casts away the desire of the wisdom. You see, the Lord is at the center of all these things. We're not just talking about what naturally happens amongst a society, as if you were just a sociology major making observation. This is a theological statement that this is how God will ensure that life goes on or is completed. Wealth will do nothing Nothing for those at the day of judgment. And the Lord will make sure of that. The wicked who pile up wealth through injustice and oppression. To protect themselves, so displease the Lord that when he releases his pent-up anger against their fortified cities, it cannot save them, despite their illusion. It's a quote from Bruce Waldkey. So what seems to be good seems assumed here is that wealth has an illusory, soothing effect. Surrounded by our belongings, we think we can do what we want, we can be unrighteous, we can ignore God and His ways, and nothing will happen to us. In fact, that is the story of what happens in America every day. People doing whatever they want and they think there is no accountability, their life just keeps being good. Good. Every day we can wake up in comfort with plenty of food, we have plenty of drink, we have plenty of fun, and it appears That we do not need to pay attention to God and His created order. We can do what we want with impunity. But the wisdom that is coming through here, based upon what was delivered by Moses as well as many, many experiences through the life of Israel, is that all that is an illusion The security of wealth on the day of wrath is an illusion. So we could come out with a doctrine that sounds Just like this. Wealth cannot keep you from the accountability of the Lord. Wealth cannot keep you. the accountability of the Lord. What I would like to do to unfold that a bit is to look at a New Testament picture so we can gain even more clarity of this teaching here and then a deeper reality. A New Testament picture and then a deeper reality. The New Testament picture I'd like you to see is from James chapter 5. And so if we could turn there together. I'd appreciate it. It's nice to just have a concrete situation. These proverbs are derived from concrete situations anyways. So it's good to find them. Kind of reverse engineer the proverb. In James chapter 5, I'm going to start reading in verse 3, but there's Much more in this surrounding context if you'd like to study it alongside of this proverb. But listen to this: your gold and silver are corroded. And their corrosion will be a witness against you and will eat your flesh like fire. which you've kept back by fraud, cry out. And the cries of the reapers have reached the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth. You have lived on the earth in pleasure and luxury. You have fattened your hearts as in a day of slaughter. Now, what's interesting is that when these words were penned, if you had a little time machine and you could float your way on back there to when James was writing this letter. You would find that those people who were rich, to whom Paul or James was referring to, they had nice homes. They had plenty of food. They had all the clothing that they wanted. There was placement for their children in the best schools. They had a wine cellar. All of those things. They were wealthy. But that's actually not the problem. There's nothing wrong with wealth in and of itself. The Lord owns the cattle on a thousand hills, and there's nothing Morally wrong with his wealth. Their wealth is not the problem as such. The problem is that they obtain their wealth through wickedness. And they maintain their wickedness by way of their wealth. They kept back wages by fraud, James said. What will happen therefore? Well, in the mind of the rich, there is no accountability. They think they will go on. There is no leverage for the poor They're probably the top leaders within their society. They probably have they probably have people the the judge who judges in the court over for dinner in this particular situation. They have lawyers that can keep them out of trouble. But James reminds them that the Lord in his justice will make sure that their wealth no longer acts as it has been to give them protection and the good life, but it will act as a witness against them. The food that was meant to make them healthy, it will no longer make them healthy. You can see in verse 5, the Lord is actually fattening them for the day of Well, that's quite the reversal. Now, look at the passage just after this in James in verses 7 through 8. That first part is what Proverbs is talking about in relationship to the wicked, and they will not find refuge in their wealth when the day of the Lord comes. Now look at 7 through 8, and he's going to speak to the righteous. Because the whole point really of this passage is for the righteous to be encouraged. Therefore, be patient, brethren, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently for it until it returns receives the early and latter rain, you also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. Here we see the promises to the righteous as if they were farmers. The Lord Himself, on the appointed day, will make sure that the rich are empty, the corrupt rich are empty, and that the righteous are filled. That's the whole point. Now that's a New Testament picture, and there are other pictures all scattered throughout all of the scriptures, but that's one for you. But I not only want you to see the New Testament picture of that kind of socioeconomic situation, but I want you to see this next applicatory point, which is a deeper reading Everything just said is true on a socioeconomic level. God will in fact hold accountable those who gain their wealth through evil means like keeping back wages through fraud from their workers. They will meet their day of reckoning The same people that were addressed in that passage. But we can't stay there. This passage ends up leading us into deeper wisdom and a deeper reality present in God's Word. Wealth will not save anyone from the day of judgment, but only the righteousness that we gain through union with Jesus Christ. Do not allow wealth to create an illusion in your life, whether you volunteer at the soup kitchen or pay every laborer their wages. Your own unrighteousness will not save you. The wealth that you think you might have will not save you at the day of judgment, but only the righteousness of Jesus. Christ. Let me put it this way. Wealth and material toys right now in America keep us preoccupied and distracted, but on the day of reckoning, that wealth will profit us nothing. You think you don't have to think about God because you're busy on your um four wheeler or owning a boat or whatever it is that distracts you until the end of days. Well Those things will be of no use when the day arrives. We must be found not in our righteousness, which is only we must be found in the righteousness of Christ, which is only Only possible as a gift from God through Christ. Let me give you just a plain little picture. There was a fierce fire in a national park. After the flames were quenched, rangers walked the land looking. For surviving wildlife, they stumbled upon what looked like a dead bird at the base of a tree. a burnt tree. They walked closer and they poked the bird. It was just the remains of a bird. But just then out from under the wings of the larger bird scurried the little chicks. The mother bird protected her younglings from the flames by her wings. And that is present here as a deeper reality also in our proverb. It is a picture of our Christ. He covers us with the wings of his righteousness, that we would be delivered from the day of wrath and ushered into Wealth, in fact, cannot keep you from the accountability of the Lord. But the righteousness of our hands. Heavenly husband, in fact, gives us eternal life. Please pray with me. Lord, I pray that as we enter into these proverbs proper as opposed to the introductory lectures preparing us for the Proverbs. I pray, Lord, that you you would help us to be dedicated to the reading of the rest of your scripture. of especially the stories. I pray, Lord, that you would give us in our own experiences, give us in our own experiences ways to see the reality of the Proverbs as we live out your law in our lives. In other words, Lord, I pray for all of us here that you would grant us wisdom. That it would be mature and flowering and full of a lovely scent. I pray, Lord, that this would become a scent that the world recognizes as lovely also, that they would turn and And see the work that you are doing among us, and that they would long to be a part of your kingdom. Ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. Let's stand and we'll close our time to together in the service with the final song Take My Life and Let It Be. Take my love and badly, I'm more to me. Say my mom let my days, let them blow in sea first place, let them blow in season. Take my hand. Take my feet and let them be sweet and beat for me Switch the beauty for me, sing my voice, and let me sing Always hold people by being taken by the be Fill with best treasures from me, fill with best treasures from me Take my spill and my goal, not come by for my wheel. Say boy in seven years Every Pharise Nose Every Paras not true Take my will that take it thy if thou be no longer mine. State my body is thy goal, it's something I do. It shall be thy royal road, be my law, my border, I born Have thy treasures for Take myself and thy will be ever only nor me. Amen. Now receive the Lord's benediction. May the peace of our Christ be with you all. Amen.