If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Like I t remember I told you last week these uh proverbs are collected into uh little sections that are topical. I just want to point out something structural so that you can study this on your own also. And his father sat him down and said, you know, God gave us two ears and one mouth for a reason. And it shall be that every living thing that moves, wherever the rivers go, will live. Very good. I will take his well for us thou Jesus Christ, our God, and Lord God of the Heavenly Father. It go it comes forth from it, but it will come back on itself and destroy the speaker. That you would help us to know the great privilege that we have in prayer, that we can call you Father, and we have a community to pray with and for each other. Under my hand, we praise my name forever. Oh father for thy rule is jump, then white and changes never. So thou hast thought me restored, but changing was telling the Lamb of God should be on high out of the desert. The tongue is so set among our members that it defiles the whole body, and sets on fire the course of nature, and it is set on fire by hell. The blessings of your father have excelled the blessings of my ancestors. But in the end, God will make sure that it boomerangs back on them and overwhelms them. And then I'll say more about some of them than others. What a great example we had with Saul this morning. It's hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all sin. and at rest. Those are the two main sections here. Which can help us to build up the message for more understanding. This water flows towards the eastern region, goes down into the valley, and enters the sea. Here that we really could trace this to the work of Christ and the sending of his spirit to bless the whole world. It does not seek its own, it's not provoked, it thinks no evil, it does not rejoice in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth. and endures all things. Bulletin. And here we see an unusual or perhaps a surprising application of what they mean in the scriptures by cover. someone who can tame the tongue because you know how to change the heart. And given social esteem, that they would have yet another motivation to continue on that path. We ask, Lord, that you do that from the beginning with this invocation to the end, with our benediction, as you bless us. In grace and truth, thou showest thy to offer us salvation. Your shed we trust in thee to save us. If any one does not stumble in word, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle the whole body. Look also at ships. Lord, as humans who like to justify our actions unjustly, we could say, how could such a small member of our body be such a big deal? But Lord, when we see the effects and the strength that our speech has and the heart from which it flows, Lord, we see that to be loose-lipped or careless with our words Even so the tongue is a little member and boasts great things. But no man can tame the tongue. I pray that you would help them to see how they have used their words this day, yesterday, the week before. I pray, Lord, that you would remind them, that you would use their memory for holy purposes, showing how they keep If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. My wife, the sorrows of The memory of the righteous is blessed, but the name of the wicked will rot. Let us pray. that we would be the embodiment of this book. And that first section there is the effects of good and wise and fullest speech on yourself. into a different topic. So you have self, transition, others. And they humbly accept, therefore, the commands of inspired sages, of those who are wise. Whereas the wise in heart are characterized by a continual inner spiritual growth that leads to wide speech, one scholar says, the babbling fool despises wisdom and discipline. Which leads to his own ruin. in the right way supports or corrects in a commun a community in a way that promotes its life. say that to you one more time. It's made into a character as a part of a story, and then we get to see what does this character name hatred in a kind of allegory, if you will. Hatred doesn't like to let sleeping dogs lie. in this whole section speaking to each other because that's how Christian wisdom works out. to help us to understand this fountain language. You see it covers the mouth of the wicked in verse 6, and then you see that the second section after the transition is repeating covering the mouth of the wicked, but one is for the self and one is for the community. Their leaves will not wither, and their fruit will not fail. Their fruit will be for food and their leaves for medicine. on our world and our community. 10. In other words, our words of correction can be a fountain of life when we turn someone back from sin, and in a different kind of way we cover over all wrongs because it has been removed. is when we grow to the age of discretion. others. For us, the ancient of day, for white we victoria, thy great name we pray. I resting, I hasty, and silence applies, nor wanting, nor wasting, thou rules in life, thy justice, thy mountain. Great Father of Gory, your Father Allies, thine angel God for me, all filling their sight, all daily words. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God the Father and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. The praise of all his saints, of the children of Israel, a people near to him, praise the Lord. From Satan's fair cars go somewhere, and that thy power of the woes and for bread for us. of God. For every kind of beast and bird, of reptile and creature of the sea is tamed and has been tamed by mankind. Giving in to that impulse to just let it fly, to allow that anger to turn a few phrases. for the things that we have left unsaid. Whose name is holy God means for the sight of heaven. So I'm God let us watch it through with him. But when I own my birth, my sin is not from me when I confess and mouth. Lord will be but shall we If we don't thy thou savest me from hills, and some of thy salvation by heart. I will be I can't for make me go. But we not truly or so understand, we not remember to utilize to me. God and trust his mercy shall come around. Let the Lord be joyful in soldiers of your voice. He who walks with integrity walks securely, but he who perverts his ways will become known. The mouth of the righteous is a well of life, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked. uh in the NIV uh translation. At just the right time. Blessings refer to many kinds of God-given gifts. The main idea is that those who are righteous, with their mouth specifically, causing their neighbors to flourish will receive words of blessing from the community, and it will be like a crown of social esteem that graces their head And this goes to what Bill was talking about with irony this morning, Pastor Bill. Even the fool destroys himself. again. So I'd like to do verse 11. Springing from him is his goodness, which results in the blessing of every living creature wherever the river goes. Just like uh you just all you say is very gentle and kind words, like we have a picture of Gandhi or something. Proverbs. of having such a bitter and anxious heart so as to ensure that our words become life-giving. And then listen to this. system. I had an older lady tell me about Holly's baptism. Amen. To all life thou given, through both great and small. On your day, we pray that you would use these ordinary means. Amen. My man was happy for me, my soul. Wisdom is found on the lips of him who has understanding, but a rod is for the back of him who is devoid of understanding. Another way to state the same question is, where does your loyalty lie? And on the crown of the head of him who was separate from his brothers. Because your words, the things that you say, that's our goal. of water in examples such as 1 Corinthians 13 and love and James with correction and rebuke, turning sinners from death. That one day they would commit to life themselves and be fountains of lives, them fountains of life themselves. And that they would not only have good words of their own, but it would all begin with them accepting the words that you speak. Let them praise the name of the Lord, for his name alone is exalted. is of the utmost degree of concern. for the passive aggressive comment or the purposeful kniving word or stabbing word. Why can't we drink what fed with reasonable For gave us me, so let thou God reach thee thee in times when thou art here. Especially when we are in high school or we are in college, but there are many times in our life when we stand at a crossroad or in a forked road, and that's the presentation that Proverbs gives to us Joining his people in wisdom. Or, more particularly last week, to poverty and shame. The basic question is this: Will you use your words in line with the faithful people of God, or will you use your words as the wicked use their words? But considered with mouth in 6b, the blessing is a kind of benediction. Next thing I'd like you to notice is verse number 8. He continues to say this. As a young man, this one gentleman, he said he was just a foolish mouth that would refuse to be quiet. Flowing well water is particularly precious and people gather around it. When you look at 11B, it shows the opposite. The picture is of hatred in our hearts, and what hatred likes to do is if conflict finally settles down and maybe even goes to sleep. You could think of it if you wanted to. Love withdraws the burning wood of gossip, that the flame would extinguish and the community could be healthy. Knowing the intent of Solomon, the writing of the book of Proverbs, within the canon, we state this for our teaching tonight. Love suffers long and is kind. Verse 11: The mouth of the righteous is a well of life, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked. But there's nothing to be embarrassed about. As the rush song says, even if you don't make a choice, you still have choosed or chosen, whatever. Thy story of thy fountain, thy fountain of goodness and love. All right, well welcome to evening service. Ways to illustrate the degree to which our tongue matters I pray, Lord, that you would give us the ability to acknowledge these things tonight, not just to beat ourselves up, but Lord, as a a measure or a way for us to begin to turn from using our mouths like that. How blessing was weird. There's always a question that is present in each part of the Proverbs, and it is this. So that the conflict develops into disastrous proportions, producing still further transgressions. Or they will choose the path of the wicked, using speech that is destructive to themselves and to others. The mouth of the righteous is a well of life, but violence covers the wicked. Here's Ezekiel 47, 7 through 9. There will be a very great multitude of fish because these waters go there. Because of what you bring to the community. James's teaching is particularly interesting on that point because he combines the wisdom, if you take a look at your Proverbs passage again, of verses 11 and verses 12. You were baptized when you were young. My brethren, let not many of you become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment, for we all stumble in many things. The opposite is the case for the wicked in 6b. The mouth of the righteous is a well of life, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked. The figure we have of a fountain in verse 11 can actually be found in plenty of other scriptures throughout the whole canon. Along the bank of the river, this is jumping to verse 12. Have you ever seen someone and somebody says something to them and their countenance just falls? I pray, Lord, that you would give us the kind of self-discipline that is reflected in that old proverb that we have two ears and one mouth Help us to be quick to hear, slow to anger, and slow to speech In boys all things for God only, in my old rights, for the And we learn here in the book of Proverbs that you can give that by the power of the Holy Spirit and heading down this path where your words would give life instead of death. And that ends the first section on in this Proverbs 10 now on wisdom and wealth. That's the basic question. Similarly, we can draw a kind of analogy here. I want you to finally notice that the ultimate application of all of this is to God the Father through his Son, Jesus Christ, and His Spirit. And they'll tell you that you received the water sign. on the life-giving words of God through Christ, or you will choose the path of the wicked, drinking speech that is destructive to yourself and spewing forth destruction to others. Help us, Lord, to think of ourselves as a fountain of life that you have created. Ask these things in your name. Here we see that the wise person recognizes the limitations of their own heart. Temporal, intellectual, moral, and spiritual. is presumed here. But both of those are at the top of these sections because they are like a fountain pouring down into all of the other wisdom that would precede it or succeed it. Proverbs 4, verse 23. That in order to fulfill these passages we have to all be pacifists. And our words were a part or an instrument, instrumental cause in such things. What you have here in Proverbs, as we think about even last week in the earlier parts of chapter 10, is a picture of those who belong to God through Christ and His Spirit. Then we have a transitional verse, which is verse 10. But on the other hand, love keeps conflict from being a continual issue Now I didn't get a chance to go over all of these, but you can see that speech can affect you, and speech can affect others Children entering the age of discernment must choose a path. Which is also water, obviously. You could think of it this way. Students, I bet you you could think easily of a hundred examples where you see the mouth poorly used during your school day. Now, what I'd like to do, just to develop one of this, just one part of this section a little bit more deliberately, is I'd like to focus on verse 11. Now there are other New Testament pass there's other scripture passages, particularly in the New Testament, that instruct us to be quite careful. It is a great privilege to be able to pronounce each Sunday in both services your assurance of pardon. And the effects that it has on ourselves and the effect that it has on others. I pray, Lord, that this would be valued among your people and that those who go down that path would be commended. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you've gathered us here again to worship you on this Lord's Day. Amen. I pray, Lord, that you would hear your people now in the silence of their private confession. That really gets at the heart of it, that they conceal violence. 47, and I'm going to read to you verses 7 through 9 and then verse 12. Brethren, this is the final verse of the book, by the way. When your goal is self-serving, you must keep those parts cloaked and veiled. Let me point out one more to you, and this is in verse number twelve. This wisdom also applies to the difficult conversations that we have to have. Consider James 5, 19 through 20, for example, a book that has much to say about the tongue. We pray that you would make us a people that use our mouth for your glory and the good of our neighbor. When our hearts are healthy, according to our proverb, our words act like a fountain of water which flows out to our community, bringing them life. And so there's a few images for us as we just kind of scan the scriptures with these proverbs. I heard a great saying at the retreat, the officer retreat, on Thursday and Friday, where one of the officers relayed to us what his father had said to him. Imagine that your words had the qualities that you see there of the quality of love, and you were the member of that community. Here we have the opportunity when we think of this imagery and we think of Christ and what the ordinary means that he has given to his people, it gives us the opportunity to remember our baptism. God sent his only begotten Son. Lord, we thank you for this teaching on wisdom and speech, our comportment in speech. You may be seated. But the quarrelsome and the hot-tempered, they fuel the conflict. Another translation, which is from the NIV. We'll now listen to James or have a reading of James three, one through nine, which will then lead us into a time of confession. 6 through 14 begins a new crossroad and it addresses our words. Consider the next section which focuses on how our how our speech affects others. Bruce Waltke, famous scholar for Proverbs, continues and he says, offering everyone abundant life It is my prayer for you that you would be those who receive blessings from God and you give those blessings to others, especially in your spirit Although they are so large and are driven by fierce winds, they are turned by a very small rudder wherever the pilot desires. I'd encourage you not to just look at the verses that are stuck immediately together, like 6A and 6B, but all of these are meant to be conversation partners. Here tonight you're being called to something different. I hope that you're able to sing with us tonight. You could still think of that as sleep analogy, that love covers over the conflict and lets it stay asleep. It's a direct quote from this proverb. Lord, we ask that you would forgive us for the things that we have said, the way that we have said things, and we ask, Lord, also that you would forgive us. That's where you stand. Our reading tonight is verses six through fourteen. Let's stand in response to God's word preached, and we're going to sing together, Immortal, Invisible. It is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. Those of you um I often hear that um I don't know if you're embarrassed, but you're not really sure what to do with your baptism if you're a covenant child within the Reformed Church You don't have some kind of crazy story. So we can put that in another way, again reviewing from last week. Flowing well water is particularly precious, and people gather around it. Children entering the age of discernment have to choose a path. Perhaps you have already, I won't cover this tonight, perhaps you've already thought of Psalm 1, for example, which we sang last week. Structurally is like a spring that pours forth all of the other speech in Proverbs. Last week it had to do with would we be joining them in wise work? Father, we thank you for your word, and we pray that we would become wise in your son and by his spirit for your glory. Perhaps you've met somebody like this. It is an existential experience all over the earth, especially in the Near East where it is in short supply. Amen. We ask these things in Christ's name. And so I have that there for you to be able to look through and I I think it would be helpful to you. The mouth of the wicked, the point here is, especially as you see it in the NIV where they conceal violence, the mouth of the wicked conceal their true intents in order to overcome with wickedness. If you read earlier in Ezekiel, all of this waters flowing from the temple wherein God dwells Consider another pair in this first section in verse 8. Lord, we thank you for this teaching here so full of different analogies. Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked. Hatred wants to say, wake up, we can fight some more And both of the paths are sitting there for us. There's two paths before you. Love does not envy. The fool is so full of himself that instead of having the capacity to accept wisdom, he dangerously prattles out his own clever opinions. What I'd like you to do is turn to Ezekiel chapter 47. His words were one thing, but they were concealing an intent that David discovers a little bit later, that he's murderous on the inside. Keep your heart with all diligent, for out of it springs the issues of life. She told me that Holly kicked her shoe off and it went flying across the sanctuary when she was a little baby. We're just going to go through a couple of these so you can get a taste for each one for some of them. I'm sure you can think of the word blessing showing up over and over again in Genesis, with God sending his blessings. When I returned there along the bank of the river, were very many trees on one side and the other, then he said to me, See how great a forest, a little fire kindles, and the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. So in verse twelve, and a father and a husband. On this side and that will grow all kinds of trees used for food And that's the way that this is set up. They will bear fruit every month, because their water flows from the sanctuary. Now Ezekiel has intents far larger than our mouths, believe it or not. We ask these things in the name of Christ. Please pray with me. But there's another section on how our speech affects others. Let's stand for our call to worship from Psalm 148. Up to the utmost bound of the everlasting hills, they shall be on the head of Joseph. So, for example, love. Oh Lord God, I pray for your congregation this evening That's the sense that even the NKJV should be uh showing us. I encourage you to meditate on that passage, thinking of your own heart and the overflow of your heart in your words. And cover a multitude of sins of another proverb in chapter 2. That's the idea. The violent speech which comes from their mouth Think of this in terms of your speech. We are like a temple with our hearts at the center, and springing from our hearts are our words. If you have, you at one point probably said this to them. This is really interesting because here, hatred is personified. There will be a very great multitude of fish because these waters go there, for they will be healed, and everything will live wherever the river goes. The Son becoming man and raised in his ascension sends his spirit to bring life, like water pouring forth from a temple. The water is sprinkled down upon the infant, showing that God has set them aside to be raised in the words of life. What we have to do as covenant children as we remembers our remember our baptism. Hatred's this is another favorite of mine also. Lord, that you would reveal your glory, that we would respond with praise. I mean you feel almost embarrassed that you didn't, you know, uh move somewhere and get hooked on heroin so that you have a great conversion story. Brethren, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone turns him back, let him know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will save a soul from death. Uh you can share. Amen. I want you to remember that phrase. And James seems to be meditating on verse 12, too, where he says, hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all sin. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. For we need to be most fine, you need allations. Why's speech is then broken into verses 6 through 9, so take a look at that. There's one person who is blessing another, and the way that the scripture is talking about it is that it is on his head, it is pouring down over him. And I'll put the question like this to you, students. Amen, and now receive the Lord's benediction. As Christians were called to the path of the faithful working diligently, And then we move into verses 11 through 14, and these are about the effects of your speech on others. His glory is above the earth and heaven, and he has exalted the horn of his people. I want to do that because it's actually a repeat with a slight modification of verse 6. I want you to think that about yourselves, filled with the Holy Spirit. Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, and we are dependent upon you. Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all sins. Let's open our scriptures together to Proverbs chapter ten. The wise in heart will receive commands, but a praying fool will fall. You may be seated You're receiving blessing from God, and it lets you know what you have received that too you are supposed to give. We are not workaholics. We must remember our baptism that people tell us that we had. Amen. And this book, the book of Proverbs particularly, has a great translation team. The point here in 6B is that the violent will speak in thinking that they have power to accomplish their violence. They feed it wood. When it reaches the sea, its waters are healed. You could think of our proverb in light of 1 Corinthians 13, 4-7, if you haven't done that before In all life thou living, the true life of all we lost the night more. Let's open to hymn number one. Will we enter the path of God, joining them in wisdom? And these are written that you would choose to continue with the faithful people of God. Why speech then, here if you look again at the scriptures? We pray, we first need we trust, and give me thanks forever. Indeed, we put bits in horses' mouths that they may obey us, and we turn their whole body. The right word spoken at the right time and Sometimes when you read passages like this and you think about being a fountain of wisdom in our speech, all you think of is um With it we bless our God and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in the similitude They will either choose the path of the faithful, using their words to enrich their own lives and the lives of their community. Oh Holy Spirit, precious in the world. The open, benevolent speech of the righteous is just as necessary for a community. Here's another image that we get from the Proverbs seeking to put forth the same kind of thing with our speech. We have the image of a temple which was our heart pouring forth living streams. He who winks with the eye causes trouble, but a freighting fool will fall The wise in heart will receive commands, but a freighting fool will fall. But if we were to gather all of these things up And we're going to look at I just want you to know where this is in your scriptures and to see it with your own eyes as opposed to It bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things Let us now go together into a time of confession But violence will cover the mouth of the wicked The open, benevolent speech of the righteous is just as necessary for a community. And when I say favorite, I mean these proverbs are relevant and applicable in every single Here's the first image that I want to give to you. Or, if you were to use the NIV, the mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life, but the mouth of the wicked can And may our words be like water to those who are part. Amen. Let us stand and celebrate the gospel by singing together Psalm 32. And think of your mouth. But it's the same kind of imagery that Solomon is using to develop how we can have a life-giving effect. Amen. Love does not parade itself. That first section I just showed you, there's the way that we conduct ourselves, it comes back on us like a boomerang and hurts us. But that's not the case. Wise people store up knowledge, but the mouth of the foolish is near destruction. And I particularly enjoy verse 11. In verse twelve, uh I already read some in the book. You will either choose the path of the faithful who live. I've included a in the bulletin Let's go ahead and start our time together with a word of prayer. Otherwise, your evil schemes will be found out. And so that you would listen more than you talk. Pray that you would be with our children So now we're in a move. Not a benediction, but a kind of benediction, like we would see in Genesis 49, 26. Or will we enter the path which leads to foolishness Amen. All glory be to thee, most high. Amen. This one is taken from 1 John 1, 8 through 10. Chapter ten, six through fourteen. So I want you to notice, for example, our very first verse, which is 6A and 6B. And now we're moving into a new section, which is verses 6 through 14. I have no idea for us race, thou doest but thy. Could you just be quiet for a minute That's the main point. Lord, we thank you that we have found you and that you are Ask these things in your name. Thou showest thy good will then and it shall reign on. We are not lazy workers. Are you remembering or are you rejecting your baptism? You may be seated What do they do as a part of uh being on stage and a part of this theater? Because somebody said something careless. Imagine the social esteem that you would gain in a community. We ask, Lord, also that you would guide us in our time of prayer. It's not puffed up. Be bad in God be just rejoice. Why are people thriving? They offer more and more tasty morsels. Wherever the rivers go, they will live. Sometimes the healing waters are words of correction and rebuke. So take a look at that with us. It does not behave rudely. The dependence of life on water. And that's how the wicked operate This is another theme that runs through We are wise workers. I hope that's not confusing. It's because your mouth is there. I thought that was a good way to put the same thing. And verse 12. Wherever the river goes