Peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Will you please turn in your Bibles to Isaiah chapter 43 and follow along as I read verses one through thirteen. I am reading from the New American Standard Version, but you'll have no trouble following along if you have the New King James or ESV Isaiah forty three, beginning at verse one. But now, thus says the Lord your Creator, O Jacob, and he who formed you, O Israel. Do not fear, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by name. You are mine. When ye pass through the waters, I will be with you, and through the rivers they will not overflow you When you walk through the fire, you will not be scorched, nor will the flame burn you. For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I have given Egypt as your ransom, Cush and Seba in your place, since you are precious in my sight, since you are honored and I love you. I will give other men in your place and other peoples in exchange for your life. Do not fear For I am with you. I will bring your offspring from the east and gather you from the west. I will say to the north, give them up, and to the south, do not hold them back. Bring my sons from afar, and my daughters from the ends of the earth, everyone who is called by my name, and whom I have created for my glory, whom I have formed even whom I have made. Bring out the people who are blind even though they have eyes, and the deaf even though they have ears. All the nations have gathered together so that the peoples may be assembled. Who among them can declare this and proclaim to us the former things? Let them present their witnesses, that they may be justified. Or let them hear and say it is true. You are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen. So that you may know and believe me and understand that I am He. Before me there was no God formed, and there will be none after me. I, even I am the Lord, and there is no Savior besides me. It is I who have declared and saved and proclaimed, and there was no strange God among you. So you are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and I am God. Even from eternity I am He, and there is none who can deliver out of my hand. I act. And who can reverse it? The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God abides forever. Pray with me. Lord, what a treasure your word is. We know that by it you feed our souls, you keep us alive. By it you have brought us to yourself, and by it you preserve us even to eternal life. Thank you for your Holy Spirit. Please send your spirit now to lead us in our thinking, bring conviction and understanding to our minds and hearts. May we honor you through our study, we pray, and grow in your grace. Through Christ our Lord, we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Our study this evening will be primarily in verses. 10 through 13, where God calls us his witnesses. But I'd like for us, I think it's important for us, to see the context starting in verse 1. The Lord is giving his people a message of hope in the face of impending disaster. Really, he says, Oh Israel. Fear not, for I have redeemed you, I've called you by name, you're mine. When you pass through the waters, I'll be with you through the fire, and you'll not be scorched. The flame will not burn you. The Lord is assuring us, his people, that he will be with them. In the coming days of distress that Isaiah had prophesied earlier, namely that the nation of Judah would soon be overrun by the Chaldeans and they would face a host of calamities. which he describes in terms of passing through fire and going through deep water. The very thought of being invaded and overrun by a cruel, foreign enemy no doubt, struck fear in the hearts of these Jews. Just imagine the the fear that we would feel if our nation were suddenly overrun and occupied by ungodly tyrants with no respect for human dignity, no regard for human life. That's what the Jews were facing in Isaiah's day. And that's why God assures them, fear not, I'll be with you. Actually, this is just one of over 300 places in Scripture. Where the Lord says, do not fear. Do not be anxious. Be not afraid. Think of all the times Jesus said those words to his disciples, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have no more they can do. Do not be anxious about what you will eat or drink, or what you will put on, for your heavenly Father knows that you need all these. Do not fear, for you are of more value than many sparrows. Do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will have its own worries. Do not be anxious about what you should say when you stand before kings, for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that hour what you should say. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Fear not, little flock, for it is the Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. All of these fear not were meant not just for the twelve, but for all believers. All of us are prone To being anxious. We all need our Savior's rebuke in Matthew 8. 26. Why are you so fearful, O ye of little faith? If you were Adrian Monk, you would have come here this evening with a list of all the things you're afraid of. In order. Dentists? Vomit, ladybugs, glaciers, germs, snakes, nudity, death, crabs, mushrooms, needles. 317 fears in all Well, you're not monk, but you do have a list of fears, as do I. We may call them concerns or cares or anxieties, but we all have our list. Thankfully, our nation is not facing imminent collapse as the Jewish nation was in Isaiah's day. Although if you pay attention to certain media outlets, you might be led to believe otherwise. But we all share anxieties in common, perhaps related to our health or our finances. And we each have personal circumstances that at times may seem like fiery trials Or deep waters. So the Lord's assurance in verses 1 to 4 is meant to calm our fears and give us hope and peace. But our text brings out one fear in particular that believing parents especially fear. The fear for the well-being of our children. The believers, the Jewish believers in Isaiah's day were deeply concerned about their children who would very soon be carried off into exile and eventually scattered to the ends of the earth. And so in verses five and six the Lord adds this promise. Fear not. I will bring your offspring from the east, and gather you from the west. I will say to the north, Give them up, and to the south, do not hold them back. Bring my sons from afar, and my daughters from the ends of the earth. He's saying, wherever your children may end up in captivity, however far they may be scattered, he says, I will be with them, and I will bring them back to this place. All of us who are parents know what it is to be anxious for our children. Whenever our children are in danger, our attention level goes up several notches. When they wander out into the street, When they get hurt or sick or lost, we drop everything and hurry to care for them. And they're still in danger even after we've done all we can to protect them. We remain anxious for them. Especially when our children are away from us for whatever reason. Even temporarily when they're not under our roof and we know they're facing temptations or threatening circumstances that we cannot protect them from. We fear for them. The Lord sees that fear And he says in verse 5, do not fear. I will gather your offspring from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south. And so indeed it came to pass a century later, in the days of Ezra, that this promise of Isaiah 43, 5 was literally fulfilled. And the offspring of the Jews to whom Isaiah was writing, 42,000 of them, were brought from afar and gathered back to their homeland. Of course, the real heart of this promise is not geographical. The Jewish believers in Isaiah's day were not only concerned about the distance their children would be removed from their homeland. They were concerned mostly about their children's spiritual wanderings. Yes, they were distressed that the children would no longer be able to come to Jerusalem for the yearly feasts. But the real question on these parents' hearts was whether their children would even want to return to their homeland. after living for years in Babylon or Assyria, would they even remember their homeland and all the covenant promises that were theirs? That was the real concern of these parents, not just whether their children would one day return to Judah, but whether they would return to the Lord, would their faith be restored. And likewise for us. Our fears for our wandering children are not really over whether they will ever show up on our doorstep again. They probably will. But rather whether the Lord will bring them home to Himself. Our real concern, indeed. At the top of my list of concerns is for my children's faith. These verses offer us hope. God says, I will bring your offspring from the east and gather them from the west. I will say to the north, give them up, and to the south, do not hold them back. Bring my sons from afar, my daughters from the ends of the earth, everyone who's called by my name, whom I have created for my glory. One of the great encouragements here is that the Lord begins in verse 4 by calling them your offspring. But by the end of verse 6, he's calling them my sons and my daughters. The children of believers are in fact the Lord's children. Our children, born into the church, God owns as his. He says, I will bring back your offspring, my sons and daughters. Just as we are not our own, we're bought with a price. They too, our children, our children, are bought with a price. They too are the Lord's. They too are holy. They too are called by his name, no matter how far they may wander, geographically or spiritually. The Lord gives us hope that He will gather them from afar and bring them back. Because your children and my children are God's children. He encourages us not to fear. The Apostle Peter picks up on this promise in his sermon at Pentecost. He said The promise is to you and to your children, to as many as are far off, as many as the Lord our God shall call to himself. When you think about it, every one of us here is the fulfillment of that promise. Every one of us was once far off. But now God has brought us near to Himself and has made us to be His sons and daughters. Some of us have Christian Parents who hoped and prayed over these very promises that God would gather us to himself. And he's done that. But whether we were raised as covenant children or not, we all were once far off from God in our heart, in our conduct, in our character. But now we've been brought near by the blood of Christ. Well, let's look on now at verses 10 through 13. That's our primary focus this evening. And keeping in mind that the Lord's purpose is to deliver his people from fear. He says here, you are my witnesses, my servant whom I've chosen. So that you may know and believe and understand that I am He. Before me there was no God formed, there will be none after me. I, even I am the Lord, and there's no Savior beside me. I have declared and saved and proclaimed. So you are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and I am God. Even from eternity I am He. And there's none who can deliver from my hand. I act, and who can reverse it? The Lord here raises the whole subject of witnessing. He says, you are my witnesses. By contrast, back in verse 9, he spoke of the nations bringing their witnesses. When you think about it, most people groups on earth have their witnesses. Whenever we turn on the news, we hear one group or another bearing witness to what they believe in, to what they stand for. Republicans have their witnesses, the Democrats have theirs, Israel has theirs, as does China. Every false religion on earth has its witnesses, proclaiming the excellencies of whatever God they follow. Secular humanism has its witnesses. Modernism has its many witnesses. And here in verse 10 we see Jehovah, the true God, has his witnesses. And you and I are it. God has put us on earth to witness to him and to his truth. It's important, and I would say very valuable to see, for us to see this matter of bearing witness actually began a few chapters earlier in chapter 40 of Isaiah. Let me ask you to turn back to Isaiah 40 and look at verse 9. You may recognize the words. They're part of Handel's Messiah. Isaiah forty verse nine. Get yourself up on a high mountain, O Zion, bearer of good news. Lift up your voice mightily, O Jerusalem, bearer of good news. Lift it up. Do not fear. Say to the cities of Judah, here is your God. Behold, the Lord God will come with might, with his arm ruling for him. The Lord is telling his people not to fear. In the very context of calling them to be his witnesses, say to the cities of Judah, behold your God. He's telling them, don't be afraid to speak out. Be a witness. Herald good news. Notice three things here in verse 9. And the start of verse 10. First God calls his people to proclaim good news, to bear witness to the gospel. Lift up your voice. Say to the cities of Judah, behold your God. Second, God tells his people not to fear. Be not afraid. And third, God tells his people why they need not fear. Behold, the Lord God is coming with might, with his arm ruling for him. God's people can witness without fear. Because the sovereign God is at work gathering a people for himself. And we find those same three elements In our text in Isaiah 43. Though the order is different, we've already noticed the command to fear not. We've already noticed that God is calling his people in verse 10 and verse 12 to be his witnesses And then throughout these verses, the Lord is assuring his people they need not be afraid because his sovereign power is at work, bringing his people to himself. I, I am the Lord. Besides me there is no Savior. I have declared and saved and proclaimed, I am God. Even from eternity I am He. And there's none who can deliver from my hand. I act, and who can reverse it. If you've been a Christian for long, you know one of the great hindrances to witnessing for Christ is fear in the heart. We may call it something else. We may think we have good reason to keep silent before the world. But usually what it boils down to is fear, the fear of man. And the Lord knows that. But he wants us not to be afraid. So it's important that we pay attention to what he's saying here. We have probably all heard Messages or read books encouraging us to be witnesses for Christ. Think of some of the books you've read or speakers you've heard. On the subject of evangelism. What motivations do writers or speakers appeal to to stir you to witness? I can think of three that I've heard or h read of often. One is guilt. If you don't witness The blood of the lost will be on your hands. You will have to answer to God if you fail to tell others about Jesus. Ezekiel 33, verse 7 is often quoted, Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. If you do not speak and warn the wicked man of his wicked way, that man shall die in his iniquity. But his blood I will require from your hand. If we keep silent when we know how a sinner can be delivered from eternal destruction, then we are guilty, so it's our duty to speak up and witness. That's one motivation. The second motivation is compassion. Think of all the horrific torments of hell. Don't you care that people will suffer eternally in the lake of fire forever if they don't get to hear the gospel and respond to it? Rescue the perishing. Care for the dying. Have you no compassion for the lost? And then a third motivation sometimes appealed to is urgency. This day Millions of souls are going off into eternity with no knowledge of Christ. They need to hear the gospel and they need to hear it today. Why delay? Open your mouth, speak up, and be a witness for Christ. What do you think of those appeals? Are we guilty if we never tell others about Jesus? Should we feel compassion for the lost as our Savior did? And is there urgency? Is today the day of salvation? Yes, yes, and yes. And yet those are not the reasons the Lord gives in our text when he calls us to be his witnesses. He doesn't try to make us feel guilty. He doesn't play on our emotions. He doesn't say it's up to you, Christian, to rescue lost souls. Just the opposite, the Lord says. I will bring my sons and daughters from the ends of the earth, everyone who's called by my name, whom I have created for my glory, whom I have formed and made. It is I who have declared and saved. I am God, even from eternity. I am He. I act, and who can reverse it? The chief motivation that God gives us here for evangelism is His sovereignty. Over the years, I have noticed confusion among Christians as to how evangelism and the sovereignty of God fit together. Fifty years ago, J. I. Packer wrote an excellent book on this subject, and its title was Evangelism and the Sovereignty of God. Packer shows from Scripture how these two truths are meant to fit together. He points out that Many Christians tend to latch on to one of the truths and then don't know what to do with the other. A Christian who knows that God is sovereign in salvation, that God has already chosen who will be saved That Christian tends to neglect the urgency of witnessing. On the other hand, the Christian who sees the importance and urgency of witnessing tends to get flustered when you mention what God Himself says here in our text. What we need to see not only here but in all scripture. Is that God's sovereignty and salvation is the very basis for evangelism. He says in verse 11, I am the Lord. Besides me there is no Savior. Verse 12, I have declared and saved. Verse 13, there is none who can deliver from my hand. I act, and who can reverse it? And twice in the midst of these claims, he says to us, and you are my witnesses. And he says both with no hint of contradiction. It all makes sense to him when he says, I am the Savior, you are my witnesses. And yet some Christians feel they they have to explain either explain away either the sovereignty of God or the urgency of witnessing, because they can't get it clear in their minds how both can be true. The issue comes into clear focus at the end of verse 12. Notice it. You are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and I am God. That's what we need to keep straight. We are witnesses, and God is God The place we get into trouble is when we start thinking we have to play God. We have to find a way to move the hearts of our children or our parents or our best friend toward the Lord. And we try to think of ways to make the gospel seem respectable. If we can just show them that that Jim Harbaugh and Cal Ripkin Jr. and Tony Dungey and Tim Tebow are all Christians. Maybe that will convince them that Christianity is at least worth a try. We try to put forward convincing arguments to get our loved ones saved. But when we start to think that way, we miss what biblical evangelism is. When God calls us to be his witnesses, he does not put the burden on us. He doesn't say, I'm counting on you, Christian. Just the opposite. He says, I am the Lord. I am the Savior. There is no Savior beside me. I call my elect from the north, from the south, from the east, and from the west. I have people everywhere who are called by my name. Therefore, you witness. Let me end with an illustration from Scripture. Please turn in your Bibles to Acts chapter 18 and notice verse 9. Acts eighteen, verse nine. Notice what the Lord said to Paul at Corinth. And the Lord said to Paul one night in a vision, do not be afraid. There's another one, scriptures many, fear not. Do not be afraid, but go on speaking, and do not be silent, for I'm with you. No one will attack you to harm you, for I have many people in this city. The Lord tells Paul to keep on witnessing, to keep on speaking the word, because he, because God has many people there. And really that's what the Lord's getting at in our text. You are witnesses. You are my witnesses. And I am God. Brother and sister, you and I should fully expect that the Lord has many people in our county that he will bring to himself. His message to us is the same as his message to Paul. Do not be afraid, but go on speaking, and do not be silent, for I have many people. Ah, do not be afraid. After all, what are we afraid of? Afraid that others might be offended by our boldness? Afraid that others might look down on us or despise us or reject us or hurt our reputation When you think about it, all those fears really boil down to one fear, the fear of man. On your long list of fears, where does the fear of man show up? It's surely there. But Proverbs 29 verse 25 says, the fear of man is a snare. The fear of man traps us into keeping our mouth shut when we ought to be speaking up and proclaiming the gospel. Jesus asked his disciples, and he asks us, why are you so fearful? And his question included the answer, O ye of little faith. Faith is the opposite of fear When our faith is small, our fear is great. Even the disciples prayed, Lord, increase our faith. We need to learn to say with a psalmist in Psalm 118. 4, The Lord is for me, I shall not fear, what can man do to me? Think about that. What can man do to me? What's the worst that man can do to you or me? The worst that man can do was done to our Savior 2,000 years ago. He was despised. rejected of men. He endured the worst of insults from sinners. His close friend betrayed him. He was made of no reputation. He was humiliated, stripped naked, tortured by soldiers, who spat in his face and beat him, and then crucified. And on the cross he endured the shame that was due to us for our sin. He bore our griefs. He carried our sorrows. So now, what can man do to me? We have nothing to fear. When Jesus died and rose again, he overcame the greatest fear of all, the fear of death. Hebrews 2. 15 says, through his death Jesus rendered powerless him who had the power of death, that is the devil. And freed those who, through fear of death, were subject to slavery all their lives. And Paul assures us in Romans 8, he who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how will he not also with him freely give us all things? For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any other thing in all creation. will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. If we belong to the Lord Jesus. If we love him, if we fear him, there is absolutely nothing for us to be afraid of. We sang it earlier. Fear him, you saints. And you will then have nothing else to fear. For to him belongs all authority in heaven and earth. And he's promised, I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. We can be sure he will save his elect. Wherever they are, even in our county. He will save them. As you and I bear witness. Let's pray.