Thirteen the first well every verse but the last one Again the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Philistines for forty years. Now there was a certain man from Zora, or Zora, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah, and his wife was barren and had no children. And the angel of the Lord appeared to the woman and said to her, Indeed, now you are barren and have born no children, but you shall conceive and bear a son. Now, therefore, please be careful not to drink wine or similar drink, and not to eat anything unclean. For behold, you shall conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall come upon his head For the child shall be a Nazarite to God from the womb, and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hands of the Philistines So the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came to me, and his countenance was like the countenance of the angel of God. Very awesome. But I did not ask him where he was from, and he did not tell me his name. And he said to me, Behold, you shall conceive and bear a son. Now drink no wine or similar drink, nor eat anything unclean, for the child shall be a Nazarite to God, from the womb to the day of his death. Then Manoah prayed to the Lord and said, O my Lord, please let the man of God whom you sent come to us again and teach us what we shall do for the child who will be born. And God listened to the voice of Manoah, and the angel of God came to the woman again as she was sitting in the field. But Manoah, her husband, was not with her. Then the woman ran in haste and told her husband and said to him, Look, the man who came to me the other day has just now appeared to me. So Manoah arose and followed his wife. When he came to the man, he said to him, Are you the man who spoke to this woman? And he said, I am. Manoah said, Let your words come to pass. What will be the boy's rule of life and his work? So the angel of the Lord said to Manoah, Of all that I said to the woman, let her be careful. She may not eat anything that comes from the vine, nor may she drink wine or similar drink, nor eat anything unclean All that I commanded her, let her observe. Then Manoah said to the angel of the Lord, Please let us detain you, and we will prepare a young goat for you And the angel of the Lord said to Manoah, Though you detain me, I will not eat your food. But if you offer a burnt offering, you must offer it to the Lord. For Manoah did not know he was the angel of the Lord Then Manoah said to the angel of the Lord, What is your name? That when your words come to pass we may honor you. And the angel of the Lord said to him, Why do you ask my name, seeing it is wonderful? So Manoah took the young goat with the grain offering and offered it upon the rock to the Lord. And he did a wondrous thing while Manoah and his wife looked on. It happened as the flame went up toward heaven from the altar, the angel of the Lord ascended in the flame of the altar When Manoah and his wife saw this, they fell on their faces to the ground. When the angel of the Lord appeared no more to Manoah and his wife, then Manoah knew that he was the angel of the Lord. And Manoah said to his wife, We will surely die, because we have seen God. But his wife said to him, If the Lord had desired to kill us, he would not have accepted a burnt offering and a grain offering from our hands Nor would he have shown us all these things, nor would he have told us such things as as these at this time. So the woman bore a son, and called his name Samson And the child grew, and the Lord blessed him. Let us pray. God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, oh, we pray that you would teach us by your Spirit. We pray that we would not just be hearers of your word, but doers. In the name of Christ, Amen. You may be seated. I went into my office Uh Tuesday, and there was a giant stack of nominations on my desk. Truly, you heard the message last Sunday. And I was quite pleased actually with the nominees. We learned last week that by way of Jeffah, uh by way of Jeffha, last week we learned and acknowledged, generally speaking, that heart and character really matters. In particular, woe to the church who places hot-tempered people into positions of influence May God be with us in our election of new officers. We come to a new cycle. It is the Samson cycle. And so we'll begin with a few observations this morning, and then I have a single prolonged application. Here's the first thing that I want you to notice as you look in your Bibles or your scripture. Did you see the familiar startup of another cycle once again? In verse number one. Again, the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Philistines for forty years. The sentence reads actually the, it has a definite article in the Hebrew. It says the evil. And what that is referring to is that Israel is back at it again. They have adopted the religion of the surrounding Canaanite people. As a result, we see the instruments of punishment and discipline, and that is the Philistines. That's the situation that we're here in entering upon this new cycle. Now here's the second thing that I want you to notice is that starting in verse 2. This Samson cycle is all about God's deliverance. We begin with a typical deliverance scene. Did you recognize the Barren Woman type scene, for example? This should evoke Sarah and Abraham, Hannah and Elkanah, Mary and Joseph, and perhaps you can think of others Similar to those type scenes, an angel of the Lord visits verse 3, announcing that the Lord has blessed her with a child who shall be the deliverer of the nation. There's that next part of the cycle where God chooses who shall be the deliverer. In this case, we can see very specific responsibilities that accompany this kind of deliverer. The mother is responsible to make sure the child keeps a Nazarite vow, verse 5, and the start of his life is to continue all the way to his death in verse 7. is taken with those vows. Now here's the third thing that I'd like you to notice as we just familiarize ourselves with this passage. The woman, verse 6. We can talk later, but her name is never given. We can talk about the significance of that later. The woman, verse 6, runs to tell her husband all about the angelic visitation and the wonderful work of God. Manoah in verse 8 you can see he's perturbed by this whole thing. Why did he go to her and not to him? He prays that God will send the messenger again so that he can confirm the directives. God hears his prayer in verse 9, and he sends the angel, but notice. He sends the angel again to the woman while Manoah is not present. You should be picking up the clues here. She runs to get Manoah, verse ten. Arriving, Manoah confirms the vocation of his upcoming son, though, here's the thing. The angel gives him no new information than what the wife had already given. He's just tight-lipped with Manoah. But Noah decides that he needs to offer some kind of special hospitality to this guest. The guest corrects him and says, you shouldn't be doing this, and I'm not going to eat of that. And if you want to do something, then do this. Did not give those kinds of instructions to the woman. Seems as if the man is in need of correction over and over again. And this is quite significant when you look at verse 22 Because by the time there's a slow unveiling of who is before them, they don't know that it's an angel of the Lord, and then by the time you get to verse 22, they call him God. And this is another example that we talked about before, where we have a pre-incarnate eternal son in angelic form. It's another example here. Manoah then asks the angel his name, and significantly the angel in verse 18 replies that his name is wonderful. Exclamation point. Now, this is significant when you look at the rest of the canon of Scripture because this adjective, wonderful, is used in one other place. It is used in one other place that also has to do with a child in the womb. And that's Psalm 139. Listen to this. I will praise you. This is David reflecting on God making him and forming him in the womb. David says, I will praise you, for I am fearfully and wondrously made. Marvelous are your works, and that my soul knows very well. So this is a declaration that God is at it again, doing his marvelous works among his people. And that is his story the whole time. This brings us to the third observation. In verse 22 and 23, we really come to a head as to this character Manoah and the nameless woman. And we're going to receive the final commentary on how we should be viewing this person and this passage this morning. Notice in 22 and 23, Manoah receives a logical and theological correction from his wife. He's already been corrected by the angel. Now he's going to be corrected by his wife. This is highly abnormal. And continues the theme wherein the angel would visit the woman, but not Manoah. The angel, furthermore, as I mentioned, had to give him theological instructions on offerings. But I want you to be careful when I say this is highly normal. I do not mean that only men should be theologically educated. and only women should be domestically educated. That's not what I mean by highly abnormal. All I mean by highly abnormal is that she should not have to explain to her husband how God works, especially since he just explained it all with a personal visit from the pre-incarnate Christ. That's what I mean. She should not have to unfold this for him. It is in fact a premier sign that due to his canonization he has become dull, obtuse, and distant from God and his ways. And that really starts to pull all these pieces together, especially with that special offering. And having to receive instruction with that. It comes together a little bit more in my fourth observation. In verse 24, they name the child Samson. And it means little son. S-U-N. There's a what's called a diminutive at the end of the word, and it's son, so it's little son. And this name, really in a nutshell, so to speak, captures very well where we are in the book of Judges by this time. On the one hand, you have here a model Christian couple in some sense, especially the woman, who was able to articulate things theologically because she still knows God pretty well. who by the grace of God will bring a little sun into the world to shine light so that there's not so much darkness in Israel. That's on the one hand. But on the other hand, it is not a coincidence that little son shows forth a kind of theological dim-wittedness Because the name, that same name, is used in a neighboring town for worshiping a sun god. At this point in judges, what you have, and it will continue to be like this, things are, we're already murky with Jephthah. with the vowel. That's why that's a morally complex passage. That's partially what's going on in Judges. It's going to become more and more difficult to make sense of things. Jeff is tough to make sense of because everything's in decline. We're spiraling towards Sheol here. And the same thing has happened here. At this point in Judges, we do not observe the pure waters of the Christian religion. It has become brackish and will turn to full salt water by the end when the phrase when the phrase we're left with is, and they did only what was right in their own eyes. Here it's brackish. You have a little bit of what had been handed to them by way of divine revelation, but it is mixed With what is given to them from the Canaanites that are around. The fancy word for that is syncretism. It's the mixing of two things, and that's why I've called it brackish. Their religion is brackish, its parts are true and fresh, parts are salty and false. And this is really where I believe we should focus this morning in terms of our doctrine. It is this. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is theological dullness and dim-wittedness. We should rename the series The Symptoms. What do you think? No? I'm not getting any response. Let's move forward. Here's the doctrine. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is theological dullness and dim-wittedness. And we see this model particularly in Manoah and how the angel interacts With the woman. There's a whole nother side of this in terms of despite theological dullness and dim-wittedness, God still pours out his grace and delivers his people. I want to look at this first part though. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is theological dullness and dim-wittedness. The main application point is just one title, folks, and it's theologically dull. I just want to look at that. Theologically dull. I have a question that I want to start off with to get you thinking. In the truest sense, what does it mean to be theological? In the truest sense, what does it mean to be theological? Some of you heard me give that doctrine and start use the word theological and you already started to shut down thinking, well, maybe I could get some sleep now, you know. But is that really what the word theological should bring up within us? Often it is true we have a picture of professors and smart people talking about abstract philosophical philosophical topics that we cannot follow. Sometimes it is the task of the theologian to deal with difficult things like that God often gives some people special gifts to handle difficult theological cases, and I'm thankful for that. Yet the picture in Samson When we see Manoah and his wife eliciting this ethic toward us, the picture in Samson is that every family and each member should have a theological education. There are some things, in other words, perhaps to put in the words of the wife, that I shouldn't have to explain to you. No, God is not going to kill us because he just said we're going to you remember what he said Now when we make that observation that it really should be everyone, we have to ask the question, well then how does God think of theology? Because it's not just It's not only some special department for just some special people. We see here a model where it's meant for everybody. So how does God think about this? Well I think we can gain some insight on that question and explore this doctrine by a tradition in the church that categorized the gospels according to an image that is in the book of Revelation, chapter 4, verse 7. If you want to flip there, you're welcome to. I'm going to read it. You might want to mark it so that you can reflect on it later. But here's Revelation 4:7, and this is to help us to see how God Thinks about theology and us being theologians. Says this: the first living creature was a lion, the second living creature like a calf The third living creature had a face like a man, and the fourth living creature was like a flying eagle. The four living creatures, each having six wings, were full of eyes around and within, and they did not rest day or night, singing, Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. Revelation 4, 7 through 8. Now, I don't want to claim anything too big for what the church has done within her traditions. This is at very least within our tradition a memory aid that the early church likened to each of the gospels that had been handed down to us. They reasoned something like this: these creatures that we see unceasingly praise the Christ and the sending of the Christ and the work of the Godhead. The Gospels are doing the same thing, showing the work of the Godhead, especially through the Son and the Spirit. And so let's, at least for the sake of memory, have each creature represent a different gospel. The Lion in this tradition is a picture that captured the Gospel of Mark And the reason why they had a lion capturing the Gospel of Mark is because that gospel begins with the Gospel being roared out in the desert. Then there is the calf from Luke because he begins his account very early with temple sacrifices. And then we had the man image, which was chosen for Matthew, because you'll remember Matthew begins his gospel with the genealogy of the human race consummating in the Christ, the Son of David. And then there is the final image, which is the, in my mind, the coolest, which is the eagle. If somebody said you want to be a lion, calf, man, or eagle, I think you're probably going to choose lion or eagle. But I really like the eagle image, and do you know what gospel that is for? We got one more. John. And this, I wonder if you could think of why They chose the eagle for him. Well, if you've read John, you often just feel like you're kinda in the clouds. No. That's sort of true, but they chose the eagle because John really is soaring above the heights, focused on the divinity of Jesus Christ. The heavenly perspective. All of those apostles are theologians, are they not? And yet, within this tradition, it is John and his gospel and his letters and even his letter of Revelation. That have earned him two titles, John the Divine, think of divinity, like a divinity school, and John the Theologian. And the reason why that name has, he has earned that name, and of course all of them are theologians, but the reason why he has earned that name is because of all the gospels, his is most obviously looking at everything from the perspective of heaven. And the perspective of God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. For that is what theology is in its purest form. It's that simple. And we need to get back to this definition of it: it is divine teaching from the heavens. It is God teaching, God revealing. In fact, if you look in Puritan literature and they use the word doctrine Look for the definition of doctrine, and what they mean by that is a special kind of teaching from heaven. That's what they mean by doctrine. So whenever they say doctrine in their sermons, they're saying to you, this is from heaven. And that's what I mean also when I say doctrine. You could pick it up like this in Hebrews 1, verses 1 through 2. God, who at various times and in various ways spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets has in these last days spoken to us by his son. And of course that has been passed down to us by way of the apostolic teaching But all of it, and if you look at John, even in the story of Nicodemus, reread that story with this emphasis That doctrine or theology is from heaven. Look at Jesus' conversation with Nicodemus. Jesus' whole point is: I was in heaven. I'm here and I'm giving you what the Father told me there. I've got heavenly teaching. That's the whole point. That's really the whole point of that entire gospel. And that's what true theology is. If you are a botanist, what do you do? You go out into the world and you Study plants. You botanize. If you're a chemist, you go out into the world and I think you're studying molecules. But if you are a true theologian given the Holy Spirit, then you are to know what comes to us from outside of this world. And has been written down as our Bibles. That's what theology is. It's that simple. Now Here's where we have to really tune in to that part of that doctrine where it says that if you're canonized or you're becoming worldly, then you become theologically dim-witted. I do not want to hear reports of you all calling each other dimwits, by the way, little children. Do not call your sibling dimwits. I mean, at least ask permission from your parents before you do. Here's really where we can see where we're going to struggle with this, and perhaps we have some dullness ourselves. As modern Americans, you are absolutely encouraged to be competent in a whole host of areas I mean just think about how many areas in which you are at least have some kind of knowledge and you end up growing in your competence We have more information and knowledge at our fingertips, perhaps, than ever. And we can have conversation about so many different kinds of things. You could have training. These are some of the things I hear you all talking about. And you're receiving a tremendous amount of training, for example, in cybersecurity. And in physics, and in project management, and in networking, and in administration, and there's all these conferences and training things that you can do, and a million books for you to read on it And when you do read those things, they are all man-made and from an earthly perspective Or most of them, I should say. And that's where we really have to start raising the question that comes out of this doctrine: is that am I informed theologically? Am I sharp theologically even in the exact same areas Where you would have been trained, for example, in cybersecurity. Do you have a theology of your vocations? Is another way to put the same thing In a way, this is what matters. Do I know who God is? And I mean this in like really specific ways. Even in His providence in your life, do I know how God does things? Do I know what God requires of me? In all of the specifics. Now that's a that's a progressive journey to have that kind of wisdom. But those are the the questions that we are to be answering and the answers are to come out of from out of this world and not just observation like a normal scientist. Now I want to give you an example. Recently someone told me that they had received workplace sensitivity training. Anyone else becoming sensitive? Yeah, okay. Great. They have received workplace sensitivity training. And as I was listening to the conversation They were telling me what informs or funds the person who's going to be the speaker to help us to become more sensitive specifically to different groups that are now looking for normalization within our society. Everybody catch my drift? Right. So when I was listening, I heard funding that viewpoint, modern sociology. Modern psychology, modern philosophy, but mostly the first two. That's what I heard. I did not hear Anything that God has said to humanity informing the position. And that was pretty interesting to me. that it seems that with across the board in vocations in America there is no longer a theological viewpoint funding How we're supposed to understand what is in front of us or what we are supposed to do. This is another way of me telling you, you got it right. The church is no longer essential. You got it right. In terms of a statement of fact, people think the church is no longer necessary or essential. If they did, you would find a theological account within the vocations of humanity. Now they I'm sure there are still remnants and vestiges of the theological account within these vocations because God is gracious and we are actually as a nation built upon those kinds of things and we can't escape it But largely I heard sociology and psychology, and I said to myself, there's no theological information any longer. And I also said to myself, not to be mottled, is that these people giving sensitivity training are dimwits. And they are lying because they are not giving the full picture or even the right picture. Because they are not theologically informed. They are worse than Manoah. And should never expect an angel to visit them. Interestingly, this person told me that many Christians go along with the teaching and the training. Which tells me that sociology and psychology that is handed to us today has become more plausible than older theological rationales or accounts for the exact same kind of situation. That God and what he has to say in his word is no longer plausible as we try to make sense of our lives And the people that are around us. That if you want to try to bring that in to a public sphere, you will be shut down and told that is only for your private use and has no public use at all. You see how all this is coming together? And how it stems and branches all the way back into the importance of our doctrine this morning. It tells you that our culture can officially be pronounced as theological dimwits. They are dull, and that's probably being nice. In such a case, what implication does our Samson passage have for you as Christians? What do you think God is calling you to as a responsibility being in such a time as this? Is it for you to add more sociological information? Is that what we really need from you today? I'm sure there is a place for studying societies. But what we need right now is for you To know what God thinks about things and to tell people, but you will not be able to if you are a theological dimwit also. And I'm not talking about some kind of special degree. I'm just talking about being acquainted with the scriptures, knowing how to divide the word rightly. And you could do that by simply listening to good sermons and repeating them to people. What implication does our Samson passage have for you? I hope that that stays with you this afternoon. That you would be theologically informed about sensitivity training, about the same topics. That you, in other words, would be an eagle. That's what you're called to. That you would be an eagle And study the revelation from heaven, applying it in the workplace, and the home, and in the church. Now If you'd like to be an eagle, and I'm assuming that you all would like to spread your wings and soar and bring heaven to earth, I know that you pray that all the time. I think there's three basic steps. Three basic steps that you need to consider and really do. It's three S's, children: supplication, study, and seek You must begin with supplication. One of the problems that we have right now is that we are not humbling ourselves and realizing that we have nothing unless God gives it. You must ask Him. And you must believe when you ask him. He wants to give you wisdom. He told you that he did. Believe him. He is the kind of person that fulfills his promises. I would encourage you to pray just like David in Psalm 119, verse 18, every time before you open the scriptures, before you listen to a sermon or go to a Bible study. Pray this. Open my eyes, Lord, that I may see wondrous things from your teaching. Now that ties us back to that word wonderful. And that just means all those mighty acts of God, especially the incarnation. That's the great mystery. That's the first S, which is supplication. But we cannot stop there. We must also, second S, study God's enscripturated word. And here's where I'm really, you might not know that I'm doing this, but I'm hitting you hard right now. Are you ready? Do not just study the word historically. Study it theologically. Many of you could tell me all about what they eat in Corinth, all the fruits that they had, and the vegetation in the hills. And I don't really care. I want to know who God is. And that's what you should want to know and what he requires of you. There is a place for historical study, and it will contribute to a larger purpose, which is knowing God. That is to say, the doctrine from heaven from the scriptures. Do not just study the word theologically or historically, but make sure that you're studying it theologically. Answer the question every time What is this revealing to me about God? What does God require of me? Every passage And the second thing I'd say on studying God's Word, just to speak to the ills that I see that we suffer from, is that you must read God's Word And take from it not just express and explicit statements, but also all of the implications, all of the consequences that are from the explicit statements and the observations that we can make. If you settle with studying the Word and only accepting as truth from heaven that which is expressly and explicitly stated you will deny the Trinity. There is nothing in the scriptures that says that God is triune. There's no sentence that says that. It is brought together by way of inference and implication for us to say that God is one and indivisible, equal in power and glory, and that He is three persons. That he is tri-un. We must remember that if we approach the scriptures like that, we are automatically on the path to heresy. Every heresy in the history of the church makes the same mistake that every biblical fundamentalist makes They misread the scriptures by only accepting expressed and explicit statements. They do not accept inference or implication, and that is the problem. If you find someone that does that, you can guarantee there's a heresy around the corner. We must carefully observe what God gives us. And then by way of implication and inference, work it out. Let me give you an example from our passage. I wonder if you picked up on it. It's pretty exciting. For example, what is the implication in our passage of the angel of the Lord making the woman abstain from wine and unlawful food? in order for Samson to keep the Nazarite vow, even when he's only just been conceived. What is the implication and the inference that you can draw from that? The implication is that as soon as Samson is conceived He, according to the viewpoint of the angel of the Lord, is a person subject to the requirements of vows, and his mother and how she how she eats and drinks will help the child to fulfill the vow even at the moment of conception. Which you should see where I'm going with this. Think of the implications of this theological revelation for the practice of abortion. It's right there. It's right there delivered to us from heaven how the angel of the Lord views children even in the womb. It should have been confirmed in Psalm 139. But if it wasn't for you confirmed in 139, then it is certainly confirmed here by way of good and necessary consequence. And if you don't have convictions with regard to abortion, it is probably because you have become a theological dimwit with regard to the unborn, and you only accept biological or genetic arguments. Would seem to land us in all kinds of frustrating confusion. When all we have is what man gives to us, we're confused God brings great light in his word and he lights our path so that we can have clarity on how we are to view those at the moment of conception and therefore what practices would be lawful or unlawful toward them. An entire ethic ends up being born out of an indication like this. Now, if you want to only do explicit and express statements, then you don't get any of this. You don't get any of this feast You can have your bread and your water, and I'm going to be over here with Jesus Christ eating ribs and all that kind of stuff. But I'd encourage you to come on over to this table. And to accept good and necessary inference, so you can see all that the Lord has to say to his bride, the church That is the implication, and that is an example. And then the final S, I don't have anything to say about this. Seek godly counsel. That's the last one. Seek godly counsel. The bottom line is this. Another symptom of the canonization of the church is theological dullness and dim-wittedness. In what ways is your relationship between you and God, and in your family church, and in your community, how have you become theologically dull? And I've given you some examples so you could start to explore that. What are some ways which Christ has provided for you to soar like an eagle? Over this earth, knowing God and his heavenly ways. Amen. Amen. Let us pray.