If you will, in the in the book. Matthew gives it some degree of emphasis in that setup. And so as a result of that, uh we need to pay very careful attention to what is being said here I would invite you, if you would, to closely attend to the word of our Lord as recorded in the Gospel of Matthew, picking up in chapter 12, verse 22. Then one was brought to him who was demon-possessed, blind and mute. And he healed him so that the blind and mute man both spoke and saw. And all the multitudes were amazed and said, Could this be the son of David? Now when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow does not cast out demons except by Beelzebub, the ruler of demons. But Jesus knew their thoughts and said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation And every city or house divided against itself will not stand. If Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? And if I cast out demons by Ezelbub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges. But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, surely the kingdom of God has come upon you Or how can one enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strongman and then he will plunder his house? He who is not with me is against me, and he who does not gather with me scatters abroad Therefore, I say to you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven then. Anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him. But whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven him. Either in this age or in the age to come. Either make the tree good and eat its fruit good, or else make the tree bad and its fruit bad. For a tree is known by its fruit. Brute of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. A good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth good things, and an evil man out of the evil treasure brings forth evil things. But I say to you, That for every idle word men may speak, they will give account of it in the day of judgment. For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. I invite you to consider this question. How big a deal is this guy Satan in your life? How seriously do you really take? Those of you who have children, how about your kids? Do you teach them about Satan? Do you teach them that he is real? That he is deadly? Do you think of your life in terms of trial? In terms of Satan's desire to oppress you and to bring you down? You know, Jesus once told Peter that Satan desired to sift him like wheat. He, Satan, hasn't changed in that basic attitude towards the Lord's disciples. Satan is at war with you. He is at war with your family. He is at war with your kids even before they're born. Do you think that way? Do you basically just put him out of your mind and try not to think about him because quite frankly you just don't want to go there. Is it among us, like it is in the wider public, that the idea of spiritual beings, angels, demons, and Satan in particular, it is a matter of embarrassment to talk about it. If it is something that kind of makes you ashamed. It's part of that whole Christianity business that we kind of just want to sweep under the rug. Why? Because we don't want to be thought of as some kind of kook. We don't want to have our children taken away from us by an aggressive government because they believe we belong to some kind of cult. So we just don't talk about those things. Let me ask you this. What if that kind of attitude means that we are betraying our Lord Christ? What if treating Satan lightly means that we're neglecting a major component of the gospel itself? And I'd like to explore that a bit today with you. Jesus took the idea of demons and Satan in particular very seriously. I would ask you sometime, if you wish, pick up a concordance and just go through the Old Testament and look at the total number of times you see Satan or demons talked about. If you're looking for the word Satan, you will only find it in three books. And in two of those books, it's only mentioned once, or maybe twice in passing verses. Only Job, the book of Job, is a sustained statement about Satan. And demons are not much different. You get into the New Testament, though, and Satan and demons are everywhere. Have you ever thought about that? It's not like it's something new. But Jesus' ministry It's set in the context of satanic oppression, satanic warfare, and the presence of demons. One sense, in one sense, Jesus defined his whole ministry in terms of Satan And to explain that and to set the stage for the passage that we're looking at today, I need to take you back to a sermon that I preached way back in 2013 on the temptation of Jesus. Jesus had been baptized in Matthew's account, and immediately he was swept out into the desert to be tempted by Satan. He was dragged away by the Holy Spirit to encounter Satan. And then commenting on that and then setting the stage for that in December of 2013 This is what I said to you at that time. Perhaps the single most important thing for us to realize in the temptation of Jesus is that it is an overview of his entire life and ministry on earth. Brothers and sisters, the temptation is not just an event in Jesus' life, it is a metaphor for his entire life. And then in that sermon I went on to develop the idea that Jesus came into this world to fight against Satan as our champion. A champion to today's parlance is always thought of as a guy who or a woman who wins a a high laurels in a competition of some sort, the spelling bee champion. But that's not what champion was originally intended. A champion was was someone who fought for someone else. It was a champion for someone a substitute in a battle that the person for whom they were substituting could not fight or who was not qualified to fight. Being a champion is standing and fighting for someone else, such as a man who defends an abused woman by fighting against her abuser. It is said to be her champion. And Jesus saw himself as our champion. He saw himself in terms of David coming into this world to fight against Goliath for the name of the Lord and for God's people who were cowering up on the hill. That's why it's significant in this passage that the thing that comes out of the mouths of the bystanders is Oh, is this really the son of David? For they saw in his battle with the demons. A witness to the prior battle of his earthly forebear. Jesus came into this world to constitute and to fight a victory over Satan To win all the spoils of battle in that war, and to secure for us as the reward of what He has done, our eternal freedom. And that's why the first thing he did after his baptism by John the Baptist was to go out into the desert Now Jesus tells us in this section in verse 29 that we're to understand everything that he is doing in terms of that kind of battle. He says in verse 29, how can a man, how can one enter into a strong man's house? And plunder his goods unless he first binds the strongman. Clearly, Jesus sees himself as one who has bound the strongman here And is participating and has now embarked upon the process of plundering his goods. Wherever one of God's elect remains trapped in Satan's power, whose life, like the demon-possessed man in this passage, is characterized by being Blind and dumb, he can't see and he can't speak There is where Jesus will send his word to this man who, under the power of Satan or this woman or this child, under the power of Satan, is well without hope in the world. There is where Jesus will go, and there is where he will set that precious soul free. Wherever there is a stronghold of Satan that has been established in the world, a principality or power. a structure of our society that has been given over to the false philosophy, the false ideas, the false teachings of the world, of Satan, the devil himself That is where Jesus is going to send his word through his disciples. For there is where they will tear down the very gates of hell that stand against them, the stronghold that Satan controls. the power that he is establishing in the world. There is where they will confront the error and the idolatry that is built into the institutions of our society or the society about us And we will take it on directly because there is where Jesus is fighting Satan's remaining forces still. There, idolatry will be overcome to the glory of God the Father, through God the Son, and by the power of God the Holy Spirit. Brothers and sisters, if we don't see the work of Christ in terms of a desperate warfare against a strong and scary foe If we don't take Satan seriously, then we're losing a crucial aspect of the gospel. For the good news is that Satan is indeed a terrible foe, but we have a champion who is greater than he Greater is he who is with us than he who is in the world. And our great champion is even now plundering the house of Satan. He is plundering it unto the end. That one great day Satan's entire kingdom will lie in ruins, and Babylon, that great and awful city, Will be given over to destruction. If we don't take Satan seriously, it is to that extent, brothers and sisters. that we don't take Christ seriously. Now everything in this these verses before us today is informed and conditioned By this idea that Jesus is our champion, and this is the ministry and mission that He is going about doing. Let's pay particular attention to verse 30 for a second. He who is not with me is against me. He who does not gather with me scatters abroad. Now, brothers and sisters, that is, those are the words of a man fighting a desperate battle. Jesus is saying, I'm at war with Satan. I'm at war with this entire house. I'm at war with this entire army of demons. Now that's what I'm doing, and you have to understand that's what I'm doing. You must see me in that light Both now in my earthly ministry and I uh extend on to his heavenly ministry as he is guiding his church even now. Satan is out there, along with his legions. And though he has been bound yet, he is limited and limited in what he can do. Yet, as it is with this blind and dumb man that Jesus healed, there we must see Jesus through his people fighting on that man's behalf. So this is the war that Jesus is still fighting. And it is in this context of going, of fighting this war that he asks this question. If you're not with me, you're against me. Now what other position is left that we might take? Cap this is this is a black and white. You're either on or off switch. You're in one of two positions. There are no neutral parties in this warfare. There are no neutral powers in this battle. Now in the history of the Western world, one nation, Switzerland, is known as a neutral nation. It is her policy, her official policy, to never take sides, one way or the other, in any war that is fought among other nations. She is affiliated with NATO in a partnership for peace type of thing, but she is not a member of NATO. And during the Cold War, if people have started raining nuclear weapons on each other, She would not have chosen one way or the other to to ally herself with either side. She did not fight in World War II, as crazy as that war was. Switzerland's stated policy is to defend her own borders but no one else's. And brothers and sisters, such an attitude cannot exist in the battle against Satan. A person, a family, an institution, a church, a culture, wherever man is Wherever man's life is being manifested, there is enity going on there. There is warfare going on there between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent And in this battle, you're either with Jesus and fighting on his side and his program and his ministry and his objectives, or you are fighting for Satan. If you view your earthly vocation as neutral ground And if you think there's a radical disjunction between what you hear in church on Sunday and what you live throughout the rest of the week in your workplace, brothers and sisters, you're not hearing what this passage says. Amen. Wherever you are, and wherever man's efforts are being manifested, know this. There is warfare there. It is a battle to the death as to who is preeminent in that place. What goes for the vocation of the world in our ordinary, quote, worldly lives is true also as has already been prayed for our churches. Wherever there is a manifestation of man's endeavors, there is a battle. And in that sense, our visible churches still are fighting a battle against Satan. A person, a family, an institution, there is warfare going on. And you are either with Satan and his program and his practices and his objectives and the way that you interact in that place, or you're with Christ. And his objectives and his uh procedures. And it is just that scary I am either committed for Christ in his battle, or I am an enemy of Christ and a friend of Satan. Have you ever stopped to consider that idea? Has that really sunk into you in those stark terms? Then let them do so, for I guarantee you it will change your life. Certainly did mine. The story is too long for me to tell. If you want to hear it sometime, let me know. There's a decision here that every one of us has to make. The sovereignty of God means that all of his people will come to him. in the progress of time and under the power of the Holy Spirit, and every one of them who comes to Christ will have to make a decision. We are not passive in our response to the power of God. And that decision has to be conscious and it has to be life-changing Look at how verses 31 through 32 fit into this teaching. Every sin and every blasphemy will be forgiven then. But the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven then. Whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or the age to come. Now, brothers and sisters, the idea of unforgivable sin is scary business too. A sin so terrible that it lies outside the pale of forgiveness. Notice here that it's not the sin of rejecting Christ. It is not the sin of calling Jesus names, of painting artwork. That disparage him and picture him in terms of filth. That's not the unforgivable sin. It's not even the sin of trying to kill Jesus. For he on the cross looked down on those who were doing that and said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. But there is a sin that is so great that we are told not even to pray that it be forgiven. 1 John 5, 16 and 17. If anyone sees his brother sinning a sin which does not lead to death, he will ask, and he will give him life for those who commit sin not leading to death. There is a sin leading to death. I do not say that we should pray about that. All unrighteousness is sin. And there is sin leading to death. It is this sin leading unto death that Jesus is speaking about here. And it is in the context of spiritual warfare with Satan. You see, in this battle, it's a real war. And in this battle, there are great demonstrations of power on both sides. Think of it in terms of being on a battlefield and there's artillery shells uh blasting around you or going off all about you. The question is, who's doing the shooting? What power lies behind the things that we see being done? And Jesus says the unforgivable sin is to attribute to Satan a work, a demonstration of power. That is clearly and irrevocably that of the Holy Spirit. The unforgivable sin is when a person's life is so given over to hatred of Christ and his things that when the Holy Spirit does some great work, such as the healing of the man in this passage. That the person will embrace any other explanation for that work except the true one. A person will claim the power of modern medicine in all healings. Or a person will point to the workings of psychiatry for the transition of a man's mental attitudes in such a way as to produce peace and holiness. Or even will point to pagan spirits and claim for them the things that you see going on in a spiritual context. But what they will do is absolutely deny the presence and work of the Holy Spirit in those same things. Why would anyone do that? Why in the world would anyone point to some great work of God in another person and say, well, there's another explanation for that Jesus tells us in this passage why they do so. For it is out of the abundance of their heart that they speak. When a person's heart is so filled with hatred of Christ, it will show itself in many ways. It will lead them to even deny the evidence of their own eyes and their own ears. This is a person who has sold out to Satan. And when it reaches the point of direct blasphemy, it's all too often it is done, and all too often we hear it done from positions of authority. in our world today. So far as we can tell, such a person is lost forever That's what we must think about with regard to these particular Pharisees in this passage. For such a sin as this, we are not even to pray for their forgiveness. as the apostle John teaches us. Because at its root, brothers and sisters, this blasphemy blasphemy, blasphemy, pardon me. denies the reality of the war that's going on. Denying the works of the Holy Spirit, attributing his works to Satan. is not really teaching a false gospel. It's saying there is no gospel at all. To claim that all great works of the Holy Spirit stem from the works of Satan or other such answers is to say that Jesus' death and the resurrection are lies. They are to say that they are lies conducted or contrived by the father of lies. It is to say that they are accounts that Satan either engineered or that they didn't happen at all. That the work of the Holy Spirit in these events are just stories made up by the early church to justify its own existence and to give itself a position of power by which to deceive other people in the world. Now tell me if you haven't heard that statement You can nod your head. Have you heard that? That all of these stories are concocted by the early church at some point in the history so as to maintain its own position If you haven't heard it, just go to a secular college. What they are saying is that all of the stories of the great works of the Holy Spirit recorded in Scripture is propaganda put out by a bunch of religious condomin. And they're pulling off a gigantic hoax. Brothers and sisters, that is blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. To claim that all the great works done by the Holy Spirit through the Church, and to say that they're not really great works at all, but can be explained by other causes is to deny the possibility of being born again. It is the whole that the Word of God really does not change people It is to say that there is no such thing as sin, and therefore there is no such thing as the forgiveness of sin And it is thus to say that the Holy Spirit is really not going about in this world changing people and claiming them for God's eternal kingdom. That's not another gospel, brothers and sisters. That's saying there is no good news at all. When that kind of thing flows out of the abundance of a person's heart If that is the type of thinking into which they have been delivered, then we must grieve for them, for they have cut themselves off from Christ Himself. And by denying the work of the Holy Spirit, they are denying for themselves the only power that could save them. In conclusion, I think you can see that this theme of spiritual warfare that ties everything in this passage together. There's a real battle going on among us. There's a real foe out there, Satan, that we should be aware of. It's a battle that we must take seriously. We must take Satan seriously. We must not act as if he does not exist. We must not fear him unduly. He is a roaring lion walking about seeking someone to devour. But we are to understand that through the power of the Holy Spirit, Rebuking him means that we can resist him. So we must take this battle and our opponent very seriously. But we also must realize that Jesus is our champion. He came into this world for this purpose, to be our champion. And he is the one that is doing the heavy duty fighting. And he's doing it on our behalf. He is still casting out demons. He is still healing where it is hurting. He is still fixing what is broken. He's already won the major battle. Satan has already suffered, in one sense, his ultimate defeat. But though that battle was won, The victory has to be taken to the four corners of the earth. And as Jesus is pictured in the book of Revelation, He is doing this very thing, riding out on his white horse as our champion in war against Satan. We are to understand that this is a battle to which we have been called. There are no neutral powers, no neutral lives, no neutral structures of society. Satan has invested this world like termites investing a house. He has, he and his demons are entrenched in every facet of mankind's living and work. And Jesus calls us and says that we are to fight against this infestation and that our lives are either to be with him or against him. His intention is to rid this world of Satan and all of his legions. He has come to plunder the strong man's house. And we must decide whether we are with him or against him in that battle. Finally, we must recognize and embrace the encouragement the Holy Spirit gives us in all of this. There will be great works that are going on about them