The Gospel of Matthew, the Word of God, chapter seven, verse twelve through fourteen Therefore, whatever you want men to do to you, do also to them, for this is the law and the prophets. Enter by the narrow gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction. And there are many who go in by it, because narrow is the gate and difficult is the way which leads to life, and there are few who find it. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading and understanding that comes from his word. Therefore, whatever men, whatever you want men to do to you, do also to them. For this, this is the law and the prophets. You cannot really be a human being without having some idea of what life is all about. You simply can't. Whether you are the Godfather, Don Carleone himself, or you're St. Francis of Assisi Whether you think about it or not, there is a pattern to your life, a way that you conduct your life as things happen to you and you respond to them Specifically, you cannot be a human being without thinking about life in terms of ought, the way things ought to be, the way a person ought to respond. This is how things ought to be, that type of question And sometimes in our thought processes we may think only of ourselves, how we individually ought to live. But quite often, inevitably I think in the progress of every human life, there is the desire or the thought of a general case. Not only how should we lead our individual lives. But there should be at least some thought about how everyone should live. There's a sense of justice. There's a sense of oughtness. It's interesting in a conversation I have with an atheist who started out with a friend of my brother's down in Texas and somehow or another he got put to conver conversing back and forth with me And we've had a lot of conversations. And one of the sticking points throughout our conversations is that sometimes he will bring up he's a he's a flaming liberal. And of course I'm not. And so so there'll come up things and and he'll say, Well y you know, they they ought not to be doing things like that. And I I say, Why? If there isn't a God, why shouldn't there be? And here he is, a flaming atheist who has what the courage to admit oftentimes that there really is no grounds for for him saying that and yet he can't not do it. He has to say at some point as things come up in his life that these things ought to be this way and rather than another. It is essential to our constitution as human beings that there should be a general pattern or a framework that informs and guides us in our decisions Most of the time, this framework is built into us by our parenting or by the culture about us. It's just there, and we simply don't think about it. But we all have an ethic. We have a way of looking at the world and how we're to live in it. Now, thousands of years, for thousands of years, philosophers have tried to bring this all down They've tried to nail it down. In the field of philosophy, there is a whole separate area called ethics. And in the religious thinkers, they do the same thing. The answer to the question, how should people live? The answer to the question, how do you distinguish right from wrong? There's been a range of answers, and there's quite a lot of different results But I'm here to tell you today that no philosopher, no philosopher has ever come up with a more sublime or simple formulation Than the one we have before us today. Whatever you want men to do to you However you want to be treated by them, then in the same way, you do or you treat them. Immanuel Kant was probably the most influential philosopher of the modern history. He wrote volumes after volumes of nearly inscrutable, lengthy paragraphs. And he summed all of his thoughts on the idea of ethics into something called a categorical imperative. And this is what he said after he's after all of this Very dense writing, he sums it up this way. What you should will to do What you should will to do is that which you would have every other person in the world will to do in the same circumstance. Now, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to see that all he's really doing is reformulating the golden rule. Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. In the final analysis, after all of that writing, he comes down to the same point. So you're probably sitting there listening, hey, you know arts, that's kind of interesting, but lunch is out there. I love hot dogs. What's this all about? Why don't we just get it all over with and go eat? Well, there's more going on to this in this passage than just that. It's one thing for us to agree that these words of Jesus are the most sublime and concise statement of a universal human ethic. that has ever been written. It's one thing to agree to that, but it is pretty difficult to get us all to agree that we're going to take it and live by it. It may be the most universally acknowledged rule for human ethics that's ever been formulated, but it is also virtually, universally, the one most ignored in practice We, along with the philosophers, might agree with Jesus when he says in what he says, but that's not the issue. The issue is, do we take this to heart or not? And that's what I wish us to consider today. Let's look at this passage in its context, and let's get a good grip on what Jesus is here saying. Notice that he starts off verse 12, introducing the golden rule, as this is called. And he starts it off with that interesting word, therefore. Somehow or another, what Jesus is telling us here is related to stuff that went on before. This statement is pointing us toward a way that we should live. And the way that we should live is seen as being in a direct corollary or a fallout of some other teaching that came before it Our lives, then, in following the golden rule, should be the logical fruit of something before previously said, some prior principle. And what might that be? Now a lot of people have a lot of different questions or answers to that question and I simply don't have time to di go through them all today. I'm only going to tell you how I believe this Passages related to the passages that went before it. When Jesus says, Whatever you want men to do to you Do also to them, for this is the law and the prophets. He emphasizes that the ethical implications, the ethical teachings that he has formulated sums up all of the scriptures of the Old and New Testament. And I think that's a clue for knowing what the therefore is there for. Back in chapter 5, near the very beginning of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus says this, chapter 5, verse 17, do not think that I came to destroy The law and the prophets, but I came to fulfill them Jesus says in that passage that he relates his whole person to the bringing of realization of that which the law and prophets had always foretold. And now here, I believe, in this passage, in this golden rule, Jesus is saying that this reality of doing unto others as you would have them do unto you is in fact the outworking of all that he has said between those two sermon, those two points. It's a bookend. Everything that he has taught is kind of summed up into this particular heading Jesus says here that this rule of human behavior is the sum of the law and the prophets. And if we remember in another gospel, the Gospel of Luke, on the road to Emmaus, that Jesus taught those who were walking with him that all of the Old Testament scriptures spoke of him That he was the summation of all of the prophets, we can see that this is all condensing down into the idea of Jesus coming to fulfill Jesus being The subject of the Old Testament and the outworking of Jesus being the summation of the Old Testament is a people Who will do unto others as they would wish others to do unto them. This means that everything That the scriptures preach and have promised, and that everything Jesus came and did is unto this end, that there would be established a people on this earth whose life would be characterized by this rule. by this manner of interacting with their life. And that means, brothers and sisters, that the purpose of history is that there will be this people who will glorify God through Jesus Christ by living in accordance with this teaching. And that is what I believe the therefore is there for. So secondly If that's the case, we should not be surprised that so few people live this way, as I said early on. This passage is only possible. This passage is only true only something that is within the range of human endeavor for those who follow the Lord Jesus Christ. This is not a universal human ethic in anything other than a command. It is a universal human ethic in practicality and accomplishment only. for the redeemed of Christ. This passage is for all people, but only those who follow Jesus will truly desire to live this way. Will truly seek to conform their lives to it, rather than just give lip service to its philosophical perfection. And we see that because that's exactly what Jesus says. Look at the next two verses. Enter by the narrow gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and many go in by it Because narrow is the gate and difficult is the way which leads to life and few enter into that. Living in accordance with the golden rule, brothers and sisters, is going through the narrow gate. And few go through it. To keep this commandment, three things must be present. In order to truly live in such a way as to do unto others as you would have them do unto you, we must first have a right motive. A motive flows from the heart, so we must have a right heart. We must have a right standard. We must do unto others in a way that is right to treat them. We are not to give other people, for example, heroin. Because we certainly are not to give it to them so that they might give some to us. There are right things and wrong things to do. And so the simple idea of having it such that it is something treating them in the way you would w uh want to be treated yourself is not a sufficient rule for determining just in and of itself, how we should act. So we have to have a right standard for how to do this. And the third thing that we must have is a right goal. We're not just to do unto others in such a way that they will respond to us in a way that we like to be treated, and that's the end of it. Otherwise, it basically becomes just a utilitarian ethic that is pointed to a way that we can all just get along. Can't we all just get along? No. Our ethics has to be toward an end. We see it as advancing the kingdom of God. We are living This way, because this is the means by which the power and glory of God through Jesus Christ is made known in the world. Now if you put all that together, you can see why that it's only believers who can keep this commandment at all Any non-believer who attempts to follow this rule will wind up only serving himself. In its barest formulation, that's the reason why if you rip it out of its context and just put this on a bumper sticker and paste it on the back of your car then essentially you're not saying anything more than some of those trivial things you read there. What does it actually mean to do what does that one do some random act of kindness today? Yeah. Okay. If you reduce it down to that, you're actually not proclaiming what the Lord Jesus Christ is here saying. Because this passage out of context would point people or it would give people the idea that doing good to others or doing unto others as you would have them do unto you is a sufficient condition for human ethics. And it is. Not. Therefore, most people have no desire to go in by that narrow gate. Few people will want to further the kingdom of God at the expense, for example, of their own personal comfort. Why? Because few people know that the gate itself to eternal life is the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and there is no other. Only those who hear his voice and follow him will want to follow this rule from the heart. And that is why, though this rule is almost universally acknowledged as being one of the most simple and sublime statements of human ethics ever uttered, yet in practice it is almost universally ignored. And that brings it down to us. The third thing I want us to realize from this passage is this. Keeping the golden rule, living in accordance with Jesus' command here is to some extent absolutely necessary. If we are to legitimately have any hope of salvation, any hope of going through that narrow gate. Jesus is here linking eternal life in context with keeping this rule. The brothers and sisters, the golden rule is essentially the second great commandment. The first is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, your mind, your soul, and your strength. The second commandment is what? Right. And this command that Jesus here gives us reduces down to that. It is to love our neighbors as we would want to be loved in return. That those who are in a covenantal relation to God are to keep his commandments. That's a fundamental teaching of Scripture. That's a fundamental teaching of the Old and New Testament. Here, Jesus Himself is saying that this is the law and the prophets. The word of God is summed up, if you will, in this teaching. Jesus himself, in another context, says, Why do you call me Lord? And not do what I tell you to do. If we are to have any legitimate hope of salvation, then the command to do unto others as we would want them to do unto us. should be a recognizable and constant witness in our lives. And if it is absent from our lives, we should legitimately have concerns whether or not the Lord Jesus Christ has sent his spirit into us at all. Okay, let's break it down a bit. If we are to be followers of Christ, this is how we are to live. This should be the character of our life. It's doing unto others as we would have them do unto us. First, because it's the desire of our heart to live that way, secondly, because it's what Jesus commands us to do, and thirdly, it's because this is the way we bring glory to God It must be the desire of our heart to live this way. What is or should be the most important thing in our lives as Christians? Should it not be that the love of Christ should abound in the world about us? Jesus who come into this world, he has redeemed us. He has set aside us unto himself. We're going to live with him forever. He's sitting at the right hand of God, the Father Almighty, exercising all authority in heaven and earth, and he's doing so for our blessing. That's what we said, remember? Back just a couple of sermons back, I'm sure you remember That's who he is. That's what he's doing. He is mediating the grace of God that was exhibited in the covenant of redemption before the dawn of time. He's mediating that for our good. And we are with gratitude receiving these blessings. And isn't the inevitable desire that springs up in our heart as we acknowledge that is that we want it to go out into the world also We want others to know this blessing that we have in fact experienced Don't we want to see the world about us move in a positive direction? Don't we want to see the misery and the fear? And the sin and the heartache that is such a constant portion of the lives of people in this world, don't we long to see that changed? Don't we long to see widows and orphans provided for such that they are not having to resort to Deprave things in order to provide themselves with a living? Don't we hunger? Don't we long for the killing to stop? Don't we want to live in a b better world where people care for each other and where abuse is no longer tolerated. That's no longer part of the life. We want those things, right? Is that not what Christians desire? Self-evidently, that is what our Lord desires. On earth, he went around doing good. Because good things, you see, and doing good things was the witness. They were the signs. They were the visible manifestation of the kingdom of God. And that is why he did it. He ushered in the kingdom of God through the doing of good things. And therefore it should be our desire to advance this kingdom also. And doing good to others as we would want them to do for us is the means by which that is accomplished We want other people to know that we love them because Christ first loved us. And how are we to do that? We do to them. As we would want them to do unto us. We want them to show us that the reason why they love us is because Christ first loved them To do unto others as we desire them to do unto us is to hunger and thirst after righteousness. Jesus said that at the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount. Those who do so shall be filled. To do unto others as we would have them do unto us is to first seek the kingdom of God and its righteousness. And Jesus has promised that if we do that, then all other things will be provided. Brothers and sisters, this is our motive. This is our heart. This is the heart that longs to follow this command. It is a heart that sees the world about us in darkness and wants that darkness to be penetrated by the light. So that people in the darkness can see their way out of it. That's the heart we have to have In order to keep this commandment. Look into your own heart right now. Is this what motivates it? Is this how you want to live? Is this what the Holy Spirit is working in you and causing your heart to be broken, to be tender, such that this motive can take root and grow? On that question hangs all of the law and the prophets Next comes the question, how do we do this? By what standard are we to know, to know with certainty how we should do unto others in such a way that we desire they do the same to us. Now that's a more complex question than you might think because it's not ultimately a question of feeling. It's not ultimately a question of impulse. It's not ultimately a question of, boy, you know I'm sitting here on the couch, vegetating, watching the TV. I really wish somebody would bring me a beer. Well, maybe I ought to bring beer to others. That's not the way this comes about. It is not self-oriented. It is not wanting for ourselves to be treated in a certain way. It's not ultimately a question of feeling or an impulse or even a longing. And we might think that having money is the answer to people's problems. And therefore, if someone doesn't have very much, we should give it to them. So we might be tempted to think that what we should do is take from the rich and give to the poor, be some Christian Robin Hood, if you will. Every time I think of that, I think of men in tights, and I just, the mind goes away. Or we might be tempted to gloss over sin. The last thing in the world I want, we might have to admit, is that if I'm in sin, for somebody to confront me on that I don't like that. So I don't want people to confront me with my sin. Therefore, I'm not going to confront others. So we might be tempted to just look the other way if a brother and sister are in some kind of sin. Brothers, sisters, ultimately this is not the way we love people. The way we love people is to show them the love of God, but not just the love of God Because you see, the love of God is manifested in both his justice and his mercy. The love of God is transmitted to us in the form of guidance for our feet. and giving us the power through the Holy Spirit to follow the guidance he gives us for our feet. The love of God is the gift of Jesus Christ, the living Lord and Savior, who is present in this world And is powerful for the tearing down of strongholds. The love of God is opening up the kingdom of God through Christ and the Holy Spirit, who was given to this world So that the world might be saved. The love of God is present in this world, in the form, and in the substance. Of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And therefore, to do unto others as we would have them do unto us is this. It is to treat that person in terms of the gospel of Jesus Christ. In accordance with the law he came to fulfill and which he is teaching us in this sermon. But also in accordance with the grace and mercy he came to make known. Through his death and his resurrection from the dead. To treat others as we would want to be treated by them is to treat them in terms of Pentecost When the power of the Holy Spirit was given to the church in order to speak these things to the world, and therefore to treat others in the world as we would have them treat us. If you want to know how to treat others as you would have them treat you, then it's right here. It's not your feelings, it's not your impulses, it is the Word of God, because the Word of God, and the Word of God only tells us how to treat others as we ought to want to be treated ourselves. Lastly, under this heading, we have to realize That this is what brings glory to God. The chief end of man, brothers and sisters, is to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. That should be our desire. That should be the motive of our heart. The way we do it is through his word, and as he teaches us to treat others. And the glory of God is manifested when the love of God and the love for others is manifested in his people. It's a supernatural act It is something that we don't do on our own. It is a work of God manifesting his presence in the world. So that like he did with Job, Satan comes before him and he says, Look at my servant Job. How do you explain that, Satan? Satan came up with the wrong answer. The only right answer was he has the Holy Spirit that God has given him, and that's the reason why he lives in such a way as to recognize and bring glory to the Lord himself. To love God and to show the love of God by the way we show love to others is to manifest the reality of the perfection of Christ Himself. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to see that therefore God is glorified in his church when an entire body of people from all different walks of life Come together, and what they discover there is the joy of treating others as they would want to be treated themselves, in accordance with this teaching. A Holy Spirit-filled community where love and good works are the constant witness to the presence of Christ in the world about them. Only a great and very powerful God can create such a community. Only a loving and perfect Redeemer can free them from the bondage of sin such that they can live this way. And only an indwelling Holy Spirit can motivate and change their heart such that this life is their desire. The church is a manifestation of the three persons, the glorious Trinity that is the object of the teachings of Scripture. Brothers and sisters, if we're to glorify God and enjoy Him forever in all of His powerful manifestation, Then the narrow gate that is open before us to do so is one that will require and be manifested in the way we treat others As we would have them treat us. Let's pray