Chapter 10, and we're continuing along. We're going to be looking at verses 17 through 21. Proverbs chapter 10. Turn there and follow along with me, verses seventeen through twenty-one He who keeps instruction is in the way of life. But he who refuses correction goes astray Whoever hides hatred has lying lips, and whoever spreads slander is a fool. And in the multitude of words sin is not lacking, but he who restrains his lips is wise The tongue of the righteous is choice silver, the heart of the wicked is worth little. The lips of the righteous feed many, but fools die for lack of wisdom. Let us pray. Awesome God, we have confessed our sin to you and our desperate need for answers and for truth and wisdom. We beg you now, by your Spirit, to give us wisdom from your holy word. Allow us to rightly understand what Solomon has recorded for us. Which you have given to us and preserved for us. And we pray, God, that you will be honored by the worship we give you. Help us to worship you with our attention to your word right now. And Father, I pray that you will let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. I'm going to be going extraordinarily quickly because if you haven't noticed The evening service, there's only about fifteen minutes for the sermon. So if I'm going too fast and I have to cut some things out, maybe we'll do another one. But I really want to get through this whole passage with a little bit of detail because I think it's very beneficial for I want to remind us that the first nine chapters of Proverbs have been emphasizing a very important point. And that is that we must seek the only thing which truly matters, and that's God's wisdom. The only thing which truly matters in our life, which we should let all things fall apart in our pursuit of it, is wisdom from God. And in chapter 10, we are finally getting into those wisdom statements, those proverbs from Solomon. These are concise and clear and clever statements, which describe all kinds of things from our lives. And he puts it into very human terms. He puts it into terms that we can easily understand so that we can see how the wisdom and the truth of God lines up with our own living experience. Often in these Proverbs you're going to see, not only in this passage, but as we go throughout, that there is a clear contrast. It's like there's two pictures put up before us. One is the picture of the wicked, and the other is the picture of the righteous. And so we have these contrasting pictures that Solomon gives us to show us how we need to be different from those who are wicked and how we can recognize those who are righteous. Now, a couple years ago, you may have seen it in the news, there was a pretty big hullabaloo about a $10 million lawsuit. because of a missing comma. Did you guys hear about this? Oh my goodness, what an important comma. And I can go into all the details about that at another time. But the important thing to know from that is that the lack of a comma cost the company close to ten million dollars. Words matter, people. What we say and how we say it matters. But I've got news for you, it's even more important than money. The outcome is more important than millions and millions of dollars. And our passage tonight, Proverbs 10, verses 17 through 21, teaches us exactly that. It teaches us that our words matter and Christians should speak in a way that brings life and not death. So if you're wondering what this passage is going to be entirely about, it's about our words matter, and Christians should speak in a way that brings life. and not death. And so we're going to look at this in two main headings. We're going to look first at words that matter, and then we're going to look at words of life and death. So let's look together at verse 17, and we're going to see that words really do matter. Look at verse 17 right there. He says, He who keeps instruction is in the way of life, but he who refuses correction is in the goes astray. And so we see two things in verse 17. We see that words are given and words are received. And the words which are given, we see it right there are an instruction and correction. If someone's instructing you, they're giving you words. If someone is correcting you with their words, they are saying something that is not coming from inside of you. It's not words you already have in your brain, it's words that you need to hear, instruction that you need to have. And this is why we see words received. And how we receive words is very important. We'll see there that we can receive words in humility. Right? The one who keeps the instruction, they're receiving it with humility. They recognize that they need what is being taught to them. And if they have heard those words and heed those words Then what does the Bible tell us? They're on the way of life. They're on the path to life. If we receive words from others with pride, in other words, the words are heard yet hated. Then what's the other way? What's the opposite of the way of life? It's the way of death And literally right here, the word is caused to error. Literally translated, it means caused error. So if you turn away or refuse correction. You are caused to be wrong, cause to be an error. You'll be on that path of death. And so there is application for all of us. There's words that we give The words that we're giving to others, we should make sure that they're good words, that they're true words. We should make sure that what we're founding our lives upon is God's word. And we should make sure that the words we give are given in love. We have to make sure that they're given in love because we understand how important these words are. Do you get this? If your words Are words of instruction and correction. Don't you want somebody to heed those words and keep those words and be on the way of life? If the way that we speak gets in the way of how others receive our instruction and correction, we may be giving them words of death. So we should be careful about the words we give, and we should be careful how we receive words. We should be humble enough to be taught. All of us should be teachable. And we should be diligent in the correction and instruction that's given to us. We should seek it out with all of our heart, with all of our energy, and we should keep it, we should guard it, protect it, hold it in our hearts. Our words and our speech matters. And if we instruct and correct in truth and in love, and those we speak to heed what we say, we have given words of life to them. But as I said before, if we cause them to stray and to forget what we've said or to ignore what we've said, then we have been speaking death to them. So let's look now at verses 18 through 21 so that we can learn how to recognize words of life and words of death. And we'll see that looking in verses 18 and the first part of 19. The first characteristic of words of death that we see is right there in 18, and it says, Whoever hides hatred has lying lips. If someone is using their words to hide how they actually feel, then we could basically draw out of this the principle that words of death are words that are said insincerely. Words that are fake, words that don't mean what people would assume they mean. In other words, our words are deceptive. Words of death are deceptive. And they can be used to manipulate and to hide our true feelings. If you hide hatred, you speak to somebody and they have no idea that in your heart you hate them. then you are using your words poorly. You're not being honest. Now, I don't want you to take from this that if you hate somebody, you should just be as mean as you possibly can to them. That is not the application. The application instead is don't be fake with people. Don't be fake. If you want to speak words of life to someone. As a Christian, then you have to actually love them. You can't pretend to love them or like them. You have to actually love or like them. And the other application we can take away from this is a lesson. Don't use your words to try to manipulate how others think about you. If what you're gonna do is hide how you really feel and how you really think, then you are not speaking words of life and you are not speaking as a Christian, don't try to manipulate with your words how others think about you. Now the second part of verse 18 says that whoever spreads slander is a fool. Slander is literally translated as a bad report, that word there in the Hebrew. And we've got the ninth commandment, right? Don't bear false witness. Don't say something fake or false about another person and spread that around. That's certainly in view here. But there is another aspect of this that maybe we haven't given enough attention to. Which is that a bad report can be something totally true. You may know something really true about somebody else, and yet if you are causing That to go out into public when it shouldn't be in the public sphere, you're doing the same thing. You're allowing a bad report about a brother or a sister to go out into the world. So there's a couple things that we can take from this. One of the things that really struck me about this verse is that the Lord puts flattery. Insecure and insincere words, deceptive words, in the same category as slander. If you're a flatterer, you're just as much a fool as you are if you're a gossiper or a slanderer. And so flattery should not be a part of our vocabulary. We shouldn't use our words to make others think that we think they're fantastic. And at the same time, we shouldn't use our words to make others. Think differently about other people. So the two main lessons from verse 18 is that we should not use our words to manipulate how people think about us, and we shouldn't use our words to manipulate how others think about us. others. Now verse nineteen A is still giving us characteristics of words of death. This first part of verse nineteen says, In the multitude of words sin is not lacking. Boy, in this day and age, there seem to be too many words floating around out there in the ether. A lot of it's pointless. A lot of it's nonsense. A lot of it's mindless. You can watch a 10-minute YouTube video where the person could have said everything they wanted to say in 25 seconds. And this is to show us that words of death, words that don't bring life, there's no way to throw so many words at something that you change what it means If you don't know what you're talking about, no amount of verbal manure will change that you don't know what you're talking about Matthew 5, verse 37 says, Let your yes be yes. Let your no be no. For whatever is more than these is from the evil one. And so, for all of us, we should learn that to have words of death coming out of our mouth, it's not the Christian way. It's not the way of wisdom, the way of life that God has told us. We should not speak as though we know what we're talking about if we don't know what we're talking about. And brothers and sisters, you know there is never, ever, ever a problem with saying, I don't know. If somebody asks you a question about a subject that you're not familiar with, you don't have to give a bunch of words to keep face, right? And pretend like, oh yeah, I know all about that. You want to test that with me? Ask me about eschatology. I do not know enough about eschatology. And that's why I'll tell all of you I'm a pan-millennialist. I think it's all gonna pan out in the end. But there will come a day, Lord willing, where I'll study eschatology, and I won't need a thousand words to go on and on and on about what it is I believe. I'll be able to tell you very concisely what it is that I believe will happen in the end. The other application of this is technical jargon. You've all heard it. Sometimes we call it legalese, no offense to the lawyers. There's a lot of technical jargon out there. If you talk to a jazz musician, they'll tell you all about chords and progressions and this, that, and the other thing. If you talk to uh engineers, boy do they have a slew of technical jargon I work in the programming world. We can have conversations with each other that nobody has a clue what we're talking about. We should recognize that there's a difference between the language of experts And this kind of babbling multiplication of words. Sometimes there are terms we won't be familiar with because we're not in that field. But we need to learn how to recognize when somebody's just making up a bunch of stuff. And if you want some practice at that, watch any politician from any country, from any era of any nation's history. And you will see somebody who is very skilled at using a lot of words to say basically nothing. Now, there's a huge contrast in these words of death from the words of life. And we're going to see the words of life in the rest of this passage, the second part of verse 19 through 21. So 19B, the second part of the verse says, but he who restrains his lips is wise. And the first thing I want to point out is that we have an immediate contrast. This is a bad way of being, but there is a right way. And the right way, the words of life are restrained. They are controlled. One way we could think about it is they are not reactionary. We don't Just hear what somebody else says and then we blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah because they've fired at us. No, we have the ability to restrain our speech. Words of life, in a way, speak for themselves. And so I would encourage all of you to become the kind of people who can recognize the season for the right kinds of words. There is a time for a lecture. There is a time for punitive words. There is a time for correction and rebuking and all of these things. There's a right time for it But we need to be able to recognize if the individual who we're speaking to is in that season and it's the right time for them. Verse 20 shows us that their words of life are valuable and precious. Look at what he says: The tongue of the righteous is choice silver, the heart of the wicked is worth little. The words of the righteous, the tongue of the righteous, is precious. It's valuable. It's worth sacrifice to obtain it. If you have it, you should hold on to it and keep it and protect it It's like precious silver, it's like precious diamonds and gold. And this is a theme which will come back time and again not only in Proverbs, but in other places in Scripture. Now to understand the second part of verse 20, we have to look at something that Jesus has taught us in Luke 6, verse 45. Jesus says that our speech flows from our hearts. It shows what is inside us. He says: a good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth good. And an evil man, out of the evil treasure of his heart, brings forth evil. For out of the abundance of the heart, his mouth speaks. Only God can make you righteous. Only God can give you real life. And so if you want words of life, there is one prerequisite. You have to be alive. You have to be transformed by Christ to be a true living human being. So if you want to instruct or you want to correct someone, where does it all have to start? It has to start in your heart. If you want someone to heed your correction and be on the way of life, then in your heart you must actually love them. So you must beg God to make you love that person. You must beg God to change your heart so that whenever you speak to them, what comes out, what overflows from your heart? Love for them, desire for their good. Now, verse 21. The lips of the righteous feed many, but fools die for lack of wisdom. This word for feed is literally the word shepherd. Do you know what shepherd? Shepherd has been translated into a very common word we use. We use it every time we refer to Pastor Jesse. Pastor. Literally Pastor. So then it's saying the lips of the righteous pastor many, shepherd many. The words of life can do this. The words of life have power to move people into new avenues, new directions of obedience, new directions of understanding. And they can do this for many, it's not limited to just one. But look at what we get in the contrast. What does it say? The fool dies for lack of wisdom. The fool doesn't have enough wisdom even to feed himself. The fool doesn't have enough wisdom even to direct his own life. And so when a fool gives a bunch of words of death. They should not be heeded, because they will not guide you as a pastor guides you. They will not protect you as the shepherd protects. They will not feed you as a shepherd who leads you into those green pastors. And so you should ask yourselves, do your words enhance the lives of others? Do you relish watching others succeed? And do you use your language and your speech to help them do that? And the last thing that I'll point out about this is that, brothers and sisters, you know, as we have seen this week, that the Lord can call you home at any time. I did not know that the last time I spoke to Pat Hayes was the last time in this world that I would ever speak to her. From my mouth was a prayer. And I am glad that many of you who went to visit her probably said wonderful things that she heard And what Pastor Jesse told us this morning really enlivened my heart to hear how she longed to be with the Lord. And so we should be thinking about this realistically. Our words sh we should strive that our words are always words of life, even if a person is on their deathbed. We don't get this secular notion that we see in movies and TV shows where you can finally just let it all out. There is never a time in the Christian life where you are at liberty to explode on someone. There's lots of TV shows. I've seen one where Uh there's a whole episode where the guy and his mother have to have it out, blah blah blah, and they're saying really terrible and hurtful things to each other and they go, Oh that f that was great. I feel so good now. Now we love each other. False, untrue. Christians, your words should always be words of life. They should be words that align with the way God wants us to speak They should never be insincere. They should never be dishonest. We should never use our words to try to deceive and manipulate others And the way they think about us, or the way they think about each other. We need to have the wisdom to recognize when a person needs a gentle word or when they need a strong and harsh rebuke. For example, little boys, what are you supposed to be doing right now? Joking about what you've doodled or listening to the sermon? Ah. Sometimes there's a season when that is necessary. Right? Yes, okay. Red ears. You should ask yourself, brothers and sisters, are Are your words valuable, like precious gold and silver? If a person took your words and held them in their heart, would it add value to their lives? Or is it just nonsense. In other words, if all you ever talk about is the latest video game or whatever, are those it may not be bad, but are they words of life that are valuable? Do you recognize when others are speaking words of death to you, so that you can shun them, so you can throw them away? Young men and women, this is the hardest part of growing up because so many people will try to tell you so many important things, and you have to learn how to filter them. And so what do we need? We need Need God's word. That word which shows us what is true life. That word which is the sword of the Spirit, which can be used To cut away all of the nonsense weeds that are thrown up around us from all the different things we watch and hear. Every thought that you have should be held captive. It should be held captive to the word of God. Of God. Brothers and sisters, spend your time filling your mind and heart with God's words. Read your Bible. Know God's mind. Know how He thinks about things, and as best you can. I strongly encourage everyone, memorize scripture. Get it in there so that there is no disconnect. There's no, oh wait, let me find that. Oh, oh, I got this. Wasn't it really good? It was good. Sometimes that's appropriate. But the more of God's word we have in our heads and in our hearts, His Spirit will call it up right when it's needed. Brothers and sisters, if what you do is you concentrate your energy and your efforts on seeking wisdom and having in your heart the wisdom that comes from God Then what will overflow from you will be words of life. Let's pray together