Let us turn to hearing from our Lord from His Word in Colossians chapter three, verses twenty-two through four-one. And as I asked for this morning, I'll ask again this evening that you would stand for the reading of It is an opportunity for you to show respect to our God who is speaking to you. Chapter three. I'll begin in eighteen just to have some context and I'll read through four one Wives, submit to your own husbands as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter toward them. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord. Fathers, do not provoke your children lest they become discouraged. Bond servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye service as men pleasers And whatever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord and not to men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance. servants, for you serve the Lord Christ, but he who does wrong will be repaid for what he has done, and there is no partiality. Masters, give your bondservants what is just and fair, knowing that you also have A master in heaven. Let's pray. Lord Christ, we ask that you would send your spirit that our minds would be illuminated. eliminated that we would apprehend and grab a hold of this these truths that you give us in your word, that they would not remain as superficial thoughts, but that they would become deep convictions, so deep that they turn into a profound emotional life and a life of service to you. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. I'm not sure uh what you thought Christianity was or is But it isn't isn't it interesting to find out that when you get to the heart of it, for example, like the Ten Commandments, or you see the outflow of the work of Jesus Christ. As announced in Colossians, that he's dealing with things as specific and mundane on how you operate within your family and how you operate in your workplace. We are heavenly minded. now with his people. It's just uh thrilling to be a part of how down to earth and a part of our lives the Lord Jesus Christ is We see that a continuation of that. We saw a continuation of that this morning when we discovered that the terms mother and father refer to more than your parents. The terms are used for those older in age than you. Uh Ellie was so thrilled to find out that Jack has to give her honor. If if some of you older siblings haven't made that connection yet, it's there. It's there. The younger ones have to honor you. And and see me afterwards if you're older because I have a list of ethical responsibilities for you also. It'll be great. Ways for you to serve your Lord that are pleasing to him. But that was just one category. Mothers and father who are older in age, those who are greater in gifts, leaders in the church, leaders in civic government. You can gain from these terms a greater sense of what the Lord intends in his fifth commandments. It is a general sense of how inferior should relate to Superiors. Now we use those words derogatorily within our culture, but I don't mean it that way. I'm just trying to use words that historically have represented how people relate. Some are in authority over others or superiors. And I think you would be familiar with that, particularly if you're in the military. The point is that inferiors are to honor superiors. They should treat them with significance and dignity. More significance and dignity than a brand new carpet. More consideration than even if you were carrying a bowl of tomato soup, these are all references to this morning, they should be treated as fine china. But there is much more to learn about how we are to relate to those who are in authority over us. And that brings us to this passage here in Colossians. It's interesting that we focused on the fifth command this morning and we're just coming off of the fifth command in this passage here And we're going to see that the Apostle Paul still has those same thoughts. He's carrying out the fifth command into other societal relationships, just as I indicated in the sermon this morning. morning that there's a broad variety of relationships. I'd like to look at two things here. Instructions for us as Christian employees, because we really have entered into the world But let me say everything that is said here about employees and bosses is really true for many of your other relationships also. But I do want to focus on the workplace because of the terms that are used. And so our first point we'll be focusing on in verses 22 and and following will be instruction some instruction for Christian employees, and then there's some instruction for Christian employers or bosses. So let's begin with verse 22. And let me find that. Bondservants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, and then we'll go into the manner in which that is to be done. And so here we have an example of the kind of relationship that we talked about in the fifth commandment this morning. Bondservants were a cultural staple in Greek society. When we hear the word servant, we immediately think of our American history, and that's not necessarily so for a Greek and Roman province. There were differences in their slavery version. Versus the ones that we would have filed in early America. I'm sure there were some similarities also, but it was not necessarily a forced labor. You could, of your own volition, become a bond servant in order to pay off a debt, for example. And so I don't want you to have negative thoughts within your mind. But here the bondservant is instructed that they should serve their master in all things. I'm just going through this verse with you. And this should remind us of verse 20. There's some kind of comparison between children and that they are to obey their parents in all things. And with bond servants, or I'm saying employees, it's a cultural equivalent to the employee for us here within our culture. Although to say that they should obey their employers in all things is, as I said in the last sermon, not an absolute command to where you should be obeying them in unlawful things that they would ask, the apostle obviously would never ask For anything unlawful. I believe that the primary focus is on the attitude. The attitude comes through in 22, obey in all things, your masters according to the flesh. And the attitude ends up coming out here in whatever you do it, do it heartily and not to the Lord, uh and as to the Lord, and not just to men. You know, it's becoming a rarity to see these kind of attitudes within I don't know if you've had this experience, but the other day I went through a Wendy's drive-thru. I mean this was the other day, well let me correct myself. Years ago I don't even know where a Wendy's is any longer. But I went through the drive-thru and I was treated very rudely. I was not doing anything strange. I wasn't being obnoxious. It was just that the person thought that me going through and ordering food somehow I should be serving them, and that it was for some reason a hassle for me to asked for them to give me my food through the drive-thru window. And I thought in my mind there I was paying for the meal that would eventually trickle down for them to be able to re receive a paycheck that week or that month, and they were acting as if I was trash and that I should be somehow serving them It was like they were so disinterested in taking my order and giving my food that they would almost fall asleep out of disgust that I have asked for my frosty. That is not the picture and the attitude that we gain in verse 23 of this passage. It's not the picture and attitude of a Christian at work. And whatever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord and not to men. There is a very different attitude in the way that we approach work, and it becomes more profound as we unfold the passage. The picture of this attitude is very different as Christian. Christians, we are to work heartily. Now don't misunderstand me. Hear the adverb correctly, not disinterestedly, not whiningly Not begrudgingly, not half-heartedly, heartily, heartily. You know this is the same word used in Mark twelve, thirty through thirty-one, and it convinced me that it convinces me that Paul Paul is here meditating on God's law and Jesus' summary of it because that's what's in Mark 12, 30 through 31. It says this, and you shall love the Lord your God heartily. That is to say, with all your heart, with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength This is the first commandment, and the second is like it is this you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than this. But that's not all He says that we're to work heartily, that's the kind of attitude that we should have in being obedient and all things lawful, but we are also to work with sincerity. Do you see that in the passage? We see that here in 23, that we're to work sincerely. Sincerity is the opposite, according to this passage and in context. Of man-pleasing or eye service. These are actually pretty rare words in our culture and also within the New Testament. It really means keeping up appearances. There's no integrity to the actual work that you're doing. You're not really doing the work well. You're just doing it well enough to not get caught. And not receive a penalty. This is a major problem within the workplaces of America. Jonah and Mariah are no longer doing this, but when they first arrived, does everyone here know Jonah and Mariah? I don't know if they're here this evening, but Jonah and Mariah, when they first arrived, their job was to monitor cameras at restaurant cash registers because of all of the crazy tricks that employees play as soon as the boss leaves the room. When the boss turns their back, the employee would steal money, or they would drink on the job, or eat off a person's plate before giving them their order. All kinds of things. In fact, this is so common within the workplace, just doing this eye service kind of thing, as soon as the boss would come around the corner, they'd straighten up and look like They're doing their work with the camera, has caught the whole thing. And it has become so common within their workplace that the Food Network has started a show called Restaurant Stakeout. Not S-T-E-A-K But stake as in we're staking out and watching you. Here's uh from the Food Network website. Just when employees think their restaurant owners or managers aren't watching. Willie Daigle captures them all on hidden camera. And boy do they find some weird things that these employees do. That is American society. That's the man The camera catches them. They don't know exactly that it's there, but when the boss turns the corner, they start to straighten up and look like they're actually doing work. And we're called to something greater than that in the kingdom of God, and we have That's the society in which we live. That's not exactly the society that the Colossians lived. Servants. The servants may not serve heartily, but only superficially in this particular context, based on other scriptures that I've reviewed, because the master was a difficult person Especially after conversion to Christianity. For example, consider these two passages about relationships of employees and bosses. I'd encourage you to just read through your scripture. Scriptures looking for employees and bosses and all that were taught. Just start with the New Testament. James chapter 5, verse 4. Fraud against employees. Indeed, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, they cry out, and the cries of the reapers have reached the ears of the Lord of Sabbath. That's fraud. That's workplace fraud. And these employees are trying to figure out how they're supposed to relate to bosses like that. They're bondservants of bosses like that Or religious persecution on the job site, unethical treatment. 1 Peter 2, 18-20. Servants, be submissive to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle ones, but also to the harsh ones. For this is commendable, if because of conscience towards God one endures grief suffering wrongly, for what credit is it if when you are beaten for your faults you take it patiently? But when you do good and suffer, if you take it patiently, this is commendable. Before God. Apparently there was some kind of beating on the job site. And for unjust reasons. And if you were to look at 1 Peter further, you'd see that it really has to do with their Christian conversion. It was a form of religious persecution persecution on the job site. And now maybe you're not beaten on your job site, but there are forms of religious persecution within our job sites also. Ways to silence us, to keep you from talking about your God. God and how good He is, unable to express the very purpose of your existence, which is to give glory to God, without without penalty perhaps of even losing your job. if you were to do so. That's their situation. And so the question for the servants here in Colossae would be, if my master defrauds me And if my master persecutes me, why would I work heartily for them? You want me to bust my chops all day long, and he's only going to pay me a quarter what he actually owes me, or perhaps hold back the entire wage? And say he'll pay me tomorrow? That may have been what they were facing based on these passages that I read to you. This isn't uh speculation. It was happening there Why work her hard for a person like that? Why work sincerely? Why not just get by with man pleasing and keeping up appearances so that I can save some energy since they're not paying me anyway. Why work hard when you know that your employer or boss will cheat you? Now there are many people in this room that will have to ask that question Why must I work hard when my supervisors treat me the way that they do? When I have bosses like this. I've heard stories from this congregation of the difficulty of working within government agencies and what can take place Place within those agencies. The answer is given in 23 and 24. If the bondservants were raising questions like that within this particular city, here's what Paul has to say. Inspired by the Holy Spirit, verse Verse 23 and 24. Whatever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord and not to the Then, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of your inheritance. The point is, you are not primarily working for men But for the Lord. And here's a further point. Although earthly bosses may not pay up, Jesus Christ always pays up And everything is within his hands. You may, as Christ did, entrust yourself to God the Father and His justice To be vindicated as an unjustly treated employee. Jesus Christ never defrauds. Paul already told us that Jesus, our Lord, has our inheritance and reward waiting for us in heaven. This is a repeated theme throughout Colossians that you should explore. Chapter one verse five, chapter one verse twelve, chapter one, verse twenty seven, chapter three, verses one through four all talk about the heavenly inheritance that Jesus. Christ has in store for us, and that when he returns, he will give it to us. When he appears, our glory will appear with him. is the main point with this. This is what he wants us to hear as we work in difficult job places. A man named Lightfoot translates 24 this way, and it really just gets across the whole point by just reading the screen. Scripture. However, you may be treated by your earthly bosses, you still have a master or boss who will recompense you in heaven. Therefore, keep working heartily and sincerely, not for men, but for Jesus. And to go back to 1 Peter, now that is commendable before God. Amen. Now that is instruction here in the passage for Christian employees, and it has a similar focus to the relationships that we saw this morning, where how do you, as an inferior, relate to those who are superior in many different Different ways around you. Here we're talking about the workplace. But the focus shifts when we get to the later verses here in Colossians, it shifts into relationships that we haven't considered yet. The focus is on how someone under authority relates to those in authority, your mother or your father, but it goes on to talk about how we are to relate to those Who are under our authority, particularly if you're a boss. Eric talks about that in 4-1 for the workplace. Just as mothers and fathers have responsibility to their children, so too do bosses to their employees Employees. And again, this doesn't just have to stay in the workplace. You can apply this to many different relationships in your life when you are over another. And you see this in 4. 1. It's unfortunate this the passage breaking Here I'm not sure if your translation breaks the pastor I yeah, they would break it there. But four one really belongs in this continued discussion from chapter three, obviously. It's doing exactly what happened with the parents and the children from the fifth commandment. Now it's doing it with the bondservants and the masters. And so we receive instruction for Christian bosses. And it is Christian bosses. Because You'll see in the passage that these bosses are also to be very aware of their Lord Jesus Christ. Masters, this is what it says: give your servants what is just and fair. Now, what does that mean? What does it mean? What does it mean to give something just and fair? Well, I've already brought up one example from the scriptures, James chapter 5, verse 4, payment of wages due. They should receive the paycheck. But there are other things that we see throughout the scriptures, and I'm just going to list a few just to kind of stir you up into thinking about more. Don't require less or more of your employees than they are capable. Proverbs 29. 21 and Leviticus 25. 43. Let me say that again. Don't require less or more of your employees than they are capable. They deserve, next, they deserve your employees or those under your supervision. They deserve oversight and instruction on how to complete their job. Proverbs thirty one twenty seven. instruction to the servants. The larger catechism will continue is to list some helpful examples. I'm not going to give all of them because it goes into great detail. But here are some others, ways, instructions for Christian bosses to treat their employees or those that they're over with justice and fairness. There should be no inordinate seeking of yourself. You know what inordinate means? It means to be out of order. It means to put your self in a place and your desires and your goals in a place that they don't properly belong. Philippians two twenty-one. For your own glory. You shouldn't inordinately be seeking things for just your own glory to where now you're Those who are under you are neglected and are suffering. You shouldn't be doing that for your inordinate desire for ease and comfort and kicking back in your lazy boy or for profit Just for yourself or pleasure. We would include also what is just and fair. Sins against this would be commanding things of your employees that are unlawful And usually, by God's grace, something rises up within our conscience immediately when you're asking someone to do the wrong thing. And listen to your conscience. It is a grace of God to you. Counseling, encouraging, or favoring them in that which is evil. Dissuading or discouraging those who are under you, or discountening that Counseling them in that which is good. That is to say, persuading them towards that which they really shouldn't be a part of, or discouraging from that which they should be a part of. Or here's one carelessly exposing those who are under your leadership or leaving them to wrong temptation and danger. Where they will crumble, or provoking them to wrath, which is from Ephesians chapter 6, verse 4. Or any way of dishonoring them or by unjust or uh remiss behavior. We see this in Genesis 9. 21. I have a list of scriptures here that I can share. Now what's interesting is after he announces that masters give your bondservants what is just and fair, he then, as he did graciously in the fifth commandment this morning, gives a motivation. He says, knowing that you also have a master in heaven. Why should I do such things? What is my incentive? What is my motivation? When you're on top, you can think no one's looking over your shoulder. No one is evaluating you, but don't forget that Jesus Christ, even if you may be Lord, Jesus Christ is Lord of Lords. You have a master in heaven. And it goes on to say that he shows no partiality between a master and a servant But judges justly. So these are the two instructions that we receive within the passage. These are the instructions for employees, and these are instructions for bosses, which end up relating to all different kinds of relationships. relationships and it is an indication when we get begin to see this happen within the workplace, even if it's just our individual influence, that we know that the kingdom of heaven has arisen Arrived. Isn't it interesting? That the kingdom of heaven has arrived because the earth in some sense is being recreated by the very actions that you are doing by the power of the Holy Spirit. What he has given to us. And has to deal with us as fathers and mothers and business owners and employees, working in as department heads or under-department heads. God the Father has provided what we need in Jesus Christ and His Spirit to relate well to each other. He is supremely concerned not only in how you would relate to Him But how you would relate to him by relating to each other and the others that are in this world. And he has given you spirit, his spirit, that you might be able to relate to them in spirit. We are not perfect until death or Christ's return, but we may grow in the Spirit by honoring those in authority over us and taking care of those under our leadership. The main question that this passage asks you is, how are you relating to God by relating to those around you? Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this word that you have given to us, teaching us about our relationships. There is much to think through, there is much to pray through. But we thank you for what you have given to us. Anything that we have is anything good that we have is a gift from you. You are the giver of all good gifts. We thank you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.