And let's stand for the reading of God's Word. I'll be reading the first 14 verses, but I'm going to focus on, let's tell you what, I'm going to read 12, 1 through 7 and then 29 through 32. These are the statutes and judgments which you shall be careful to observe in the land which the Lord God of your fathers is giving you to possess all the days that you live on the earth. You shall utterly destroy all the places where the nations which you shall dispossess serve their gods. On the high mountains and on the hills, and under every green tree. And you shall destroy their altars, break their sacred pillars, and burn their wooden images with fire. You shall cut down the carved images of their gods and destroy their names from that place. You shall not worship the Lord your God with such things. But you shall seek the place where the Lord your God chooses, out of all your tribes, to put his name for his dwelling place, and there you shall go. There you shall take your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, the heave offerings of your hand, your vowed offerings, your free will offerings And the firstborn of your herds and flocks. And you shall eat before the Lord your God, and you shall rejoice in all to which you have put your hand, you and your households, in which the Lord your God has blessed you. And then moving down to 29. When the Lord your God cuts off from before you the nations which you go to dispossess, and you displace them and dwell on their land. Take heed to yourselves that you are not ensnared to follow them, after they are destroyed from before you, and that you do not inquire after their gods, saying, How did these nations serve their gods? I will also do I will also do likewise. You shall not worship the Lord your God in that way. For every abomination to the Lord which he hates they have done to their gods. For they burn even their sons and daughters in the fire to their gods. Whatever I command you, be careful to observe it. You shall not add to it, nor take away from it. Please join me in prayer. Lord of all things, we ask that you would write these words upon our hearts. It is a promise that we would worship you In spirit and in truth. We ask that that would increase today, each of us. We ask these things in your name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. The kids and I went to Food Lion, I forget when. How when was Mother's Day? Last Sunday? So you didn't go Sunday. We didn't go Sunday. Yeah we yeah. We went shopping on Saturday. course. The kids and I we went to food line to pick up some items to have a nice lunch for Holly, uh for Mother's Day We walked over to the deli and they had been cooking chickens. We all went in hungry. Have you ever gone to a grocery store hungry? It's not a good idea to stay on your budget anyway. So I I started hearing suggestions immediately from the children. Uh we should get rotisserie chicken, we should get fried chicken, which I don't even think We we should get this, we should get that, we should get this. And and I became persuaded by all of them and I started to think we should get steak We should get some steak. But then I remembered that I've been married for a while now. And I've made that mistake before. I've showed up to Mother's Days with everything I wanted to eat. But this year it would be different. And it would be different for the kids because we knew what mom would want. She wants Mexican food. And so and for the lunch she would like to have just some fresh sandwiches from with uh some deli, different kinds of meat from the deli. Is that how you shop? When you shop for others? Do you know the mistake that I'm referring to? Have you ever, for example, bought your wife a great stereo? I think you recognize the human condition mostly found in the male When you shop for others, do you really buy what you want and what you are excited about or what others would be excited about? It's actually quite difficult. We can actually deceive ourselves That question and that experience that we have in shopping is at the center of our worship service today. It is at the center of the Passage today. When you are invited to worship God in formal worship, do you focus only on what you would want Or do you focus on giving God what He wants? You could say, and I just want to know, and don't answer out loud. Just ask inside your own head. Do you say things like this after the worship service or during it? I don't like this music. I don't like the confession. Why do we have to say the confession? It's such a drag. Why do we have to confess Our sin. I don't like the length. I don't like the content of the sermon. And assuming those things were actually selected according to what God wants, My question for you this morning is, is worship about what song and what length of sermon you want it? Is that really why you're here, so that we can serve you? Like you're coming through the drive-thru of Severn Run Filet? Is worship about what you like or about what God wants? Are we gathering this morning in honor of you and your desires? Or is this God's day? Now that's a really difficult question to wrestle with as a human being, and I'm not trying to say that to just shame you or something like that. I really want you to consider it. What is this day about? Who is this day about? Whose desires really matter when you show up here for formal worship. I think we already know the answer. This is really the answer that we would give is of course God's desire And this is simply a continuation of what Moses has been doing since chapter 5 of Deuteronomy. He has been giving motivational speeches that they would focus on what does God want He saved them from Egypt. He pulled them through the sea and through the wilderness that they would serve him out of gratitude and thankfulness of heart. Moses doesn't introduce any new laws within this book of Deuteronomy. He explains the ones that were given within Exodus. From chapters 5 through 11, he has been explaining the Shema, really. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And we could say, Well, I love him how I want to love him. But Moses goes to great length to tell you how God wants you to love him. What does it mean to love God? Moses knew that would be difficult for you, and that you would slide off into some kind of crazy inventions on what your love language is, and you'd pass it off into how God, how you think God would want to be loved And so he defined it for us last week. And he gave us all of those verbs in the style of a catechism. He says, What does the Lord require of you? Fear. Walk. Serve, keep with the center of love. And those fingers that are around the center are defining what love is, and it ends up being the full explanation of the shemat Ma fear, walk, serve, keep. Chapter eleven, which if you notice, we were at the end of chapter ten last week, but chapter eleven addresses some of the same topics that We have already looked at because this whole book is set up as a chiasm. It addresses some of the same topics that I've already preached on in earlier sermons, and so we come to chapter 12, and here Moses is not continuing to explain the Shema as he did with the five fingers. He's he's focusing now on the first four commands and really the first two. Because you notice what he has landed at in this passage is an intense focus upon how does God want you to worship him? That's what this is all about. And it's actually quite beautiful what he lays out. It's very understandable. He gives us a negative section, and he gives us a positive section. So he tells us what not to do, and he tells us what to do, so that there's nothing left unturned. And so that's what we're focusing on this morning. Worship. And how does God want worship to happen? He taught us last week what love should look like. And here, as an extension and furthering of that, we're focusing especially on commandment two, the explanation of it for Moses. on what is worship supposed to look like for God. We're going to have the negative in verses 1 through 4 and the positive in 5 through 7 and 29 through 32. bring in just a little bit to prove a point. So let's begin with the negative, verses 1 through 4. Take a look with me at verse 2. You can see that he's already beginning on this idea of worship. It's really the whole focus. Which you shall be careful to observe in the land which the Lord your God of your fathers is giving you to possess all the days that you live on the earth. on the the command and the statutes and what they are supposed to be doing, and it's really localized here on what is worship supposed to look like. And then he says in two, he begins with the negative of what they are not not supposed to have within the land. Moses gives a general command to destroy all of the worship sites through the entire land of Canaan once they enter in. Now, as you can see, if you look through the details of this passage, it says, And you shall deservely destroy all the places where the nations which you shall dispossess serve their gods. And he starts to go into some deep some details. It's like he's zooming in. You see this in verse 3. The Canaanite worship centers were where they had altars, they had sacred pillars, they had wooden images, carved images of their gods. They took place on high mountains and on hills and under certain green trees. And wherever these worship sites were. They were to be submitted to a total destruction, that law of harem that I talked to you about before from earlier within Deuteronomy. And the Canaanite worship centers had all of these accoutrements: altars, sacred pillars, wooden images, carved images of their God, and every instrument, every religious article and artifact was to be burned. That is how Yahweh thought of their worship. Now I'm sure that there's many reasons. Could you think of some reasons why God would instruct Moses, and then Moses would instruct the people on why all of these things should be burned throughout the land. You know Israel's history. Perhaps it was to avoid temptation, the temptation of idolatry. But there is an explicit reason that's given within the text in 3E And you shall destroy their altars, break their sacred pillars, and burn their wooden images with fire. You shall cut down the carved images of their gods and destroy their names from that place. That's a technical phrase, actually. In that day and age, the name of a God on a particular place meant that that God owned that area. For example, you've already heard within the book of Deuteronomy a place called Baal Peor. Baal Peor was owned by Baal. And really, if you were to do a study, you'd see that every city outside of the people of God were named after a God that owned that place. We can begin to see that the removing of the worship sites, all of the worship furniture, was done for the sake of making a statement of the reality that Yahweh alone is the creator of heaven and earth And he owns all things and deserves all devotion. Now that was a part of the sermon last week as to what it meant to love him, to recognize that. It was part of our motivations that he He's the creator of heaven and earth. And so this law of haram applied to worship sites would be an enactment of that motivation of who he is. It's interesting to see the development of these exact same thoughts within the New Testament. You could sometimes think, wow, this is so strange and foreign. I'm sure that this was just left behind, but when we get to the pages of the New Testament, we actually see these same kind of things showing up. I was just thinking of Acts chapter 17, which is Paul's address to the Areophagus in Athens In regards to this passage, it says that upon entering the city of Athens, do you all remember the Acts 17? Addressing the Areophagus? Can you give me a nod? Okay, there we go. Stick with me here When he enters, he sees an altar to every God, and they have even made one for one that they might have missed, the unknown God. And Paul agreed with them, which was a funny thing if you like to observe the scriptures. It's funny he agreed, yeah, you don't know them. Paul agreed that there was a God that they did not know, and through his argumentation then, to the Areophagus and to the Athenians, Paul showed them that this unknown God is the only real God. In fact, this is what he says in verse 30. Paul says to the Athenians, Truly, these times of ignorance, God overlooked, but now commands all men everywhere to repent. Have you ever gotten a chance to look up that word ignorance that he just used in that speech? I think you all think Paul's polite. I'm not so sure. He's respectful, but he just told them that they were ignorant. There's another place that this is used within Ephesians. And it shows the condition to which Paul is speaking here in this passage. It says, having their understanding darkened Being alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart. And there's a nice synonym for you in Ephesians 4:18. Can you imagine Can you imagine Paul telling them in the speech that they are blind of heart and that their blindness of heart has led them to stupid and evil decisions, and they need to repent? It's a sex is essentially what he's saying to them. I hope they didn't miss that. It looks like the majority of them did. What would it look like, let me ask you, for these Athenians to re What would it look like for the Areophagus to repent if they took Paul's words from him? What would it what would that have looked like? I think it would have looked like going outside and throwing away every altar and statue and dismantling all of the temples to the Greek gods in the area And worshiping instead, out of their repentance, Yahweh, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. It is very similar to what we see here within Deuteronomy. The same thing should have happened. Now let me ask you, is that the mindset that you have, oh modern Christian? Is that your mindset? Let me ask you, you are you are taught every single day, make sure you're listening to me, especially if you're under 20. You were taught every single day to value religious diversity in the land of America Do you know that? Let me ask you, in the passage of Deuteronomy, or in Paul's speech to the Athenians, does Paul value religious diversity? When Jesus returns, will there be a mosque left standing? Will there be any religious diversity Now, this might strike you. You might have a little bit of difficulty and you might be shuffling in your seat with this, and that's why I'm asking the question. Realize the implications of this. There is no value, ultimate value of a religious diversity espoused within these passages. You know, we have various religious centers all over our country. Now let me ask you a second question, just in case I know I've got some radicals here Should we go burn all non-Christian religious establishments? No. That's not our job. This is not, in fact, what I see the apostles doing. Is that what the apostles did? Did they go into different cities with different uh religious establishments and act violently? I didn't see them doing that at all. You know what they did do? They brought the subversive gospel into each of the cities. They preached and they prayed. They preached the gospel of Jesus Christ correctly understood. And those whom the true God effectually called, they truly repented. And you know what they did in their repentance? They threw away their idols and they abandoned their Greek temples and they began worshiping the Lord of lords and the King of kings. And in that way, temples fell and became relics of the past. Because Jesus is Lord, not Caesar. That's how it works. That's how it's still working within country. I just had a friend tell me that similar things like this are happening all the time. Today, Muslims, Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormons, Buddhists. who are called by God with an effectual calling have abandoned their mosques and they have abandoned their temples. Today secular people are abandoning the worship of self and money and power, they are leaving behind the temple of the individual, and they are going forth and and bowing their knee to the Lord Jesus Christ. And their lives become relics and full of dust. Good enough to just fall. We see that in one way within 12 of Deuteronomy. We see how this is done in the preaching of the gospel within the New Testament. We see it's still happening today. You see how there is a destruction, a deconstruction still going on within the world. And that corresponds to this negative section. Moses, if you take a look at verse 4, ends the negative commands with a general exhortation that they would not worship the Lord with such altars or religious artifacts. And then he brings us to the positive in verses five through seven. But you shall seek the place where the Lord your God chooses, out of all your tribes, to put his name for his dwelling place. and there you shall go. And he'll continue from here. So we move into our second point. We've seen the negative, the deconstruction that he commands. But now he's going to show us the positive in 5 through 7. Now there's a motif and a theme that runs through these verses that I really want you to catch. The positive begins, the whole emphasis of this section. Yahweh will choose the place. Do you see that? Did you see that there in verse 5? The Lord your God chooses. See that word choose? That is a formula that is repeated all over the place within this passage. Go through and look at the idea of God choosing and the idea of place. That's the main emphasis. You know the word choose here is the same word that we use in other contexts, especially within Deuteronomy for the word election. He's saying in this particular verse, verse 5 To po he positively is stating that he will choose or elect the place to put his name. And that is going to be the continuation of this theme. And it is the essential and the fundamental to understanding your own worship that God elects everything. And this has always been the case. Think about it. When did God not elect? Just think about the place. God chose to put his name on Mount Eden with Adam and Eve. He chose to put his name on Mount Ararat with Noah. He chose to put his name on Mount Moriah with Abraham He chose to put his name on Mount Sinai with Moses. He chose to put his name on Mount Zion with David. And wherever God chose to put his name, do you know the one thing is that there is that is in common amongst all those places? It was the place he chose. And they were mountains, that's true. That's a good theme to see. It was his choice. That's key to the emphasis. Now, if you look at the end of verse 5, there's this beautiful declaration. He says that it is that it is to that place that they should go. However, there's a distinction in words here. I'm not sure why they translated at that. It shouldn't be to go, it should be to come. In other words, the whole account is from the perspective of where God dwells, inviting his chosen people. His elect people into his presence in his elect location. You see what's happening here? All of redemption. Everything is according to his grace and according to his purposes. Verse 6 and 7 continue to emphasize this. Let me read these to you. There you shall take your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, your heave offerings of your hand, your vowed offerings, and your free will offerings of the firstborns of your flocks. Here we see an emphasis now on the chosen sacrifices. Do you think that these people chose these sacrifices? If you were to go back and you read Leviticus, you would see that every one of these sacrifices And how worship was to be expressed during that time was chosen by God Himself. Now this isn't meant to be a comprehensive list. There's seven sacrifices here: the burnt offerings, the sacrifices, the tithe, the heave offerings. The vowed offering, the free will offering, the firstborn of the flocks. There's many others. This isn't a comprehensive list, but a representative and an illustrative one. Because Moses is not giving the law for the first time or for the second time. He's illustrating what was already written down and recorded and preserved. The commands in Leviticus and in Exodus. And of course, when we begin to see this and this list of sacrifices that were also chosen, it brings us back to the exact same place before for you to truly understand what is required of you in terms of worship. God elected the kinds of sacrifices and the manner of the sacrifices that were to be done. Leviticus is a very detailed book on how everything is to be done. It is laid out in excruciating details sometimes. And actually, if you look at verse 32, to see I'm not just coming up with some crazy model or theory, he comes outright and says it. Whatever I command you. Whatever I command you, be careful to observe it. And here it is, just in case you had any questions, because we're slick as human beings, you shall not add to it, and nor shall you take away. Away from it. He's speaking about his worship. And that verse 32 summarizes and emphasizes the whole thing very, very well. Verse 7, then, going back to the beginning of twelve, concludes the positive section. The worship is not meant to be morose just because God chose it, just because you perhaps didn't get your initial desire. You're not to come into worship dreary minded and dreary faced, but with celebration and communion, as we have a meal with him, he says. And there you shall eat before me, the Lord your God, and you shall rejoice in all to w all to which You have put your hand, you and your households, in which the Lord your God has blessed you. It is supposed to be a time and a day of celebration as we have We would see it today. They were to eat before the Lord and rejoice in all that the Lord had you notice the emphasis again? That He had chosen to give to them. Even as they are reaping with their own hands the fruit of their fields, they are to show up in their pilgrimage because He has invited them to come and say, I rejoice in what you have chosen to give me. Me. And so it is the chosen people who are coming forward with the chosen sacrifices, with the offerings that God chose to give them from the harvest of their land. The heart of the passage and the heart of understanding worship is to understand election. And now I understand this is in a broader sense than some ways that we understand, but it is still there with the decree of God. By considering the negatives and the positives of worship, the emphasis should be entirely clear as to the meaning of this passage. God does not want you to worship in the way that you elect. He wants you to worship him only as he has chosen. Now we have to be honest. Much has changed since this passage in Deuteronomy. I haven't by God's grace did not see any of you sacrifice any animals this morning or burn them. There have been many changes. God no longer places his name exclusively on a temple on Mount Zion of Jerusalem. That temple was destroyed in 70 A. D. Along with that temple, if you were to read through the book of the of Hebrews, you could see that the sacrifices were were stopped, the priesthood was entered, they're ended, there was a new priesthood. The priesthood of Jesus Christ and the Order of Melchizedek, that Jesus Christ is this is the sacrifice? There was a t there was those things were temporary until the arrival of the true high priest and of the true sacrifice and the true temple. Jesus Christ as the cornerstone and his people as the living stones of the new temple. You can read about that within the New Testament. It's over and over again showing you the m the changes that have taken place in this new administration But you know there's a lot that has not changed also. Since Deuteronomy 12 is an explanation of the second command. We know that today the church is still to worship God only as He has elected and chosen. That remains. Worship is not about your creativity or your desires. It is not about how inventive you could be in worship. It is about God's election. Listen to this. God elects the people that He wants to worship Him God elects the way that he wants those people over all of the earth to worship him. Everything is up to him. Everything goes back to him. Now, you know what impresses me about this and the way that he has moved us into New Testament worship? Is that he has given us for our worship instead of the elaborate accoustrements of the Jewish church, now that uh Jesus has come as the true sacrifice and the true high priest, New Testament worship Is so simple that any tongue, any tribe, and any nation in any place could go before Father, Son, and Holy Spirit and have a worship service and not need to take some elaborate pilgrimage Because Jesus Christ is on Mount Zion of heaven, ruling over all the face of the earth, over every tongue, tribe, and every single nation. Listen to the New Testament elements of worship. One is that it is on this day, the Lord's day. Two, that you could pray. Three, that you would read the scriptures. Four, that you would preach those scriptures. Five, that you would hear those scriptures. Six, that you would sing those scriptures. Seven, that you would see those scriptures through the sacraments. Do you know where you could be to do any of those things? You could be under a palm tree in the Middle East with your church, with fellow believers that have also been elected by God the Father and sanctified through Jesus Christ the Son. And his Holy Spirit. Or you could be under a Baobab tree of Africa, if I pronounced that correctly. You can have all of these elements of worship there with you. Have any of you seen some of the postings from our brothers and sisters from Africa in the hut of a church with a dirt floor? And you know we have everything in common with them, all the essentials Because that's New Testament worship, because of what Christ is doing across this world. Or you could have a building like this made out of spruce, pine, fir, and gypsum. But we still just stick, and we fight very, very hard here at Severn Run to stick to the chosen simplicity In every tribe, tongue, and nation, God the Father through Jesus Christ the Son and His spirit are calling people to worship him in simplicity. Can you see the wisdom of that? I think I've said this to some of you. Do you want to know how I could make this church go to a membership of 500 people overnight? If you join, you get a free virtual reality video game headset. We would at least have people for a week. We could say you only get the headset if you stay for one month. We'd have them for a month You know what else we could do? We could start to offer Starbucks coffee. Everybody, whether you're elect or non-elect, loves Starbucks coffee We could do all kinds of things that have nothing to do with whether you are a Christian or not. You could be a Christian or not a Christian and love the drums or the electric guitar or whatever it is or smoke machines or whatever the glitz in the glen is or drama or ballet I don't have anything, I don't really have a problem with guitars or drums. I'm just making a point that that can't be why you would come to worship. And I think that's one of the reasons why God has made it so simple. As a kind of weeding out process. Who has come to worship God not because we sell French roast coffee on Sundays or because we have a cool bookstore? Why do you come to worship? You see what I'm saying? You see why I asked the question from the beginning of the worship service? Because you're you and I are American Christians. And this is difficult for us. You know, sometimes we can feel ashamed for having such simple worship. We look at these other churches that have these huge campuses, and it's like going to King's Dominion, where they have their own television sets for the youth programs, and look at us. We had some prayer this morning. We had some singing. We had some preaching. We had some hearing. You can begin to feel ashamed, but I'm here to tell you from the Word of God that you shouldn't be ashamed of what Jesus Christ has put in place in the simplicity of his worship. You should be proud. You should be proud as a group of believers that have been elected by Jesus Christ to fellowship with one another here And he has uh elected the things that are a part of the service for you to participate in. Why do you come to worship? Is it God? Have you turned the worship of God into yet another time to worship yourself and your own desires? Tell me that we as Americans don't struggle with that. Just when we think we actually have a good motivation, the evil is right there. Paul talks about that. I understand that this is a struggle, and I know that many of you, including myself, will need to repent today for the kind of worship that we have offered God. Coming here mostly focused on our desires. Have you turned the worship of Yahweh, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit into another time to worship yourself and your own desires? If you want all of your desires fulfilled in a worldly way, there are plenty of churches out there that will do that for you. But by God's grace, and as long as I stand here, we We will not be one of them. You know, we learned the same lesson on Mother's Day. It was a day to put aside what we wanted and to celebrate mom. And what she enjoys, how much more should we do that for God? Our Heavenly Father. This is my prayer, and I pray that it would become your prayer. I pray, Christian, that you would take this message. Seriously, and you would stop envying the larger churches with all the glitz and the glam. There are larger churches that are sound churches. I'm not talking about that right now. I'm talking about all of the complex glitz and glam. Those churches probably have some good things about them, but their worship, you have to be honest, oftentimes promotes a view of worship that is all about you and not about God. That is a true statement, and I will stand behind that. They get you to focus on your desires and not on what God has elected. And so let us pray that our worship will become a celebratory act of loving service to our God. God and not to ourselves in the ways that He wants to be loved. The very act of coming to church With that attitude, could be, Christian, the most re the most repeated act of sanctification that could happen in your life every single day. Sunday. It could be the most uh uh moving act of sanctification within your life, that is repentance. It could be the way in which God sanctifies you the most to have to show up every one day out of every single week and put all of your desires aside to serve the living God and what he wants. It is the ultimate example and the ultimate illustration of what all of your life should be like. It is your ultimate meaning And this arrives at what we discovered last week. Sundays are like a treasure box. And when you pop up in the top and you look inside Side, all of the treasures are there. The word of God preached, prayer, all of the means of grace are present. All the reminders of what He has done, what He is doing, and what He will do. All of the things that He is doing inside of you, all of the sin that you need to hate, and all of the selfishness that you must push away by the power of the Holy Spirit. They're all present on a single day on purpose. It is the ultimate act of sanctification, just to show up and to be a church that worships with celebration in an act of loving service, not to ourselves. But to the God of heaven and earth, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Let's continue our worship by closing in prayer, and then I'm going to give you the opportunity to respond to him in song. Please join me. Lord, these can be difficult words for us because we are taught so many other ways as to what your worship is supposed to look like and it rails against the old person within us. Our great struggle with sin is that we want to serve ourselves and And and be a kind of God. We want the fame, we want the glory, we want the love, we want the worship. We want you to meet our every need and to serve us But Lord, we learn something different here, and it is a difficult lesson. We ask that, Lord Jesus Christ, you would send your Spirit to us and that you would teach us to worship by your Spirit and in truth. We pray that you would teach us to take a great pride in the simplicity of the worship that you have handed down to us And that we would look at our brothers and sisters across the globe, under those palm trees, or those trees in Africa, and we would see our connection with them. And we would realize that you are taking over the whole earth. And we would look forward to your coming. We ask that from this day forward, Lord, it would be a continuation and actually an increase. In the vibrancy and the truth of the worship at Severn Run, that you would gather your elect here to worship you in the ways that you have chosen. We ask you these things. Things in Christ's name, amen