Let us turn together to Colossians chapter two. We'll be hearing from the Lord in verses twenty through twenty-three this evening. I'll begin in verse sixteen. So let no one judge you in food or in drink or regarding a festival or a new moon or sabbaths, which are a shadow of things to come. But the substance is of Christ. Let no one cheat you of your reward, taking delight in false humility and worship of angels, intruding into those things which he has not seen, vainly puffed up in his fleshly mind. and not holding fast to the head, from whom all the body, nourished in it together by joints and ligaments, grows with the increase that is from God. Therefore, if you died with Christ from the basic principles of the world, why as though living in the world do you subject yourselves to regulations? Do not touch, do not taste, do not handle Which all concern things which perish with the using, according to the commandments and doctrines of men. These things indeed have an appearance of wisdom in self-imposed religious Religion, false humility, and neglect of the body, but are of no value against the indulgence of the flesh. Let's pray and ask for the Lord's blessing Father, Lord Christ and Holy Spirit, we ask that you would illuminate our minds and our hearts tonight. We pray, Lord Christ, that we would look to you as the perfector of our faith sanctify us on the spot it's in your name that we pray amen The president of my seminary, Dr. Joseph Pipa, in speaking to seminary students, I happen to be present, he once answered a question one seminary student raised, it wasn't me. Why were there so many demon possessions during Jesus' time on earth and then the virtual disappearance of demon possession after Jesus ascended? You ever wonder about that? Dr. Piper answered it in a way I've never heard anyone answer this before. He said, perhaps it was Satan's way of counterfeiting the incarnation. To draw people away from the worship and wonder of the living God. In essence, he was saying that God took upon himself human nature, and the counterfeit was that Satan took upon himself, through demon possession, human nature. So to speak. Now, whether you follow Dr. Pipe on this point or not, it was just a passing question and a passing answer. Whether you follow Dr. Pipe in this particular or not, the general basis is sound. Satan counterfeits. A counterfeit is a fraudulent imitation of something else. It is a forgery intended to deceive or defraud. And counterfeiting and deception and defrauding is all what's going on in the context of this part of Colossians. And we're getting ready to leave this part of Colossians in the chapter 3 in two weeks. It raises the question that he's been asking us over and over again in these past weeks. Have you been deceived? Have you been tempted? And he's been going through different ways in which we can be tempted. Life is filled with temptations and deception. Which ones have you fallen under? Now, the ones that Paul points out, he has given us three warnings against deception. The first one, just to remind you, was in chapter 2, verse 8. Beware, lest any one cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit, according to the tradition of men, according to the basic principles of the world, and not according to Christ. Almost verbatim those words will be rehearsed in our passage. of Christ. Here he's arguing against the counterfeits of legalism tied to diets and days. And then the last warning was verse 18. Let no one cheat you of your reward, taking delight in false humility and worship of angels. And he continues on in his mystical experiences. Tonight, we complete this main section on deception with a summary of the problem in 20 through 23. He's really going to get to the rudiments of the problem. He's going to show us the form of this problem, which are a series of regulations, and he's going to show us the futility of this problem, or the I say the wrong term. The wrong turn that you can take. And those are the three ways I want to look at this text: rudiments, regulations, and the wrong turn. The rudiments of the problem are expressed in chapter 2, verse 20. Take a look with me. Therefore, if you died with Christ from the basic principles of the world, why as though living in the world do you subject yourselves to regulations? There's a contrast that is happening in verse 20. It is the way of Christ, and of heaven we'll see in chapter 3. And there is the way of this world. You could think of them as two ages or two lands in which things are done very differently and have very different sets of powers. Paul calls the way of the world the basic principles. Basic principles can be a little confusing for people when you do a word study because it can be translated powers and principalities. Or it can be the basic teachings of a religion, the ABCs, or catechism, or the shorter catechism of a religion. You could actually combine these in this context, I think, and you could say that certain leaders were seeking to spread their propaganda or the ABCs of their propaganda among these particulars. Christians. Paul is using then an unfamiliar analogy of dying to remind the Colossians that they are dead to their former master. They no longer need to follow the propaganda of those powers or the ABCs of those powers, and that they are now reborn into the service of Jesus Christ. And so therefore they should be following him and not the old master. That's the image that he's giving here of death. When you die, the ownership changes. And this is perhaps the lousiest illustration that I've ever chosen, and I'm going to try to give it without any spoilers, but it actually reminded me, although I deny reincarnation of the movie, a dog purpose. The main dog dies, and each time he dies, he is born again as another dog. I don't think that's a spoiler alert. That's what it's about. First, he's a golden retriever, then he's a German shepherd, and I won't tell you the other breeds because I don't want to ruin it for you But as a golden retriever, he served one owner. A young man played football. As a German shepherd, he served another owner. He was a police dog. And likewise, when Christ gathers us from the world, we die to those people and things we formerly served, and Christ is our new owner. That's the translation that takes place. Yet even though Christ was their new owner, is what this passage is saying in 20, look at what they're doing. Take a look at verse 20 again. They are living in the world and subjecting themselves to worldly regulations. Even though they were owned by Christ, they were living as if the rules applied from their former owner They were subjecting or submitting or putting themselves on the collar, if you will, of that old worldly system. Now that analogy is a bit unfamiliar to us, but that's what he's saying in verse 20. That's the foundation or the rudiments of what's going on here. It's at base that they are serving another. Now, what kind of regulations? Well, this brings us into our second point. We move from rudiments to regulations, and you can begin to see him listing these out in verse 21. Paul tells us the form or the these regulations took in three commands, and notice that they're in quotations. This is what his opponents would say. Do not touch Do not taste, do not handle, and all of these things concern things which perish with the using according to the commandments and doctrines of men. You can see with this kind of description in this context that he's repeating verse 16 in part. Food and drink was an issue Paul is likely echoing Jesus, however, from Mark, and it's also in Matthew, but in Mark 7, 1 through 7. And I want you to look at that with me. So flip to the Gospel according to Mark, chapter 7. And I want to look at this teaching. This should be familiar to you. But it's very important. Jesus, of course, does such an excellent job in teaching here. Of what's going on and the mistake that the scribe and Pharisees had made, a deadly mistake, a deception and a counterfeit to what Jesus intends. So here's Mark 1 through 7. Then the Pharisees and some of the scribes came together to him, having come from Jerusalem. Now, when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled, that is, with unwashed hands, they found fault. For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands in a special way, holding the tradition of the elders. When they came from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And there are many other things which they have received and hold, like the washing of cups, pitchers, copper vessels, and couches. Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him, Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with unwashed hands? He answered and said to them, and he quotes Isaiah. This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me, and in vain they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men For laying aside the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men, the washing of pitchers and cups, and many other such things as you do. And then I want to skip down to fourteen and fifteen where he really gets to the heart of this. The deadliness of the way they were exercising these regulations with copper, with couches and pitchers and washings. When he had called all the multitude to himself, he said to them, Hear me, everyone, and understand. There is nothing that enters a man from outside which can defile him. But the things which come out of him, those are the things that defile a man. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. When he had entered a house, and and I'll actually I'll stop there and uh jump down to twenty, and he said, What comes out of a man that defiles a man For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lewdness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness All these evil things come from within and defile a man. Now when you flip back to Colossians, you can see why I'm thinking that Paul is echoing Jesus here. Turning back to that. Verse 21, do not touch, do not taste, do not handle, are all dealing with regulations of commandments of men, as he's mentioned. They all concern things which perish with the using, which is a phrase that Jesus uses The language is very, very similar. The commandments and the doctrines of men, and the parish with the using. It's a kind of euphemism. Have you ever heard that before It's actually quite a graphic description of what's going on. Do you know what Jesus is saying? Perish with the using is the way Paul puts it. Jesus says something similar. It's basically saying, it's an argument that food that you eat could never defile a person. That if food does contaminate you for long, it's actually not too long, because when you use the bathroom, it is removed from your body and you're not defiled any longer. That's the whole point. Perished with the use of the b Jesus says that the real defilement are those things which reside in humans that cannot be cleansed by going to the bathroom. That's Jesus' point. And that's for out of the heart proceed all kinds of evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, the kind of things that you can't flush down the toilet. And that's the regulations. Him echoing Jesus and the way that it shows up within the Colossian church is do not touch, do not taste and do not handle. And this really threw people into a confusing loop and it hurt their conscience. You can go to First Timothy and you can see some other regulations that there were espousing that had to do with not marrying and other such things that were really damaging to people during that time. Now the real question is how do we flush away the evil of our He's not going to leave that unanswered. We can see what is proposed to us that's a counterfeit that does nothing to actually clean a human person, but what in fact does clean the evil of our Well he's going to answer us in the negative in our last point, which is wrong turn. You can take a wrong turn on this answer, and many people have. Paul answers this question in the negative and he says, take a look at verse 23, these things that we've been talking about, all the commandments and doctrines of men, the rudiments of their religion, the ABCs of their religion, the do-not touch, the do-not taste, and the do-not-handle, they all have an appearance of wisdom. And this false humility, this neglect of the body, or harshness with which they treat themselves, but they are of no value against the indulgence of the flesh. They do not do a thing. Paul's answer is in the negative. And this is the wrong way, it is the wrong turn on the road of life, is his point. For those of you who are Trekkies, resistance is futile by this method. Worldly religions and worldly solutions will not make a dent in the evil of the human heart or any actual transgression. And this is actually quite astounding for him to say when you consider all of the religions that we have made up and all of the ways that we have made up to try to perfect ourselves. Everyone is looking to better themselves, and the world is chasing a thousand methods to accomplish this. Did you know that there are eleven different kinds of yoga now? And there are hundreds of diets in seeking to perfect ourselves. The paleo diet, I could go into a keynotic state. with the keynotic diet or keynosis, Atkins, vegetarians and vegans. There are people like Tim Ferris and his podcasts and now his team TV show and Tim Ferriss is making millions, instructing people on how to achieve fullness of life. The same kind of teachings that are happening here. with the Colossians, how to have a better sleep schedule, that you should take ice cold baths at night in order to be able to have a perfect REM sleep, traveling, gymnastic workouts that the Olympians used, and Buddhist meditation These are common within our culture as offers to you on how you could perfect your existence. And not one of these, or any other worldly method, will make a difference against the true problem of humanity, is Paul's point. Hot yoga will not get rid of your anger problem. And a dietary state of kinosis will not help you with your envy. This is what he's teaching. He's saying that the rudiments that these folks are breeding, these ABCs of their worldly religions, they're not our owner anymore. I heard one preacher put it this way. You ever have the situation where you revisit an old community and you knock on a door of a friend's house to say hi to the family, and then some stranger answers the door and they say, well they don't live here anymore. That's what Paul is seeking for this congregation to say. When they knock on their door, bringing with them the old worldly way of doing things, they say, We don't live there anymore. We have turned to something, rather, to someone else. We're not obeying these regulations thinking they do anything. We will not make that wrong turn. As part of a larger argument, Paul does tell us who can cleanse us and make us grow. But I find as Christians we still make a similar mistake that the Colossians were making on exactly how sanctification takes place. In verse 19, we didn't really address it during that segment, but take a look at verse 19 as we close. And it states that Jesus and His Spirit and God the Father work in consequence. causing us to grow through the sinews and ligaments, refining us from the remaining sinful nature. Do you live as if this is true? That Jesus is the one that makes you great. Grow. Because when I listen to my own language or the language of Christians, I do not hear people talking about Jesus making them grow. These are the kind of things I hear. What you need is Bible study. What you need is prayer. What you need is fellowship. What you need is the Lord's Supper. What you need is baptism. Well, no, you need a different mode of baptism. And actually, if you begin to read the scriptures and pay careful attention, none of those means of grace have any power whatsoever to change people unless Jesus decides to use them. They are ineffectual unless he empowers them and teaches through them, if he uses them as aids to his teaching ministry through the Spirit. And so we could change it around. What you need is for Jesus to teach you the Bible. You don't just need a Bible. You need Jesus to intervene with you with your Bible. What you need is for Jesus to teach you how to pray, and you need Jesus to answer your prayers. This is very personal. There's no technique or methodology that solves your problems. What you need is Jesus to allow you to apprehend by faith the significance of the sacraments. And unless he does so, it will be a dead human tradition to you. Now let me leave you, these are all examples of very general, but let me leave you with a real picture and not a counterfeit one. That I found that's just perfect in this book, How Does Sanctification Work? This morning, my wife Nan and I were each feeling mildly overwhelmed by the pressures of life. The family has succumbed to various combinations of flu, bronchitis, pneumonia, and head colds over Christmas. A week later, both of us still felt half sick and weary. On top of this, we are pressed by a weight of concern for an elderly loved one who faces intractable, deteriorating health problems. Nan faces a swarm of decisions and projects arising from a kitchen renovation. And I face snowdrifts of overdue grading, correspondence, and writing projects. The net effect? We were both beset with that most we were both beset with that most endemic of human disorders A nameless mash compounded of stress, distraction, preoccupation with responsibilities, ambient anxiety, incipient irritability, and complaint. Neither of us entered the day as a flourishing garden of love, joy, peace, or patience. We needed sanctifying this morning As we do every morning. And God met us with gifts of His Word and Spirit. He refreshed us, giving us what we needed. How? What brought renewal? We happen to be reading a passage from the further reaches of Deuteronomy. The Lord found Jacob in a desert land. In the howling waste of the wilderness, he encircled him He cared for him. He kept him as the apple of his eye. Like an eagle that stirs up its nest, that flutters over its young, spreading out its wings, catching them, bearing them on its pinions, the Lord alone guided him What happened? The Lord wrote these words on our hearts as He promises to do, Jeremiah 31, 33 Here in a suburb of Philadelphia, on a day in early January 2013, the Holy Spirit took hold of things written down long ago. He clarified our minds, reawakened our faith, and animated our obedience. What happened pointedly illustrates how these words in Deuteronomy were written down for our instruction. Nan her immediate response this way. When you feel like a castaway who needs to be found and rescued, to be treated as the apple of his eye means the world to me. She perked up. Her prayers and plans for the day came to life. She made good choices through her day. Through California's Anza Barrego desert in 115 degree heat during the 1980s. Similarly, the image of being encircled with protective care like an eagle fluttering over its nest resonated with me. The Lord encircles, hovers over, and carries his beloved people. I am one of his. Troubles, temptations, and our God came together Like Nan, I went into my day with a clearer sense of purpose, a more focused mind, and more attentiveness to others And here is the point. The same point that Paul is making. That day, in a small way, the Lord, not methods, techniques, Or religion, the Lord changed how we lived. He comforted our hearts and established us in today's version of every good work and word We needed sanctifying, and the Spirit sanctified us. It's exactly what Paul is pointing to here. It won't be the old ways of the world with regulations, techniques. And methodologies, it is Jesus Himself who is the author and the perfecter of your faith. Let's pray. Lord Christ, we thank you for this image that you've given to us through David Pallison and his wife Nan. And we thank you for the simplicity of it that they were sitting In a just a mash of complications, doing a devotion and you showed up because you intervened in our lives. Lord Jesus Christ, may we not forsake your presence and your ministry going over to some methodology or text. Lord, may we not seek control, but may control be acknowledged to be your control. And may you sanctify us as your people. May you make us holy. May you take those things that are a part of us, those evil thoughts, and that you would cleanse us. We ask these things in your name. Amen.