God's holy word for you, God's holy people. Now when they drew near Jerusalem to Beth Page and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples And he said to them, Go into the village opposite you, and as soon as you've entered it, you will find a colt tied on which no one has sat. Loose it and bring it. And if anyone says to you, Why are you doing this? Say, the Lord has need of it. And immediately he will send it here. So they went their way and found the colt tied by the door outside on the street, and they loosed it. But some of those who stood there said to them, What are you doing loosing the colt? And they spoke to them just as Jesus had commanded. So they let them go. Then they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their clothes on it, and he sat on it. And many spread their clothes on the ground, on the road, and others cut down leafy branches from the trees and spread them on the road. And those who went before, and those who followed, cried out, saying, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the kingdom of our Father David that comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. And Jesus went into Jerusalem and into the temple. So when he had looked around at all things, as the hour was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve. Please pray with me. Almighty God, we are so grateful for your word which you have delivered to your people. which you have preserved through the ages. We thank you that you have given us faith to believe that your word is true. And to believe what you have communicated in it. We need your spirit now to illuminate your word. To make it shine upon our hearts and our minds like the brightest light in all the heavens, that we would see Christ as He truly is. And I pray, Lord, that you would let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock, my strength, my redeemer. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. In your Bible, likely, as it is in mine, this is titled. It's got a little s section heading there called the Triumphal Entry. I've wondered if you've ever considered why it's called a triumphal entry. Why is it a triumph? Well, in Roman times and even before then, in the Greeks A triumph was a very particular kind of celebration. It wasn't just a celebration, it also had some religious significance to them. And it was indeed a celebration of a particular man. It was a celebration and an exaltation of one Roman citizen above all the other citizens in the empire. Essentially, what a triumph was doing was declaring that this person This man has won a great and awesome victory for all the people of Rome. And so the triumph was given to him as a way for all the people. To enter into the victory, to celebrate the victory of this one military commander. Now if I was looking into Roman triumphs because I'm just a nerd and I love this kind of stuff I found out that there are some criteria that must be met, some objective criteria for the Roman Senate to grant a triumph to a conquering general. And one of them surprised me greatly. One of the requirements is that this military commander, this general, would have killed over 5,000 people in one battle. And so a Roman triumph was granted to someone who took lives. I hope all of you see the difference in the triumph that our sovereign God granted to his son as he entered Jerusalem, for his was not in killing and taking away lives, but his triumph was in giving life In saving life. This is a very important passage. It's present in all four of the Gospels And when the Holy Spirit decides to maintain an event across all four Gospels, we need to sit up a little straighter. Take a couple deep breaths and get ourselves ready because there's some very important information for us, and I pray a transforming message from God's Word. We have been looking at Mark, we've been in it for for a few years now, having a a good rom through what I've uh called a a photo album or snapshots of Jesus' life. Mark has been giving us these pictures of his ministry and of what he's been doing. And all the while he has one agenda. Mark has one purpose. Do you remember what that is? It is to put forth Jesus of Nazareth as the Messiah. As the Son of God, as the true Son of David, promised and long awaited. The whole gospel that we've gone through thus far has been leading us to this week in Jesus' life. A week That will ultimately end a victory that's hard to imagine But it's amazing that his week, this week, begins with a victory. Now last time we were together in Mark, we saw That our cries of faith are answered by a merciful God. And we saw that as we examined the healing of blind Bartimaeus. And tonight, as we move into this Passion Week of the Lord Jesus, I pray that each of us will see that the Lord Jesus Christ is the sovereign King. who deserves our worship. Brothers and sisters, the Lord Jesus Christ is your sovereign King. who deserves your worship. We're going to look at this in two headings tonight. We're going to look first at the sovereign king, verses one through six. And then we will see how he is deserving of worship in verses seven through eleven. Let's jump right into it The sovereign king in verses one through six. Now, I I'm grateful that the Lord had Pastor Jesse take us through the Great Commission. And we got to hear that wonderful phrase. But he told his disciples that all authority and power in heaven and in earth has been given to him. All authority and power. And that is precisely what it means to be sovereign. There is nothing outside of God's control. There is nothing outside of his authority and his power. And he shows us That this is true of the Lord Jesus, just as it is true of the Father Himself. So looking at verse 1, we see That God is sovereign over time. Our God, our Lord Jesus Christ, is sovereign over time. Look at what happens here. Now, when they drew near Jerusalem to Beth Page and Bethany at the Mount of Olives He sent two of his disciples, and he said to them, Go into the village opposite you, and as soon as you have entered it, you will find a colt tied on which no one has sat. Loose it and bring it. And if anyone says to you, Why are you doing this? say the Lord has need of it. And immediately he will send it here. All of Jesus' earthly ministry had been leading up to this time. Now the time is fulfilled, and so he is coming into Jerusalem. But if you recall, as he performed his miracles and did his authoritative teaching, often Jesus would say, don't tell anyone. Don't let anyone know what's happened. Don't reveal who it was that healed you and saved you. But that time is over. That time is done. He's now moving into a time where who he is will be publicly declared by all the people who watch him enter this city. He is sovereign over time in that he chose this specific day to enter Jerusalem. This is the time of the Passover, and you're probably familiar that the Jews would all travel in a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. To participate in the Passover sacrifices and celebration as God had commanded. The historian Josephus tells us that based on the recording of the number of sacrifices that were offered, It's safe to estimate that there were close to three million people that had been gathered in Jerusalem. And so think of it this way. God is so sovereign over time in everything that he knew that as Jesus would be entering Jerusalem, there would also be millions Of Jews entering Jerusalem at the same time. All of them coming to celebrate a lamb which was slain. A lamb which was slain, whose blood applied to those doorposts, spared the people of God from the wrath of God. Now, if that wasn't enough, this is a very specific day in the Passover celebrations. It is the tenth day of the first month. In Exodus 12, verse 3, we are told that this is the particular day which the households of Israel were to take the lamb. Which would be slain. And that is the day that they were to set it apart from the flock and consecrate it to this sacred rite. It's also got significance because in Joshua 4. 19, this same day, the tenth day of the first month, do you know what happened that day? That was the day that the people finally entered the Promised Land. It is not a coincidence, but the Lord Jesus Christ, sovereign over all time, chose this day To enter Jerusalem. He enters it publicly as the king, the real king of Israel, the son of David. And yet simultaneously he enters Jerusalem as the lamb, the lamb to be slain, to take away the sin of the world. And so we see that Jesus Christ is sovereign over time. But that's not it, is it? We also saw that he's sovereign over men. Look at what he does there. He has a right to command his disciples, and he does. Tells them to do things. He told his disciples to do a lot. We've seen that in Mark. To me, this one seemed a little strange I don't know about you, but if Jesus said, I need you to go to Gary's house and to get into his car. And to bring it here. And if Gary says, What are you doing? Tell him the Lord has need of it. That's a strange command. But God, Jesus, as sovereign king, has a right to even make strange demands upon his people. The way that he is sovereign even over opposition to his will is striking to me. He gives them the answer. And it's a very particular answer. The Lord has need of it. It's very particular because of the way that anyone who At that time, if they spoke Greek, if he said that word Lord, kurios, it's the same word that in the Greek translation of the Old Testament was put there every time in our English versions you would see capital L-O-R-D. It is the word that would have been there to represent the covenant name of God, Jehovah, or Yahweh. And so to say to somebody, the Lord, Yahweh, has need of it. Boy, that's saying something, isn't it? It's directly tying that title to Jesus. And again, grateful for God's sovereignty, we've gone through Philippians together. We've spent time in Philippians 2, in which we learn that the name above every name, which name is that? That is the name, the covenant name of God, would be given to Jesus Christ. That at that name, at his name, every knee would bow and every tongue would confess that he is the Lord. And so we learn that God is sovereign over time. Jesus Christ is sovereign over men. He has a sovereign right to require things from us. He has a sovereign right to require someone to give their cult. He's sovereign over all of history. I love to imagine this. Uh again, with God's sovereignty, we've gone through Jonah. Together. And we saw that the Lord did what? He established a fish that would swallow Jonah. He established A gourd or a vine that would grow up and do what it did for Jonah. He prepared it. He planned for it. And even here he planned for this cult. Think about all the things that had to go into the planning of this There had to be two donkeys that got together at a particular time. Did you know that donkeys just ate for about a year? For it to be a foal, it has to be under a year old. So there's a lot of sovereignty being displayed here and that this cult is exactly where Jesus said it would be. That it's in the possession of someone who would respond when he says the Lord has need of it. And so we see that God is our sovereign king. He's your sovereign king. I just want to point out that he has a right to require of you that you give to him completely without question, what he has given you for his purposes. We are stewards of the king's possessions. They are not ours. Gary's car is not Gary's. It's God's car that he lets Gary use. This cult was not whoever these people were. It wasn't theirs. It was given to them by God, so it could be used by God to fulfill whose purposes? God's Your gifts. Everything God's given you is his. And sometimes we might think only of our possessions, only of things. But let's remember, he's given you many, many gifts. He's given you a personality. He wants you to use that for his glory and for his purposes. He's given you strength. He wants you to use that for his purposes, for his glory. He's given you time. He wants you to use that for his purposes, for his glory. He gives you a family. He has a right. To require you to use your family for his purposes, for his glory. He's given you life. And as a sovereign king, he has a right to require that life. For his purposes and for his glory. We also see that he is sovereign over Really, just everything. Sovereign over time, sovereign over men, sovereign over all creatures. He's sovereign over this cult. There's an interesting phrase here on which no one sat I used to think that that meant, oh, this poor little frail little donkey, how gentle. No one sat on it because it hasn't been able to be sat upon. I learned some things this week. I don't know anything about donkeys. But what I learned is that a foal of a donkey usually weighs about three to four hundred pounds. In the first year of its life, it gains all of its height. It's not a little tiny thing. It gets as tall as it's ever going to be in that first year while it's still a foal. Have you ever tried to walk a dog that weighs over a hundred pounds? I don't care how strong you are. That thing will pull. It is strong. And he is sovereign. This this cult, no one has ever sat upon it. That means it's untrained. It means it's wild. It has not been broken. I'd like to think of it this way, millions of people coming into Jerusalem. I'm sure a bunch of them wanted a relief from the walking And they see this cult tied there. I wonder how many of them went, ooh, get this cult. And after just a few seconds of whatever cults do, donkey cults do when some they don't want to be ridden. Not worth it Not worth it at all. And yet, this cult on which no one has ever sat Jesus rise. You may have wondered why. Why did there have to be one that upon which no one has ever sat? I could give you a a half a dozen scriptures if we had time, showing you that in some religious rites it's important that the animals not ever have been burdened. I'll think of just just one quickly. I wish I'd have written down the reference, but when they returned the ark When the Canaanites returned the ark, the Philistines, they found two milk cows that had never been yoked, that had never had that kind of burden put on them. It was important. Anyway, we could talk more about that at another time. Matthew 21, the parallel passage of this in the in the Gospel of Matthew, explicitly teaches us that this is a sign of God's sovereignty. Just the fact that there is a cult that he would ride upon. And it's the sovereignty of God in this fulfillment of a particular prophecy, a messianic prophecy. And let's turn there together if you want in Zechariah chapter 9. Zechariah chapter nine. I'm going to read for us verses 9 and 10. You may recognize this if you're a fan of the Messiah. I mean we're all fans of the Messiah, but you know what I mean, Handel's Messiah. Zechariah 9, verses 9 and 10. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you. He is just And having salvation lowly and riding on a donkey, a colt, the foal of a donkey. I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the horse from Jerusalem. The battle bow shall be cut off. He shall speak peace to the nations. His dominion shall be from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth This messianic prophecy is not just, oh, the one who's the Messiah is gonna ride a donkey, a foal of a donkey. And it's not even an indication of a a lowliness necessarily. Though it does tell us that he is lowly, it means that he is not proud or arrogant. He's not a tyrant. He is not a conquering king. He's not like Caesar. Demanding a triumph because of all the people he's killed. And he's not coming on a horse. He's not riding an armored war horse, coming with forces to conquer and overthrow the city. No, he's coming as one who has a right to enter, and with him he brings peace. He means peace and a sign of his dominion, that he will rule all the earth and all the heavens. Another thing I would love us to notice is just the obedience of the disciples and how God uses the obedience of his followers, how he'll use your obedience to carry out his will. They obeyed what he said, even though it was a strange command. And even when the opposition did come, exactly as he predicted. They didn't stray from his instructions. They answered according to Christ's word. They didn't have to come up with a clever way. And notice this, they didn't have to manipulate the owner of the cult. They didn't have to try to bribe him or bargain with him. They simply obeyed what Christ commanded. And so his will was fulfilled. And so the cult is delivered. The prophecy of Zechariah fulfilled. And all of this demonstrates that this man This Jesus of Nazareth is exactly who he claimed to be. He is the Messiah, the Son of God. He is the true Davidic king who was promised. Long, long, long before this happened. And that it was promised that he would have a scepter and he would rule, and his rule would never stop, would never cease The true king of all the cosmos enters into his city, peaceful, riding on a donkey, in triumph. In victory, a victory that in his great mercy you and I share. And he does this. Because he is the king of everything. He is your sovereign king. And as your sovereign king What does that mean? It means that he deserves your worship. So let's look now at the rest of this passage, verses 7 through 11. To see how he deserves your worship. We see first in verses 7 and 8 that he deserves to be recognized and treated as king. He deserves to be recognized. And we see this because of what happens with these cloaks and these garments. Had you ever wondered what's happening here? What is what's really going on? It's foreign to our culture. I love a lot of you, but I don't know if I've ever thrown my coat on the ground so you could walk over it. In 2 Kings chapter 9, verse 13, we see something very similar that happens. If you want to turn there, you can. I'm going to go there and I'll just read it for you. Well first I will I will summarize What's going on in this whole endeavor? So this is when Jehu is anointed the king over Israel. And uh Elisha has sent his servant, one of the sons of the prophets, to deliver a message and to anoint Jehu as king over Israel. He also has a message for Jehu. Do you remember what that message is? The message is, you will completely destroy wicked Ahab's house. You guys remember Ahab? Ahab was a tyrant, a terrible king. He's the reason that a lot of Baal worship and a lot of false worship entered into Israel. His wife Jezebel killed the priests and the prophets. And so Elisha's servant, he's pretty scared. He comes to Jehu He anoints him with oil. He gives him this message in private, not in front of anybody else. And as soon as he's done, you know what he does? He turns around and he runs. Get out of here. He's not willing to sit around and see what happens. How the people who are servants of Ahab's son, Joram, he doesn't wait to see how they're going to respond. And so Jehu comes out and they ask, Hey, what what what did that guy want to say to you? And he says, Ah, you know that guy, you know Elisha, he's always saying weird things. And they say, no, no, no, no, no. What's happening? What did he say? So Jehu tells them. He tells these people, the servants of the king. The servants of the King of Israel. And in verse 13 of 2 Kings chapter 9, it says, Then each man hastened to take his garment and put it under him on the top of the steps. And they blew trumpets saying, Jehu is king. And so we have this event Happening for Jesus because it is a way that people would recognize God's anointing of a king. They recognize Jehu is God's king over Israel. And these people who are putting their cloaks and garments down. For Jesus to sit upon, for Jesus to walk on. They are recognizing that God has anointed him the King over Israel. And so Jesus should be recognized as king. You should recognize him as king. And he should also be treated as a king. And that's where we get these leafy branches. We get these Uh what John in his uh telling of this event specifies are palm branches, and that's why we celebrate Palm Sunday. And it's because palms are significant, not just in Jewish culture, but also in Gentile culture. Now for the Jews, palms symbolize strength. They symbolized provision. They were one of the few uh large trees that could grow in like a desert environment. And when Solomon builds the temple, do you know what he uses to decorate the inner and outer walls of the temple? Palm trees. In Leviticus 23, verse 40, during the Feast of Booths or the Feast of Tabernacles Palm branches are used. They are commanded to be used. And they're commanded to be used for rejoicing. And in the Gentile world, Greek uh Athletes, if they were triumphant at the Grecian Games, you know what they would do as they entered their hometown? They would carry palm branches and wave them as a signification that they were victorious. Constantine. He's depicted as having a wreath of palms on his head as a sign. of his victory as a sign of his power, as a sign of his kingship. And so these palm branches are waived In rejoicing, they are placed on the ground as a bed to soften where the king will tread. Isn't that amazing that God knows all of this, uses all of this, to show us that Jesus is the King? Though he comes lowly, riding on a donkey, he comes in peace. He's only on the donkey in peace, because he will come again on a horse, won't he? He will come again. On a pure white horse. And he will ultimately destroy all of his enemies. Even death. Even hell. As I was pondering this and meditating upon this this week, A verse that most of us know popped into my brain, John 3. 16. You guys know John 3. 16? It's one of my favorite things from a VBS when I was a little kid. Because even when I was running full speed away from God, that verse was still in my brain. But as I got older, I I began to Really rejoice that John 3. 16 is followed by John 3. 17. Most of us have John 3. 16 memorized, but John 3. 17 may be A little fuzzy, so I'll read them for you. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world, through him, might be saved. This is why Jesus has come. To save. Yes, he will conquer his enemies. Yes, he will triumph over sin and death and hell. But the reason he came He's not a war-mongering god and king. He came to bring peace to you, his people. Reconciliation with his father. And so he is coming to his city, the city of David. He doesn't need to come as a conqueror. It's pretty amazing. If you know your history, the Romans really didn't like it when Jews gathered in large numbers. They really, really didn't like it when Jews gathered in large numbers around someone they called the Messiah And we have no record, Roman or biblical, that says that a Roman garrison was sent from the fort to quell this uprising at the Eastern Gate. They knew it was peaceful. It was a peaceful procession. And so Jesus deserves to be recognized as King. He deserves to be treated as King. But he also, and this is what's so very poignant about this week. He deserves to be publicly proclaimed as king. And this is what we see in verses 9 and 10. In verses 9 and 10 we have it's not really a direct quote here in Mark. It's kind of a paraphrase, it's a combination. And uh one commentator was very helpful to me. He said this this indicates that the people were They had a lot of messianic expectation. And the messianic prophecies and promises were on their mind. And when it came time, and this was happening, what came forth from them was a messianic message, messianic rejoicing, coming from Psalm 118, or influenced at the very least by Psalm 118. Now we read for our call to worship. what likely influenced what was happening there. Have you ever thought about that word hosanna? One of my friends who used to sing in choirs with me used to say, I hate those songs with the Hosannas. And I understand if you've ever sung sung Palm Sunday songs, sometimes they're a little trite. Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna. But this is a phrase. It's a transliteration in Greek of a Hebrew phrase, Hoshiana. It means save now. Save now. That word Hoshia, it's the same word from which we get the word Yeshua, which is the name of Jesus, which means our God saved. And so the people of God who had used this phrase as a supplication, save now, God. As time went on, it changed even to the ancient Hebrews. In the Feast of Tabernacles, the Feast of Booths, they used this phrase. For rejoicing. And only in Christianity can a supplication become a joyful cry of victory. We say, save now. Oh God, save us. And he says, I have. I have. Because your salvation is not in your victory over your enemies. Your salvation is not in even. Please don't take me the wrong way here, but your personal victory over your besetting sins We rejoice because the supplication, save us, O God, save us now, is fulfilled in a person. It's fulfilled in a king who can never be deposed, who will rule and reign over all the cosmos. God does say. He hears and answers these supplications. And so it has become a cry of rejoicing. Hosanna. And then I love What happens here at the very end? Hosanna in the highest. Does that not take your mind back to the angels? As they sang at his birth. Glory to God in the highest. Peace on earth. Goodwill toward men. This is your sovereign king. And so the last thing that I just want to point out is verse eleven. He comes into the temple. Whose temple? The temple of the Lord, the temple of Jehovah, the temple of Yahweh. The temple of Jesus. He comes into his temple. As all the other consecrated lambs would have been brought into the temple for their consecration. Now he doesn't do very much there. Because there's more to be done. And we'll get to that in the future. But he proves that he is the sovereign king, sovereign over all things, sovereign over men, over time, over creation. And he, as your sovereign king, deserves your worship. So I'd end this way by asking you, do you do you recognize Jesus as King? Do you treat him as King? Is there anything in your life that you are not willing to lay down for him to walk on? Is there anything in your life that you are unwilling to let be loosed if he requires it of you? Really think about that, brothers and sisters. What are you unwilling to give to King Jesus? Are you unwilling to give your house to him? Are you unwilling to give your mind to him? Are you unwilling to give your husband? Or your wife He called one of his servants to give up her husband this week. He called one of his servants to give up his life this week When Pastor Jesse made mention of her comments, if you had seen them, then you saw exactly what anybody who watched that saw. Even those who don't know Christ. You know what they saw? They saw someone who was willing to give up everything for their king. Erica Kirk was willing to give up her husband for the purposes that God had for him. Brothers and sisters, we are not called to give it up. For no good reason. He is worthy of any sacrifice he may call you to make. And if you really do believe he is the king, if he has given you the faith to serve him as your king, what are we doing? What is not worth giving up? Would you give up a year of your life to serve King Jesus? Would you give up a year's wages? If you have thought somehow that based on how it has gone this week, that Satan won a small victory. The enemy won something. He won a small battle this week. No, he did not. He absolutely did not. He doesn't win at all. It may look like it. And to the world it may seem like Christ was proven wrong because the sovereign king who's even sovereign over bullets Allowed one to take his servant. Is that somehow a failure on Jesus' part? No, it's not. The king, he enters in triumph. The king comes in victory. He has won. And weeks like this one, where Satan is throwing tantrums, it's literally just that. Once again, something reminded Satan that he will never win. And in a tantrum, he decided to do something heinous and painful. And it still didn't work. Christ is victorious. He is still on his throne. He is still the sovereign king. And so I say to you, brothers and sisters, no matter what it may seem like in your own life, Or in the world around us, your King, Jesus, is sovereign over all, deserves your worship. Hosanna. Save us now, O Lord. We rejoice in your salvation. Please pray with me.