Beginning in verse nine. Be diligent to come to me quickly, for Demas has forsaken me, having loved this present world. and has departed for Thessalonica. Crescent's for Galatia, Titus for Dalmatia. Only Luke is with me Gr uh Git Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for ministry. Antiochus, I have sent to Ephesus Bring the cloak that I left with Carpus at Troas when you come when you come, and the books, especially the parchments. Alexander the coffersmith did me much harm. May the Lord repay him according to his works. You also must be aware of him, for he has greatly resisted our words. At my first offense no one stood with me, but all forsook me. May I not be charged against them But the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, so that the message might be fully preached through me, and that all the Gentiles might hear. Also I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work and preserve me for his heavenly kingdom. To him be glory for ever and ever. Amen. Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onociferus, Erastus stayed in Corinth, and Trophimus I have left in Miletus sick Do your utmost to come before winter. Eubelus greets you, as well as Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brethren. The Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Grace be with you. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Christ, you have superintended the preservation of these letters for the benefit of your church until you return to finalize your kingdom. We pray, Lord, that they would not be antiquated parchments, but living and active, discerning the hearts of your people. In other words, Lord, that you would make effectual the preached word as you have done from the beginning. Please do so today. We ask these things in your name. Amen. You may be seated. I'm sure that you've all heard this saying before. It's pretty regular now to to hear it uh especially in this congregation. But the saying that I'm getting ready to reveal to you is the result of a reaction. It's a reaction to only seeing half of the matter. We as uh as Christians sometimes speak about the sin that God has saved us from. And there was a movement where that was the real focus. And very quickly, even in this congregation, we saw that it was important to not only see what he saved us from, but where he's also taking us to. And that could summarize real well what we've been doing in 1st and 2 Timothy and in Titus. In 2 Timothy, we've been looking at Not only for Timothy, but for you as a follower of Jesus Christ, that Christ has rescued you from something. But he is also taking you to something. And we've characterized that to, that thing, with a very general concept called ministry. That's how this word in these letters are translated is ministry. Ministry, ministry, ministry, ministry. Now last week we talked about two main categories, but no matter what the category, you have a ministry. You could be departing or you could be arriving. If you're in either one of the categories, which covers everybody, you still have a ministry I last week, by the way, put myself sliding over into the departing category, which the way, by the way, that I spoke And then later that day someone reminded me or told me that you got your age wrong. You're not 48, you're 47. You were born in 1977. Do the math. Lo and behold, that was right. My I told my wife how surprised I was to find out I was one year younger. And my wife said, I've been trying to tell you that for a while, you've been getting the name the age wrong. You need to start listening So, so this morning I stand before you at 47 years old, and I'm arriving. I'm arriving, not the parting. Okay. But whether you're in that category or the other category, the whole the whole topic has been to what have you been called? And the answer to that are our various ministries that we have. Well, we're going to continue to talk about ministry this morning. In fact, this is the last section of 2 Timothy that we have in front of us And there's four lessons that we're going to learn from the Spirit here. There's four lessons more for us to learn. on ministry. So we're just gonna children, if you're taking notes, it's just gonna be lesson one, lesson two, lesson three, lesson four, and then the doors are gonna fly open and we can go out. Alright. So let's begin with the first lesson, and then we'll start to go through this passage together by way of those lessons. Here's the first lesson just in terms of your ministry, or your we've been characterizing as your service to Jesus Christ. Lesson number one is that in your service to Jesus Christ is that you're going to struggle. In fact, I'm willing to say that underlying Paul's statements here, which I'm going to point out to you in just a moment, is a general philosophy which is that life is a struggle. This present life that we live, this present path that we're on, life is a struggle. Now you started to learn this lesson last week and pretty much for the last few months Ever since we we heard Paul say, prepare for hardship, it's the same lesson to say that life is a struggle. Paul talked about our lives last week, however, as a pouring out of our blood. for the sake of accomplishing our ministry out of love for God and other people. You could see that Paul that Paul is still experiencing struggle. In our particular passage. I mean, look at all that's going on with him. Take a look at verse number nine. Demas abandons Paul because he loves this world. Then we have in verse number 14, Alexander the coppersmith is doing Paul much harm, and Timothy still needs to be worried about him. When Paul went for his pretrial at a Roman court, that's what it means when he says, I went for my defense. That word there is the uh is apology. apologizing or giving an account or a defense of himself before a Roman court. And he mentions here that no one stood to witness for him. Is there anyone else here that would like to stand up and witness that Paul is not guilty of these things? Paul says no one was there. No one was there to do that for me. I suspect everyone was too afraid to associate with him in that arena. The picture of the struggle then is similar to Christ. And Christ promises us that each of us will bear a cross. And here we see when you look at the life of Christ, and then you look at the life of Paul, there are these unmistakable similarities. anticipated that. And Paul was similarly abandoned. These words in our passage are the last recorded words of Paul. Not because he wanted to die, but because he will be executed. So right to the end, his life was a struggle And it's not hard for us to be able to see that Paul is communicating the same message to Timothy when he says, you need to endure hardships. You need to start thinking of yourself more as like a soldier. You need to think of yourself more of like an athlete. You need to think of yourself more as like a farmer with calluses on their hand And trying to make ends meet every year. You need to think of yourself more of the things that I've gone through. I'm writing you a letter from prison. You need to think of the things that Christ was led through and what he had to face. Now that's a summary of that last chapter that we just went through, and he's continuing that same thing right here to the end. To make sure that Timothy understands your life is going to be a struggle, but not just Timothy, but for you also. The Spirit needs you to get on board in understanding what your life is going to be like. I don't know if any of you have been to the British Lake District. I have by way of YouTube. It's the northwestern part of Britain, and apparently It well I saw it, but there is a beautiful lake called Windermere. Anybody been to Windermere? Nope. Alright. So uh there is a road there that takes you up to High Kirkstone Pass. And the road is so winding and it is so steep. Does anybody know the name of this road? It's called the struggle. That's the name of the road. And it's quite fitting. I went ahead and watched the someone try to go up the road on a bike on YouTube and it did not look pleasant. It looked like a good way to die. It appears to be a steep, winding, unending road where you would just think of how much of a struggle it is the entire time. And that's the point that that's our first lesson here that Paul is giving to us, and it's an important lesson to remember that life is in fact a struggle. Now I'm not saying every single moment, who could ever make a case like that Just the other day I saw somebody enjoying a monarch butterfly land on a flower. They weren't having a struggle, right? But You know, then the next minute it wouldn't be unusual for them to trip and fall into the cone flower and get spikes in their face, because that's the way that life is. Life can be a struggle, particularly within your ministry, but that is not the lesson that America tends to give to us. And tends to give to you. There's a continual Fifth Avenue marketing trying to get you to believe that life actually isn't that much of a struggle. And if you are having a struggle, I have the product that could solve the whole thing for you. America pretends that the world is in a struggle and that through science we can overcome all of these things. And this is in fact how America gets you to leave Christ and worship the Empire. They provide for you immediately whereas you have to wait for Christ. These are all arguments against him And the message is built on years and years and years and millions and millions of dollars of marketing research to know you and how you function. as a biological being to make sure that you buy into this, that life really isn't a struggle, and if it is, it can be fixed pretty quickly. I mean if if you just consider like the the mundane task that all of us have uh of washing dishes. Apparently there are s some people who wash dishes so much and so often that their hands crack And Fifth Avenue Marketing has told you and given you a diagnosis of your disease, you have dishpan hands. And if you have dispan hands, there's one solution to that. It's palm olive disdurgent, which makes your hands soft and they don't crack anymore. And that sounds silly for me to bring that up, a palm olive commercial, but it is the same mentality that is offered to you every single day of your life. that life is not that much of a struggle and if it is I have a product that you can order on Amazon or get cheaper at Aldi and it can solve it But what Paul is trying to say to you here in this lesson, and what the Spirit is saying to you, is that life isn't always like that. And some of you know that. There will be some dragons that enter into your life where you can try these different things. You can spend yourself going to different doctors and reading different books and trying different hobbies, and at the end of the adventure, you find that you still did not have the cure. That there are problems that are so deep within the human life that you characterize them as a struggle, and they will go on until the end. And Paul is making sure that we understand that there are some things like that that will enter into your ministry, your ministry as a mother. Your ministry as a father, as a grandmother, a grandfather, your ministry to your co-workers, we go through these categories all the time, so I don't need to list everything In contradiction to the American message, which has really become global, it's more of a Western message. You must remember that there is a promise that has been given to us. That until Christ returns to restore everything, there is hardship That will be maintained within our lives, even by the direct providence of God. Listen to this again. Sometimes we forget this, but in Genesis 3:17 through 19, Remember that this was given to us as a human race. Because you have heeded the voice of your wife, and have eaten from the tree of which I commanded you, saying you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground for your sake, and toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Both thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you And you shall eat the herb of the field. In the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you return to the ground. For out of it you were taken, for dust you are, and to dust you shall return. That is still a description of the plight of the human race. And you are a part of the human race, which means it is still a description of your particular plight, especially when you enter into your ministries. And seek to serve Jesus Christ. I'll just say one last thing on this. I'll be very brief on this first point that we must remember that ministry is a struggle. I just mentioned to you. Have we forgotten as Christians That God has included the book of Job in the Bible. And it is still relevant and applicable to you today because of the nature of human life particularly within our ministry. That uh that can give a lot of dividends, just remembering that life is a struggle and That ministry is a struggle. That's the first rule of presupposition that's going on here as we look at all of the struggles that Paul is experiencing all the way to the end. Now, lesson number two. Lesson number two, this is a very sweet lesson. I haven't seen it more sweetly put than in this passage, and that is that Christian, as you are seeking to fulfill your ministry in Christ, you need each other. You need each other. We see the real human side of Paul in this passage, don't we? Are you surprised by some of the things that he says? There's kind of a staccato effect to the passage. He's it it's like a a list that somebody would hand you if you're going into like camper world and you gotta get a bunch of stuff for camping. There's like all these different kinds of things. That's how this letter ends. And he ends up revealing himself in real personal ways, like in verse number 9, for example. He reveals his need for other people, continual need of for other people to be a part of his ministry, for him to be able to go on and serving the Lord. When he in verse 9 pleads with Timothy to visit with him. And if you were to read this passage a little bit more carefully, you'd see that Paul is actually taking steps to make arrangements so that Timothy could be replaced. in Ephesus so that Timothy could get over to Paul. And you know one of the reasons why Paul wants Timothy to be there besides just his company? Here's a real human side is that in verse number thirteen, Timothy will bring Paul his books and his parchments You know, you just wonder what books were those? Were they documents of Roman citizenship? Were they some scrolls where Paul is trying to work out some particular things, a new apologetic argument about Christ from the scriptures before the Jews? And he doesn't just mention the books and the parchments, but he also says, because in verse 21, winter is coming, which will prohibit travel, and also I presume would be cold within a jail cell. Timothy is to bring his cloak. I mean, how much more vulnerable and human do you get when you're relying on other people to bring you something that is basically equivalent to us today as a jacket? To continue my ministry for the Lord, I need you to bring my peacoat. Would perhaps be something I'd write to you, and then you'd say, Well, you don't have a peacoat. And I said, Well, I always wanted one. Why don't you get me one? And then Paul wants Mark to visit to help and to be useful in his ministry. And then in verse 21, Paul is comforted by the company of other brothers and sisters in the kingdom, and they all give greetings to each other. And I just wonder if that picture of what it actually looks like surprises you. Paul, the mighty apostle, needs his cloak to keep warm. He needs somebody to bring his books. Paul the Mighty needs other people to serve Jesus Christ in his high calling. And that is a good lesson of how much we need each other, no matter what the service is to Christ. You're not supposed to be doing this on your own I was working with uh someone uh a while back who had to go and this happens pretty regularly these days, but this was This is a a little while back, where a person will go from a hospital, they have to be hospitalized because of a particular condition, and then they're they move you from a hospital into a rehabilitation center Now, a rehabilitation center when I was growing up usually was substance abuse. Here, I know you all know this now, rehabilitation means you just need rehab because you tore your ACL or whatever it is. And I was working with someone who was in that situation, and I ended up speaking with a anauronal calendar specialist. on moving this person from the hospital and into the rehabilitation center. And this is uh maybe this will surprise you. I was really surprised by this. The Anak Anoronal County Specialist leaned in to me as we were talking about this and they said If they go to the rehabilitation center, you have to make sure that the people from your church are constantly visiting. Because if they're left alone, bad things happen in these places. Now it's not the first time that I've heard that since. Of the wicked things that take place. No food given, medicine not delivered, things not changed that need changing. You have to argue and fight with people, people stealing your phones and your headphones when you're asleep, who are staff. So, this is an obvious case where if you're going to be able to move forward and to fulfill your ministry, you obviously need other people in your life to be able to help you through a situation like that. And it's a good example of all of the different things that we face as Christians, just as an example. I remember when my family and I were on vacation and we received a phone call, I believe it was in 2016. That my stepfather was hit by an SUV. We went to help my mother in Florida. When we arrived in Florida, my entire family, all of the children, got strep. It was great. I was in charge of all of the services. It was an extremely stressful time, and but then lo and behold, knowing that we need other people, Christ sent me a woman who made bone broth soup and took care of my wife. and my children, at least part of the time. And as you look around, you have got to start asking the question, if you haven't already, how is it that you can look out for each other? Because this is how important it is. Just speaking theologically for a moment, Jesus Christ has called the people around you to himself to serve him as their creator. That is how important their calling is. And they are called therefore to walk worthy of their calling in all of the variety of things that Christ has placed on their lap. But they're not able to do it unless other people help them. That's how God has made us like an organism, like a body. Where one person is an arm and another person is a leg, but together we can all fit together into the body of Christ to help one another. That's how important this is That the person that is sitting next to you depends upon you. So begin asking yourself, how is it that you could begin to be there for each other? That we might fulfill our ministry, as we even see here with the Apostle Paul and how he's fulfilling his ministry by Timothy visiting him, bringing books and parchments, his cloak. Mark is useful to him and these other believers who are bringing him food in prison and taking care of him. That's lesson number two. We need each other. Life is a struggle, especially ministry, and you need each other. Lesson number three, the Lord is with you. In your ministry. Lesson number three is that the Lord is with you. This is a vital lesson. This is the lesson that if you don't learn it, And you conceive of ministry as the riding of a horse, this is the thing that if you don't believe it, you get knocked off the horse. It's that vital. You must believe that the Lord is with you. He's not absent, and he's not, if you were to think of it even more negatively, he's not against you. Some of those two things go together. But the Lord is with you. If you read this passage again, you can see Paul describing his Roman pretrial. The other believers left him to testify by himself. But you see there in that next paragraph when we when we get to it, he mentions at verse number 16. Let me slow my mouth down for a second. Verse number sixteen, at my first offense no one stood with me, but all forsook me. May it not be charged against them Then go to number 17, and we see a contrast. All of this happened, but in contrast they left me, but in contrast, who is with me? The Lord. The Lord stood with me and strengthened me, so that the message might be preached fully through me, and that all the Gentiles might hear. Also I was delivered. Okay, so that's a passive. That means that God was behind that deliverance. So God is delivering him out of the mouth of the lion, and the Lord will deliver me from every evil work and preserve me for his heavenly kingdom. To him be glory forever and ever. Amen. Paul saw that Christ was with him in the lion's den. And now we need to be careful here because we're going to take this on as our own lesson that Christ is with us, which as human beings is extremely difficult to continue to believe that. But we have to be careful. You could be reading this, and you could read those same words that I just read to you, and you could say, The Lord is with you in the lion's den. And he will deliver you from the mouth of a lion. And you could say, as a conclusion of that, they'll never get me. But we know that that can't be true. When Paul says I'm delivered from the lion's den and the Lord is with me, he's not saying, and they'll never get me. We know that's not true because in the paragraph before, when we were studying, when I was preaching last week, we pointed out that Paul already said that he was being poured out for the church and that his departure was at hand. Death will get him. The departure will be the execution. And it was to be so from the beginning. I don't know if I've quoted this to you before, but Acts 9, 15 through 16, but the Lord said to him, Go, speaking of Paul. For he is a chosen vessel of mine to bear my name before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel, for I will show him how many things he must suffer for my name's sake. And here it is. And if you read this passage closely, Paul is saying that Christ will ultimately rescue him from every evil work. That is true. But take a look more closely at the passage, and the Lord will deliver me, verse 18, from every evil work and rescue or preserve or save me into check out the Greek Into his heavenly kingdom. Into his heavenly kingdom. So that's the real comfort and strength that Paul is drawing upon here. Paul is saying that Christ will ultimately rescue him from every evil work into his heavenly kingdom. Jesus will not rescue him from death, but through and on the other side of death. Death is not the end for Paul. It's not the annihilation of Paul. It is the voyage from one shore to another shore, and on that other shore it is far more delightful than this shore Now, this is quite a different view than what our culture would say to you as you're thinking about this point. It's quite a different view. America teaches the Lion King theory. Does everybody know what the Lion King theory is? It's important for us as Christians that we don't buy into this. We're making the argument from this passage, based on Paul and what he said, that the Lord is with you. That even if you die, the Lord is still with you because he takes you across the shore into his heavenly kingdom. But our culture does not teach those same things. Instead, they teach the Lion King theory. Here is a scene from the Lion King. Mufasa and Young Simba are having a conversation about death. Everything you see exists together in a delicate balance, says Mufasa. As king, you need to understand that balance and respect all the creatures, from the crawling and to the leaping antelope. Young Simba says, but Dad, don't we eat the antelope? Mufasa, yes Simba, but let me explain. When we die, our bodies become the grass and the antelope eat the grass. And so we're all connected in the great circle of life. Cue the song. You're a good assistant. You're a good assistant. Here Paul contradicts that saying that after death we keep living Death is but a curtain that is split that we walk through For the Christian, this life is only the beginning and then after death is the best part. Can you imagine? Really holding on to that. For us to be able to know that the Lord is with us. You know, C. S. Lewis uh describes this pretty well. uh an analogy to it pretty well at the end of the the Narnia series. I believe that book is called The Last Battle. Am I to have that right He says this in closing out the book. He says, all they're speaking of all the characters that are deceased. All their life in this world and all their adventures had only been the cover and the title page Now at last they were beginning chapter one of the great story, which no one on earth has read, which goes on forever. In which every chapter is better than the one before. Now that's Paul's viewpoint as he faces this, so that even When the guillotine or whatever comes down, he's still saying, the Lord is with me. And the same thing may be said to you here today that in your ministries, The Lord is with you. I'll even dare to say the Lord is with you more than you ever realized. Now, lesson number four. There's a couple different ways that we could take this lesson. One is just an immediate demand on you, and another would be a test. If you're and I'll stick with the test and we'll see what happens from there. If you're really getting these lessons You're understanding that life is a struggle, that you need each other, but that even if human beings depart from you, especially if they do, that the Lord is with you. If you're starting to get all that. If you're starting to mature in this thing that we call the Christian faith and in your ministry, there's a way to test if that's the case. . . There's a way to test to see if you're really getting it. And this is the test. That you worship and praise God. That's the test. It's also the, I could move it into an action that you should be taking for health, but we'll just consider it in light of the test. And so sometimes we read over this. If you take a look in verse 18, We just keep flying by and we don't realize what has happened here. But Paul starts to worship Jesus Christ in the letter. Can you imagine writing me a letter? You all, a lot of you have engineer brains, and you like to stay on track, which is great. I mean that's a real gift. Can you imagine writing a letter, trying to make a point, and trying to stay on point, and then all of a sudden you include in the letter to me you worshiping God? That's how serious this was for the Apostle Paul. Moving into praise in the midst of the letter. Did you catch it? To him be glory forever and ever. Amen. Now, whenever I hear you say amen, it means you want me to do what you're doing or believe what you're believing. Hey, when I say amen, when we just did, don't you think the same thing and you're going to say amen? And that's what Paul is doing here, also, is he appealing to Timothy for Timothy to be able to see this too. I know that life is a struggle and that ministry is a struggle. Timothy, you don't even know the half of it There are people that are going to cause you trouble just when your stomach starts to hurt again. They'll be the cause of your ulcers But nevertheless, if you really understand what I'm saying to you and how much the Lord is with you, and that he really is taking us into his heavenly kingdom. But we've got to get there through struggle. You are going to erupt in praise and not in discontent or continual grief without hope. Now, how is it that Paul could say that? If we're honest, I think even Christian congregations, we ask the question, and you ask the question: join in praise for what reason? I'm still waiting to have a reason to give praise to God. I think if you are honest, you think that thought more often than you care to admit. We tend not to see what Paul saw when he pondered the idea of entering the heavenly kingdom. Now I think the Joseph story can help here. The Joseph story, you remember, he goes through this struggle. With help from others and the attention of the Lord, just like in our passage, Joseph made it into the pinnacle of an analogous kingdom, looking out over all of the land of what he was in charge of. And the sweetest part for him, if you remember, that kind of consummate moment, the sweetest part was for him to take all of the agony that he felt. all of the heartache and the pain and the false accusations and the struggle. He took all of those things and then God at the end put him up on a pinnacle for him to be able to see All of those things in light of the sovereignty of God and what he was accomplishing for good, because he is a good God. And Joseph summarizes all of that In the rescue of his father and his brothers, and he says, what you intended for evil, God had always made for good. And I believe that when Paul ponders the entering into the kingdom, he thinks of how the scriptures end and what has been revealed to him in the third heaven, and kind of like on a pinnacle, he's able to see how all of this is going to work out. And that he has been a part of the greatest story that has ever been told. That all the pain, the stonings, the ridicule, and the mocking, that they make sense to him now, and they are worth it. Because of what lies on the other side, Christ turns it all to good If you read Paul's other letters, you know that Paul surveys all of human history and can see that every evil which mankind intended, God uses to make something good. There is nothing that will stand that wasn't worth it for the glory of God and the good of his preachers. That will be an amazing day. And to see that it all comes from his hand as the ultimate author and artist? In the end, when God lets us look on this history from the other side, From the other world, we will see that it was all worth it, and we are part of the greatest story ever told also. And you know what we're going to do? This is the whole point. Do you know what we'll do when we're able to see that and connect it to what God has done through Christ? You're going to want to sing. And if you play an instrument, you're going to say, where's my instrument? Or if you're in heaven, what kind of instruments do they have here? I need to learn how to play them very quickly. Paul sees that now, and you must see that now, so that you can start to worship now. It is when we don't get those earlier lessons. That there's a weight that pulls us down underneath and we can't see. And we are never led to worship because we're so angry with God that our life is a struggle and we think life wasn't meant to be like this. We think that we're alone when actually Christ is really with us, and there's this bitterness and there's this resentment that builds up in our hearts, and we do not have any good reasons to actually praise Him. We have more praise for the Orioles than for Jesus Christ. I'm not saying that's what you have. I'm just saying that's where we can get as a condition as a human being. Paul sees what we are to see, if we see rightly by the influence of the Holy Spirit. And when we see God and what he is accomplishing through Christ and His Spirit, we are led to worship. That's health. That's how you know that the heart's beating the way that it should. C. S. Lewis captures this when he says, I think we delight to praise what we enjoy. Because the praise not merely expresses, but it completes the enjoyment. It is the appointed consummation. Now I want you to think about that for a moment. It is not out of compliment that lovers keep telling one another how beautiful they are. I remember when some of these young men in here finally found a girl that would take interest in them. And they were not telling me 24-7. About them just out of compliment. It was the consummate activity was to talk about them. It was the next natural step for their soul. It was the appointed consummation. It is not out of compliment that lovers keep telling one another how beautiful they are, if the d delight is incomplete till it is expressed It is frustrating to have discovered a new author or a new movie and not be able to tell anyone how good it is. To come suddenly at the turn of a road upon some mountain valley of unexpected grandeur, and then you have to keep silent about it? You can't talk about the autumn foliage? Imagine having to keep silent in such a situation because the people that are with you care about that foliage just about as much as they would a tin can in a ditch. Imagine hearing a good joke and you have no one to share the joke with. Our catechism says that man's chief end is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. But we shall then know that these are the same thing. Fully to enjoy is to glorify. In commanding us to glorify Him, God is inviting us to enjoy Him. And so our travels this morning end in worship. As you serve Christ with our remaining days, you must take up these final lessons from 2 Timothy, which acts as a kind of summary of the letters. Lesson number one, you will struggle, my friends. Lesson number two, you need each other. Lesson number three, the Lord is with you even when others are not. And lesson number four, let us worship Him. Let us judge our health by our willingness of praise as a consummate act as witnesses to his glory. Please pray with me