Okay, sorry for the tardy start. We are trying to figure out how to get the camera to face the right way, and I think we finally got it. To confirm. Um I just have this pulled up. My Facebook page should be live. Are you guys seeing that? Okay, well. If anybody is watching live if you could comment in the comment section just so I know you're there, that would be good. Any kind of turn the volume down on your phone? Okay. Alright. Does it look okay? Yeah. Looks good to me Let me see how it looks. Alright. Very good. Well, it's a little after six, so I'm gonna assume that uh most people who are looking to join us at six have been looking looking to do so and are now connected. Actually turn your phone up just for a minute to make sure I work I can you can hear me okay on your phone. Can you hear can you hear what I'm saying okay on your phone? You're not hearing any audio? It it it's a few beats behind you. Oh yeah, because there's a there's a processing delay, but are you s are you able to hear hear me on your phone? If you're able to hear me out in the Facebook land, could you go in the comments that you're hearing me? No. Kelly just said how I heard you. Okay, you can hear me Okay. Um so somebody confirm that they can hear me? Or you confirm you can hear me. Um I hear it. You hear me? All right. Standing. Very good. Kelly's watching. Okay, very good. Hi everybody. So um a couple of technical things regarding you know what we're doing here. Not everybody who's part of our of Living Faith Church, Living Faith Ministries Church is um is connected on Facebook. If you know somebody like that you think would want to be able to to see and hear what's going on A workaround idea popped into my mind. If you have their cell number and they have a smartphone, uh you could FaceTime them and position uh one you know if you have two phones, if you're uh If you're not watching this on the computer, you can position your phone in such a way that they can see and hear the Facebook Live broadcast. So that's something Kelly is saying it's hard to hear. Maybe you just sit closer. If I sit on a can you and how do I s can you s Okay. How does it does this sound better? Is it better if I'm sitting here? Your sister's watching too, by the way. So anyway, let uh somebody let me know if the audio is is okay that you can actually hear it. Um anybody saying they can hear it? No. No. All right, so in the comments section, uh if you have praise reports or prayer requests or things like that, please share them in the comments section. Better. And then Dina is going to uh help to pass those along as best as she's able as we we go through this. Uh we're going to be singing uh and we're gonna attempt to do kind of a virtual congregational sing of um It is Well with My Soul and the lyrics are going to be posted in the comment section hopefully Hopefully uh you you're probably gonna be familiar with the tune, but you might not have all the lyrics memorized. And so you'll be able to see what that is, uh what the words are so you can sing along when we do that. Tina's gonna be singing a song Sorry, you can tune out at that point. What we're gonna do here is kind of worship. It's really It's kind of a hybrid. It's kind of a family style meeting, uh, with worship elements or it's a worship with family style meeting elements included. It's gonna be a little bit different. two on on regular Sunday evenings, but we are going to have a message, and in that message, we're going to be working through a few passages of the Bible, so I would encourage you to have a Bible handy I'm assuming you have one in your house, so if it's not already at your side or on your lap, go grab your Bible if you would. What else do I need to uh Is there anything else announcement wise that you can think of? Is anybody expressing that they're having any challenges whatsoever? No. Okay. Well then, let me get my uh stuff together. An audience of seven is watching, thank you. For joining us. An audience is seven. And notice how we are practicing social distancing. Although Tori and I share a bed unless it's Nori. So who who are the seven, just so I know? Sure, Scott, your sister, um, Kelly, Robin, Galloway Jones, um Danny Angela, me. There you go. Okay. What are you looking for? I had a verse picked out for the call to worship and I lost track of it. And Julie Gaber, hi Julie. Okay, so I'm gonna uh read a uh short verse from Psalm 48 to get us uh officially started here. Uh by the way, I have a song we're I can post them here. Oh okay. So the uh song lyrics we posted here in just a second and then we're gonna also try to post this the lyrics to the song that Dina's gonna be singing. And that's not a sing along, but the the the words are particularly appropriate for the moment, it seems, and so they're pretty powerful, and you might want to at least be able to see and reference the lyrics later if you want. Um should they know what Angela McIntosh posted? Oh yeah. Angela's the one posting those those lyrics in the comment section. So Psalm 48 begins, Great is the Lord, the most worthy of praise, and the city of our God, his holy mountain. It is beautiful in its loftiness, the joy of the whole earth like the utmost heights of Zephon and Mount is Mount Zion, the city of the great king. God is in her citadels, he has shown himself to be her fortress. God is our fortress. It is Him that we come together to worship in this particular way at this particular time. And all of life is worship. And we're now going to sing Oh you have to come back to the side. The second one Okay. It's seven and oh it it is well with my soul. Ready? Yeah. In peace like a river, I can get my way when sorrows like sea billows roll Whatever my life thou had sought me to say It is well, it is well, it nice so It is well, it is well with my soul, with my soul, it is a well It is well with my soul election Thou trial shall come, let this last the church control I cry, Catherine, God in my girls estate. And that shun his own blood for my soul. It is well. It is well With my soul, with my soul. It is well, it is well with my soul. I say no double this morning My sin not in part, but the whole is nailed to the cross And I bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Oh my soul. It is a well, it is well with my soul, with my soul, It is well, it is well with my soul and a good haster day When the face shall be signed, the clouds he rolls back as a scroll. The trump shall resound, and the Lord shall descend Even so it is well with my soul. It is a well is well with my soul with my soul it is a well It is well with my soul. Alright, hopefully you guys can hear that well enough to understand the song, but not so well that our singing came through. So let me have a prayer of invitation uh at at this point, just a short prayer, and then we're gonna have a scripture reading. If you want to read Along it's going to be Psalm 91. Father, we thank you for giving us this opportunity to come together in person and verse virtually, to lift up your praises, to do the best we can under the circumstances, to gather as your people, to recognize the unity that we have in Christ, that we are with one church universally around the globe and um we thank you that your spirit is here with us and leading us in what we do help us to to worship you well this evening. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. Psalm ninety-one. Do you want to come sit here? You could sit down in the high God's presence, spend the night in Shaddai's shadow. Say this God, you're my refuge. I trust in you and I'm safe. That's right. He rescues you from hidden traps, shields you from deadly hazards. His huge outstretched arms protect you. You under them you're perfectly safe. His arms fend off all harm. Fear nothing, not wild wolves in the night, not flying arrows in the day. Not disease that fowls through the darkness, not disaster that erupts at high noon. Even though others that come all around drop light flies right and left, no harm will even great raise you you'll stand untouched watch it all from a distance watch the wicked turn into corpses yes because god's your refuge the high god your very own heart Evil can't get close to you. Harm can't get through the door. He ordered his angels to guard you wherever you go. If you stumble, then They'll catch you. Their job is to keep you from falling. You'll walk unharmed among lions and snakes and kick young lions and serpents from the past. If you hold on to me for dear life, says God, I'll get you out of any trouble. I'll give you the best of care. If you only get to know and trust me. Call me and I'll answer. Be at your side in bad times. I'll rescue you. Then throw you a party. I'll give you a long life. Give you a long drink of salvation. Amen. You think that was the amplified version? It was the message Or the message version, okay I like that one with that. It seems to be a little bit more poetic. Yeah, anyway. Um any so whether it's the message version or the NES version or the NIV, that is the very Word of God. Those who have ears to hear, let them hear. We're now going to do what we always do during our Sunday evening gathering In the sanctuary when we have them, and that is to a prayers of the people that involves the voices of the people. A little harder to do in our context. But does anybody share any prayer requests in our context incorporate them into this. But model similarly after what we normally do. Dina is going to open us in prayer. And then if Angela wants to pray additionally after Dina prays, she can join Join in. If you were here, you could join in as well, but you're gonna have to kind of join in in spirit and uh include your your prayers uh virtually, I guess. Uh and then uh after period of time uh uh passes, I will close us in prayer. So does anything come through? No. Okay. Well for now we're gonna assume that you have no prayer requests and everything's hunky dory. Okie dokie. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time that we can gather together. We thank you that so many are able to join through I curse it sometimes to be quite honest. But I thank you in this moment that we can use it so that we can gather together as your people. Under um Um the care of you, knowing that you are in full control of everything that's going on. So we rest in you, we trust in you, we ask that you protect those who are on the front lines of this COVID-19, those who are in the healthcare provision, those who are you know doing anything that is quote unquote essential. We're all essential in your eyes. And so I thank you for that reminder that we are all very essential. But for those who are in harm's way, and you know who they are. We ask an extra special blessing as just as the psalmist wrote, we know they You are taking care of us because we are your people and you are jealous, God, and you are jealous for us. So we thank you for the assurance that comes with knowing that Christ is our Lord and Savior. Thank you in your name. Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Father, for this time together. Lord, we are so grateful. that we have still have so much to be grateful for, Lord, like being able to meet this way. And we just ask for your kind blessing upon this gathering, Lord. We ask that everything that is shared, Lord God, just come straight from the throne room of heaven and that your heart is shared and that your people know how much you love them and care for them and are protecting them and will get us through And we just thank you, Father, and ask for this kind blessing in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. And we thank you, Father, for the praise that's coming through on the text. from Carrie that Kyle's going to be coming home sooner than thought. So that is definitely a praise we've been praying for Kyle. And so we thank you for taking care of this whole situation and working it out for our Our good, the entire good of the family. Father, we thank you that you have humbled us to seek you at the foot of the cross. We thank you for bringing us us to a place in our life where we acknowledge our sin and weakness, our total dependence on you, certainly for salvation, but for every breath we take. We thank you for the truth that you are a sovereign God who is in control at all times. You have a plan and a purpose. For your people, for your creation, and your plan and your purpose orchestrates things so that all things in all situations are used by you for the blessing of your people to the glory of your name. We live in a broken Sin-riddled world, Lord, senseless killing and deaths, unnecessary division and divisive Hatred in hearts, greed and gluttony. Our society, our culture, our very selves, our Are guilty of so many of these sins each and every day. We yearn for the day that your kingdom will be firmly established here on earth. May your will even Now be done on earth as it is in heaven. We ask your forgiveness, knowing that you extend it through the blood of Christ. There are many failings for failing to do what is right and for doing what is wrong. Check the attitudes of our hearts. Help us have a forgiving attitude towards others. Steer us from temptation and doubts Encourage us in spiritual discipline that we would press more frequently, more fervently, more regularly into prayer, that we would seek truth and wisdom. Your word, that we will provide counsel to one another to be iron, sharpening iron, and that we would have a measure of Over overflowing measure of patience and kindness and gentleness and self-control in our life. Help your people, Lord. Be a shining light on a hill. Help us to show a lost and lonely world, that there is relationship, true relationship, bound together by your hope. Holy Spirit, in the person of your Son Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. So at this point we have a a song. You can sing along if you know it. We won't hear you, but you can sing along if you know it. And the lyrics are posted in the comment section. So if you want to If you want to read along to the lyrics, you can do so. And Dina's gonna sing that. It's a song by J. J. Heller called Save Me. And the words are so appropriate, and so I'm trying this a cappello, Lord help me. Alrighty. Living. Am I really living? Or am I just exiting Hiding right in danger, the world is full of danger, but if I never try to go Outside, my heart will waste away and come and serve me. You're the only source of all the peace I need come and save me. Come and save me. You tell me life will not be pain free what will be belwacy in your control dogs is light to you and all you ask me to do is For us, what you say is true. You are stronger than any terrible possible scenario Today come and save me. You are the only source of all the peace I need come and save me. Come and save me. Save me save me save me Save me, save me, save me, hold you are stronger than any teruble punsable Today come and save me The only source of all the peace Come and save me, come and save me. Amen. Thank you And glorious news is that God does come and save us. So I'm going to sit here again so that you can have a better shot at hearing me. That's like five feet close. Hopefully that will help. We're going to be doing kind of a survey, if you will, of uh mostly of the Old Testament, to be honest, mostly in what's It's called different things by different people. I'm not sure where my water. Not sure how familiar you are with all the different biological terms but the first five books of the Bible sometimes called the Pentateuch, sometimes called the Torah, sometimes called a law, sometimes called the Book of Moses. The books of Moses is uh Lots of names for it. Why would that be? Well, because it's a pretty darn important part of the Bible. All the Bible is important, but these are the first five. They're pretty foundational. So we're going to start there and spend some time there. and see how what we can learn there. Yeah, I know. Step old, you know, how many thousands of years ago, totally dated, out of touch, irrelevant text, right, for our lives today I had somebody say that to me the other day. There's nothing in the Bible that's relevant to our current situation. He didn't use those exact words, but there's a gist of it. We're going to find out exactly how true that is or isn't here this evening. You're probably familiar with the general story arc of what happens in the early part of Genesis, but there might be parts of what I'm going to say tonight that will strike you as fresh insights and uh if so I hope they're a blessing to your heart. So Genesis begins famously with the creation story. God makes everything out of nothing And everything he makes is good. And then kind of the crowning achievement of the creation is Adam and Eve. And after he makes humankind, God himself seems that creation is very good. Adam and Eve are in loving relationship. They have an unsullied direct relationship with God Himself. They're in this beautiful, pristine garden. Everything is as it should be. Everything is wonderful. Everything is to use a human Hebrew word shalom. Now in our English translations, usually we'll see the shalom rather simply translated as peace. But that is such a weak translation. for the word. Sure, peace is part of it, but it's about satisfaction and flourishing and wholeness and Think about those moments in your life, those isolated almost microseconds sometimes in your life where you've had just glorious experience. Maybe it's the moment when you were proposed to or you proposed to someone. Maybe it's watching your bride come down the aisle at the wedding. Maybe it's the birth of a child. Maybe it's in those moments of intimate union with your spouse. Maybe when everything else is lost to you and you're just in that That place of specialness, of peace, peace that surpasses understanding, that kind of peace Imagine that. That's shalom. And that's what Adam and Eve had in Genesis chapter 1. in chapter 2. Why don't we have that anymore? Well, because we have Genesis chapter 3. And in Genesis chapter 3, I'm going to read verses 8 through 11 here. And then the man and his wife, they heard the sound of the Lord God as he was walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And I want to swing back on that word cool in the day. And they hid from the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man, Where are you? And that's not a geographical locator. He's not doing GPS on Ad Like he's lost track of him somewhere, his microchip that he embedded to in his malfunction, and he's where are you spiritually? God knows the answer. That's a check yourself question for Adam as being asked. And Adam answered, I heard you in the garden. I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid. Adam feels fear and shame because of guilt. And so he's hiding. Even in the garden, which I just got done describing, the shalom environment that they're in, even there. He feels shame and guilt and it makes him afraid. And I want to swing back to that word cool. You know the all all of our English translations, as far as I know, there might be an exception, but I think they all translate uh the word cool there. Literally, it's the word spirit. So think about that. God, he's in the garden. In the spirit of the day. What was the spirit of the day? The spirit of the day was that shalom I just described. It's the spirit of shalom that carried the day We were made to live in a spirit of shalom. But as we learn in 2 Timothy, There's also a spirit of fear. And we're not called to that. We weren't made for that, but we get into that. And here we see the introduction of the spirit of fear. The spirit of fear caused by disobedience, caused by sin, caused by a brokenness in the relationship with God, which immediately led to a brokenness in the relationship with God. In the marital union. They're pointing fingers to each other. I didn't do it. She did it. He did. There's an immediate brokenness, and that brokenness is driven forward even more and more by fear. Now there's different kinds of fear. There's a godly sort of fear, a reverent awe and respect and uh And a subjugation to the to the holiness and awesomeness that is God. That's a righteous kind of a fear. And then there's a worldly kind of a fear, an unrighteous fear A fear that causes us to cower. A fear that causes us to run away from God, to run away from others, to run away from responsibilities because we're afraid we just don't stack up. up. There's godly fear and there's worldly fear. And what we have introduced into our lives now, because of our original father and mother, their sin, their original sin. has now infected all of us with a spirit of fear. And the only solution to that is to have the spirit of fear cast out and replaced by the spirit of Now what are we afraid of? What are we most afraid of? We're afraid of a lot of things, but what are we ultimately afraid of? What were the consequences of that disobedience? In that sin. The consequences are death. So we're afraid to die. And rightfully so. Death is a dastardly enemy. It's a bad thing. So often you hear people say, oh, it's just the You know, it's the cycle of life, it's just natural to die, it's just what happens. Not originally that wasn't the plan. There was no death in in the original plan, but there's death now, and we're afraid of it. Because It's an enemy. And we immediately see the death and the killing and the fear of that play out right away. I just read from Genesis chapter 3, 1, Genesis chapter 4. Cain kills his brother Abel. And then he's afraid someone's going to try to kill him if God doesn't put a special seal of protection on him. And in Genesis chapter 5, we see a list of people. Actually, I'm going to turn there, if you want to turn to Genesis chapter 5. And I'm not going to read a huge section. I'm just going to point out uh something that is thematic and important and too often I think we miss it. It's right there in front of us and we miss it So what we have here is a list, a genealogy, a list of Adam's descendants that go from Adam all the way to Noah. And if we look in verse 5 is talking with Adam and the last four words there say, and then he died. And then jump ahead to verse Seth uh verse 8 talking about Seth and then he died. And then verse 11, and then he died. And then verse 14, and then he died And then verse 17, and then he died. And then verse 20, and then he died. And then we get to Enoch, who's an exception to the rule He doesn't die. He walked with God and then he was no more because God took him away. And this exception to the rule is a pointer to what awaits those Christians who are alive on the earth at the moment that Christ returns And so those who happen to be alive, when Christ returns, is churchly gathered to Him in that moment and they will have been walking with God and then will be no more. in the existence that we have now. And Enoch is a pointer to that, but he's an exception to the rule who provides that pointer. So then we go to Methuselah famously the oldest man recorded as ever living in the Bible, nine hundred and sixty-nine years. Nine hundred and sixty-nine years, that's a long time And they died. And Lamet, he died. They all died. This is telling us the lineage, and this is pointing to the lineage that would lead to the birth of the Savior, the one who would crush the head of the serpent, Jesus. Jesus Christ, the the seed, the seed of the woman, the perfect Israel is point at all of that. But don't miss out. Every single person, it goes out of its way to tell us. And then he died. All of us will die. And that's a real downer if we s stop there. And the downer continues. I mean in Genesis chapters six and seven. Everyone dies and one fell swoop. The flood roars through and everybody except for Noah and his family. everybody who was alive at that time died. Everybody who's alive now Say that Christ should return before our physical deaths, we'll die. I wasn't exactly sure of the numbers when I looked them up. Do you know? That this year it's projected that 120 million people around the world will die. 120 million will die this year. year. That is 10 million a month. 10 million. Now not to diminish the seriousness of the COVID-19, but just to put it in perspective a little bit. In three in the last three months, last time I checked it somewhere around thirty thousand people I think are confirmed uh Reportedly confirmed dead from COVID-19. 30,000, that's a lot of people. That's horrible. There are cities not or towns not that big. 30,000 people. Well, compare that 30,000 to 30 million. In the last three months, 30 million people have died across the planet. On average, approximately four people die every second Four people every second. And I'm pointing this out to drive home the universal truth that we all face. We We are finite. We are mortal. We do not live forever. We're going to die. That's the end game for us. Unless. Right, where's the hope? What's the point? Where's the meaning in anything that we do in life? Why? Get up in the morning. Well, God tells his people if we look at Genesis chapter 15, verse one. After this, the word of the Lord came to Abram, who would have his name later changed to Abraham, in a vision Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your very great reward. And so I just got done talking about everybody dies Historically that's been true. Biblically it affirms that truth. It over and over affirms that truth. The statistics tell us that's true. Our life experience tells us that that's true Have you ever known anybody to live forever? Everybody dies, so yeah, we should be afraid of dying. And yeah, here God tells Abram, do not be afraid. In Genesis chapter 3, he's saying, Adam, where are you? And Adam answered that question by saying, I'm afraid. That's where I am. I'm afraid. And then God comes to Abram here and says, well, be afraid no more. You don't need to be afraid. Well, why? Because God says, I am your shield. That's the first part. And I am your great reward. This is not the first part. I am your shield. God is our protector, our provider. He is there as we prayed this evening. God is in control. He is sovereign. He is all-powerful As the not too long ago passed away, R. C. Scroll used to love to say, there are no maverick molecules. There's no molecule in the universe that is somehow spinning out of control and God can't quite get his hands around it. God is in control of everything, everywhere, all the time. And that's the God who provides for and protects his people. And so we are protected through common grace, through abundant provisions, through Through the illumination of our mind through his Holy Spirit, through so many gifts that God gives us, he provides for us and is a shield and a defense against the bad things that befall us in this world. But of course, we still have the consequences of our sin. There's still a price to be paid. And so that shield in the physical realm only protects us so far. So then what? Well that's where the last phrase comes in. Don't be afraid, I am your shield, your very great reward. What is our reward? Our reward is the things yet to come. That future shalom, when everything is restored to the way it's supposed to be, when Christ returns. And forever firmly establishes his kingdom, casting all that is evil into the lake of fire Christ wins. And so we need not be afraid. And Abraham goes on to live a life without fear, sometimes. Just like we as Christians go on to live a life without fear, sometimes. But Abraham gives into that fear on occasion. He lies about who his wife is. he's that she's merely his sister and not his wife that causes problems. His nephew Lot and his wife in Genesis chapter 19, they're afraid. They're afraid to leave Leave Sodom, which was about to be destroyed. They're they were afraid to turn their back on what they were familiar with. They were they were afraid to to let go of their possessions, to let go of their friends, let go of their house to let go of the life that they knew. And God said, you need to go. And they were resistant. They practically had to be forced. And Lot kind of negotiates with God on the way He was afraid, but his wife was even more afraid to leave what she had, to leave behind what was hers. So she looks back and she thinks And throughout Genesis, then in the chapters, you know, the 20s and the 30s of Genesis, we have this story of Jacob. And Jacob does some really sinful things with regard to his brother Esau, and as a result, he's afraid. But then, interestingly, let's not miss this. In Genesis chapter 32, Jacob's going back to meet his brother Esau, and he's concerned that his brother Esau is going to seek revenge on him. And his brother would have had a right to do so, perhaps. So what does Jacob do? He prays to God in his fear, providing an example for us to follow. A Christ-like example, if you will. And then the last part of Genesis, kind of going through the the Genesis chapter 40s, we have the story of Joseph. And toward the end of that, toward the end of Genesis, uh Joseph is confronted by his brothers, or maybe better put, his brothers are confronted by Joseph, uh, and they're afraid because they meant harm to Joseph. They were going to kill him, they threw him in a pit, they sold him into slavery. Not a good deal. And they're afraid that now Joseph would become great and powerful in Egypt. over the years that he would seek his revenge. But it's in but he doesn't, because God intended it for good, a important lesson maybe in what's going on with us today. All things uh things might be intended, might be, others might intend it for evil, but God intends it for good. But then I want us to look at a verse in Genesis 46 Forty-six verse thirty. If I can get that should have uh bookmarked it So is the so verse 30 says, Israel. Israel is Jacob, his name had been changed Israel. by this point. Israel said to Joseph, now I am ready to die, since I have seen for myself that you are still alive. This is the hope of Christians. This is a gospel message. Israel, and we're Israel, all of God's chosen people throughout the ages are are God's chosen. There's an aspect in which we as believers in Christ our Israel because we're connected to the one true Israel, Jesus Christ. So we the people say to Joseph, who in this case, Joseph is a type of Christ. I'm not sure if you're familiar with the type of Christ. anti-type dynamics in the Bible that are recurring throughout. Joseph is a type of Christ. He's a pointer to Christ, a representative of what Christ would come to mean when the Messiah arrives on the scene. And so the people, Israel, say to Joseph slash Christ, now I'm ready to die. Why would God's people be ready to die? Because we have seen for ourselves that he is still alive. Particularly at this time of the year, it's so poignant. Jesus is risen. He is alive. And because we know he is alive, we are ready to die. Because when we die, that's not the end for those who are God's children. If we belong to Christ, when we die we merely change locations. And there's a sadness that comes with that for those who are left behind. I this is probably a weak analogy, but in when my daughter, you know, got married and moved to Pennsylvania, there was some sadness. You know, there's an ache that we miss having her in our home and she doesn't live in Maryland anymore. I'm sure it's true for my mother who now lives in Florida and I'm here in Maryland and she's like yeah, there's a certain kind of an aching sadness and I miss your presence. I'm not with you like I was, but I'm not Mourning without hope. I don't think my mother's mourning without hope about me and our lack of physical proximity. I have great joy in my my in my heart and in my life seeing what is going on in my daughter's life and I think my mother does with regard to my life. I wouldn't want her to be still in Maryland if it meant that she wasn't gonna be happily married, wasn't gonna have a wonderful career, wasn't gonna have a good start to her adult life, wasn't gonna launch into impacting the world in beautiful, wonderful, God honoring ways So I'm thrilled in that regard that she's changed location. It's like that with us when we die. Yes, we miss the one who has died, but we rejoice knowing where they've gone to be. And they're experiencing absent their body, they'll get their bodies back eventually, but even without their bodies, they're experiencing that shalom I was talking about. They're experiencing God and a in a pure uncluttered kind of a way than we're able to right now. We have those moments now, but we live in what I uh I and others, uh I learned it from them, talked about as the overlap of the ages, the already not yet You know, we're already one with God. He's already our King. He's already in charge of our lives. His kingdom is here on earth in His church. We're citizens of the kingdom now. But we're also citizens in the world now. We're still stuck in this broken down, disease-filled, prone to death die physical bodies and so there's both of those things are true but once we actually pass from this realm into the next both of those things aren't true in that way anymore. And so we shouldn't be afraid to die. Now I'm going to jump into Exodus chapter four. So if you want to Wanna flip your book, your uh the pages of your Bible forward a little bit? Exodus chapter four. So this is where we get a chance to really identify with the characters in the Bible. These aren't just stories about people that lived long ago and faraway places. These are stories about us. This story about Moses is a story about us just as much as it's a story about Moses. So God's people, you know, Abraham was promised the great nation would would come from him and they do. And that great nation ends up uh in Egypt and they're flourishing at first, but then they're put in bondage, they're slaves, and so now they're gonna be rescued. God's gonna rescue them from their bondage and slavery in it in Egypt. And Moses is going to be the one to help lead that charge. He's going to be the instrument that God uses to help get his people free, to have the people let go. And so God says, all right, here's what you can do, Moses. I'm going to be with you and I'm going to use you to do a wonderful work. And Moses, well in chapter 4, verse 1, says, well, golly gee whiz, God. I'm really happy about that. When do I start? Actually, what he says is, what if they don't believe me or listen to me and say the Lord did not appear to you? He's not trusting God. So God says, all right, let me bolster your faith a little bit. Let me show you some tools I'm going to give you. to use. And so I'm going to show you that when I'm with you, you're going to be able to turn a ro a staff into a serpent and back again. You're going to be able to show people a hand that becomes instantly leprous, and then instantly the leprosy leaves. And I'm going to do that to show them that I'm with you. And I'm going to do that to show you that I'm with you. And I'm showing you these signs now so you understand my capabilities. And this is just a a blip on the radar screen of what I'm capable of. So do you understand? I'm with you. I'm God I got this. I'm just choosing to give you the honor and the blessing of being used by me in this way. And so then Moses says, well golly gee whiz, when do we start Unfortunately, no. In verse 10, Moses said to the Lord, O Lord, I have never been eloquent, neither in the past nor since you have spoken to your servant. I am slow of speech and tongue. Now you've probably heard this taught and preached on a long for a number of times, and it's almost always put in the context of, well Moses, he you know he And maybe that's true. I feel like at least part of what's going on here Is Moses is making an excuse. It's like the teacher in an English class is assigned a speech to every student to stand up and do a five or ten minute speech, and one of the student says, is there any way I could get out of this assignment? I'm not really comfortable speaking in front of people. I get all nervous and my mouth gets dry and then I kind of kind of stumble over my words and I feel like a fool and is there any way I could do something else to get a grade other than have to make the speech because I I'm afraid. I think at least partly that's what Moses is doing here. And so then God says to him Who made your mouth, man? And as far as those looking at you and trusting you, and who gave them eyes to see? I got this. Don't you get it? I'm in control. And Moses in chapter 13 says, oh Lord, please send someone else to do it. He stops making excuses and beating around the bush, and he just comes out flatly and says, please, Lord, send someone else. I'm afraid. How does this apply to us, other than in the obvious ways? One of the ways this applies to us is to think about our relationship with God. Moses believes in God. He's talking to him for crying out loud. He believes in him. He knows he exists. He understands that he is God. He gets it. But despite believing in God, He doesn't believe God. There is a difference between believing in God and believing God God has given us a promise. The promise that we read in Genesis chapter 15, that He is our shield. He is our great reward. Do we believe it? We believe in God. We say that we trust in God. But do we trust God? There's a difference. And I feel like our faith has grown flabby. The American Church, the Western Church, perhaps the entire universal church. Our faith has grown flabby. So we can say with confidence. We believe in God. We trust in Christ. But we don't actually live our lives in a way that demonstrates that we actually believe what He is he says. We don't believe he's going to do what he told us. He assured us that he is doing and would do So where do we stand? Do we believe God? The Pharaoh of the Egyptian either believed God. He didn't really believe in God either. And so really bad things happened there and plagues, right? Plagues are nothing new. This coronavirus thing, it's not new Pestilence disease. It's been around pretty much for all human history. Just about all human history. And the Israelites, for a moment, they believe God. They don't just believe in God, but at a crucial moment, they actually believe God. God. And so they kill the lamb and they put the blood on the doorposts. And so when the firstborn of the Egyptians are killed, the the Israelites are spared. During the Passover. God said he would Passover them if they believed him. And so they did. And so God did. There's a lesson in that for us. But then, of course, just like us, the Israelites. They fell back into just believing in God and not believing him. And so they quarreled with Moses. They quarreled with God. In Exodus chapter 17, they actually put God on trial Challenging what he was saying he would do for them. Yeah, we believe in you, God, because we couldn't put you on trial otherwise. We have to believe in someone to put that person on trial, but we don't believe what you're saying. We don't trust you. And that's that's what that's where we are, too often. And then they don't trust God when he tells them, please, I've got this wonderful thing called the promise. A picture of heaven? A picture of Eden? It's kind of a midway stopping point between Eden and heaven that's representative of both, flowing with milk and honey And I'm going to have you enter into that place so that you can experience my blessings. You can experience shalom and you can experience life without fear by trusting me, believing me, walking. Walking with me as I walk with you. And so as a tactical move to make sure what they were up against, they sent some scouts in famously. If you're familiar with Sunday school lessons and reading your Bible over the years, you know this story. They send 12 scouts in to see what it's like in the Promised Land across that river. And they come back and test of them say, you know, yeah, it isn't full with milk and honey. It's a spectacular place. How wonderful it would be to live there. But we're afraid. We're so afraid. There's like big macho dudes there. There are warriors. And we're afraid. And number two who said, we're not afraid. We believe in God. We can beat Him. Well, where are we? Are we the two or are we the ten? Are we believing God and saying, no enemy can defeat us? The victory is already in one, in Christ. Or are we cowering in fear, refusing, refusing to enter into God's shalom, his promised land for us? The tent won the day back then, and so the people of God wandered the wilderness aimless for 40 years that they didn't have to. And then when they finally did enter the Promised Land, they had kings that were more afraid of their nearby opponents than they were of what God instructed them to do. And so they made ungodly alliances. They put their faith in the military. They put their faith and strategy. They they put their faith in their own wisdom or the counsel of others who weren't God. They weren't believing God. We need to believe God and not be so afraid. One of the kings who's representative of Christ pretty famously is King David. And King David He arrives on the scene in the estimation of the ancient Israelites when there's battle lines drawn And the Israelite army was a fr was was at a stalemate, at a standoff, and was kind of in a state of fear in that stalemate and standoff with the uh Philistine army and Goliath goes out as a great warrior and says, You send out your best warrior, and if I can beat him, war's over, we win. And if he can beat me, war's over, you win. And nobody would step out in faith. Everyone cowered and hid themselves in fear. And so David As a representative of Christ, a precursor, if you will, a type of Christ, he goes out and he Defeats the enemy for the people. David wins the battle for ancient Israel, just as Christ wins the battle for his church. That's the God that we serve. We fail at every turn, it seems, and God rescues us anyway. He loves us, he protects us, he provides for us, and he offers himself. He offers himself as our great reward. Are we Trusting and believing God when He tells us that that's true. If we trust and believe God, when He tells us that that's true, then we will not be afraid to die. We will follow after what God said in Genesis chapter 15. And we will follow after the example that we read about in Genesis chapter 46. We should be ready to die. Tomorrow was promised to no one. I quoted some stats before. I don't want to make this like a worldly thing, but I want I want us to understand We are at risk of dying through a multitude of ways. And we have to calculate those risks. We don't want to be reckless. We're not called to test God. We are called to exercise wisdom and good judgment, but we do that and with calculated risks every day of our life. When I was younger, I used to ride a minibike without a helmet. I don't do that anymore. Because when I was younger, I didn't really think it was all that much of a risk. But now I think it's too much of a risk to take. And I have too much responsibility and too many people that are depending on me to take that kind of approach. risk. Some people won't get in a plane because they're afraid the plane's going to crash. They don't want to take that risk. Well you've probably heard it family said there's more risk on the roads than there is in the air. And I don't think I understood exactly how true that was until I looked up the statistics. A hundred thousand people a month die in traffic accidents around the world. A hundred thousand a month die in traffic accidents. But we're not paralyzed by that reaction. And I don't know about you, but have you ever s have you ever been in a really, really serious accident? I have. Several. Have you ever been in a been involved in or or uh uh passed by a a freshly occurred accident where somebody died? I have. So these aren't made up statistics. I mean we have our own own anecdotal stories to share. There's a risk going in a hot air balloon. There's a risk jumping out of an airplane. There's a risk bungee jumping. But people do it Some people don't. The people that do have calculated the risk and they say, you know what, the experience of living life to the fullest is worth the risk. Are they testing God? If in their heart they're thinking of it as a test of God, well then they shouldn't be doing the bungee jump or the parachute dive. But if they don't feel like they're testing God, they feel like it's just a way to explain experience God's creation and the wonder of it all that much more amazingly, well, okay. We need to capture that attitude Because I'm concerned, not only are churches like ours not meeting in close proximity with one another at all, I think we're too readily shuttering ourselves indoors and not serving the poor, figuring out a way to reach out and be of service to the shut-ins, to be of of assistance at a sh soup kitchen or we're not doing the things God calls us people to do out of fear. Now if you're in a situation where where you're in a really high risk category uh with this COVID vir nineteen virus and you feel like, well if I were to go do any of those things, I feel like I would be testing God in that. And I'd I I I don't okay then don't do it. But if you're not feeling like you're testing God and you're really feeling like you're afraid to die. We as God's people need to check our hearts on that and we can do better. I hope that we can do better. And I mentioned in Genesis chapter thirty-two that Jacob, when he was afraid of facing his brother Esau, that he turned to God in prayer. Well, that's a precursor too from the Old Testament to the New, because Jesus does the same thing. Jesus was afraid. Being afraid is not a sin. Being ruled by our fear Allowing the spirit of fear to dominate our lives. That's missing the mark. That's not God's best for us. That's an attitude that I dare say is sinful. Christ doesn't go there. Christ never sins, and yet he was fearful. So what's his example? How does he deal with fear? He prays. On the night he was betrayed, he was afraid. He was as afraid Afraid as anyone who has ever lived has been afraid. And he didn't choose to stare down that fear by himself, he chose to stare down that fear with the thought. Father, by the power of the Spirit. He went to pray when he was afraid. And when he was done, he was filled with courage and boldness and confidence, and he did what God called him to do, even though he knew It would result in his death. We might only speculate that we could die. Jesus knew that he would die No doubt about it. We need to follow after the example of Christ. We need to truly live and allow for others around us to truly live. We need to be of service to our neighbors so that they can begin to hear the gospel, see the gospel, lived out, see our light on a hill The world does not benefit by seeing Christians just as afraid as everyone else. And again, don't misunderstand me. We should be wise and judicious But we should be bold. How can you be bold? Where can you be bold? With whom can you be bold? In what context? Can you be bold? Go to God in prayer and ask Him to reveal to you directly through the Spirit or by pointing to you passages of Scripture that will open your eyes to how God intends to use you. what gifts and talents he has given you, what context within which he has placed you to serve others so that they can have a taste of shalom, a taste of hope. Got to do that. It's our call, it's our charge. And I believe many of us are And many more of us will. In the spirit. So let me close in prayer. Close the message in prayer. There'll be a little bit more after, so don't just close out your Facebook live thing. Father, we thank you for the truth of your word. The truth of your word that's recorded for us in the Bible, just the truth of your word in general, that everything you speak is truth. That you, God, are not a liar. That there is only one who is trustworthy and true, and that is you. Help us not to be diverted by mistakes. statements or deceptive purposely deceptive statements from others who do not always have the truth that they think they do, that they want us to believe that they do. Help us to trust in you. You have made your bride to be beautiful. We praise you and we thank you for that Help us to reflect our Christ. Help us to encourage one another And to provide an example of hope lived out to a watching world around us that is hungry For hope. In Christ's name, we pray. So um before we wrap up, I wanted to see if there was anything that might have come up in the comments while uh since last time we And if anybody has any uh any thoughts or comments or concerns or things that they would like to see addressed this evening before we wrap up the Facebook Live. thing, I'm more than happy to do that. It can be a question about the message, it can be a question about things in general, it can be, I mean, whatever. I just want to give us a chance in case anybody has something. that they are looking to uh address before we receive God's benediction on his people and then call it uh an evening. So anything I mean just concursion, just you know, um I'm watching Jimmy's watching, my dad's watching, Danny's watching, Arlene Hartman is watching, or has been at one point, um, Haley Clark. Jenny Fox is watching, Abby's watching, Tom Minor, Kathy Noah, Rob Conway, Liz Matovich. Kelly Clark. Hi Kelly. Um see if I missed anybody. I want to. Well thank you all for jumping in. Yeah, Darlene, I said that already. Uh Uh well if you're on if you're watch if you're watching this you're on Facebook so you if you have something that you didn't that that you didn't think of now and you want to private message me you can. If you have an email you can email me. That's totally fine too. John O'Brien. Um Alice Kip and Maitland. Okay. Uh Jonathan Taylor, so Andrew So this is just names of join no comments? No. Um some comments, lots of likes. So Appreciate that. Any angry faces? I hope not. Maybe be bold in faith in the days ahead from Kathy No Ray. Yes, we agree with that. Thank you, Kathy, for that encouragement. The Ann Foot is watching. Uh let's see what else we got here. Thank you so much. Is that it? Yeah. If I neglected to say your name, I apologize. I'm not trying to um make sure I didn't miss anybody. Of course we know that Kelly is watching. Scott Taylor, your sister, Carrie Let's see, Robin Gallery Jones, Joyce Hartman. Hi Joyce. Julie Gaber. Hi Julie. Ann Jimenez, a friend of your mom. Hi Ann. Mark Vandeleen, who I went to high school with. Peter Jorgison says, hi Troy, haven't seen you in years. That's true. Okay. Robin in. Since high school. Uh Connie. Hi Connie. I miss you. Sue Cassal, who I went to high school with. Um Mary Richard. Hi Mary. Um Tracy from across the street or used to be across the street. Hi Tracy. Um I said Andrew's dad. Uh Alice Huck. Hi Alice. And I think the other people I've already Okay. John O'Brien says preach it, brother. Alright, so is that it? I believe so I'll try He just closed the door of the arc, sorry. Tell Sarah, we said hi. So that's that's it. So I'm thinking the benediction for this evening, I took from uh I'm taking from First Chronicles uh chapter twenty-eight a portion Of verse 20, where David is speaking to Solomon, but this is God's word to his people. All of it is, right? So I feel comfortable using this as a benediction. Be strong and courageous. Wait, where is it? Here we go Be strong and courageous and do the work. Do not be afraid or discouraged, for the Lord God, my God, is with you. He will not fail you or forsake you. Let's meditate on the truth of that. Thanks so much for participating again. If you have any comments you want to add to the list or private message me, glad to do it. I'm gonna