Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like flowing pavement. People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate sponsored by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? The Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find links, podcasts, news items, a faith to faith blog, and my blog is your blog, so email me Troiskinner at clearchannel. com I'll post what you send me after removing whatever, you know, shouldn't be there, if you know what I mean. Forty-five blog updates go up each week, nine per day each weekday. I encourage you to pop in and see what people are saying On the faith debate today, normally we have a panel discussion program, but for the last couple of weeks and for the next uh handful of weeks as well, uh because of scheduling conflicts and things like that, uh we do not have a panel discussion Uh we're gonna leave here a message that I had an opportunity to share uh in the area uh recently. Last few weeks the audio hasn't been as good as I would like it to be, but the audio on this one is quite a bit better, so uh I hope you enjoy it. You know it's real because you live it. Even though you know it, it's gonna feel good to hear me say it, giving you some sense of validation perhaps. Your life is hard. But hearing me say it doesn't really solve your problem, does it? Because your life is hard, you might feel lost and unsure about God. If this doesn't describe you now, it probably has in the past or will in the future. If you're not sure you agree with that, then We encourage you to take a moment to think about it. A moment of unguarded honesty, if you can. A moment to contemplate what you normally might be afraid to think about, to admit. Where's the guilt and the shame in your heart? Where is the unconfessed sin, the hurt that you've caused others? That now causes you hurt and pain? Where are the thoughts about the hurts that others have caused you? Can you get to that place where you question God? Can you get to the place where doubt is a nagging reality? Deep in the depths, deep, deep down. Can you get there? Maybe you don't have to dig so deep. Maybe you do. Either way, right now, if you can, go there. What herps have you buried? What doubts do you deny having? What is the cause of the tears that right now you are holding back? Or what's the cause of the coldness that is keeping you right now from being vulnerable even with yourself? Our emotions can swirl when we're facing doubts like this. We need assurance. People have always needed assurance. It was true back for the people of God and God's church over 1900 years ago, and it's to these people, people like you and me, that the apostle Peter writes a letter It's a letter from God's loving heart to the heart of his loved faithful. So let's read a small portion together and consider what it means for us and our insurance. Turn if you would to 1 Peter chapter 2, we're reading verses 9 and 10. Now if you're new to this whole church thing or you're just recently becoming familiar with the pages of your Bible, let me help you. 1 Peter is in what we call the New Testament, the back half of the Bible. You'll find the letters of Peter near the end of the New Testament. So if you're flipping through the pages, you'll find Hebrews and James are getting close. Just a few more pages. To go too far, you might find yourself in the letters of John or Revelation, just back back up. Now there are two letters from Peter. We're in the first one, 1 Peter chapter 2, beginning with verse 9. But you are a chosen people, which also could be translated as a nation or race. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, God's special possession that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Let's pray for wisdom and understanding. Father, we thank you for gathering us together today to worship you and praise you today by singing songs of adoration and by unpacking your word that you've left for us to study and to apply to our lives. We thank you for the assurance we can find in the words that Peter has written for us or that you have written for us through Peter. We thank you for what we will learn here today. We thank you for the privilege of sharing in the sufferings and our hard life, sharing in the sufferings with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And it's in his name that we pray. Amen. So here's what we're going to see today as we consider what Peter has written. We are going to see that all people struggle, and yet there is a people who rejoice in this struggle. And this has always been true. It was true when Peter wrote this portion in the New Testament. It was true in the Old Testament. And it is true for this people today. All of us struggle. Why is life so hard? Why not just give up? Why try? Life's not fair. The ones who do their best to do the right things are punished for it. They don't have the easy life. You ever felt this way? Conflicted and confused when you feel this way. All mixed up inside because the world is upside down. You look around and you see death and division and deception. Bad things are happening to seemingly good people. Bad things are happening to you. If you believe in God, you want to say, how much more, God? Where are you? Do you love me? Do you even exist? Help me to understand. Peter has helped us to understand. He opens this letter in chapter 1 by identifying with his readers as those who are scattered and strangers in the world. who have suffered grief all kinds of trials. And it reminds us that all of us are like grass that withers and flowers that fade and fall. And this can cause doubt in our minds. And we're afraid, perhaps. That's how he starts his letter. And Peter knew that of which he speaks. Peter knew struggle and doubt. And this is the man who failed to walk on the water. This is the man who was publicly rebuked by the Apostle Paul This is the man who was rebuked by Jesus for cutting off the ear of a soldier. And another time told by Jesus, get behind me, Satan! And of course, he infamously denied even knowing Jesus three times to avoid persecution. But then later, Peter would go on to face intense persecution, even imprisonment, and ultimately death. And it's this more secure and mature Peter who writes this letter. And in the early portions, particularly, he encourages those like the younger version of himself, those who might have doubts about God. About God's plan when faced with the hard, stark realities of life in this world. In the midst of the struggle, Peter says that God's people rejoice. Really rejoice. In chapter 1, he calls it being filled with inexpressible and glorious joy. In the suffering. Yes, the world is in a broken down ramshackle condition. Because the builders have rejected the precious cornerstone. And now they stumble and fall over that precious cornerstone, the chosen cornerstone, who is Jesus Christ. Chosen. Chapter 1, verse 20 of this letter says that Christ was chosen before the creation of the world. Chapter 2, verse 4, and also verse 6 says that Christ was chosen by God and is precious to him. And here in chapter 2, verse 9, Peter says that Christians are chosen. Just like he did at the very start, when he addresses the Christian readers as God's chosen, God's elect, God's people are chosen by God and are precious to God. And therefore they rejoice. In a way that is inexpressible and glorious. Now maybe this idea of chosenness troubles you. Maybe you don't consider yourself to be among the chosen. Or maybe someone you care deeply about doesn't appear to be among the chosen. So you're angry with God for this, or maybe you're angry with me for bringing it up and talking about it. But there is a bit of an irony in that, don't you think? Can you see a certain uh lack of integrity uh in being angry that you think that God hasn't chosen you or your loved one when If that's the case, clearly you or they haven't chosen God. Just a thought. You know, perhaps God has chosen you from before time. And he hasn't brought you to a place where you'd realize it just yet. If that's true, then you will have inexpressible and glorious joy. This has always been true for God's people. Peter didn't invent the idea. He gets it straight out of the Hebrew scriptures that we call the Old Testament, Deuteronomy 7, verse 6. Moses tells the people heading for the promised land that they were chosen by God and holy. Chosen is what? We can see the answer in verse 9 of 1 Peter 2, chosen as a people, a nation, a race. In Genesis chapter 12, God told Abram, which means exalted father, that he would be made into a great nation, and so his name is changed a few chapters later to Abraham, which means father of many. And God's people, those who have faith in him, are this nation. If you're a Christian, Do you believe that you belong to a nation? Or do you feel it's more like belonging to a voluntary association? Christians, Christ followers, we're not mere volunteers or associates. Christians are a nation, a people, a race, not merely some vague assortment of Saved individuals. There is a corporate nature to the relationship with God. This race, this nation, this people, it is made up of individuals, but it's not individualistic. This is because all Christians Are blood related by the blood of Christ Just like with the Israelites in the Old Testament, there was a guy. His name was Israel, Abraham's grandson, but what's more important is the nation of Israel that sprang from him. The nation promised to his grandfather, and a nation that is fulfilled in the perfect Israel, Jesus Christ. Now Peter is purposely drawing our attention and making a connection here for us. With language that is drawn straight from the Old Testament. Peter doesn't do this just with the chosen people idea. He does it with other descriptors as well. Take, for example, royal priesthood. Believers in Christ constitute a corporate priesthood. He said so in chapter 2, verse 5, and now he says it again here in chapter 2, verse 9. We don't find the phrase royal priesthood in any of the other New Testament letters. So where does Peter get it? It gets it from the Old Testament. Exodus 19, verses 5 and 6, quote God, saying, Now if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all nations you will be my treasured possession. Although the whole earth is mine, you will be for me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. Sound familiar? Kingdom of priests, royal priests, holy nation. It's just like 1 Peter. So here we see a nation that is set apart, a holy nation in that sense, and also a kingdom in which God is present with the people, and so holy in that sense, too. Set apart and holy, in God's presence, holy. And they serve in God's presence, so they're priests. And they serve in a kingdom under a king. And so they are royal priests. They are God's treasured possession. It says so in Exodus. They are a people belonging to God. It says so in 1 Peter. It actually as God says this in the context of having just rescued his people from darkness of bondage in Egypt. Headed for the wonderful light of living in the promised land. Exodus 19 is the chapter immediately before the one in which we're given the Ten Commandments. The nation chosen by God is given a law to keep, and they do not keep it. We do not keep it. But praise God there would be one, is one, who did keep it perfectly. Jesus Christ. And in the Old Testament, Israel, God established a Levitical priesthood that was first led by Aaron, the brother of Moses. He was the first in charge of mediating between the people and God in this way. Israel was, by extension, to mediate between God and the other nations, to be a light in the darkness. But Aaron was not perfect, and Israel was not perfect, to be sure. But praise God, there would come one who is perfect, a perfect mediator, Jesus Christ. God charged his people with keeping a covenant, a blood covenant, but the people failed to keep it. The bloody sacrifices offered by the Levitical priests were not sufficient to make up for the failures of the chosen people. And so sacrifice after sacrifice is offered up year after year until the one ultimate sacrifice is offered up to put an end to the need for any further buddy sacrifices, Jesus Christ. Why did God do this for us? Why did he offer up his son as a once-for-all bloody sacrifice? Why did Jesus Christ as God Himself offer Himself up? Peter answers this question with an allusion to Isaiah 43, verses 20 and 21. There we read, I provide water in the wilderness and streams in the wasteland to give drink to my people. my chosen, the people I form for myself, that they may proclaim my praise. Why did God choose people to belong to him? And make them into a nation that is chosen, holy, and a royal priesthood? Why Christ's followers, why did he do this for you all? That you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. That's the end of verse 9 in 1 Peter chapter 2. God has called you, the corporate you, as in Y'all. He has called Y'all out of the darkness. Into his wonderful light, and y'all are to declare the praises of him. It's interesting that phrase. Declare the praises of him. To declare in this case means to proclaim by both word and deed. Declare, proclaim God by what you say and by what you do. And what you're declaring in this way is the praises of him. You're not merely praising him, you're declaring the praises of him. You're pointing people to the excellent character of God. How do we do this? By declaring his mighty words and acts, by declaring what God has said and done. Things like creation and the work of Christ, for example. Remember the Exodus 19 verses we talked about a moment ago, talking about the kingdom of priests. These come in the context of God having just saved his people from Egyptian slavery. Numerous miracles brought about this mighty saving act for his people. And God delivered them from the darkness of evil imprisonment, delivering them into the light of holy freedom. That's the context of Exodus 19, and it's why Peter draws our attention here. And the reason that Peter draws our attention to Isaiah 43 is because of a similar context. And Isaiah 43 comes in the context of the chosen people, God's nation, and the Babylonian exile The return from this exile was another mighty saving act for his people, where God delivered them from the darkness of their exile, delivering them into the light of returning home to the promised land. Again, the Apostle Peter is purposely drawing our attention to this framework from the Old Testament, and he does this so his readers will identify with the Old Testament promises of deliverance. Just as God has saved his people in the past, he saves them again in union with Christ. Only this time the salvation is permanent for God's people. They are delivered from the darkness of sin and death into the wonderful light of holiness and everlasting life. Do you see this? These connections? Remember, when reading scripture, there's always the big picture to keep in view. Because Peter didn't write just two verses. He wrote an entire letter. And God didn't just write this letter, wrote the entire Bible. And Peter totally understands this, which is why he references Exodus 19 and Isaiah 43 and the book of Hosea. Verse 10 in 1 Peter 2 is drawn straight from the story of Hosea. Here's Hosea's story. Might be familiar with a little bit, but just refresh your course. God tells Hosea to marry an adulterous woman named Gomer. She represents the adulterous heart of God's people, and they have kids. And they give three of them these very symbolic names. The son is given a name that calls to mind a place of massacre. Because the people will face a massacre, a cruel and wanton murder for the rebellion against God. And a daughter is given the name that means no mercy And another son is named Not My People, indicating the people's break from God, and so they deserved no mercy. God had chosen them, but the people did not honor the covenant relationship, and so they no longer could be considered God's people. And they faced judgment. And Peter wants you to see that this punishment Has been inflicted on Jesus Christ. No mercy was shown to Christ as he was beaten and hung on the cross to die. In his cruel and wanton murder. And Jesus felt the reality of the ultimate punishment when he expressed what it was to be not my people. Crying out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? But there is a note of hope. In Peter and in Hosea, in chapter 2, verse 23 of Hosea, for example, it says, I will show my love to the one I called not my loved one. I will say to those called not my people, you are my people. And they will say, You are my God. Peter is calling attention to something that had been written more than 700 years earlier. Why? Because 700 years earlier, God had said, I will show, I will say, and God has kept the promise. No longer will God show and say, now he does show and say, because he has. shown and said. As Peter writes in verse 10, once you were not a people, as you learn from the prophet Hosea, but now you are the people of God in Christ. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy in Christ. This is the story of God's people. It has always been. Moses in Exodus, Isaiah and his prophetic ministry, Hosea and the lifelong object lesson of his marriage. They all tell us this story. Peter tells us this story. It is the story of Jesus Christ. And it's the story of those who place their faith in Jesus Christ. You were deserving of bondage, exile, and even death. But Jesus took all of this upon himself. for you. And he could, because as a man, he is the representative of the chosen people. And as God, he can make the infinite sacrifice that is necessary in a way that no other priest could. And so, because of Jesus, you are given the identity of a holy nation belonging to God. And so the holy nation, the holy people, the holy race declare with words and actions, the mighty words and actions of God. What a wonderful story that Peter wants us to remember, recall, to make our own. It's true. Life is hard. In our decades-long walk in a broken-down, sin-riddled world. But there's a lesson of hope and assurance. Compared to the eternal wonderful light, the temporary dark struggles are placed in context And there is great rejoicing when we stop placing our hope in temporary and therefore unsatisfying things and instead surrender to the fact that the only hope for God's people was and is And forever will be God Himself. It's God's story. It's Christ's story. It's the story of God's chosen royal holy people, who have received mercy and now declare the praises of God. Is it your story? If you're a Christian, if you're a Christ follower, oh yes it is Let's close with a word of prayer. Father, when we come before you in prayer, we can feel so small in light of your wonderful bigness. To think that you created everything out of nothing, and yet everything that you've created, we only know a small portion of it. The universe is so vast in its bigness and so complex in its smallness And yet out of all of this, you hear our prayers, you have a plan for us from before the beginning of time. You knew that we would fail you, that we would not live up to your expectation of holiness. We do not deserve to be called your people, and yet we can know with absolute assurance that we are your people, because Jesus Christ did what it took and tells us that what he did was for us. Help us to live like your people. Help us to no longer have an adulterous heart, seeking after other gods, gods of comfort, gods of politics, gods of economics. Help us to realize what is temporary and what is truly lasting. And to separate those two, to keep our eyes focused on you and your provision, because then we know that we have joy and we rejoice with inexpressible joy. Help us to know that as we leave here, we are to minister to one another, and we are to minister to a lost world that needs to know who you are and what your plans for their life is so they can enter into our story, Christ's story. It's in his name that we pray Amen. This has been a special edition of the Frederick Faith Debate program. I'm Troy Spinner. Thanks for listening. Want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plingman Heating. I could make you smile. Again, what ask that you would consider visiting us online. WFMD. com Keyword Faith Till next week, God bless