Yeah, I think we're I think we're on. You guys can confirm that in a minute. Hello, Facebook And people who are on Facebook Well do you have a joke today? Uh yes. I'm getting it. Okay, so we're gonna have a joke in a moment. Um we are going to take a break from having a song this week. Maybe we'll have another song next week, but we're uh we had a few weeks ago where we did nothing practically but songs and this week we're going with nothing practically but talking. So hopefully that'll be okay with you. Next week the topic uh that we're going to tackle Michael is what do Christians believe about the last days, the end times, the end of life as we know it? What do Christians believe about that? That's the topic for next time. Next week, this week is about what happens immediately upon death. What happens to people right when they die, in the m immediate moments after they die, what happens. So um are you ready for your joke? Which is separate from what maybe happens af at the day of judgment. So yeah, so now we got our joke. All right. What kind of candy do you get at the airport What kind of candy do you get at the airport? Clean chocolate Plain chocolate. Why do fish like to eat worms? Why do fish like eat worms? I can't think of a good answer that either. Because they get hooked on 'em. What do you call the fish that doesn't have any eyes? I I don't know. Upsh Upsh. What's that supposed to mean? Right? Does that make any sense? So when you see it, it's what do you call a fish? Without any I's, it's uh F S H. There's no I. Oh. So as opposed to A space F-I-S-H, it's A space f S-H, no I It took out the letter I. Okay. So you call it shh. Oh sh. Okay, one more joke. One more joke, I promise. Why can't basketball players go on vacation? Um oh something to do with traveling. They uh they don't want to get called for traveling. Yes. Oh. Alright, I got one. All right, so um we're gonna jump into our discussion uh our lesson about what happens immediately Upon death here in just a second, but if Angela, it's become her customary role, if she could open us with a brief opening prayer and then we'll get started. Lord, we thank you for gathering us together this Pentecost Sunday, Lord. Um, when you came uh and um uh came as of tongues of flames over your first followers and birth the church, Lord. We thank you for letting us see another anniversary of this Lord and we ask for you to come again, Lord, um, and be with us, Lord. Just be the fire of God in us. Lord, as as Pastor Troy is sharing and as your people are listening, Lord, just let the fire of God be in us. Lord, to hear your word, to receive your word, and and Lord, and to to walk by it. And we just thank you and and thank you for your presence here. And we ask for all of this in Jesus' name So what happens to humans when they die? At the moment they die, what is it that happens to humans Well, it's important to define our terms, so let's start by examining, let's get some context and a framework. What is a human? What is it that makes up a human. There are different aspects to our being that that comprise our humanity, comprise who we are as individual people, as individual humans. And most of the people that tackle this sign of a question there are you know always some wild haired people on on the edges of the of you know of the views, extreme views. But the overwhelming majority of people who have these kinds of discussions about what is it that makes up a human, uh generally fall into two camps, one camp being that there are two parts to who we are, and the other camp being that there are three parts to who we are. So sometimes it's called the tripartite or bipartate debate tri for three, bi for two, tripartite, bipartate. More often you'll hear it talked about as a trichotomy and a dichotomy, uh or dichotomy rather, di also being for two. So trichotomy, dichotomy is the most common language. here. Again, trichotomists believe that there are three parts or pieces or aspects to our human existence, and dichotomists believe that there are two. So, are humans three or humans two? And what are these three and or two parts? So we can try to turn to Scripture to find our answers there, and we run into almost an immediate problem as we start to do our digging into the Bible. And that is that scriptures on this particular kind of question have a level of imprecision in the language. And uh imprecision and how the relevant terminology could be understood and used. So for example, in Luke chapter 10, verse 27, we read that we should love God with all our heart. and soul and strength and mind. That's four. And then in Matthew chapter twenty Verse 37. We read that we should love God with our heart and soul and mind. That's three, omitting strengths. And then in Mark chapter 12, verse 30, we find that we should love God with all of our heart and our soul and our mind and our strength. And then Mark adds in verse 33 of chapter 12 that we should love God with all of our heart and understanding. So understanding is a fifth thing along with our So between these three synoptic gospel verses, we have five different words that describe the aspect of the aspects of what we are as humans, who we are as humans, what are the the parts and pieces that make us who God has designed us to be. Five different words and not one of them is the word body And we know we have a body, so you gotta throw that one in. But there's nobody anywhere that's a legitimately recognized uh theologian Who's got respect in Christian circles, who's advocating for a view that there are four, or that there are five, or there are six, or that there are more than that aspects or parts to being human. It's customary in Christian circles to conceive of mankind. It's most customary to think about us as consisting of two parts, and only two parts, and that they are distinct distinct parts, namely body and soul or body and spirit. Now tripodomists, uh they are not the uh the majority in Christian thinking, but they're there. And the trichotomists say that there are three parts, the body and the soul and the spirit. So trichotomists uh are viewing the body uh as material and separate from the immaterial, the invisible if you will. And they say that that which is invisible, uh the soul and the spirit are two separate things. Uh dichotomists would say spirit and soul are inner changeable basically and are are one and the same thing. One of the reasons uh that I'm not a trichotomist myself is that It it's my feeling and try having studied through this issue over the last fifteen years. I haven't spent a lot of time on it, but the amount of time I have spent on it over the last fifteen or twenty years Uh it seems like the the trichotomous view is mostly derived from roots that find their beginnings in ancient Greek philosophy. More so than in the Bible. So I'm a little bit concerned that maybe uh some Christians somewhere along the way, highly influenced by Aristotle and Plato, Plato, imported that philosophy into their Bible reading as opposed to having the Bible Bible being imported as their philosophical outlook as to who we are as people. Um I wouldn't say tricotomas are heretics. Uh I wouldn't say that we can't be in communion with them and that there's necessarily anything wrong with tricholy, but you gotta you gotta make a choice. Uh well got to have to But if you're going to try to make a choice, you're going to make a choice, and my choice would be uh dichotomy rather than trichotomy. Uh by the way, I have heard a nuanced position on this deb that uses all three labels in a in a somewhat interesting way. And I find the idea to be kind of uh helpful in the right context, say that there are two parts to each human, the body and the spirit, and that these two parts, the body and the spirit, in combination, could be called the spirit. soul. And so the soul isn't a separate part, but it's uh it's a a label or a moniker that's attached to the wholeness of what it is to be human. That's interesting. And actually in certain passages in the Bible, that understanding of how to interpret soul and even the way we use soul, uh like somebody goes out to sea and the ship sinks and they say one hundred and fifty souls were lost. We're meaning the whole human, right? The body died and the spirit went to wherever the spirit goes. And so in those senses it can't make sense. The problem is that's not always the way that the words are used, not how we're always Defining a term, particularly in these kinds of debates. And so you have to be very careful if you're going to have that particular nuance to go out of your way to define your terms at the start of the conversation. So maybe it's more trouble. But I mention it because I think it's interesting and can be helpful. So what's it all mean? Well, regardless of the view that we hold, We can agree that Christians are to love God with the entirety of who they are, whether two parts, three parts, whatever, all of who we are, total being is to love God. Worship God. We can agree on that. And again, for our purposes, we're going to be holding to primarily to a dichotomous view as we walk through some things this evening. I think the big thing to employ whether it's trichotomous or dichotomous, by the way, the big thing to take away here to keep in mind is that both of those views Would be in agreement that there is a physical component, a material component, a something we can see and touch and feel, uh, and that there is an immaterial, a invisible, a Spiritual component or aspect or piece. And I tried not to say there's two of those, but there's at least there's a material and there's an immaterial aspect. to being human. And that these aspects are distinct, they're different, they're not one and the same, and yet, mysteriously, like so many truths, the hard truths of trying to understand in scripture There's a mystery where there's a vital union between the two. We are not fully who we were intended to be. fully who God made us to be if we're not both body and spirit, body and soul. Kind of like you know God is uh is Trinitarian, right? We have the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. And all three are God, and yet God is all three. Three and one, one and three similar with with humanity where we're we're body, we're spirit, or soul. Uh we're both of those and yet both of those together are one and it's hard to find the right language to combine them. Like the Bible. It's written by human authors and also written by God. Which one is it? Yes. It's kind of the same thing. Are we are are are we uh Are we one? Are we two? Yes. So keep that in mind. The unity and duality, the duality and unity is an important important piece of what we are. So why this all matters, this is a long setup I know to answering the question for today. Why is this why this all matter on the question of what happens to a us immediately when we die. Well Genesis chapter 2 verse 7 says the Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground. That's the material, right? The physical, you can see it and touch it part and breathe into his nostrils the breath of life. That's the spheric, the immaterial, the thing he can't see, and man became And then this particular verse, actually Genesis chapter 2, verse 7, we find a kind of a very short commentary on that verse in Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verse 7 Where it says the dust, the material, the physical part, returns to the ground from which it came, and the spirit, that breath of life that God breathes in, returns to God who gave it. And so you can see that when we die, something happens to both parts of who we are in union. And those are both Old Testament references in the New Testament, Matthew chapter 2 10 verse 28. We're told, do not be afraid of those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul. Rather, be afraid of him who can destroy both soul and body. In hell. And so understanding that there's these different aspects or pieces or parts to being human directly relates to what happens when we die, because Something happens when we die physically and something happens when we die spiritually. So that's why we have to make um understand and get that clarified up front. So the Lord makes it plain a person has an entity that men may kill, the body, the soma uh in in the Greek. Uh the body can be killed. You know, my neighbor could come over here and could kill my body. Uh I could get by a bus tomorrow and the bus could kill my body. Uh Um but the bus can't kill my soul. My neighbor can't come kill my soul. There was somebody famously right now, the uh the the wife of Elon Musk, what's her name? the singer lady, artist lady. She's uh she's gonna she's gonna try to auction off her soul. So you could buy you could buy her soul, she thinks. Anyway, but she she's not really in control of that. Nobody could kill her soul except the one who gave her her soul, gave her that life spirit, that there's an entity that uh that men cannot kill, and that would be the immaterial part, the the soul, or in the Greek, the the psyche. So I'm going to read a couple of uh scriptures here that also lend to what we're talking about, and then we're going to do kind of a round robin of verse reading. This is just a potpourri of relevant verses. These are the kinds of verses when you read them, they help to reinforce or inform or call to mind the kinds of things we're talking about this evening. So in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, the first 10 verses Verses in chapter 5 say. Now we know that if the earthly tent, the body, that we live in, is destroyed, we have a building from God, that is the resurrection. We groan longing to be clothed with our heavenly dwelling because when we are clothed, we, our souls, will not be found naked as long as we are at home. We are away from the Lord. We will prefer to be away from the body and at home with the Lord. So we make it our goal to please Him, whether we are at At home in the body or away from it. So here we can see that the body is the person and the spirit or the soul is the person and the two together are the person. We can talk about ourselves in either regard and be talking about our full And yet it's almost like an incomplete self if we're not taking the two in concert. And in Philippians chapter one, verses twenty-one through twenty-four. For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. This is the Apostle Paul, right. If I am to go on living in the body, this will mean fruitful labor for me. Yet what shall I choose? I do not know. I am torn between the two to. I desire to depart and be with Christ. I mean depart the physical, material, to be with Christ, which is far better. But it is more necessary for you than to remain in the body. So when he leaves the body to go be with Christ, it's still him, and yet there's something incomplete as we read about in 2 Corinthians Chapter five about not having our body. So it's a little bit dis disconcerting. So now we're not gonna have a lot of discussion, but just a pop for just rapid fire reading some of these. Dina's gonna read up handful of verses and Angel's going to read a handful. So I'm going to start with there, Genesis 3. Genesis 3, verse 19, by the sweat of your face you shall Shall eat bread till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. Acts 13, verse 36. after he had served the purpose of God in his own generation, fell asleep and was laid with his fathers and saw corruption. Luke twenty-three verse forty-three And he said to him, Truly I say to you, today you'll be with me in paradise. And then those two. Hebrews 12, verse Verse 23 and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. And Acts 33 three twenty one, whom heaven must receive until the time for restoring all the things about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets long ago Alright, and you're picking up of Ephesians four. Ephesians four ten. He who descend he who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens that he might fill all things. First John three and two, beloved, we are God's children now, and what we Will be has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. Luke sixteen twenty three through twenty four and in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his side. And he He called out, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish. In this flame. Romans 8, 23. And not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inward As we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. And Revelation 7, verses 4 and 15 And I heard the number of the sealed, 144,000, sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel. Therefore they are before the throne of God. God and serve him day and night in his temple, and he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. And then you've got oh the well I got the next one's a leave but so this is uh Jude verses six and seven. And the angels who did not stay within their own position of authority but left their First Peter chapter 3, verse 19, talks about in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison, 2 Peter 2, verse 9, then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials and to keep the unrighteous under punishment. until the day of judgment. First Thessalonians four seventeen. Then we who are alive who are left will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. So we will And first Corinthians chapter fifteen, verses fifty-one and fifty-two. Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed in a moment in the twinkling of an eye at the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. Job. Job, a favor book. Job nineteen, verses twenty-six and twenty-seven. And after my skin has been thus destroyed, yet in my flesh I shall see God, whom I shall see for For myself, and my eyes shall behold and not another. My heart faints within me. First Corinthians chapter fifteen verses forty-two through forty-four. So is it with the resurrection of the dead, what is sown is perishable, what is raised It is a very good thing. These men themselves accept there that there will be a resurrection of both the just and the unjust. John chapter five, verses twenty-eight and twenty-nine. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out, those who have done good to the resurrection of life And those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. Philippians chapter three, verse twenty-one Who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious Body by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. So we've provided a broader context and with the philosophical arguments and the terms that are used, we've gone through uh now uh I don't know probably twenty twenty-five verses of the Bible that um that are important in the conversation of what What happens to us when we die, uh and then what ultimately happens to us when we die at the judgment, uh some things that might be help us figure out what that intermediate immediate state might be between death and final judgment day. These are a majority of the most important verses that get bandied about and talked about. uh in these kinds of discussions. So we've got all that on the table now. So now we can finally get to our question what happens to us immediately So we can see by what we've read and what we might already know from being in church if we are uh Christians who participate in in uh congregations. Our body is after death, a return to dust, as it says in the scripture. They decompose. They they see corruption. That's another way the Bible uh talks about it. So that's what happens to our bodies, but our spirits, our souls, which never die. God made our spirits to be forevermore living on, made in his image, we have an ongoing spiritual existence in that image bearing. Um they don't die because the spirit, the soul, it has this this immortal subsistence. And so upon death, the body dies and begins to return to dust, and the spirit goes immediately. Immediately to return to God. And that might strike you as a little bit like a gobsmack upside the head. Wait a minute. Everybody immediately goes back to return to God, the Maker And I'm arguing, and I'm suggesting the Bible argues, yes, those who are declared righteous in Christ, they are received into the highest heavens as One of the great Christian confessions puts it. So those who are Christian believers, true elect, those chosen and saved by Christ, they immediately are received, they go to be with God and are received into the highest heavens. Those who are not trusting in Christ's redemption, they're cast into hell. And so a second ago I just said, yeah, wait a minute, though, but everybody immediately returns to God And now I'm saying they're cast into hell. What does that mean? Well, that gets into our definitions of what we're how we're understanding what hell is. So again, the spirits that are in heaven. The spirits in heaven having uh been have been deemed perfect in holiness. Deemed perfect in holiness because of Christ's perfect record and he shares all that he has with those who are his. And so Those who are Christians are deemed as perfect in holiness. They are then called into, allowed to approach, if you will, the favorable presence of The face of God, the favorable presence of God, that's heaven. Wherever you have the unabashed favorable presence of God, You have heaven. And in heaven we're living in light and glory. And again, those bodies are decomposing or returning to darkness. But at the end when the body is resurrected, then there's a full rebredemption of the bodies, and the body and the spirit are again joined, and it's a different kind of a body we know as a spiritual body, a glorified body, but there's something recognizable and similar to our current bodies. There's there's some as we know that Jesus was able to eat and drink after he he rose again and they could see him and yet it he seemed he could pass through walls, he could appear as as it were out of nowhere. uh that so he wasn't always necessarily recognizable immediately. He had to make himself recognizable and yet there was something recognizable about him. So there's something about our bodies that will be the same, but something that will be signific Significantly different. So the saints, that's their experience. They die, and they immediately the spirit, awaiting the resurrection of the body, the spirit immediately goes into the favorable presence of God. The spirits in hell, those spirits not accepting God's own payment for their sin, they want to stand on their own record, not Christ's record. And so their own record is not deemed perfect in holiness because none of us on our own record it can Can be deemed perfect in holiness. And so they are ushered into the unfavorable presence of God. And where there is the unfavorable presence of God, there is torment and darkness. And judgment, full judgment of God on their whole self, their ultimately the body too, and the soul and the spirit Unfavorable presence of God. That is hell. Now some Christians haven't maybe been discipled in a way where they understand it that way, but I'm I'm telling you, it's the biblical truth. There is no place that God isn't. God is all-powerful, all-knowing, all-present. Right? He's omnipresent. There is no place you can go where God isn't. So too many times we think in terms of, well, people go to hell and they're cast out away from God. No, they're cast out away from the favorable presence of God, but they cannot escape God's presence. And so what they experience is the unfavorable presence. of God, which is hell. Now at the last day, those who are God's people shall again have bodies And our bodies and our spirits will be united together. And this time, this union of body and spirit is inseparable, and that will be our existence as we understand what we do. the scriptures tell us forevermore. So those who are in Christ get their bodies, get new bodies, renew bodies, get their bodies back. However, you want to think about it About that, united with their spirit, their soul, and then that becomes their glorious existence in the favorable presence of God forever. Those who are not God's people, those who have rejected Christ. Well, they get their bodies too, reunited to them with their spirit. But in their case, their bodies are raised to dishonor They're not raised into honor. They're not raised into perfect holiness. They're raised into dishonor. And some would say that uh they're raised to eternal torment. Some would say they're raised to be uh sent into oblivion through annihilation. Uh that's an entirely different discussion. We could spend an entire hour talking just about whether or not people are annihilated. uh cease to exist at the final judgment or if they continue to exist in eternal torment uh uh forever. But either but for our purposes today the question is what happens to us immediately upon when we die Immediately there's a separation from the body. The immaterial and the material separate. The body decomposes. The spirit goes to be with God. Those who are in Christ go to be with God in a favorable way. Those who are not in Christ go to be with God in an unfavorable way favorable way until down the road whenever the final when Christ returns and there's a final judgment and then there's the next phase which an awful lot of Christian teaching focuses on. There's not as much, it's not as common to talk about what happens immediately upon death. It's more common to talk about what happens at the judgment day. And I would say there's good reason maybe for that. So um Um before maybe wrapping uh up with some thoughts on this, uh I want to try to open up for discussion. I don't know if anybody has opined with us question or comment on the comment section. I don't know if anybody in the room has a comment or question on it. Well I always thought maybe I'm wrong, you know, there is the separation But like before Jesus went to be fully resurrected and that's why he was like, Oh, don't cling on me. I haven't received my full body yet. I haven't received my My glorified you know, when he says, Don't touch me, you know, basically when he was he was talking to Mary. Okay. So I feel like that's what happens to us until the second coming That we are like see-through, for lack of a better word, because that's how Jesus was. He is the second coming, so he doesn't have to wait because He is s you know what I mean, like he is who he is. But we have to wait. So I feel like we're in that season until final judgment. Based on that. I hear what you're saying, but I'm I'm not I'm not positive that that's the best way to understand that particular passage. Okay. Uh when Jesus is talking about um you know don't touch me. The the Greek there is really about don't don't uh grab onto me, don't clutch me, don't cling to me. Right. Uh it's not about oh I can't touch you. It's about don't don't Hang on to me. Uh and he's saying, this is not the time for that. I need to depart. Don't hang on to me. I'm I'm I'm gonna need to depart And I'm gonna send the parakeet, the the the comforter, I'm gonna send the spirit. Right. So don't hang on to me now. You'll have plenty of me for eternity eventually, but don't hang on to me now, that's not the time I think that's a better way to understand that passage. He's saying, uh I'm not that to stay. Well then how is he able to walk through walls? Because you can't walk through walls if you have a body. Yes, but Christ has his resurrection body at that time. He did? Mm-hmm. That's how I understood it. Okay. So he has his resurrection body. like when they were walking on the road to he hadn't resurrected yet, had he? No, so okay, it's this is a large enough time frame. No no this is good because this is a large see this is why it's important. Everything's in our Connected and it's sometimes hard to talk about one issue without talking about several other issues. Uh and so this is good. So what is heaven? Heaven is not we go up to float on a cloud with harps and we look like a little cherubs, right? There's not that. And it's not we do nothing and that we just you know sing phrases and say holy, holy, holy nonstop uh at infinitum forever. Uh the biblical understanding of what heaven is, remember It's not so much that we go to be with heaven. Heaven comes to us. You know, well, again, remember how I just defined it before? Heaven is wherever the favorable presence of God is dwelling Right. Wherever the favorable presence of God dwells, that's heaven. Well, right now it's not exactly here, although there's a sense in which heaven is here on earth inside of each believer because We are temples now for God. So there's a sense where there's a peace of in in articulate language, but there's a peace of heaven on earth now, but the full expression of heaven isn't here now I mean, look at the news going on around us these days, right? So uh but at the end, heaven re comes to earth, if you will. There's a remaking of earth. Earth is is transformed back into uh what was pictured in the Garden of Eden. There's a uh there's a reperfection of the earth, a remaking of the earth. And what's old passes away and is replaced by something new, but it's not completely and utterly new. It's a remaking of what already is. So when we talk about the end of the world, we're not talking about the earth as we know it now. Well completely utterly be 100% cease to exist absolutely. We're talking about it will be so transformed by the arrival of heaven, the full, holy, favorable presence of God uh uh invading is the word I have in mind, but that sounds like the wrong word. Uh coming upon and remakes things so much you can't even really recognize the earth anymore. It's so renewed and trans It's as if the old has been completely destroyed. But that's not really what's going on. So anyway, that's important because when that happens that's when the believers have their bodies to walk the renewed earth. Christ, as a precursor, the first fruits of that, he's walking the earth 2,000 years ago. And so he has his body to do that. But that that version of Earth doesn't exist until after the second coming and the judgment day. And so that's That's why the believers, if if the believers die and they have bodies, where are their bodies? Where do they go? There's no physical So that's why it says in some ports, and so we get our bodies then. Yeah, I want to talk about the body is a sleep it hasn't been reading. Right. That's actually a really if in case I forgot it reminded me to talk about the sleep question, but it looks like you're chomping to say something too. Yeah, I maybe this will be helpful about the the the So reading out of 1 Corinthians 15, 44, and Paul is speaking and he's saying, It is sown a natural body. Our bodies are sown a natural body. It is remote Right. If there if there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. So I think the difference between a natural body and a spiritual body is that a spiritual body apparently because of the example of Christ, it has these spiritual properties to it where it can go through, you know, solid materials. Yet there's a there's a uh a a firmness to it, uh a tangibleness to it because um you can touch the body right and the body can eat. Right. Yeah it it's it's it's a super body. You know what I mean? It's a it it it has these properties like you know it can also appear and disappear instantly which we can't do in these bodies. So I just think it's uh speaking to Troy's point, just like the earth is going to be we can't really imagine how great it's gonna be. Right. These bonds are just so far beyond I mean they travel at the speed of thought, which is even faster than the speed of light. Sure. You know, 'cause the speed of thought is instantaneous travel. You know And so it I think it has these spiritual qualities to it, um, yet it's still a physical body and it it doesn't have blood, we know that because in another place um Paul says flesh and uh blood cannot inherit the kingdom. So um Christ didn't have blood in that resurrected body, but he he had bone, he had had firmness to it, so flesh and bone inherits eternity, not flesh and blood. It's just it's it's just a I I I guess the best kind of one word fra or couple word phrase you can use is a super spiritual body is my understanding. Right. Um well your sister, um, by the way, makes a comment and this is something interesting kind of along these lines. So she says that She and your mom have been having terrible dreams about Chris, which is um Troy's sister's husband who passed away. Like he's actually there. And what is that? I think it's demonic personally, but because well he was not a believer. Yeah. So how does it read? They're saying that they they sense his presence or they feel like they see his presence. he's really there. What is that both moments and so many things that it could be and it's all speculation but throughout some things that occurred to me. One is it it might just be a dream. You know we have you were sharing uh an an interesting dream uh about an hour ago with us that you had last night or the night before. Uh um you know, and she's like, what does this mean? I I don't know what it means and some and and you shared a dream like two or three nights ago that was very odd and strange and it's like so sometimes a dream is a dream and uh it doesn't mean There might be a message. God speaks to people in dreams. That's, you know, there's numerous examples of that in the Bible. And so there might be some sort of message that God is seeking to convey to you through uh through your dreams. Could have been that burrito. But um but I wouldn't want to leap I wouldn't even get close to leaping to the idea that oh because I'm having dreams about A person that that person is actually physically present in my bedroom while I'm having that dream. That's a pretty big leap. Now if you were thinking feeling like when You woke up, you were feeling like there was a presence there, like maybe he was there. Um I'm not gonna discount the possibility that there was a presence there, but the presence is not Chris. Right. You know, it could be someone masquerading as Chris trying to trick you into thinking it's Chris. It could be that, but it's not actually Chris. And if you feel like you're seeing him, well, there's nothing to see yet. He's not going to get his body back until after the second coming to find face judgment. So there's a resurrection of the body joined back with the spirit so that that soul, the body and spirit, get judged together and then face their eternal fate. So there's no appropriate apparition really as far as a dead person to come back, but that doesn't mean that there aren't spirits and ghouls and goblins, uh, because there's a spirit world and we're too quick to discount them that we are in a spiritual war. Well how are we in a war that's spiritual if there's no spirit realm? Like so what are we fighting against? We're fighting against nothing. So she says We did not discuss it. Carl comes home Wednesday when they prayed, Evil, get out of this house on the name of Jesus. There w there were no more dreams. So that's that's and the question of the question. It could be that some you know, it could be in a so when we are prone to um We're prone to take our eye off of Jesus and pay attention to the waves around us. When we're prone to do that, when there are distractions distractions going on, those distractions can come from within our own minds our own inclinations, our own habits, our own behaviors, sometimes we're our own worst enemy. So there can be those reasons why we take our eye off the prize, off the hope that we have in Christ. And when our hope is when we take our eyes off the hope we have in Christ is when we make poor decisions, when we get more anxious, when we we are more prone to sin, you know, bad things can happen So sometimes it's ourselves. Sometimes it's pressure from the world. You know a neighbor who screams and yells at you and that sets you off, or somebody on the road cuts you off on the road and you give the bird and you know, and that's not a good so the world brought temptation before you and put you in a bad place or the just the nature of the news of what's going on in the world today, those sorts of things can happen. And then of course it's a spiritual war, and so we can face um attacks or or or deceptions. from the spirit realm to try to again take our mind off of what's most important. So if it was indeed a spiritual attack or a spiritual thing that was going on on and then you put your hope and your eyes back on Christ as opposed to the waves around you and you're doing that when you pray and call out in Christ's name name and say I'm putting my hope and faith in Christ. Jesus help me. Jesus cast this away. I'm trusting in Jesus and I know he says of the cross it is faith. Finished and you evil entity, whatever, have no power power or right to even be here because I'm standing on the righteous blood of Christ. Your hope is fully on him then. Well the answer enemy's gonna retreat, maybe making a comeback effort some other time, but is gonna retreat in that moment because their their uh their tricks didn't work that time. Angel had mentioned 1 Corinthians chapter 15, just a few verses after what she read, there's uh um it's in verse uh 51, Behold they tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. And this gets to the sleep question. And this is uh this is actually important. I almost forgot about this, but it's important that we touch on this. Um Jehovah's Witnesses believe in something called soul sleep. Um there's a movement that labels itself as Christian called The Way, uh believes in soul sleep. Uh Seventh day Adventists uh believe in uh a a doctrine of soul sleep. And they point to verses like what Dina mentioned about five minutes ago and the verse I just mentioned saying That we shall not all sleep, will be changed. Um, in Psalm thirteen, chapter three, uh consider and answer me, O Lord my God, light up my eyes, lest I sleep. Leap of death. Daniel twelve, verse two. And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life and some to shame and everlasting contempt. John eleven eleven. After saying these things he said to them, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him. fourteen for since we believe that Jesus died and rose again even so even though uh through Jesus God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep And 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 10, who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. All of these verses should be understood understood and we had time to really dive in into the context uh and look at at uh ancient Greek and ancient Hebrew uh idioms and terms of phrase, we would see that these are euphemisms for death. We do that even today. You know, somebody died. and you're going to relay that information to somebody and you might say, yeah, my good friend died yesterday, but you also might say, my good friend passed away yesterday Yesterday. We have these euphemisms that we use. The Bible If you don't think that the Bible has euphemisms, oh my gosh, there are so many. If you read in some of the English translations the way It's phrased, the way the translation reads, it talks about uh sh shaving their heads and shaving the hair of their feet. What do you think the hair of their feet might mean? It's a euphemism for pubic hair. Um it's uh the um was it the I think the The king, he's he's killed while he's in the bathroom. Right? He's in the bathroom, and the and the the Israelites they sneak in, they kill him, his guards don't realize that happened, and after a long, long time like, dang He's been in there, in the way it reads, covering his feet for a long time. We should go check on him. Covering him his feet is a euphemism for squatting to make a bowel movement. There are all sorts of euphemisms in Scripture and this sleep for death thing is a euphemism because there are times when Jesus will say, oh, they're just sleeping, like, oh, they're just sleeping, and then Jesus realizes, okay, they're not understanding I'm using a euphemism. Let me make it clearer. He's dead. Okay, I use the euphemism. You guys aren't picking up on that? No, he's not sleeping. He's in fact dead. So euphemisms for that. Now the Jehovah's Witnesses, the Seventh-day Adventist, they will point to uh a verse in Ecclesiastes uh that that talks about the dead know nothing. You know, a person dies and and they and and uh uh they they they fall asleep and and they know nothing because they're unconscious And there's things like when we're asleep, we know nothing. We're unconscious. We don't know anything when we're sleeping. And so we'll use that kind of a verse. And there's and other verses like that. Well, with Ecclesiastes, using that particular verse as just a Larger Bible study example, whenever you read Ecclesiastes, you have to understand the context of the whole book of the Bible. And that particular book of the Bible is talking about our existence on this planet in the here and now. It talks about over and over again about how life is under the sun, not under the sun of God. Under the the inner the the stellar entity are our our sun, the thing that gives us light and heat. What life is like under the sun? What is what life is like to walk the earth What life is like from this perspective. That's what Ecclesiastes is all about, which was what makes the final end, the the final chapter of Ecclesiastes uh so cool. He's talking about how everything's vanity, everything's Everything is meaningless. Everything is nothingness. Nothing matters in this life. You can do all the right things and bad things still happen. You know, you can you can tr uh Look at people who do all the wrong things, and good things happen to them. Life's not fair. Um, you know, no matter what I do, I'm still gonna die. You know, uh there there's there's a seasonality to life. It doesn't matter what you do, these seasons are gonna happen and there's a time for this, a time for that, under the sun, there's a time for everything. Anything and everything can happen under the sun. I just we can't control these things. And so why not just give up? Why not just You know, boom, be done with it. And then you get to the end of the book and it talks about, however, in God Meaning outside of this merely physical under the sun realm, that's where our true hope is. That's where the true power and authority lies. And so all of this is put in context. context. Oh, the the here and now is is put in context. And that's um that's one of the things that as I lead down to wrapping up I wanted to talk about our physical bodies under the sun, our physical bodies die. Our spirits, our souls, continue to exist when we die. And I think that this should give us comfort and it should give us perspective on what our life is is like in this world. It's true that our physical bodies are are wearing out. As my grandmother used to say years ago When she was still around, she would say, uh, it's hell growing old, but it sure beats the alternative. And so we're wearing out, we're getting tired, we get sick, we we experience pain and emotional pain and sorrows, and life is hard, and it's particularly hard for a Christian. I've said this before, I'll say it again now. If you're a Christian and your life is not hard, you're doing something wrong. Because if you're living an obedient life and you're trying to advance the cause, cause of the kingdom and you're engaging in spiritual warfare, you're on the front lines of the battle. Life should be hard. If it's not something maybe maybe you're not fighting the fight the way you could or should or maybe something's Something's amiss, it seems to me. We were promised suffering. In fact, Peter tells us in the New Testament, not only is there a promise of suffering, but it's a it uh it it's a great promise, it's a good thing Because we we have the privilege, this is how Peter phrases it, we have the privilege of participating in the sufferings of Christ, of sharing in the sufferings of Christ. We get to experience That part of Christ's experience with him and through him and in him. And if we're not suffering, we that's a huge part of Christ's experience that we're missing out on And so, anyway, it's a bit of an aside. So it's true that it's hard and we wear out and all that sort of stuff. But while that's true, we still maintain the hope that our inner person, the spiritual, the inner person Immaterial, that is being increasingly perfected and renewed and sanctified until ultimately it is glorified and will not perish. And so we have this realistic view of things that that uh that that that brings us perspective on what the here and now is really all about. And yet It gives us great comfort and hope knowing that there's this duality to who we are. And so when we do that, we have what I would call a proper biblical perspective. And this sort of perspective, it can help us, help to keep us from being overwhelmed by the things of the material world, of the physical limitations that we face? And at the same time, while it helps us to have a realistic view of the material world, it keeps us from getting overly focused on that world. And maybe the overly constant Confident in what the world can provide because there are tastes of heaven, little reminders, little kisses from God that remind us of what awaits us. And so sometimes we have beautiful homes or we have a really good day, or we have a fantastic moment in our relationship with someone, or we achieve a goal that gets the endorphins flowing and you feel like Man, this is like this is as good as it gets. And then you realize, no, it's not as good as it gets, but it's a reminder that there is something that is as good as it gets, and that's awaiting And so I think uh understanding that we are both physical and not physical and that both of those are who we are uh helps us to keep everything in in balance. or in blend. I prefer the word blend more than balance. Is everything blended in an appropriate way when we're when our thinking is correct on that? We've got maybe a couple of minutes before we think about uh closing with some prayer but any other thoughts? Any thoughts over there? Maybe one more thought about sleep. When I think about the story of Lazarus and the the the rich man, um and you know the rich man going to hell, Lazarus calling to Abraham. I think that's a real story because um in parables Christ never used names, he just said a woman or a male, whatever. So I think that really did happen and it's it's the revelation uh uh I don't want to get into this but before you know he died on the cross that you know there was this separate chambers of hell or whatever and and people people went who were saved went went to Abraham's bosom and people who who who who were not went to the the tormenting part. Um anyway what I'm getting at with with respect to sleep Um I noticed in scripture that um um the wicked are at least I I I can't think of an example of when when wicked people die. that were described as going to sleep. So I I also understood that when when Christ euphemistically used the word sleep for death, he was speaking of people at rest You know, because when you sleep, you're resting. Um so when he when he's I think I my understanding is when he says, you know, our friend Lazarus, speaking of the Lazarus that he right he raised, when he said our friend Lazarus was asleep, I think he wanted his he used that word so that his disciples would understand. he's in a place of rest. You know, his body, I think, was di you know, dead and unresponsive, you know, um, like this, you know piece of furniture. But his soul was was resting, I think is what he was trying to say. And it's just, you know, it's just like a Yeah, I think that could be helpful in a pastoral sense to talk about you know death as as you know the people are at rest. Um and to your point's a fine line and I'd want to be careful how far we wanted to push the line. I tend to think in terms of it's it's mostly like um In the Bible, people who want to accuse the Bible of not understanding how the world works don't understand how the Bible works. And they'll often uh too often I've heard this argument. It talks about the you know the the the sun revolving around the earth idea as opposed to the earth revolving around the sun. But all it's talking about is the way we even speak today about the sun it rises in the the east and it sets in the west and it travels across. Well we know the sun's not traveling anywhere. The sun is in the center of our s well might be traveling, but it's not traveling the way we're talking about In the center of our solar system, and we're traveling around it, and we know that, and yet we still talk about the sun moving across the horizon or whatever. So again, the Bible is written in a way that we can understand From our perspective in words and ideas that make sense to us. And so I think that's part of what's going on with the sleep language too, because when somebody dies and their language There, particularly if they've just died. You know, I mean I you've probably done this. I d did a deal with my dog the other day. Our dog is getting old, she's gonna be fifteen next month And uh I went in and she didn't stir at all when I opened the door and she was laying there and I thought, is she dead? Or is she sleeping? And I looked really close, I was trying to see if there was So the point is somebody who's dead gives the appearance of being asleep and so it's not you know, so when Paul is basically yelling And so, you know, some of you fall asleep. You know, some of you made such bad choices you died as a result of your bad choices. That's what he's saying there. So I I think it It's just a way to talk about death in a way that a euphemistic way that makes sense. I'd have to say that out. I haven't thought about whether or not there's any examples of somebody who we would have reasonably wasn't among the elect who died and was referred to as being asleep. That'd be a fun little side study that I'll tackle. I haven't heard that before. So I like Something else popped in my head and it popped back out, so must not have been that important. At some point, I feel like this discussion is leading to the the idea of um spiritual manifestations, apparitions or whatever. Well aberrations is a word, but you know I don't think it's the right word for that concept. Ghosts have that. You know, that concept of, ooh, are there ghosts? Are there not those? Are we seeing something? Are we not? Like what people are fascinated by that because we're fascinated with the spiritual realm. But what is really going on on there and can you ever see a believer as a ghost? You know, and then you look at the one scripture where he calls upon um Sam Samuel called saw called Samuel. Yeah. So like how do you how do you figure that? You know, was there a supernatural thing that happened there that got a lot for that to teach a greater lesson because God can do anything. You know what is the lesson in that? So that might be something. Yeah, next week we already determined we're doing um What was it? Well Christians believe about the last days, so we've we'll we'll do that next week, but maybe the week after that we'll do the ghost ghost sorry. Okay, so I think we're back. Are we back I don't know if there's a delay. Alright. My phone started to ring and it interrupted the the Facebook feed, but I think I think and hope that we're back. So let's Let's um let's draw ourselves to a close with uh with a prayer. We're we're actually just past an hour, so I was thinking we might try to do a a a group prayer. Uh but maybe Maybe we'll just do a closing prayer. I'm maybe I'll ask Angela to do that again if she doesn't mind. Is there any last comments we have to address before we do that? Okay. Well, if you would just close us in prayer and we'll call it a night. Thank you, Heavenly Father, for this time that we had together. Lord God, we appreciate it. We appreciate the insights that were shared, Lord, and uh we're trusting, Lord, that you work through uh Pastor Troy, Lord, too. to um to answer some questions, to get some clarity, Lord, Lord God, and to just help people um understand uh your ways and your word better and we are grateful for that. We ask, Father, that you would be with us and with everyone who's listening, Lord, be with all of our families and keep us in safety and provision. And we thank you and we ask you all All of these things in the precious name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Thank you for your participation, ladies. And thank you for your participation uh on the internet and we will be back next week, Sunday, six o'clock. God bless