Looks like it's rolling. Hello, welcome if you're watching this on the stream to the worship service, the uh the live stream portion of our worship service with how to soul the faith in Christ. I say this pretty regularly. I'm not sure if I said it in a couple of weeks, so I do want to say that, you know, I I'm the pastor of this of the church, but I'm not your pastor. So if you're not part of a church, uh you need to find a good Bible believing, you know, gospel proclaiming church that Teaches the truth of God's Word, uh institutes the sacraments uh properly, isn't afraid to institute church discipline when necessary, uh that doesn't shut down when the governor tells them to, you need to find a church like that. And if you're within driving distance of Frederick and you don't know of a church like that, well you do now, so you're reach out to me. You can find all my contact information at householdof in Christ dot com. connect with me and we can uh talk. And if uh if you're too far from Frederick but you're still looking for a church, contact me anyway. I'll see if I can try to help you find a church that's closer to where you live. So Anyway, we're going to have a reading from the Gospel of Matthew here this evening. So if you have your Bibles ready, you might want to turn to chapter 24. I'll be reading the entire chapter here shortly. And the sermon today is going to be the last half of Revelation chapter 7, so uh if you want to be ready to go there too. But before we get into any of that, We got a young lady here who happens to have her nap time begin to coincide with what we're doing, which is good. But before she falls asleep, she's learning the Lord's Prayer. Here's our hand up so we can read the the same version that she's used to hearing. So we're gonna do the Lord's Prayer together. Oh, you want And we'll see if she can uh participate. What do you think? I'll smile. I know it's exciting to think participating. Very exciting. Alright, so So for those at home, this is the ESV version. Our Father in heaven. Hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For yours is the kingdom And the power and the glory forever. Amen. Amen. Trying so hard to listen to her that I was losing track of the cadence, so I think we were a little all over the place. Trying to make the cadence not or respond to her. And it was interesting, yeah, she's Yeah, she was tracking pretty darn good and then we got like I don't know halfway or so and she started doing like the last word of each line and it was kind of funny. Yep. She tries really hard. Evil. All right. So the next thing we're going to do, we've been working as a team here on getting better at understanding what what I refer to as the full orbed gospel uh presentation is or the five fold presentation of the gospel. What I'm going to do today is uh And we'll do for the next five weeks, God willing. I'm going to take one at a time, and we're going to expound upon the one. Take some time to really make sure we understand what each one of the five are. So those who are uninitiated, the five are creation, fall, redemption, restoration, glorification. So we'll just take them in order. So creation. This can be kind of a group discussion. People can kind of pipe up like we will later on. We have our discussion. You know, if you were to explain to somebody, you know, the importance of that first piece of sharing the gospel, at least first piece of the way I've outlined it just now. You know, creation, that means what? How if Ray maybe takes a gets us started. Um creation refers to that God is the sovereign, he is the one who created life on earth and the universe in it So he is the one who is the author of creation. He is the one who has determined what the purpose of mankind is. And he is also, in his goodness, chosen to create us in his own image. So, you know, these are you know components of of creation. We recognize that God is sovereign, that God has the righteous standard, because he is the creator of creation. We are created in his image. And And therefore we have a we were created with a perfect relationship with God from the beginning. I don't want to die to Right. Genesis one and two, you know, and you talked about you know the purpose. You're created for a purpose. What would uh what would what would somebody say about our purpose? What is our purpose? What what did God make us for? Uh to live with him. To glorify him and be your relationship with him. Yeah, he made us for a relationship, right? He's a relational God, he's a personal God, he's not just some force out there somewhere. He's not the great watchmaker who, you know, set the clock a spinning and then just stepped away and let it run its course. He's an intimate personal God. So yeah, so those are aspects of creation that we might, you know, be in have opportunity to share. And we can think what are some examples and times when you could enter into a proclamation of the gospel where the creation question might be the uh the end to the conversation. What's the kind of thing that somebody might say or the kind of dialogue or questions being asked ask you to say, well, you know, it's interesting you should bring that up because we have a maker. Well, lots of things. Anything from, you know, well what's the purpose in life? That's to be people like, why am I even here, why am I alive? To um people talking about the scientific question of, you know, where did everything come from? What do you say, Booba? Um, you know, people start talking about the Big Bang Theory Revolution or you know Um anything where it's about meaning, like what's the point of it all? You know Why are we here? Sometimes nobody will actually ask the that question exactly, right? Why am I even here? Why are we here? Oh yeah, I've had a lot of friends voice that question So yeah, if you're talking about the scientific things then say, Oh you know, there's this great big bang then then you can say, Oh, it's interesting because you know the Bible teaches us a creator. Or yeah, the fact that creation kind of refers to God's sovereignty, you know, you could rope that into a number of different topics. topics, why do good things happen to bad people, the classic that classic trope. Um well you said it the right way. Right. Most of you have the question why do bad things happen to good people, you say why do good things happen to bad people, which is the better way to think about it. Or you know, bad things happen. I'm not even joking. That is that is the way that a Christian should think about it. Right? We sin, we're broken, we do bad things. You know, if if everybody even even could guess at a fraction of the evil in my own heart, it would be an embarrassing, horrible thing to have on display, right? I mean it's true for all of us our our worst moments, our worst thoughts, our worst attitudes, our worst actions and behaviors. It's horrifying. I don't know if that froze everything or not. Hopefully it's not going to be a recurring issue. Anyway. Yeah, so um there's some thoughts about creation. Next week we'll spend some time on some thoughts about fall. Alright? And then the week after that, redemption, then restoration, then glorification. Alright, so let's get our Bibles open. Matthew 24, and it's the whole chapter, so I'm thinking we might want to break it up. I'm wondering maybe uh Annie, would you mind maybe reading the first thirteen verses? Yeah. One through thirteen. Um Matthew twenty four, one through thirteen. Yeah. Sure. Kelly, you're comfortable doing 26 to 37? No? You don't want to read it? Okay. Um Ray, you want to tackle uh 26 to 37? Oh sure. And uh Dina, you want to do uh thirty-eight to fifty one? Yeah, what chapter did you say? Twenty-four, Matthew twenty-four. So Annie had the first verse, so whenever you're you're ready, we can get started. Okay, come on. Jesus left the temple and was going away when his disciples came to point out to him the buildings of the temple. But he answered them, You see all these, do you not? Truly I say to you, there will not be there will not be left here one stone upon another As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, Tell us, when will these things be and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? And Jesus answered them, See that no one leads you astray, for many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and they will lead many astray. Pains. Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you to death, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. And then many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another. And many false prophets will arise and lead many astray. And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. When this good news about the kingdom will be announced throughout the whole world as the next abomination, it is then that the end will come. So when you see the abomination that causes Deathlation spoken about through the prophet Daniel standing in the holy place. Let let the reader understand the abolition. That would be the time for those in Judah to escape. If anyone is on the roof, he does he must not go down to gather his belongings from his house. If someone's in the field, he must not turn back to get his coat. What a terrible time it will be for pregnant women and nursing mothers. Pray, pray that you will not have to escape in winter or on Shabbat, for there will be terrible trouble. been worse than there has ever been from the beginning of the world until now. And there would be nothing like it again. Indeed, if you if the length of this time had not been limited, no No one would survive. But for the sake of those who have been chosen, his length will be led. And at that time, if someone says to you, Look, here's the Messiah, or there he is. Don't believe them, for there will appear false messiahs and false prophets performing a great great miracle, amazing things, so as to fool even the chosen to the process. There, I have told you in advance. So if they say to you, Behold, he is In the wilderness, do not go out, or behold, he is in the inner rooms. Do not believe them For just as the lightning comes from the east and the flashes even to the west, so will the coming of man, coming of the Son of Man be. Wherever the corpse is gat is, there the vultures will gather. But immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give its light. And the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. And then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky. And then All the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the cloud of a sky with power and great glory. And he will send forth his angels with a great trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of the sky to the other. Now learn the parable from the fig tree. When its branch has already become tender and puts forth its leaf. You know that summer is near. So you too, when you see all these things, recognize that he is near right at the door. Truly I say to you This generation will not pass away until all these things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away But on of that day and the hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven or the sun, but the father alone, for the coming of For as in those days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark. And they did not understand until the flood came and took them all away. So will the coming of Son of Man will be. Then there were two two men in the field, one will be Taken and one will be left. Two women will be grinding at the mill. One will be taken and one will be left. Therefore be on alert, for you do not know which day your Lord is coming. But be sure of this, that if the head of the house had known at what time of the night the thief was coming, he would have been on the alert and would not have allowed his house to be broken into For this reason you also must be ready. The Son of Man is coming at an hour where you do not think he will. When he when who then is the faithful and sensible slave whom his master has put in charge of his household to give them their food at the proper time. Blessed is that slave, whom his master finds so doing when he comes. Truly I say to you that he will put him in charge of all his possessions. But if that evil slave says in his heart, My master is not coming for a long time, and begins to beat his fellow slaves and eat and drink drink with drunkards, the master of that slave will come on a day when he does not expect him, and at an hour which he does not know. And will cut him in pieces and assign him a place with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Well, it's probably plainly obvious why we read that chapter when we're in the midst of our Book of Revelation study, right? So clearly some connections uh there. At this point we'll have uh a word of prayer. Angela, if you'd be okay handling those responsibilities, and then we'll dive into the uh the sermon on Revelation chapter 7. Heavenly Father. Thank you for gathering us, thank you here. We thank you for your word, Father. Your word of truth that is our guide, and your word of truth, Lord, that is our shield. from being deceived. Father, we um ask that we we invite your Holy Spirit to come. He who would dwells us, we invite Him also fulfill this prayer to invite the peace of Christ that comes with that Lord. We ask that your word and what needs to be said will be said It will be shared, it will be understood, people will challenge minds, will challenge hearts, and will accomplish your purposes for which you set it. Ask all of these things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. So a pastor named Paul Washer once told a story about trusting God And his methods. Paul and a friend were on a mission trip to Peru. Things went haywire. And Paul found himself in peril, unable to move. His life in danger, in need of rescue. But rescue was not nearby. He and his friend had no mode of transportation. The heat was scorching. And if Paul's friend went to run for help, it could easily be a suicide mission. So his friend tended to Paul's needs as best as he could at Paul's side. But it became clear Paul needed additional help. Or he was not going to make it. And so the friend He took off into the treacherous wilderness in the direction of help, risking his own life in hopes of saving Paul's life. And as it turns out the rescue was a success, both men lived to talk about it And the point of the story, as Paul tells it, is that now his friend, if he were to pop in unannounced and were to say, Hey Paul, toss me your keys Paul would toss him his keys. Keys to his car, keys to his house, keys to everything he owns. He would toss those keys to his friend without any question, not even needing to know why he wanted them. Because he trusts this friend. He completely trusts who he is. His friend risked his life. Willing to lose all that he had so that Paul might live. And that's all Paul needs to know, to know that he can now forever. Oh. It's like this with us for go with God. Jesus didn't only risk his life. He sacrificed everything, including his life. And it wasn't merely so that his people might live, but so that his people will live with him forever. And so if Christ asks you to toss to him your keys, the keys to your life, the keys to everything you own, you do it. No questions need to be asked. Even if we don't fully understand the tribulation buffeting and battering our lives in any given moment. We are able to trust who he is, and that is all we need to know to forever trust him. This story helps to frame some of the application for the final half of Revelation chapter 7. If you haven't already done so, you might want to turn there now. Revelation 7. We'll be reading through verses 9 through 17. There it says After this I looked, and there before me was a great multitude that no one could count, from every nation, tribe, people, and language, standing before the throne and before the Lamb. They were wearing white robes and were holding palm branches in their hands. And they cried out in a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb. All the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures. They fell down on their faces before the throne and worshiped God. Saying amen. Praise and glory and wisdom and thanks, and honor and power and strength be to our God forever and ever. Amen. Then one of the elders asked me, these in white robes, who are they? Where do they come from? I answered, sir, you know. And he said, These are they who have come out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore, they are before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. Never again will they hunger, never again will they thirst. The sun will not beat down on them, nor any scorching heat. For the lamb at the center of the throne will be their shepherd. He will lead them to springs of living water. Then God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. This passage, along with what we read earlier, Matthew chapter 24, it is The word of the one true living God inspired, inerrant, infallible, and as such a fully sufficient rule and guide for our faith and life practice. Those with ears to hear, let them hear. So this passage here in Revelation 7, here in uh this is a passage of scripture where we find a great multitude of Paul washers. People who face great tribulation. Hungry? Thirsty? Beaten down by scorching heat. in need of rescue. And their rescuer delivered them. And so they can and do now trust him implicitly In this passage of Revelation we find also some imagery that is maybe beginning to strike you as familiar, as we have already run across it, some of it anyway, earlier in the book. Those wearing white robes. In verse 14, they are martyrs, witnesses of the Lamb, who have poured out their entire lives as though their lives are sacrificial blood. This picks up on the imagery we saw in chapter six. Oh verses nine through eleven. The Lamb, of course, is Christ. The angels, the elders, the four creatures are his ministers. You're picturing all of the created universe. Those who are in the heavenlies, those who are earthbound, the creation itself even And the white robes, they picture holiness as the sins of these robe-clad people have been washed away. The people are seen by God as clean. Seen as holy, actually. Because of the perfect bloody sacrifice of the Lamb, the Messiah, the Savior. God Himself. Not all the imagery is familiar from the first half dozen chapters, however. So we're going to take some time, make sure we're doing our best to understand and interpret this visual the way that the Apostle John would have intended for us to do. So let's again look here now at verses nine and ten. After this I looked, and there before me was a great multitude that no one could count from every nation, tribe, people, and language. Standing before the throne and before the Lamb. They're wearing white robes and were holding palm branches in their hands And they crowd out in a loud voice, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. Well, at the very start of this section, the phrase after this Beginning of verse nine. That's a reference to the uh image that preceded it, the one hundred and forty-four thousand laid out in rank and file order as twelve squadrons of twelve thousand people each, you might recall from our most recent message that these squads are given names from the twelve tribes of Israel. But the names are listed rather unusually indicating that, at least I'm persuaded, indicating that they are Representative of the spiritual people of God and hinting that it's the people of God on earth, arrayed for battle in the spiritual war. And then this next section here of the passage, John describes a great multitude, an enormous group of people. More than live in any city, any country, any anything. It is a sea of people beyond what the eye can see And what has was not overtly said with words earlier in this chapter, with the text opting to state the truth by use of sophisticated analogies, Well now it's very much overtly said in this portion of Scripture. This massive army of God's people. It is comprised of all kinds, types, shades, ethnic mixes of people. Both British and French? I mean they hate each other. Are they included? Yes they are. South Americans and Australians on opposite sides of the planet, are they included? Yes, they are. Those who speak different languages like Spanish and Chinese, are they included? Yes. Indeed, it is true. But certainly not people with a little melanin or people with an abundance of melanin, right? Not those groups of people. I mean That'd just be too nutty to be true. Well, it's just nutty enough to be exactly the way that it is. Oh Kinds of people from all over the world are counted among our Lord's elect Thus fulfilling the promise that God made to Abraham in Genesis chapter 12, verse 3. And we see them pictured here, standing before the throne holding palm branches. And it's been suggested that the multitudes are described here as standing because all of us who follow Christ stand with the Lamb. And I find that suggestion to be rather attractive. Are you standing with the Lord before his throne? The palm branches, these are symbols from the Old Testament that reappear in the Gospels. They are symbols of conquering. Of victory, vitality. Perhaps you'll recall that Solomon's temple had palm trees carved on the walls and on the doors. This is our warrior king's victorious army of believers. That's what we have pictured here. We're seeing the way things will be in heaven. The palm branches, they're also associated with throughout scripture great celebrations. Think of Palm Sunday, for instance, right? You might also think of the Feast of Tabernacles. This could partly be this usage of the palm branches and the imageries associated with them could be because in the ancient Near East, many, many, many years ago These ancient artists often depicted the tree of life as a palm tree. Now, if we were to use today's symbolism to try to capture the spirit of what's being shown here to us in Revelation chapter 7, then we might replace the palms with flags. Sparklers held high, you know, the kinds of things you would see on the Fourth of July in a parade, something like that. Now regardless of how helpful that connection might be for you, Don't be distracted by that idea. This here is the fullness of the church in triumph. And they sing out, salvation belongs to our God. Who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. And then they're immediately joined in song. I mean this is true praise and worship music. That's what we find here in verses 10 through 12. I already read verse 10, let's pick up with verse eleven. All the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures. And they fell down on their faces before the throne and worshiped God, saying, Amen. Praise and glory and wisdom and thanks. And honor and power and strength be to our God forever and ever. Amen. Salvation is the theme of this worship Now, first the saints proclaim worship to God, and then the angels and everything else affirm the proclamation with a sevenfold praise that you count them. Praise and glory and wisdom and thanks and honor and power and strength. We've talked about the importance of the number seven throughout the book of Revelation. Back in chapters four and five, we examined a number of verses from what uh was called the uh there was called a new song. If you remember us talking about that, we'll hear that new song continues. And when the saved belt out from their diaphragm. The salvation belongs to our God. The English translation could also be: salvation is from our God, or salvation is of Our God. In other words, salvation, it's not of our making, but only of the God's making. The victory belongs to God. It is Of our Lord, not of ourselves. And yet he shares it with his chosen And here, if we allow ourselves to have some imagination, we can really feel an emotional swell. Sort of like within the high points of an epic motion picture, like something you would see in Lord of the Rings or one of those classic Bible movies made back during the middle of the 20th century. With technicolor and cinescope and magnificent cinematography. And then you add in this glorious music score written by somebody like John Williams or something. Means God the Father has sent his son on a mission. Are you picturing the cinematography? Are you hearing the music swell? God, the Son had volunteered for the mission. And this mission, impossible, was to rescue and to bring to life a bunch of deadbeats who were dead in their sin. That's us. We're the dead beast, dead in our sin, without Jesus. But now In this great cinematic vision, the Son of God, pictured here in this apocalyptic vision. As the Lamb of God has returned to stand before the throne of God and without even uttering a word. He's presenting his flock to our Father God as if to say, see, it is finished. I have accomplished the mission you sent me to carry out This spectacular mountaintop scene takes us up to the final five verses of the chapter. So to get us back on track, let's uh pick up with verse 13. Then one of the elders asked me, These in white robes, who are they and where did they come from? I answered, Sir, you know. And he said, These are they who have come out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore, they are before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. Never again will they hunger, never again will they thirst. The sun will not beat down on them, nor any scorching heat. For the Lamb at the center of the throne will be their shepherd. He will lead them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There is some foreshadowing in this paragraph, a sneak peek, anticipation of what awaits us when we finally get to the end of the book in chapters 21 and 22. In a new heaven and a new earth, all tears will be wiped from people's eyes. Which people? The people God knows, the ones he foreknew, the ones he brought through life's difficulties. Those whom he carried through periods of persecution by the presence of his spirit Who are they? Sovereign Lord, you alone know. That's what it says in Ezekiel 37. We've all had conversations. In fact, it wasn't too long ago here at Household of Faith in Christ, we had a conversation along these lines where we share our concerns over the eternal security of loved ones. We want to have a heart for those that we know, those in our life. But you know, wondering about their eternal salvation, boy, that can be a fool's errand, huh? I wonder if my dad is saved. I wonder, do you do you think my deceased son was saved? Well, I sure do hope my aunt, my daughter, my grandmother are saved. Look, we can't know another person's heart. But if we are saved, then we know God, and we know that He knows us. And we know his ways are righteous and his plans perfect. And so we we trust him. And we believe him. And we believe that he knows those who are his. And now those of us who are his. are pictured in Revelation chapter seven, having arrived at the time and the place of final peace, but only after We've been on that big plane in the sky, you know, jetting to glory, jetting to spectacular sandy beaches or majestic mountainous ski resort or beautiful rustic hunting lodge or amazing pristine cityscapes or you know whatever it is that comes to your mind you think of destinations you like to dream dream of. Of course glory to be even far greater than any of those. Well we're on that jumbo jet right now. And we're experiencing some turbulence. The rise sometimes feels quite a bit bumpier than we had expected. But the pilot, he knows what he's doing. He has promised to land the plane for those who've been born again. And he is always good to his word. Are you born again? If so, then you know what it is to traverse tribulations. Are you not born again? Well then you too know trials. And guilt. What do you do with the guilt? But the image of being washed clean by the blood, that can be rather startling to you if you're not born again, if you're among the uninitiated, you know What's being talked about here? What's that all about? Well, it's like what we read in Zechariah 13, verse 1, where it says, On that day a fountain will be opened to the house of David. and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and impurity. Those cleansed from impurity by Jesus, who is the new and perfect David. are happy forever in Christ because of the love of the Father And even though this is a work of our Messiah, we are blessed to participate in it with Him. Ephesians chapter 5, verses 25-27 has these instructions for us. It says, husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. To make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the Word, and to present her to Himself. As a radiant church without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless. We are to represent Christ in our interpersonal relationships. How's that going for you? Could you do better? If so, well then it is time to repent and commit to doing better. But Christ's work is what saves us. But in Christ and through Christ, we join in the washing. There is no easy believism in the Bible. We are justified, accounted righteous by Christ's work, no doubt. Then we're sanctified. Washing clean in progressive fashion out of obedience to Christ, all while it is God who instills this desire in us And prompts this action from us. We do the deeds of washing As proof of our salvation. Out of gratitude for our salvation. Even though it's not the means of our salvation. This word from God, written more than 1900 years ago, that's a long time ago when you think about it, is for us today. In fact, I want to take a moment and comment on a translational issue. As you know, I read from different versions, different English translations of the Bible as a regular habit. I mix it up on purpose Today I've been reading from the NIV. And I purposely chose the NIV to help to highlight something that many of our English translations, well, they don't get precisely right. And this actually includes the New International Version, which renders the middle of verse 14 as, these are they who have come out of the Great Tribulation. The NIV is not alone in using the words have come out or words to that effect. For example, the King James has the words they which came out. This is past tense. However, in the Greek, there is a present participle in the phrase And that informs us that it isn't best to read this phrase as have come, nor would it be best to have it be a future tense of will come. No, it's a present participle. It should be our coming. Our coming. The NASB does an okay job here. It translates the phrase as the ones who come out, so kind of plays the tense right down the middle. The ESV and translations like it, they do actually the best job on this particular verse, opting for these are the ones coming out. It's an ongoing present tense. Those who are coming out of the tribulation. Present tense Since it's present tense. That includes us. We live in the present. And when all have come out on the other side, John records the elder telling us what Isaiah chapter 49, verse 10 tells us. They will neither hunger nor thirst. Nor will the desert heat or the sun beat down on them. He who has compassion on them will guide them and lead them beside springs of water. God's people in God's holy presence 24-7 as he dwells with us, sheltering us in his temple. His temple and his heavenly throne, there are different ways of saying the same thing. And him tabernacling with us. That's him spreading his tent of protection over us. He's bringing us into his personal dwelling. It's the intimacy of family living And not only as spirit beings, well physical existence too. And in some aspects, this is now already true. But as the repeated use of the word will reminds us in verses 15 through 17, the word will shows up there seven times. It's not yet true in its most fully applied sense. For now, I do say we're delivered not from earthly trials, but from divine judgments. Incidentally, I just read from Isaiah chapter 49, verse 10, which is essentially all but quoted in verses 16 and 17 of Revelation 7. When we look at the context there, we see that Isaiah, he writes these words of prophecy depicting God as the shepherd. Now, John, he writes basically these exact same words in the book of Revelation as the fulfillment of the prophecy, depicting the Lamb as the shepherd. This is not a contradiction. This is a confirmation. The Lamb is God. John also gets the waters of life language from Isaiah 49. He gets it also from Jeremiah chapter 2, and of course, he gets it from Jesus. We know from John's gospel account, chapters 4, 6, and 7. Um like in John chapter seven, for example, we know the living waters the spirit of Christ, the Holy Spirit, the Paraclete. Our comforter. You know, this vision described in Revelation 7, it is such a comfort to us, isn't it? In the chapter It ends with the words, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Yeah, I'm reminded of a time when I as an earthly father received a phone call from my daughter. She had just received some emotionally devastating news that crushed her dreams of continuing her collegiate basketball career. And it created for her an internal upheaval. Spun her world out of control as far as she could perceive it. And it was a significant trial for her. Her confidence shaken, her future felt bleak and doubtful. I listened to her, doing all that I could to hear her heart. And then it seemed like she just had no more words. Only sobs. At that point I shared with her. My hopes for her. And I gave her the reasons why I know deep down. She will realize my best dreams for her. And her own best dreams for her. Her story wasn't over that day. It was just some momentary wind shear, tossing her jumbo jet up and down a little bit. And it was scary. It was hard. But she got through it and she has since used that experience to grow spiritually. So, you know, whatever you think of my attempts to wipe tears from my daughter's eyes. My efforts, my abilities, they pale in the extreme to what our Heavenly Father does for us So no matter what things might be like for you right now, take heart, have courage. The Lamb at the center of the throne is our shepherd. Chapter seven of Revelation. It's a particularly interesting chapter. I think so. Do you? In it we have an experience of Kind of a literary time travel. We've seen a flashback to before the first six seals and then a flash forward to after the seals, all while addressing our situation in the midst of the six seals. The sixth seal, it took us up to the second coming of Christ. And during the interlude, we've been provided a Wondrous depiction of the Lamb's victory for his flock. So when we open the seventh seal, we as readers, as hearers, were led to expect maybe a new heavens and a new earth will be shown to us in chapter 8. Is that what we'll get? Well, we God willing, we'll find out next week. Let's pray. Father, we know that you are a good and glorious God in control of all situations. We ask your blessing upon the sharing of your word. Your blessing upon the conversation that here is to follow. Do you read unclutter our minds from distractions and difficulty is that we would drill down on who you are, what your word tells us about who we are in relationship to you. And that we would cling by the power of your spirit to your promise made to Abraham. That you have a people and that you have called us to be among those people. And that we will live forever in glory with you with no more tears, no more crying or pain. We praise you and thank you for that wondrous promise, Lord. In the name of your son Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. Well that one might have been a little bit hard for people to track because we had a lot a lot going on So if you need me to recap certain things or clarify something, you might have you know kind of lost where I was on a few points. Um could you just um repeat the the five or um things about The good news. Well something you've said it on several times. Sure. It goes so fast. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And in fairness. But The the the framing of it, uh the way that I teach it, um I'm not sure that there's nobody else doing it, but I frame it and teach it the way that I do based upon my own uh instructive instincts. Uh it's not I didn't learn from anybody else. So I I'll start I was just gonna quite the way it's Like bulletin? Yeah. So I can't. We spent uh an entire gathering time, not even on Facebook Live. Um spent I don't know, we had dinner and stuff, we spent several hours uh talking about what the gospel is, our understanding of it, flesh it out. The following week we got together again and we put into practice the things that we focused on the week before. So we have those who were here for that I don't know, at least four, maybe five, six hours of time invested in really trying to internalize what all that is. Somebody who wasn't here for that is kind of you know, changing A little bit of that? No, yeah, you were here for some of the things you'd done, but you that was back in August. I don't know if you were here for that. So but anyway, so in fairness, you put it in. I've only a I was at a church where they just had a session about evangelizing because I went to evangelical church and um Well this this might help it stick. I'll go through some of the things I often that I often share that help it to stick different ways. So more often than not what ends up happening when people you you you go to some sort of an evangelism training session or a Sunday school class that teach you how to better share the gospel or something like that They oftentimes will will use um kind of the one-two-punch approach. You have a problem, I've got the solution. Right. Right. Actually. You're a sinner. God's got a law. You've broken the law. What are you gonna do? Right. That's oftentimes it's kind of Problem solution. You're a sinner in need of a savior. Jesus is a savior. Can I share the good news and the hope that lies with you? That's a very common way it's approached. And those are two of the five. That's why I'm mentioning those two, because those are two of the five. So some people uh refer to what they call a threefold gospel, and by that they say creation, flaw, redemption. So we talked about creation today, and we have a maker, somebody who made it for relationship. He's a personal God. So they have that piece. But then we screw that up. We sin. We we've fractured the relationship. It needs to be restored, but we are broken. We can't restore it on our own. We're dead in our sin. What are we going to do? Fortunately, God, you know, uh Christ incarnate as God the God the Son, he lives a perfect life of obedience all the way to the cross and dies carrying the burden of our sin. And so our sin is paid for. And so that's the threefold gospel, creation, fall, redemption. There are some people out there This is actually where the my ideas began to percolate. So when I say I originated this, it's an influence, but the five pieces is relatively unique as far as I know. So what that's worth I I mentioned that not as a bragging point, but as a point of uh of warning that you know just check what I teach and what I say and make sure it lines up with your understanding of scripture. So the fourfold gospel usually would be talked about in terms of creation, fall, redemption, glorification. So we have a redeemer who makes right that broken relationship, because that's the second piece of the broken relationship. And because things are made right We're now going to spend eternity with God in heaven in union with him as his bride, as the body of Christ, with all the other believers, where there's no more crying, no more pain, whatever. So and that's all true. So creation, fall, redemption, glorification is all true. But I always found it to be a challenge because it doesn't address us now as we live out our lives in the practical. Where does that fit in? And so where where do we have room in the sharing of the gospel for sanctification? And so that's where I've added a fifth one for my five-fold gospel that gets slotted between three and five. And number four, it's restoration. It's the process of restoring, of ourselves being restored, of our relationship being progressively It's justified and made right with God in a legal sense, but in a practical, lived-out sense, there's still restoration to happen And so that's why I use the word restoration. So then the five would be creation, fall, redemption, restoration, glorification. And I'm telling you When you have a conversation with somebody, they might talk about, and this is this is where it comes in, this is where I think we can naturally share the gospel, just kind of as a flow of conversation, because a lot of times somebody will share with you their struggles. And they want to do better, right? I've got to lose weight. I've got to manage my money better. I've got to stop swearing so much. I've got to stop you know, uh being so mean to my father. I've got I've got all these things I want to do better. I aspire to more. And we can then say, Oh, you know what? That sounds like the life of a Christian. Because Christians are aspiring to do better, trying to do more, and we are given the power to do better by the presence of the Holy Spirit who dwells within us. And if you don't have the power of the Holy Spirit Man, that's like a treadmill run. Like you're not going to really make true sustainable progress outside of Christ. Do you know anything about Jesus Christ? Let me tell you about him. So that gives you an entry point. I mean that's a very wooden offense and say Right. Because look I think a lot of people really hate it. And I mean they hate it when somebody comes up to you like on a street corner or anything and do the and they And then they're on the defense. But this is you're a sitter. Yeah, this is you know but we all are. But they don't want to hear that. That's the point. So I'll cycle through one or two of these just to give you a feel. And somebody joining online for the first time might benefit from this too. So let's say you started there with the, you know, you You're on a treadmill right now. You can actually keep running, but be running off of a treadmill. You're actually going to move forward through the power of the Holy Spirit in and through Christ with a relationship with Christ. And because we're making progress, we're going to ultimately end up in glory, which we often terms think of in terms of in heaven. I know for a fact I'm going to be in heaven I'm on the track, on the road to heaven. I'm progressing in that direction, I'm going to finish the race by the power of the Holy Spirit And I'm going to then join God in heaven forever and have the kind of relationship. Now watch how I swing it back around, because that's five now, right? Glory for each five. I'm going to jump to one. So I'm going to be spending eternity with God in heaven and have the kind of relationship he made me for at the beginning. Because he is a loving personal relational God who created me for relationship with him. So now I'm back to the beginning. But of course We screw that up. We sin. We break his law. We do things even that breaks our own laws, even if we don't want to regard his law. We're guilty of breaking the law. What do we do with the guilt? But that guilt is solved at the cross in Jesus Christ, and out of gratitude, I then jump off the treadmill and start running where I can actually make progress in my sanctification. So you can see how it circles through. Another way it could be is today particularly people will say something like, man, this world is a mess. Is it ever going to get better? Can things return to normal? When do things return to normal? And we could say normal. I want better than normal. I want eternal glory. I want to be with God without any of this pain or suffering or angst or lies or any of that sort of stuff. That's what awaits the believer in Christ. Because God made me for that. Of course we have all these troubles because of our sin. But that sin is dealt with at the cost of Christ. Now the gratitude, I'm working hard. And so I'm working hard, you're working hard, we're working for so you can start with the hope for the glory To get into an intellectual debate about evolution or you know everything happened by chance or there's no meaning or purpose to life, and you can start with creation. If you can get into brokenness You know, you could start there with the sin. And that's the more natural place that we that we've been taught to try to start with is start with the second one, right? Start with sin. And it and sometimes it comes up. And somebody says, Man, I'm such a screw-up Okay, yes, you are. But you know what, there's good news that that screw up is paid for at the crossw But if it comes up naturally, that's one thing. It's another thing to say Are you familiar with God's Law? Do you realize you've broken at least one of those? In fact you've broken them all. Let's run through them now and tell you how what a horrible and I get it. That's the the the uh Ray Comfort style uh uh right that's the thing, right? Right at the same time. And uh Todd Friel does it. It's it's a very common, popular, and can be effective way to do it if you can get somebody So sit still long enough to hear you wag the finger of accusation in their face. I'm telling ya I could maybe I just haven't had enough experience yet, but I've been trying working hard to try to put it into practice, to look for opportunities to bring it up. to bring up the sharing of the gospel and at one of these five points in any conversation, one of these five points will present itself as a natural hint for sharing the gospel. I really like it because I know this isn't God, but I've always felt guilty about how to you know, 'cause I I don't want to disparage the name of Christian because you know that's like a four threat word sometimes now and in this generation. And God is gentleman. Christ is a gentleman. He doesn't force himself on absolutely on people. Absolutely. Now the reality of sin Well we do. I mean we uh man has to be careful. And Uh you know, I've been always wondering how, and I know that sharing the gospel is a relationship thing because God wants that, but also the disciples I mean those guys trained for two or three years before he said go out in twos and you know and that's why I I never felt comfortable, you know when when our church says, Well, you know, you need you know you need to go out and you need to do this and give out pamphlets. I just never was that kind of a person. So I've been very interested in in how you all been talking about this because it just makes so much more sense. And I'm not a h I mean I'm not opposed to it, but I'm not a huge fan of the handing out tracks kinda No no no no I'm not e I'm not either and I've always felt guilty because I ha I'm not one to go up to somebody and say, Hey, I need I need you to sit down And that's exactly why we lean so heavily uh you know on tracks over the years is because we're we're not comfortable having the dialogue and so we're like, well here read this, it'll do the dialogue for me Yeah, I think we need to get trained up and leaders in the church need to train the people up to be able to do that through conversation, through relationships. Rather than when you're sitting on the pot, read this later. Like that's not the same You can't immediately answer questions. They can't hear your heart. And one of the problems we have with this, not turning this into a gospel sharing lesson, but one of the things that bothers me about the the church in general Sin inside the church should have its finger wagged at. If somebody claims to be a Christian and they are mired in sin, we need to go and confront that sin. Right, and rescue it, rescue them from that sin in their life and say, Hey, you're a follower of Christ. No. You do better than this, man. You have the Holy Spirit in you. Or don't you If you don't repent from your sin, I've got to wonder, do you actually have the Holy Spirit? Because you don't just lay down in your sin and live in it without any concern whatsoever. You need to change your ways. We need to confront sin directly in the church. Not that we shouldn't outside the church, but my problem when we lead with God's got this law, have you broken any of the law, if they're not receptive, they won't hear it, they step away before we get to the solution to the problem. Oh they heard from us was the law. All they heard was God's people wagging the finger. And then we get accused of being mean spirited, narrow minded, right? We're just jerks Can you have a mean, angry God? Well, no, you didn't let me finish the story. But they don't we can't guarantee they're gonna allow us to finish the story. So if we're always starting there, it sounds like we're always wagging our finger at them And then you see it becomes a habit then because you'll see somebody in the news, some famous celebrity, does something horrible. You know, they they cheat on their wife or something like that. you know, we're immediately critical. Oh, can you believe so-and-so cheat on his wife? He's not a Christian. We can't we can't even obey the law ourselves And we are Christians. We're going to wag the finger of condemnation at the that person needs to know that there's redemption available for that horrible sin they committed. So instead of saying, can you believe so-and-so cheated, it's like, it should be, boy, I sure do hope that somebody gets to that guy who cheated with the story of rescue so he can be redeemed from that horrible sin. The attitude needs to shift, but we're so trained up to focus on have you broken the Ten Commandments? Do you do you know And we're just wagging our finger constantly at the lost broken world, asking them to carry a burden that we can't even carry ourselves. So for a lot of reasons. Um I uh I'm partial, it's my system, right? But for a lot of reasons, I think a more full orbed approach of how to end these things because really out of the five only one of them sounds like it's condemning. The other four are starting from a place that's not starting. But again, it's a full orb. You do all five. You don't stop short. You don't say, oh, well, you just trust in Jesus and you'll be in glory. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. He's the lawgiver, right, out of obedience and out of gratitude. You know, we want to be obedient, so we're going to follow his law. So the obedience needs to be there And if there's no sin, then there's no need for a rescue from the sin either. So you can't have the gospel without acknowledging sin. So you've got to swing through all five, but you don't have to start on number two. So if you start with the promise of glory, if you start we've got a a creator who made us a relationship, if you start with we've got a redeemer who paid the price for everything to set things right at the cross. If you if you start with out of gratitude, I want to live a better life and I'm given the power by the Holy Spirit to do so, those are all positives. So we give ourselves an eighty percent chance of entering the gospel sharing with a positive as opposed to the negative. Negative. So you know, once that happens might have planted a seed and got usually you know water. When you're bringing someone to Christ or they've decided they want Christ in their their life. Um I think it's I think it's kind of important. They need to be trained. I mean they need you know they need fellowship they with I mean because it's too easy And that's part of stage four, the sanctification, the restoration piece. And that I don't know if people track with the sermon, but that was part of the sermon today, right? That's the washing. Yeah. You know, and we do participate in the washing. You know, we are washed clean by Christ's blood, but we participate in that. We're active participants in it. that and we don't we don't wash ourselves clean out of our own strength. But still He's not throwing us in the bath and scrubbing us. But we're in the bath with him and we're participating in the washing. So yes and part of that washing is coming to understand that we need to listen and obey his word. And his word says do not neglect the gathering. Right? So we want to gather. It tells us uh that you know there's wisdom in his word. If we want to grow in wisdom, we've got to be in his word. So we have to be discipled. And you know, if you're watching this online, I mentioned at the start, I'll say it again. No. I'm not your pastor. If you're blessed by this, praise the Lord for that. But you need to be in a church with a pastor who is investing in your life, holding you accountable so that you are discipled So you progress in that sanctification. And if you're unwilling, making excuses like, yeah, I know, I mean I I I'm about relationship with Jesus, I'm not about religion. I don't have to go to church. That's about religion. That's man-made stuff. No, it's not. You need to read the Bible. You see it's not man-made stuff. God's word. Jesus is the Word. The word tells you what to do. So if you say, oh I believe in Jesus, believe in. What? Believe that he exists? The devil believes that he exists. So believing in, believing that there is a Jesus, no no no. You need to do more than believe in. You need to believe Him. You need to take him at his word. And your church should be helping you absolutely with that relationship. And if your church is not doing that, boy Yeah. You might not be going to an actual church. They're not a hundred percent in the word. It's gotta be a hundred percent. It can't be nine ninety. It's gonna be a hundred percent It's gotta be the full council of God and that's why I I I think I said it on camera today. If you if you consider yourself a member of a church to stop meeting for a year How are they discipling you? How are they training you up? How are they equipping you? They weren't. If you were to leave that church You really wouldn't be that's one way thing about it, but you really wouldn't be leaving that church left you. They stopped being a church, they left Christ. They abandoned their obligation to Christ. So you know I and you gotta clarify that. I talked to some pastors they say, Oh we just stopped meeting, we continue to do stuff online. No. That's not the same thing. It is not the same thing. Uh does anybody have any thoughts about Revelation chapter seven? Like I think you know on the whole good person test versus the fivefold approach, people generally accept the fact that they're not perfect and they've done wrong in the their life. The barrier is the fact that they need to accept that they're not the God of their own life. That's the barrier that people have, not that they aren't perfect. Um so that that and I don't think the good person test necessarily points that out as much. It focuses on the law but not necessarily the Yee be like God that led to the fall. So Yeah, I think if somebody uh they're not gonna say I'm my own God. Right. Some today might But so give me an ex I I'm I'm with you, but give give uh give us an inf for instance. How would somebody say or do something that makes you feel like okay their problem is that they made themselves their own God? Uh You know, that's that's it it's hard because a lot of time like reality Like I don't want to I'm not sure if I should use Christians that said, hey, the you know the bar the final barrier is what I gave up trying to be in control like that. Like you hear a lot of people's test Right. More than you hear like people actually, you know, declare that I'm my own God, but it's not like it oftentimes when people say that, you know, I don't need religion or uh I don't need Jesus. Yeah, and they're pretty self-aware that they're not perfect people, but you know, they don't acknowledge their imperfection as an issue. one of the big things is when people like I don't need someone telling me what to do. I'll follow what I believe to be right and wrong and you know, look out for number one, you know, so there's a selfish element and then there's a a belief that they know what's best. They know what's right, they know what's wrong. They don't always always do it. They'll admit they screw up. But they don't want someone telling them what to do. Or like an atheist would probably be a I'm in charge of my own life as well. Okay, so that example 'cause I can I I've heard that. We can all imagine somebody saying that to us. So 55 full gospel and Really, the gospel is pretty simple. God saves. That's that's the the that's the gospel. God saves us who are centers. So all five aren't necessarily the gospel, although I think I think it's a full-org understanding of all of the gospel means. And through that we then have five entry points into sharing that God saves. But with that in mind, the five aspects. Somebody says, I don't need somebody telling me what to do. Okay. Where in the five would you draw from to start sharing the gospel with that person? I mean probably one of the easiest would be the following because you don't know, okay, how's that always worked out for you? I mean, most people would admit that that they haven't always been able to handle everything on their own. You know? Um Yeah, I agree. To me, my instinct is to go to number two. Yeah, I think go to the fall. Like okay. Okay, so you're God. How have you looked up even to your own standards? Yeah. I'm a good person. Well, you're a perfect person? Okay, well then. But see now here this is That's because I love that example because the practical chance we had to practice some things out. Because our the way we've normally I'll use me, the way I was kind of trained initially to try to approach evangelism Somebody said something like that was to try to prove them wrong. You think you're that good? You're not that good. You've made idols in your life, you've taken the Lord's name in vain, right? You've lied, cheese, steal, you covet, right? You go and horrible things, haven't you? You're not that good of a person. All of a sudden you got them on the defensive and it's it's a horrible opportunity to under the coffee so they don't want they don't want to hear anything you have to say after that, right? Ray Comfort actually does that, but he doesn't do it in in In a c in an accusatory way. He just asks them how many lies have you told. Right. And they can't even name how many lies they told. What do you call a person who tells lies? A liar. Well have you ever stolen anything, even if it's a small thing like a pencil from your job. So wouldn't it be more perhaps fruitful to go to the afterlife? So what happens after you die Just ask him that question. Well well th one one thing that I think has that that that that very comfort his approach has merit with is that um you have to give them the opportunity to see that they need God that they need a savior. So you have to show their you have to allow the whole you're it really is the Holy Spirit doing it, but you have to allow them to see their their their condition from God's per se Right. And I think the way to do that might be to start with more glorification rather than number two the fall because if they're not acknowledging God as the sovereign, you need to kind of flip their own. You need to get them to change the do a paradigm shift in their own. Like at least in the discussion, get them to see it from a God perspective But but oh it okay so I'm just Yeah you could go to glorification. You go to you go to glorification but it it it may that that may not mean much if um th th they just they think that they're okay anyway. So his his his argument there is this is is that you you need to show them their sin because if they don't understand their sin they'll never understand their need to be justified and glorified and all the rest And don't and and and and he always brings up hell. Every single time he brings up hell, he lets them know, listen, there's an end of the road to where to there's this there's a final destination on the road that you're walking And uh and and he he tells them, you know, uh when they when they turn when they go back to the well I'm really not that bad of a person and he tells them well it's actually now you now you've broken the first commandment. you created a God of your own image of your own imagination and you you're ignoring the the God in the Bible that's holy. And he I know. And and so um you brought So his his his point is they need to see their sin. They need to see that they're in danger. He says, you know, if if you know that you're in danger, you know Um then you realize that you need a savior. They're they're they're blinded to the fact that they even need a savior because they think they're good. And only it's a good thing. I guess my point is that maybe the definitely to get someone to see that is not start with two, it's just it's to get them uh thinking about after life. And then you can go to three, then you can go to two, or you can go to one, or then you can go to two. I would probably actually Try as best as I could to meet them where they are. And I would go to one. And they say I'm a good person. I say you know what? There's a lot of ways in what you're saying That are true because God you were fearfully and wonderfully made. And God made everything, and when he uh everything he made was good, and then after he made humankind He said everything was very good. And so there is something very good about being human. And then you do you transition to Ray Comfort. However, you know as well as I do, you haven't lived a perfect life. You've done some wrong things, some bad things. Even if you don't want to believe there's a God, there's some things that have broken even your own standard of what right and wrong. There there's there are times you've disappointed even yourself. And what do you do with that guilt? Like so you could you could kind of meet him up and say, I'm a pretty good person. You know what? In a lot of ways you are a good person. In fact, you are fearfully and wonderfully made. You have great value and worth in the eyes of your Maker. God loves humankind. Do you understand how special you as a human being are in the grand scheme of things? And they're like, yeah, see? Ah, but see now you hooked him a little bit, you got him liking a little bit, and you say, ah, yeah, but You have broken God's commandments, haven't you? So, yeah, I don't want to be misunderstood. I'm not saying that what Ray Comfort does is is wrong. In fact, what he does is right and good. My point is sometimes it's really hard to start there. So if you can start in one of the other four places, you end you end up incorporating that too. So if we can find a common ground Again, find a point of agreement. If they say man, this world sucks. Yes, it sucks, and it sucks. One, either because there's a fall and there's a lot of sin in the world, we could go right to two, right? A lot of spokenness and those are the same. Or we could say, yeah, it sucks well, you know, trying to do things in their own strength, so you can go to you could go to four For you with their own strength instead of leaning on God and His provision, you know, those in the church who've probably been decided to understand that they're not doing these things in their own strength. Yeah they're doing them, but they're doing them with strength. It's like a supernatural strength from the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. And and at that point they're like, What are you talking about? And then you can say, Oh, you're not familiar with that teacher. Anyway, hopefully I'm gonna Um So in Matthew it talks about um Okay, so nations rising against nations, um you'll you're in tribulation, they'll kill you and you'll be hated because of my name. So this is clear that it's talking about the elect, right? Because of my name. Right. Yeah, those who bear his name. You wouldn't be hated if you weren't, you know, the I wouldn't want to kill you. Um it talks about false prophets will arise and will mislead many. So so it so in the end times it's talking about how there's gonna be More who are claiming to be prophets, I guess is what this is saying. Because lawlessness is increased because I guess people are then looking for answers, right? So what's the what's your question for Secretary? Many. So even you're only misled if you're looking, right? So th so I guess there's more of a looking then and a yearning for God Or not necessarily. Well, do you think you're talking about God's people? Everybody is looking for answers. Right. Everybody's looking for something. Um who would you not everybody's necessarily looking for God. Who are these Protestants leaving then? Well we see it happening right now, right? We've got the social justice uh quote unquote gospel. That is n another gospel. It's not the true gospel. Well they they're not necessarily people people who are prophets aren't necessarily giving themselves that title Like for instance over What translation are you reading? N A S C. Yeah, because it's it doesn't say prophets, it's just false prophets, right? Right. Yeah, false prophets. No, but I guess what I'm asking is what Angela is saying. Are they calling themselves Profit. Not necessarily. Ah. Gotcha. They could be, but then not necessarily. All right, maybe I'm misunderstanding the definition of profit. So what is the definition of profit? Apothana I think a simple way to think about like a layman's term definition for profit is somebody who's proclaiming And in a Christian context, it'd be somebody who's proclaiming God's word because God's word is true. So somebody who's claiming to have the truth, you're looking for an answer, I've got the answer. So they they're doing it everywhere. I mean in today's if once we understand that secular humanism is a religion, that wokeism is a religion I But secular home uh secular humanism is is a religion. Is all the telltale signs of religion? Okay. So Anthony Fauci would be one of the High priests. False prophets of the secular humanist idea. Because he has the quote unquote truth. He's got yeah. Ah, he has the answer Right. I gotcha. Okay. Alright, that's helpful. Um and then it talks about how the gospel of the kingdom shall be preached. Okay, yes. When you see the abomination of the desolation which has broken through the Daniel Daniel the prophet, what is that? The abomination of the desolation That's like a whole series of discussions all by itself. It's rather uh opaque. Okay. So there's a lot of disagreement of how to understand that and um I'm not kidding, it would take probably at least an hour to try to walk through the different views on what that means. Alright, so Lena talks about how, you know, you're doing things just like the Son of Man, like in the days of Noah, right? People are going about their business, they're mocking Noah just like they're mocking us. Jesus is coming back, blah blah blah, yeah, whatever. Um and then it talks about um After the tribulation, those days the sun will be darkened and the moon will give the cloud, the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of heavens will be taken. The Son of Man will appear in the sky. Okay Coming in the clouds. And he will send forth his angels with a great trumpet and they will gather together his elect. So when it talks about it. I'm in Matthew twenty-four, verse tw thirty one. I was in the right area just went to draft elbows. Okay. Um Um okay. So then it's talking about and this is where I think some people are saying that this is the great rapture, right? This This is what people think about the Great Rapture when they do not understand the flood. There will be two men in the field, one will be taken and one will be left. Two women will be grinding in the mill, one will be be taken and one will be left. But it's so but all that is happening when the Son of Man is coming in the clouds, right? Yeah, this so this section now you're you're not in thirty one anymore, you're gonna be like thirty six or something, right? So that section of of Matthew twenty four uh Um is hotly debated as well. Okay. Uh I would say this is just a point of instruction. It does often uh get referenced in conversations about Yeah, a secret rapture of the church kind of a thing. Uh something for us to keep in mind is is if we look at the broader context of the of the words leading into the taken away where one is taken and one is left Um says picking up with uh with verse thirty-six, but of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven or the sun, but the father alone. So we're talking about the last day. Right. But then there's the last day. The final day. The final day. And so that's what it's talking about there. And it's saying no one knows that last day. Okay. And then he goes on to uh in verse 37, for the coming of the Son of Man will be just like the days of Noah. For as in those days before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage. until the day Noah entered the Ark. And so that's kind of like um how we see things now. Right. Like people are partying, living life. Like everything's fine, you know, everything from our perspective, everything's going to hell in a handbasket, but they're living life and loving it. Anyway, verse thirty nine. And they did not understand Until the flood came and took them all away. So who are those that are taken away in the flood? Who were godly people. Right. Those who are eating and drinking and being merry and living life to the highest and flood they're they're just rebel rout rabbel rouses reveling in their sin, right? There there's they're Completely oblivious to the ways of God. So they then say in verse uh where was I, thirty-nine? Yeah Yeah, and they did not understand until the flood came and took them all the way. So the flood takes them all the way, sweeps them all the way to their destruction. They all die in the flood. Okay So will be the coming of the Son of Man. So if we compare then that idea with what is often quoted in verse uh forty and forty f verses forty and forty-one. Then there will be two men in the field. One will be taken, one will be left. Well, in the analogy, if we're going to read this in context, the ones who are taken In the days of Noah were not saved by Christ. And those who were left safe in the ark were believers. Right. So I think the context would would would help would have us understand it that way. Two women will be grinding at the mill, one will be taken, one will be left Okay. So is that answering your question? Is that helpful? It is. So then the people who are left, they're left for how much longer. Do you know what I'm saying? Well okay. We're getting a little far afield and it might be better to almost ramp into this with a series of sermons and studies on it. But however, I will say this. Think about one of the things we need to get our heads around as believers is what eternity looks like. Too many of us have these ideas that we're called up into the clouds and we're gonna look like little cupid dolls and have a you know bow and arrow and we'll be shooting people with them and we'll be singing la la la songs and just floating in the ether kind of thing. But what do we know? Actually we haven't gotten there yet, but what do we know from the book of Revelation? What happens? Christ returns and what is it that happens to reality? Heaven comes to earth. There's a restored or renewed heaven, renewed earth. There's a re Yeah, there's a renewed earth. There's a ne New Jerusalem, heaven comes down to earth. So if the believers are left on earth and heaven comes down to earth, the ones who are left, how long are they there? They're there forever in glory with Christ. So when we're caught up in the air, don't we leave the earth or is that we're in new bodies. Yeah, no the so okay, so now I'm glad that this is turning to heaven. Yeah, this is talking for what keep So one thing to think about with regard to the context of the times in the in the first century when when uh when like a Roman general went out and conquered You know, the Caesar goes out and conquers and he comes back to the city. Their habit was for the general and his troops to come back from their victorious tour, their victory at war, and they would camp outside the city and the people in the city would see that they had come back and they would know that they had won the war. And they would be like, holy cow, let's make preparations, let's get the study ready. And once they were ready, they would then run out to the victorious General and usher them in in a parade of celebration into the city. Yeah, and it's the the triumphal entry. has been mastermind of his spiritual war. He wins the war. He comes. God forgive me for my uh rather limited language here. He parks himself outside the city. The city says, There he is. They rush up to meet him and usher him in for the new heaven and new earth, the new Jerusalem on earth. That would be, I think, a pretty good way of thinking about that image. And that ties into the whole the good servants are waiting at the gate for the master's return. Yeah it all connects. Yeah, and we're watching, we're looking for his return because when he returns, we want to then run out and greet him. And we can think about this in our own like practical lives, right? You've been waiting um You got grandkids maybe and you haven't seen them for a long time and you know they're supposed to be arriving somewhere around two o'clock for Thanksgiving dinner and you haven't seen them in three years and you're like you're watching out the window and then you see them Or they text and they say, we're just a minute away. You might actually run outside to greet them, hug them in the driveway before you then usher them into the house. The father, yes, he runs out to his son and then ushers him back into the house. Yes, all of these images are recurring throughout scripture. Is that helpful? Yeah. We could eat popcorn. Okay. What's that? Yeah, well it's a little bit fast, but yeah, it's uh it's about seven thirty five I'm gonna guess, something like that. So we'll we'll wrap this up. Anybody feel like they're led to want to close this in prayer? Otherwise I can. Okay. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time together. We thank you for your Holy Spirit that trains us up. We are also thankful that um we know that we belong to you, we have assurance of that, and all these finer details can be worked Out as we look to you and your word with fear and trembling, relying on your Holy Spirit to train us up. We're thankful that we can rest in assurance. completely and totally in the full work that you have done on our behalf. And it has nothing to do with our own knowledge, just our trusting in you and the finished work of the cross, believing in your death and resurrection. Thank you for that gift. Thank you for your Holy Spirit that unites even all of our different opinions. And because of you, I ask that you would be glorified in everything that we do and say. Amen. Well Well thank you if you've stuck with us this long. Hopefully it was uh beneficial to you. No, we had a lot of noise and distraction today, and I'm not sure how that played out through the microphone, but hopefully you're able to track okay. Anyway, we'll be both uh God willing. Oh wait a minute, next week Uh next week is next week the last Sunday of February? I think it is, right? February twenty-eighth is a Monday. So Yeah, okay. Next week I don't think we'll be doing a Facebook live. We're doing something in-house of the Household of Faith in Christ. So I don't think we'll be uh um but you can follow along with things that are being posted on sermonaudio. com and at odyssey. com. Um I'm posting something there pretty much every day right now, so you can find stuff there. And you can find all that the links to all that sort of stuff at household of faith in Christ dot com. Till two weeks from tonight we'll be live. Till then, God bless