If we're always sitting in the range, we don't do that for it. But if not, I'll be happy to tell any just to do that. Okay. Is it uh is it seven o'clock yet? Yeah, yeah. Okay. Well, greetings, brothers and sisters. I'm Troy Skinner, bringing greetings from the Household of Faith in Christ. That we happen to have our service on Saturday evening, so for easy up to be here on Sunday evenings on occasion. It's always a pleasure to be here. Thank you for inviting me. We're going to do things uh a couple of things we haven't really done when I've been here before. We're going to have a couple of uh hymns that are going to be kind of chosen old hymn sing style, so somebody's going to shout out a favorite. Uh I think our first hymn will do that way and our last hymn will do that way. So uh also something we're gonna do a little bit Something that we're going to do a little bit different than the way things have flowed when I've been here before is we are going to have the uh the prayers of the people, but we're going to do it after the sermon as opposed to before the sermon. So we're going to be relocating that in the flow of things. But I mentioned that because I don't want to get nervous like, hey, aren't we going to pray? We are going to pray. But first, somebody have a a good old favorite hymn that they would like us to open with. What what? 169. One six nine because he lives. Everyone is able if you could stand. And you will pray, and what he killed, what prayers given. Now we have to. I think the white of the written man I know we are I pray to all God, we are He was like no be hold of my shirt, and my children Do you ever want me to be seated? I love when we can extend the providential hand of God, the lines about dealing with fear and struggle, but being able to face that next day because he lives. I want you to hang on to that thought because that's going to be something that will undergird the thing that Christians need to be reminded of as you hear today's message when we get there. So anyway, obviously we didn't find that in advance. It was shouted out and it really resonates with one of the main themes in tonight's message. Anyway, with that announcement behind us, somebody has official announcements, I'm sure, for the life of Fairview Chapel. Things might be coming up and other things that we need to know about, so we could hear those now. Maybe not, actually. This was not here as to the channel we've talked about pretty well We'll see you next week. Yeah, uh Jay Allen. Was that his name? Jay Blake? Jay Blake. It's a fast gathering. Mount Carl. Okay. He'll be here next week. All right. Well yeah, the only offerment I could offer would be looking backwards. I don't know what's coming up. I do know I do know that I was scheduled to be here uh in in January and then two weeks in a row we had snow that uh that canceled that and so those are two times I got bumped and then I was gonna be here last week But then Tim May was uh his schedule made it so that w he wanted to come and the the week he could do was last week. And so I got bumped again. So I don't know. We'll find out. Anyway, at this point, um let's let's have whoever the usher is who handles uh taking up the collection uh to come forward and do that. And what we're going to do is as the plate is uh works its way through the room and the collection is taken up, uh once that happens, uh the usher will stand at the back and wait till everybody has an opportunity to stand up. Do we have an usher this evening by the way? Yes. Okay. And then uh once um once the basket's full, we'll uh if you could wait toward the back until I have a chance to signal everyone to stand up for the singing of the danceology. Uh during this time if you want to have some musical musical accompaniment you can, but I want this to be a time where we ponder and meditate on the act of worship that takes place in this. Everything that we do. When we sing a song we're worshiping, when we pray we worship. When we are hearing God's word preached, it's an act of worship. And when we give back to him a portion of what he's given us, it's worship. So let's let's think about that during this time of service. Praise God from whom all blessings flow. Praise him all creatures here. Praise him other beaven Praise Father Son and all Father, we humbly ask that you would make us good stewards of these monies that you have put in the hearts of these people to share with the Ministry of Advancing the Kingdom the work that is done here at Fairview Chapel. We thank you for blessing us so immensely that we have some means to give back in recognition of your many blessings. These are just a token of appreciation for the many blessings that you have given us. We thank you for drawing us together to hear your word, to sing your praises today, to reflect upon the meanings of all the different things. All of life is worship, not just what we do here this evening. We thank you for Thank you for that reminder. We ask your blessing upon this time, upon the hearing of your message. May it be received well and applied in an active way to the lives of those who are yours. All these things we lift up to you in the inestimable name of Jesus Christ. Christ. Amen. If everyone wants to remain standing, we're going to do our our one planned hymn, planned as of five, ten minutes ago. True hearted wholehearted is 467. Hymn number four six seven. True hearted wholehearted Come to the standard strong in the same. Every door take my brain where So I can do the program. What do we sell? Everyone may be seated. So last uh time that we walked through God's Word together was uh actually Christmas weekend, if I recall it correctly. And we traveled along with the Apostle John as he wrote a letter to Gaius, a disciple of Christ who was faithful to walking in the truth. The letter that we read is now known as 3rd John or John's third epistle or sometimes 3 John, particularly if you're in Europe, you might hear it said that way. The shortest of the Bibles, 66 books, containing just over 200 words, and six of these words are the word truth. And there's one other time when the word true appears. John is committed to the truth. And he wants to make sure that all of Christ's followers are also committed to the truth. Knowing the truth, believing the truth, proclaiming the truth. Living the truth. Now, who is Gaius? Well, we can't be sure. The name Gaius appears in the New Testament a number of times But these are probably several different men named Gaius. It was a very common name back then in the Roman Empire, sort of like the names James or Robert or Michael would be very popular in today's America But we do know this about this particular guy. He was beloved by John. The letter uses the word if it's uh if it's translated the way I feel it should be, because in the Greek it's the same word four times. And I think the English translations that do us the best benefit translate that word all four times, beloved. He is beloved. And that usage of the word beloved actually helps us to understand the outline and the flow of the letter. It provides the section breaks, by the way, which is another reason why I wish the translators would be considered. Anyway, in covering the first twelve verses of this love letter, the last time that we were together, we were able to see a familiar theme from John Truth, it's what's for dinner. Truth, the other white meat. Where's the truth? Just truth it. You deserve the truth today. Plop plop fizz fizz. Oh what a relief the truth is. Snap crackle truth. I'd walk a mile for the truth. Finger-lick and truth. Give us 22 minutes, we'll give you the truth. Traffic and truth together on the eight. This is John's thing. The truth. You ever notice on social media how every individual they they seem to kind of have their go-to thing, you know? There's that person you know that it's just cute and cuddly posts over and over. Right? And then there's another person maybe it's like polarizing political posts over and over. Another person, a friend of yours, maybe it's you know cynical, snarky posts, over and over. That's their thing. Well, if John had social media, way back when, he would have posted an awful lot about the truth Over and over. That's his thing. For example, in Second John The apostle warns against helping false teachers who are enemies of the truth. In 3 John, he commends those who help teachers of the truth. So now we are going to read the final few verses of 3 John, and then we're going to talk about the truth as it is impacting us here and now in 2022. So if you haven't already, if you would turn to 3 John. And we're going to look at verses 13 through 15. And do not be confused if you happen to be reading from one of the few Bibles, for example. or uh which is the NIV, or perhaps you have a King James because it might only show fourteen numbers on your page, something like that. Well Some of our Bibles in English translations show 14, some of them show 15, but I want to assure you this is merely a numbering question. All of the words are the same. We have a 14 and a space. Interesting. Well there's yeah, there's different ways that the translators choose to handle the numbering, the versification. It's a very rare oddity in our Bibles, I will tell you. But it had no bearing at all in this particular case, none whatsoever on the content or the meaning of the letter. And we should keep in mind that when John wrote the letter, there were no verse numbers And the verse numbers were added more than a thousand years later to make it easier for us to reference and do study. So now even though I am reading from what is the Q translation, Q Bible translation, the NIV which does not have the number 15 printed. I'm saying there are 15 verses because when I'm preparing a message, I lean heavily on my Greek uh New Testament and my Greek New Testament has the number 15 there. So as I was preparing, I have 15 stuck in my head and that's where we are. And uh it's not just my Greek New Testament. You know, if you're reading from an NASV or an ESV or something like that, you've got the number 15 on your page. And a lot of other English translations do too. But anyway, no worries. The words are all the same. So here they are, beginning with verse 13. I have much to write to you. But I do not want to do so with pen and ink. I hope to see you soon, by the way, verse 14. I hope to see you soon, and we will talk face to face. And then 15, peace to you. The friends here send their greetings. Greet the friends there by name. It's a very short passage in a very short book of the Bible. But I still want to drive home the point that it is God's word. Breathed out by God. This is what we mean by it's inspired, and therefore it's without error. It's infallible. It is. God's word is the fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and life practice. We do well to remember that. So those with ears to hear, let them hear. Now, you mostly like me, right? Maybe maybe you'd even say you love me, some of you. I hope so. I hope that you love me or at least like me, because I am going to need your goodwill this evening. I'm not looking for a fight. Truly I'm not. But I think a fight has found me. And it's found you too. Whether you know it or not. There is a fight in the church going on. You can really feel it these last few years, but it's been going on before that. And it's not the regular kind of fights along the typical historical denominational lines either. No, no, this is a Civil War kind of a fight. This is evangelical versus evangelical, Methodist versus Methodist. Professing conservative Christian versus professing conservative Christian. And mistakes are high. And I'd like you to think about where it is that you stand. And to think about where it is that the Apostle John would stand if he were here today standing where I stand. What am I talking about? The shock. A shocking answer, right? It's become emblematic for so many of the things that we are feeling in very acute ways in the church today, these past couple of years. The problems we're having these past couple of years, they date back even before the Shack, but this really is emblematic of what is plaguing us as God's people right now. But you know, you hear me say the shack and you're thinking that's just like that's a movie. And before that it was it's just a book And before that, I mean it was just right the collection of imaginative thoughts in the mind of William Paul Young, the author of that book. But the shackles has become so much more than this. What it represents has become so much more than this. And not because the movie raked in tens of millions of dollars at the box office. Also did well as a DVD when it was released. Not because the book is, you know, one of the all-time great bestsellers who sat at the top of the best-seller list for a long time, having sold well over 20 million copies. That's a lot of books. Did you know that Shaq has sold more copies than The Godfather? More than Jaws, the adventures of Huckleberry Finn, more than the Grapes of Wrath, the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, the Cat in the Hat. The old man in the sea, the exorcist, catch twenty-two, the joy of sex Just the name of few. The Shack has had historic success. But not as much success as who moved my chief, so we can be thankful for that Thank goodness for that. Now despite all the commercial success, perhaps you don't know the story. So in a nutshell, here it is. A little girl is abducted, taken to a shack in the woods And killed brutally. Her father, Mackenzie, or Mac for short It's devastated. Can you imagine something worse than your innocent child being tortured and murdered? There is a bit of Christ-likeness in this story, isn't there? The Father sending his son to be tortured and murdered. Homecca have a few questions for God. But he doesn't really go to God with these questions because he's always struggled to find a closeness with his heavenly father, he says, because he had abuse at the hands of his earthly father when he was a kid. And then an invitation arrives in the mail from AC to go meet Papa in the woods. At the shack. the place of his deepest hurts, the most depressing pain. That's a good setup, right? It's emotionally tugging. Easy to connect with personally. Wrestling with questions we all grapple with, at least sometimes. And what will Mac find? Who will he meet? What will he learn when he goes to see Papa in the shack? Compelling questions. Through the use of a simple plot with simple characters, the author reveals his answer to these compelling And challenging questions like: why is there evil in the world? Where is God when there's a tragedy? What is the meaning and purpose of life? Are you ready for Mr. Young's answers? Are you sure? Because we're now entering the battlefield of the Civil War. Let me start with some of the volleys that are loved by supporters of the book. And if you hated the book, well then please bear with me because I agree with what these supporters have to say. The story of the Shack, it honestly exposes the gaping and raw raw wounds that so many of us have festering under our facades. I haven't had a daughter brutally murdered, praise God. But I have a son who faces significant challenges every day. An absent America, he always will. And you have your version of this story. Like Mac, I'm the survivor of abuse as a child. You might have your own version of that story. Wike Mac, the person next to you, has struggled during their life to feel closeness with God. You probably have your own version of this story. And this is the brilliance of the shock. Paul Young is telling your story, my story, all of our stories, so we can relate And so we read with interest, open to the possibility of a new emotional connection with God. And this is good. Really good The dilapidated building in the shack, the shack itself, is a metaphor for our lives. There is a metaphor in the chakra for our hearts filled with aching hurt and yet still filled with so much wondrous beauty It's a standing contradiction almost. Just as good stuff. I mean it's really good. Very relatable. It's very real. The story itself is a little imaginative and fantastical, but the emotional chord that is struck is very real. In a way, we might say that Paul Young has met people where they are. And this is good. It is something that we all could and should do better. It is good stuff. Really good. And this is part of what bothers the critics. And it concerns me too. There's an old saying, win the heart and the head will follow. In the shack, Paul Young wins the heart. He offers salve for bleeding blisters. Every turn of the page brings a warm hug to a hurting reader somewhere. The shack is a shoulder to cry on, a bending ear that listens, a quiet friend who's there for you. And this has me on high alert. Because they have the Apostle John on the other shoulder, in the other ear, saying, as he does in 3 John, peace to you. And it's a peace that comes from true understanding. Johnny teases us, his readers, sometimes by saying that there's so much more he wants to write. There just isn't the time or the space. Or he might say they want to wait, like he does in 3rd John, so he can see us and tell us in person, face to face. So I'm wondering, if John came here right now and he offered us greetings, each of us by name, what would he say Given that Christians are arguing with Christians about this darn book and movie and all the issues that swirl around it. What would John say about the shack? Well, given John's always present, focused on the truth, I think I know a few things he would point out to us. To those who would say, hey, what's the big deal? It's only a book, it's just a movie, John would probably respond by pointing out that all authors have the point of view. Even an agenda, when they write. And the shack is no different. In the acknowledgments in the back of the shack, the author himself says that the book, quote, shows the way in which God works. Elsewhere, we read in the back pages of the book that it offers, quote, a magnificent glimpse into the nature of God. It offers one of the most poignant views of God and how He relates to humanity. These are theological claims. Paul Young is intending to teach about God. Who God is. What God's like. Why God does what God does. It's not just a story. It's not ambivalent. It has a purpose. If you read it, take it seriously. If you watch the movie, watch it seriously. You know, if I were to write a book and then make a movie, and I tell you, you know, this is a book in a movie about your wife, your husband, your son, your daughter, your mother, your father Anyone who's important to you, close to you, you would read it seriously, wouldn't you? You'd watch that movie seriously, right? This is the same with the shack. Now, shack's not about your spouse. It's about your creator. And it's not about your parent. It's about your savior. It's not about your child, it's about your beloved king And Paul Young teaches in the Shack that your creator, Savior, King is a warm God Warm within the Trinity. Warm towards others. The Shak teaches that God is personal. And powerful, and all-knowing, and all good. This is a God who acknowledges the reality of pain and suffering and grief and evil. And in response to all of this bad stuff, the God of the Shack is gracious and forgiving. This God argues against legalism, emphasizing grace and mercy and love. Someone said that this book has changed their life. By drawing them closer to God. And we can see why. I mean, there is much truth in the shack. Much truth. And therefore, the Apostle John, if he were here right now, he would say, read the book, watch the movie, and love it. Well, no, that's not quite what the Apostle John would say. At least I don't think so. And I say this because the shock raises some very serious red flags. And the shack puts words in God's mouth. I mean, that's a dangerous thing. The shack ignores the holiness, the otherness of God. That is more than a dangerous thing. The Shack also takes pot shots at the church, its leaders, pastors, seminaries, and that could also be a dangerous thing. Readers of the Shack might end up confused about goddess worship, the divine feminine, as it's called. Readers of the Shack might think that God is so tolerant that there's no need for the cross. Readers of the shack might see Mr. Young's amusing, manageable, non-threatening God and fail to understand God's majesty. And awesome greatness that we see in places like Isaiah 6 and Ezekiel 1 and Exodus 3 and Exodus 33 and so many other places. In the Shack, there is no need for guilt or judgment or wrath. There is no need for the order that's brought about by hierarchy. Even within the Trinity. Yeah, the Shakun has three persons in a Trinity to mutually submit to one another. Hmm. If this is so, we don't know it from the Bible. Where the Bible never has the Father submitting to the Son or the Holy Spirit Never. The Shack has a God who, believe it or not, submits to humankind. Have you read the Bible? God never submits to his creation. The creature submits to God. I would point you to Hebrews chapter 13, verse 17. In the Shack, the book teaches that the Father was crucified with the Son. The movie teaches that the Holy Spirit was also crucified with the Son. This ignores that the Father and the Holy Spirit are never, not one time, represented in human form in the Bible. They are spirit. And it ignores the heart-wrenching truth that the Father turns away from the Son when Jesus was hanging on the cross. Very harsh, then. Shack ends up teaching that love limits justice. rather than seeing them as two sides of the same coin. The Shak uses scripture out of context, with the results being universal salvation. The Shak says that Jesus is, quote, the best way, not the only way, to a right relationship with God. In direct opposition to what the Apostle John writes in his gospel narrative in chapter 14, verse 6. The Shia promotes a sort of postmodern New Age Universalism. God's immanence overwhelms his transcendence. In other words, his familiarity overwhelms God's otherness. And a condemning attitude toward the church, or really toward any institution for that matter, promotes individualism throughout the Shack, despite what we find in our Bibles in Hebrews chapter 10 and chapter 13. And this is exceedingly ironic as the Shack seeks to bring a connected relationship with God. It does so by promoting a disconnected relationship between believers. Now I just unloaded a lot of stuff. I know I did, right? And no matter the side of the fight you might be tempted to take up I've likely already offended you maybe. Because if you love the shack, well then you do not like all the shack bashing I just did. Might be thinking, you sound like one of those narrow-minded fundamentalist bigots to me And if you hate the shack, well then you likely don't like all the kind things that I shared about the shack. Might be thinking, there is nothing good that should be said about this book of the devil You saying nice things about it just shows you are part of the problem. Well, I've turned the two competing sides into cartoon characters for a fact. And while these caricatures are, you know, gross exaggerations, I still think it's important for me to take a moment to explain myself why I've shared the thoughts I've shared so far. First, briefly, on why I said so many good things about the shack. Primarily of three reasons. First, I was taught many years ago by a very, very wise pastor the importance of being a generous reader, a generous listener. Now I'm not as good at this as I should be, but I'm better at it than I used to be, and I think I'm getting better at it all the time, and I would encourage you to walk that same path. Now, being generous in this regard, it means giving the writer the benefit of the doubt whenever you can. If something could be taken one of two ways, try to take it the more positive way until you have reason to think otherwise. If it's possible the author meant something different than the first themes and allow for that ultimate meaning, at least at first. So you have a chance to really check it out. The writer is, or the speaker, is possibly not intending to bring offense, well then don't take offense. Seek to fully comprehend the other person's point of view. Try to know it so well you could explain it back to the other person, maybe even better than they could explain it to you. That's the goal. That's being generous. Now the second reason for my kind words about the Shack, there is no denying his popularity. And why would this be if there wasn't something attractive? about it. And it's helpful to examine and explain the dynamics that's at play. What is the reality of this popularity? And how can we better understand why this is the case? And then if we could explain it all, well then this, if we should have any concerns, We can then better explain the reasons why we might believe that it's dangerous if that's where we end up. And my third reason for saying good things about the shack. There is a good amount of good truth in the shack. And so the good things I said about it, they're well deserved. So why don't I say all those bad things about it then? Well, at the end of the day, this is my view. As I see it, the shack is dangerous. It is one of the most dangerous books on the market over the last 20 years. That's a hard position to take, isn't it? Especially after I just got done telling you how I'm a generous reader. But being generous does not mean ignoring the obvious or being naive. Not at all. It means being fair. And careful, slow to draw conclusions. But conclusions must be drawn. The truth must be known Remember, this author has stated that his book makes theological claims. The Shak intends to teach you about God. Is what it teaches accurate and biblical? This is the question. We all have a bias. What is the bias of William Paul Young? My bias is that the Word of God is true. And everything else gets viewed through that grid. My bias is that the reformers got things mostly right 500 years ago. My bias is that oftentimes the most dangerous lie Is the one that looks in awful lot like the truth. These are my biases. What are Mr. Young's? Let's take a peek, see how maybe he shows us his hand a little bit. On the very first page We see the words rigorous rules, externally religious and overly strict. Are these hints at an antinomian, an anti-law bias? It's hinted that those who seek obedience Are seeking to appease a quote, brooding, distant, and aloof God. That's the Shak says on page 10. Just a few pages in, we read that Mac, the main character who lost his daughter, has hated war with a passion. Innocuous enough, but it does begin to beg the question, does this maybe belie a bias in favor of pacifism? The antenna should go up a little bit anyway. What's the nature of God? Is it nature itself? I mean the Shack talks about the God of winter on page 14. And nature with a capital N on page 15. And the universe is personified on page 30. Is there possibly a pagan bias in the shack? Is there a self-loathing bias against men? On page 22, the main character accuses himself of, quote, a manly dumb thing. Are men dumb? The main character's cat named Judas. Is that supposed to mean something? I mean, why not Thomas, right? Doubting Thomas would seem to be a much better choice for the theme of this book Then Judas, the disciple, who betrayed Jesus. Is there a hint in this name? And uh What about the terrain that the characters travel throughout the story? Places like Hell's Canyon and the Snake River. And Seven Devils Lookout. And the town of Lost Ean. I'm not going to attempt to draw very many conclusions from these particular sorts of things. But I will tell you, these sorts of things did get my attention. Made me sit up in my chair a little bit straighter while I was reading, you know? Actually I got up out of my chair and went and grabbed a pencil so I could start making notes in the margins. And I do not typically do this when I'm reading a novel. But the shaft was beginning to seem like it might be something a little atypical. And so I really took notice. When I saw a couple of real life celebrities mentioned in this work of fiction. Why? What sort of people are these? Real people inserted into a fake story. What's going on? Well, one of these real people is Bill Moyers. Famous, many in this room I know who he is, famous for among other things, hosting PBS's program, Faith and Reason Moyers, I don't know if you know this, he was once a ordained Baptist minister But he has since described himself as, quote, neither wholly a believer, nor wholly a skeptic, end quote. That's an interesting real life person to include in the Shack. Particularly since Bill Moyers is described in the pages of the Shack as, quote, a favorite. A brilliant man who expresses truth with unusual clarity. End quote. Wow. A partial skeptic is the one holding the truth. Now, the other real-life celebrity in the book is Bruce Coburn. Bruce is a singer-songwriter and he shows up either by name or by song, at least on four pages of the shack that I took note of. On pages 39, 118, 134, 144. That's where I noticed it. Maybe it's some maybe I missed a few. But that's funny right there. In a book, the claim is to teach us about the true nature of God. Mr. Coburg has a prominent recurring role to play. This is no accident. He's in the book over and over again for a reason. What does Bruce believe about God? Well, Bruce Coburn is a self-described seeker. In a 2006 interview, which is the year right before the shack was published, I want to note. Coburn is quoted as saying, I flirted with Buddhism. I sort of moved on into the occult. Study the tarot and try for a minute or two to be a fundamentalist Christian. Since then I've fallen under the influence of Sufi writers, of Hindu teachings through yoga studies and various other things, and the search continues. This is a man held up as a hero in the shack. A man who says his parents are agnostics. Greek mythology captivated me completely. I like the Kabbalistic view of God. If you think of Jung or Freud, those have a divine aspect or offer a connection to the divine. These are quotes. I don't think I've made my point well enough, so here are a few more. He says, I married a Christian. She had abandoned that course after realizing that the people she had been with were very narrow-minded. She's a very psychic person. How about this one? Saint Paul? I don't think I would have liked him very much. Or this one. In a certain way, I do think of myself as a Christian, but I've always learned so much from so many other sources. And now we're reading a very interesting book by a Canadian theologian called The pagan Christ. Again, this is a hero In the shack. Someone who admits, quote, I don't know the answer, end quote. And advocates for, quote, the subjective nature of our relationship with the divine. It's important to remember how subjective it is and not to require other people to approach the divine in the same way. End quote. When I found this Coburn interview, I believe I found Paul Young's spiritual guru. If not his spirit guide, at least his kindred spirit. As in the Shack, Colburn espouses that, quote, what impresses God Is the raw emotion, the raw feeling. Coburn lives out the sort of religious life that Paul Young appears to advocate in his book and in the movies. Coburn says, I don't go to church, but I pray from time to time. I meditate a little bit from time to time, which I think of as a kind of prayer because It involves opening myself to whatever might come in. Whatever might come in. There's so much more to quote. There really is. Let me just give you one more as he talks about something that was taught by Jesus. In my father's house, there are many mansions. It was suggested to me years and years ago that this was a reference by Jesus to reincarnation. I feel like one lifetime isn't enough. But I kind of assume that we have more than one life. I feel like death is some kind of graduation ceremony and we're on to the next level of education after that, whatever it is. I'm not sure if we can come back in human form or whether the bundle of energy that is in us goes somewhere else. Again, this guy has a fan in William Paul Young. And you can see these themes from these quotes throughout his book. I almost need not say more, but maybe One day I will, because there is a lot more to be said that I think would be edifying for the body of Christ to consider and be exposed to. But for now, let me suppose what all the fraudulent things, what so many of the lies out there, lies that are infecting the church now, right now. Maybe yours. In distinction from those lies, this is the truth. The truth is that you have an eternal creator who made you for a relationship with him. And you bear his image. You are fearfully and wonderfully made. And don't you forget it But don't forget also that that image is marred by sin. Each of us is born in sin And there's nothing we can do. We can't work our way out of it. Sinner is our identity at birth. What do we do? We trust in God's provision because he sent his son to do for us what we can't do, to pay the penalty by living a perfectly obedient life Obedient all the way unto a death on a cross that we deserve not him. And then he demonstrated that everything he said about himself Everything we find in the scriptures are true because as he promised, on the third day he rose again. Because he lives, as we say. We know it's true. And so then out of humble gratitude, we seek to live lives of obedience. in alignment with the truth of his word, not the lies of somebody else's words, the truth of God's word. And God's Word fuels us with hope. A hope knowing that one day we will join Him to have the kind of relationship that He intended from the start. When everything is fully restored, and we are in glory with Christ forever. In union with Him and in union with the other believers Who are also in union with him as the bride of Christ. That's the truth. Look at everything else through that grid, please. Please. Christ Church has to do better. Father, you are a wonderfully good God. We couldn't even begin to imagine your greatness if you didn't reveal yourself to us in ways that we could comprehend. We thank you that you have revealed yourself in the very creation that we And have it? That you revealed yourself in your written word that's been preserved for us all these years that we can study and know you through it. And you've revealed yourself in the word incarnate, sending your son. To walk this earth as Jesus Christ of Nazareth. To demonstrate the obedience we fail. To deliver that you deserve. Oh, we thank you and praise you for your wisdom, for your gentleness and mercy with us, that you've called us to yourself. And that you are renewing us day by day in our process of sanctification until that one glorious day. We will be with you forever. Glorified with no more crying or pain. No more murders taking place in shacks in the woods. No more nagging doubts about you and your provision and what it all means as we grapple with the hurts of this world. Oh, how we yearn and look forward to that day. We praise your name. By the power of your Holy Spirit. Spirit. We praise your name. And we praise the name of your Son, Jesus Christ. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. So I think what we're going to do is have another hymn. If anyone wants to shout one out, and then we're going to have a time of prayers of the people after we have our song. So does anybody have which one? H two fifty five. Two five five? Yes. Oh one wonderful save each. Okay. We can get behind that message, huh? Two fifty five, what a wonderful savior. Meditation? Uh oh. I know I pray the voice for the mama to your children. I was like the Lord to God on the one stage, one of the balls take you. He learned the holidays, the wall and raised. Just my teeth, my border was taken your place for my Lord. We want to make a place. What a wonderful savior, what a wonderful savior is keeping. And everyone everyone may be seated. Alright, so in case you're wondering why do we move the prayers of the people to the end? It had two reasons. One was I thought it might fill our minds with some specificity. There's a word for you. Don't try to say that three times fast. About the condition of what the church is facing these days and how we've been handling it might plant some some thoughts of things to pray about. Also, just in case somebody was mad at you, I wanted you to pray for me So after we have our time of prayer, uh the only thing singing remaining will be the Alleluia. Uh so there won't be another hymn. But um I think everybody's pretty much been here when I've been here before. So we're going to do what I do when I'm here when there's an intimate gathering like this. I like to do the popcorn style prayer where the prayers of the people actually are voiced by people. If you're not one who prays aloud or tonight's just not the night we're going to pray aloud, that's fine. You can pray silently. But I would encourage you strongly to consider praying aloud. It's it's edifying to everyone in the room, including yourself. uh for what it's worth I would encourage you at least think about joining into the prayer. I know Teresa's always uh w willing to open us so I'm gonna lean on her to do that after she has uh a moment to to say some prayers. Anybody else who wants to join in in turn is more than welcome and encouraged to do so. And then after a period of time I will uh stand up and and close this in prayer. Everybody good with all that? Yep, alright. Father God, thank you for this time together. Thank you for for um just the way you draw us into Your presence. We pray for your Holy Spirit to come, but Lord, you're always with us and you're always tapping on our shoulder and saying, Here I am. I have God with us. with you so thank you for that. Um I just lift up some struggles that my family is going through Lord. We're burying my Cousin tomorrow. Lord, I just pray for the Enter family and for the Carrie family that'll have a funeral on Tuesday. Lord, for my sister Sister family that is just still groping after a house fire, just be in all those situations, Lord. And we're just very grateful for your presence. Thank you. Jesus Take care of the Stanley Martin family has such uh multiple medical problems and Karen Line in his own hospice and he was down in the stages of life. Take care of her and her husband Four dollars. She's this big dying. Now we've been broke for a little while. Discoursing with his uh promise with his body, I'll kill his body, paid those three or given right Well reach out to us if you will say you were okay. So all she said to her um cancer. Field her or feel she's thinking about it. A very sudden loss of someone who was much, much too young to you. More Jesus country more through all the divisions and Canadians go through their divisions or just oh Lord, just help us build a better government. Jesus' name that knows you, Jesus name. Father, we were reminded in the voiced prayers of the hurts that we deal with in this broken world. There is sickness. There is death. There is mourning. There's lots of crying and And our private prayers that we maybe didn't utter aloud. There might be little lots of shame. Fear and doubt. And we turn to you for comfort We ask that by your indwelling spirit you would constantly call to mind and lead us to seek out out our comfort in you. What you've provided through your word, both written and incarnate. They wouldn't accept a substitute, that we would only accept the real deal, the truth. That you would attenuate our hearing so that we would recognize those who would deceive us with things that might tickle the ears, tickle our fancy. Delude us perhaps if we're not careful into thinking that there is hope over some other rainbow. We know that it's good, Lord, sometimes to pray your word back to you. So with that in mind. The context of this prayer. I remind us all of the words in Ezekiel chapter 13 that talks about the the darkness of what goes on around us when the the leaders who are charged with the spiritual protection of your flock do not carefully do their jobs. Your word says, The word of the Lord came to me. Son of man prophesy against the prophets of Israel who are now prophesying. Say to those who prophesy out of their own imagination, hear what the word of the Lord is. This is what the sovereign Lord says. Woe to the foolish prophets. Who follow their own spirit and have seen nothing. Your prophets of Israel are like jackals of Among the ruins. You have not gone up to the bricks and the wall to repair it for the house of Israel. So it will stand firm in the battle in the day of the Lord. Their visions are false. The divination is a lie. They say the Lord declares when the Lord has not sent them. Yet they expect their words to be fulfilled. Have you not seen false visions uttered, lying divinations when you say the Lord declares, though I have not spoken? Therefore, this is what the Sovereign Lord says. Because of your false words and lying visions, I am against you, declares the sovereign Lord. and Lord. My hand will be against the prophets who see false visions and utter lying divinations. They will not belong to the council of my people. Or be listed in the records of the house of Israel. Nor will he enter the land of Israel. Then you will know I am. The sovereign Lord. Or help us to recognize the wolves among the sheep. Help us to have the confidence to challenge those who try to deceive us and lie to us. Many of us can't help but suspect and feel almost in our bones that our nation Our world, but more profoundly, your church might be under judgment We know that you protect those who are yours. That we have the seal of your protection on our foreheads. And so we will persevere. In those instances when we haven't done well, we know that we can ask you for forgiveness and you grant it because we are your children. Help us to more regularly, consistently, faithfully hear your voice and only your voice. Thank you for hearing the prayers of your people, Lord. We know that you hear them. You tell us you hear them. When we gather together in your name and pray in the authority of the name of Jesus Christ, and that is what we are doing. We come to you boldly, with humility and meekness, but boldly standing before your throne, because we know that Christ our Savior, in whom. We lift up these prayers. By Him we have standing before you. So thank you, Lord. Everyone who is able, if you would uh stand for our final moment of singing this evening. So basically, May the shalom of Christ be with you as we now enter the mission field together. God bless.