Very clean. Alright, we're back. I'll give you a second to to rejoin us if you're interested in doing so. Those who this is take two. Proving that we do this live. I know we're normally so seamless and perfect in what we do, you were assuming it was all pre-recorded and highly edited, but that's just not the case. So anyway, welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ. I encourage you to find out how to connect with us and all of our various means at householdfaith in Christ dot com. That's Household of Faith in Christ dot com. We've already had our prayer and our singing and and our scripture reading and that sort of thing. So we're going to jump right into the message. And then following the message, we are going to have a discussion. So then you're invited to participate in that discussion in the comment section on the stream. Um for some this is going to sound repetitive because it's take two and so we already kind of started but there was a lot going on, a lot of commotion and different things. And I don't know that everybody really was able to really connect. I know for a fact some people were not able to. for the benefit of of those people. We're going to start over. So here we go. You want to get your Bibles ready, by the way. Revelation chapter 8. Verses 1 through 6 is our passage, Revelation 8, verses 1 through 6. A message titled Trumpets and Prayer Break the Silence. So we're now beginning our trek here through the what I've described as the two most intricate mountain ranges in the book of Revelation, which has a number of really interesting mountain ranges Uh chapters eight and nine is what I'm talking about. We've we've already explored the meaning of the opening of the first six seals, which are described by John as he relates his vision to us. And we we've tackled chapter seven. just a few weeks ago, which is arguably the portion of the book that raises the most opportunity for controversy, which is saying something considering the level of disagreement that exists over many parts of this book And then last week we were standing at the base of this mountain range, at the at the foot of the mountain range, preparing to gaze at what I'm calling this intricate Area of peaks and valleys of imagery that await us in chapters eight and nine. So last week, if you were with us, you remember we focused exclusively on the first verse of chapter 8. When the Lamb broke the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour. Now, the Apostle John, if we are familiar reading his writings in the New Testament, we're used to him making repeated mention to things related to time quite a bit. He likes to use the word hour. In fact, in 1 John chapter 2, verse 18, which is a s uh a series we covered. We did the epistles of John last year, the year before. He uses the word hour in an eschatological sense. He's referencing there the time before the end. Now for those of us who might have memories a little more fuzzy than we'd like, that verse, 1 John 2, verse 18, says Children, it is the last hour. And just as you heard that Antichrist is coming, even now, many Antichrists have appeared. From this we know that it is the last hour. So given what we know about when 1 John was written and his double use of the phrase, it is the last hour here in this verse. Plus the idea that many Antichrists have already appeared by that point when he wrote 1 John, it is fair for us to think. That God has in mind as John's audience all of the people who would ever read his words, the original readers in the first century for sure. And then all the readers throughout the progression of the centuries, all the way up to and including our time today. So in other words, I'm talking about the entire church age is the intended audience. But the entire church age is better thought of, I think, as a full hour. As it says in 1 John 2, it is the last hour. But in Revelation chapter 8, John uses the word half-hour. And this is unique because I mean literally unique. The Greek word that John employs, it is the only use of this word in the entire canon. And so this does add some challenge as we seek to interpret its meaning. But in light of this word and its connection to the silence, the awe that we spent all of our sermon time looking at last week, As a practical application, we can at least see, I think, that throughout the decades and decades and decades and decades of time between the advents of Christ, God's people are To stand before God in faith, in reverence, in worship. And we should make this awe-inspired silence We emphasize that. We should, we must make this awe-inspired silence part of our daily practice. So I'm not talking about merely having some quiet time, some alone time. That's not what we're talking about here. We're talking about time that is focused on communing with God. in humble adoration and devotion. Interestingly, we sang the song Devotion about a half hour ago here at Household of Faith in Christ. So we should be like those in Luke chapter 1 verse 10. The whole multitude of the people were in prayer. outside at the hour of the incense offering. And we should be like the creatures and the elders of Revelation chapter 5, verse 8, where it says When he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each one holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. So we should meditate and we should consider the silent astonishment of Christ's enemies at the power of our warrior king, as well as at the silence of creation. Creation in awe of the catastrophes that knows are about to happen. And the silence of those in heaven who are awaiting more of what's already been revealed with the opening of the first six seals. Remember Revelation chapter six, verse ten. There it's written, They cried out with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, will you refrain from judging and avenging our blood On those who dwell on the earth. The silence is mentioned here by John just one time in one single verse. But I don't want us to make the mistake of allowing this instance of John taking a minimalist approach to his writing to cause us to take a minimalist approach to what this means Silence in heaven, even for a relatively short amount of time, it is a huge, big, gargantuan deal. It was a mere four chapters ago in Revelation 4, verse 18, that we were told the heavenly court resounds with unending worship. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God, the Almighty, who was and who is, and who is to come. Do you remember? The four living creatures do not cease to say this. And the 24 elders, they continually confess God's Greatness and there's new songs of praise sung and and the martyrs they lament aloud day and night And we saw so much activity. We heard so much commotion at the commands related to the four horsemen and other aspects of the scroll being opened. There's constant noise, constant, unending, ceaseless, and it's all followed by Silence. And after the silence, the action it really heats up big time. And if we have recently been in the book of Zephaniah in our Bible reading, well then as we hear these words in Revelation 8, we might start to inch up towards the edge of our seats a little bit in anticipation, because in Zephaniah chapter 1, verses 7 through 10, it says, Be silent before the Lord God, for the day of the Lord is near. For the Lord has prepared a sacrifice. He has consecrated his guests. And then it will come about on the day of the Lord's sacrifice that I will punish the princes, the king's sons. and all who clothe themselves with foreign garments. And I will punish on that day all who leap in the temple threshold, who fill the house of their Lord with violence and deceit. On that day, declares the Lord, there will be the sound of a cry from the fishgate, a wail from the second quarter, and a loud crash from the hills. And so there is biblical precedent for silence followed by the devastation of God's righteous judgment. Listen to what's written in Revelation 8, verses 2 through 6. And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them. Another angel came and stood at the altar, holding a golden censer, and much incense was given to him, so that he might add it to the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar which was before the throne. And the smoke of the incense with the prayers of the saints went up before God out of the angel's hand. Then the angel took the censer. And filled it with the fire of the altar and threw it to the earth. And there followed peals of thunder and sounds and flashes of lightning and an earthquake. And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound them. So let's remember here that there was a chapter-long pause between seal six and seal seven, and there was an interlude that comprised all of chapter seven. You remember that? And then there was a half hour of silence here at the start of chapter eight. Everything. Every one calms down. It's like a collective It's almost like Glenn Fry wanting to let us know He's got a peaceful, easy feeling. Knowing God won't let him down. I'm going to change the words there a little bit to fit our context, but the point is everything is soothing, relaxing. You know, heart rate slow and breathing's slow and There's total silence. You know, there's there's nothing to hear. I mean, if there were, it would be a lullaby, I'm sure, but there's not even that. Nothing. And then suddenly, coming out of the quiet, an order is given. Cue the storm troop trooper music. Verse 2, and I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them. So following the silence come seven noisemakers. Seven trumpets. Now the Bible tells us quite a bit about trumpets. We know that they're instruments of war, we know that. Remember Joshua chapter 6? Verses 2 through 5, it says, The Lord said to Joshua, see, I have given Jericho into your hand with its king and the valiant warriors. You shall march around the city. All the men of war circling the city once. You shall do so for six days. Also seven priests shall carry seven trumpets of ram's horns before the ark. Then on the seventh day you shall march around the city seven times, and the priests shall blow the trumpets. And it shall be that when they make a long blast with the ram's horn, and when you hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout. with a great shout, and the wall of the city will fall down flat, and the people will go up, every man straight ahead. That's pretty dramatic. Like the Jericho trumpets, will the Revelation trumpets lead to the fall of a worldly city? Well, we can jump ahead a few chapters and find our answer in Revelation chapter 11, verse 13, where it says, And in that hour there was a great earthquake. And a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake. And the rest were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven. So it sounds like it's pretty clear. The sound of the trumpets bring victory. Victory over the worldly enemies of God and the enemies of God's people. And I want us to notice something about the words in Joshua chapter 6 verse 4. The seven trumpets, they were marched before the ark. In Revelation, the trumpets, they also lead the way, bringing the ark into view. Again, jumping ahead to Revelation eleven, verse 19. And the temple of God, which is in heaven, was opened, and the ark of his covenant appeared in his temple. And there were flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder, and an earthquake, and a great hail storm. You always take great encouragement for s this sort of thing. You know, I I always love how intricately interconnected all the things in the Bible are. It's such an edifying thing. It adds, I think, for us even more confirmation that while there are numerous human authors involved, the entirety of Scripture has one ultimate author. It's God's Word. Now with the prominent appearance of the trumpets, I don't want us to miss something else that's breaking the silence in this passage. Prayer. The prayers of all the saints on the golden altar which was before the throne, and the smoke of the incense with the prayers of the saints went up before God out of the angel's hand. From verses three and four. The prayers of the faithful availeth much. God works in and through the prayers of his people. The judgments described in this section of Scripture are connected with the prayers. Are you picturing all this imagery in your mind? Incense and prayers mingled together in the fire of the altar, creating smoke that went up before God. And then a sensor is filled with this mixture of incense and prayers and fire, and an angel throws it to earth. And the fireworks show begins now the plan is for us to spend time next week examining those fireworks, but for now let's continue to dig in deep on the meaning of the symbolism here. in chapter 8's first six verses. The meaning, it brings a message that is directly relevant to all Christians who have ever lived. Did you know? This ancient text of nearly twenty centuries ago is applicable to the entire church. Did you know that? Through all of time, including our time. Did you know that the first hearers of John's apocalypse They lived in a Roman society that was plagued by scandal, divided over stories of intrigue, threatened by outsiders assaulting their way of life. Do any of us know any people who now live under s similar circumstances? God's people are comforted when recognizing that the traumas they're not exactly new, and the traumas that face our society They are instruments in the hand of Christ. He's in control. And he uses these traumas to expose empty human arrogance so as to bring people to a place of repentance So there's absolutely no reason whatsoever for a Christian to ever be paralyzed by fear. Even when, including when, perhaps especially when, considering what we read in the book of Revelation. The arrival of the trumpets should embolden the church. The sounding of trumpets announces the coming of God in victory and glorious splendor. John would be very pleased if when you read or hear his words you would remember the trumpet blast accompanying God descending on Mount Sinai to deliver his law to Moses. In Exodus chapter 19. He would be happy as well if you remember that the trumpets were used to summon Israel to holy assemble assembly at the Tent of Meeting in Numbers chapter ten. How thrilled John would be if he would remember that trumpet blasts were the sound of good news The good news of release and restoration upon the arrival of the year of Jubilee. We read about that in Leviticus 25. And in 1 Kings chapter 1, we read about trumpets being used to announce the coronation of the king. And the nations they were assembled at the sound of the trumpet to inflict the Lord's judgment on the Lord's enemies, on his people's enemies, the people of Babylon. In Jeremiah 51, I know that last one I just mentioned, that kind of imagery is pretty horrifying to those who are perishing But it represents the sweetest of sounds to you and me. If we trust Jesus The Lamb of God. In the Old Testament, the sound of trumpets had announced the arrival of a new year. A new moon. Calls to worship for God's people. And yes, they were also used in war. And seven times we find trumpets of war here. Six announcing battle and one announcing that the war has been won. Now if you're among the horrified, hmm. Well then consider it a call to repentance. Do you hear that sound? Cavalry's coming. The cavalry's coming against the Lord's enemies There is no time for complacence. And not for the church either. The Lord's army is summoned To holy spiritual warfare. It is urgent, war-like, no time for complacence The trumpet blasts are about to sound. This is what we're told in verse 6 of Revelation 8. And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound them. But we haven't peeked yet at the imagery of verse five, so let's do that before we draw this sermon to a close. That sentence reads Then the angel took the censor and filled it with the fire of the altar and threw it to the earth, and there followed peals of thunder and sounds and flashes of lightning and an earthquake. So a sensor, that would have been more times than not a golden pan typically suspended by a chain rope. And it was used in the Old Testament to carry the hot, fiery coals from the brazen altar, the bronze altar, to the altar of incense. This is how the incense was lit. So this is temple imagery. This is highly holy imagery here. The incense altar, it was the item of temple furniture that was closest to the Ark of the Covenant, with the ark symbolizing the footstool of God's heavenly throne itself. And this altar, it wasn't in the most holy place, but it was close. It was immediately outside the veil. And although this altar was in the outer chamber, it was not in the holiest place. It was still, in a sense. Something that belonged to the inner chamber, because on the day of atonement, the high priest would burn incense until there was a cloud of smoke thick cloud of smoke, engulfing the atonement cover of the ark. And this smoke shielded the high priest from the consuming purity of Yahweh. Adonai As the high priest approached near with the sacrificial blood. Now we, of course, have a perfect high priest now. And so you will note that in the book of Revelation there is no veil between the incense altar and the throne of God. As we talk here about the temple, using physical kind of terms to explain what's happening in the vision, Well, to understand this is all symbolic in nature. What is symbolized is absolutely true, of course. But keep in mind what we're told about the temple in 1 Corinthians 3, verses 16 and 17, where it says, Do you not know that you are a temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you? If any man destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him, for the temple of God is holy. And that is what you are. So again, this temple imagery, it's true, but it's symbolic. And it's similar with the sensor. Right, the one being filled with the fire and thrown to the earth, resulting in thunder and lightning and earthquake. You know, there's no need for us to be wooden here in our understanding. And to expect a golden pan filled with burning coals to kind of fly down from heaven. You know, heaven, a place that is not bound by the physics of our material universe, even. And to have this Pan thrown physically by an angel, angel which is a spiritual being, you're throwing it Kind of imagine our heads maybe if we're not careful, it's like you know, a baseball player winding up and then tossing a perfect spiral like a football player, so th that's crafted shiny metal pan spins aerodynamically uh aerodynamically through space John's description of his vision, it is not giving us a Polaroid picture of what's happening. Instead, he is giving us a word picture of the meaning of what's happening. It's like in a dream, you know, you you might wake up remembering that you had some combination of events where your checkbook was on the floor of an elevator and the elevator is plunging to the ground, you know, a hundred stories below, and you wake up trying to interpret that dream and you figure out, you know what I think that's a warning to safeguard our investments, symbolized by the checkbook, so they're not destroyed in a free fall market crash, symbolized by the plummeting elevator. Now of course if God wants, there could be a golden pan filled with hot coals, right? Dropping from the sky. I mean anything is possible with God. However, that forces us into a very narrow reading of this verse, because the word is translated as through in the NASB, which is a translation I read this evening. It could also be translated and mean cast or poured out or emptied. You think about some of these and you feel about throwing it's like once and it's over, but emptied or pouring out or even cast can can kind of carry with it a connotation of maybe something that's playing out over some sort of a period of time. So the point here is that there is judgment coming. And it's coming from God's throne room. That's the point. The judgment is real. And the destruction symbolized by thunder and lightning and earthquakes, that's real. Real destruction. And you know the impact our prayers have on the whole thing. That's real. You know, as we talked about already, the prayers of the people, they're part of what is contained in the censor. There are connections here to Exodus 27 and Luke chapter 1 and Revelation chapter 5 and elsewhere. I mean it's a common prevailing theme throughout scripture, the idea of prayer and the prayers of God's people, right? So let's pray. Regularly. You know, in the Old Testament, in the tabernacle and the temple, the censor was used every day. Twice a day. So we need to be in prayer. Prayer without ceasing. Now there isn't time for me to offer a robust soup the nuts kind of a teaching on prayer today, so let me just merely leave you with uh a symbolic image maybe that could hopefully help the importance of this point to sink in. If you can't, you know, use your imagination and imagine that you're standing in your bare feet on the sand of a beach and you're enjoying the wind in your face and the the sun warming your body and taking in all the seaside sounds and then suddenly out in the ocean you spot a surfer He's struggling, he's falling off his board, he's flailing, he's clearly in trouble, he's drowning. And there are others on the beach with you. They they spot him too, and many of them they they rush forward, appearing to come to his aid. And several of them, they get there at great speed. They're clearly expert swimmers But then they kind of pull up short as they get close to them, they take a moment to figure out what they're going to do. And the surfer, he's swallowing water. There's not much time. He's not that big the surfer, you know, he's kind of a smallish guy, and these strong expert swimmers, they're big, they're muscular, they're certified as expert swimmers for crying out loud And yet they pause from their rescue for a moment because they're terrified. And rightfully so. You know, this sleight of build surfer, he could pull down all of those so-called expert swimmers. all of these so-called rescuers, he could plunge them all to their deaths. How is this possible? I mean he's just a little guy, comparatively speaking. I mean he's in a position of weakness. In need of help. He's desperate. He's filled with fear. And this makes him dangerous. It's not about the strength of his body, the strength of his willpower. It's about the strength of his need. And he knows he doesn't want to die. And he's fighting for his life. And so the rescuers, they they keep their distance because if he gets a hold of them, they'll all perish at the bottom of the ocean. Well, there's another rescuer who uses wisdom and deftly gets in position to save the surfer. And this rescuer he grabs hold and the surfer he even initially kind of fights him, but then he irresistibly, the the surfer he grabs hold. And he's clinging with all he's got to the rescuer. And the rescuer he can tell he knows what he's doing. And the surfer, he's safe in his arms. And so the one being rescued, he clings with all he has. This should be the Christian attitude and experience Clinging to Christ. Not out of strength of will, but out of strength derived by recognizing one's need. We must more greatly recognize our need of Christ as we lay down our life as a sacrifice to him. This is going to include consistently communing with him in prayer. Because trumpets are sounding. The world's a hot mess. Spiritual warfare rages. So we need to pray. Let's do that right now. Father, we thank you that you are the great rescuer, the only rescuer. Help us to be reminded of our need and to cling to you ferociously, to come before you in prayer, to be in your word, to hear you speak to us. Mommy? Throughout the day. Help us to trust in you and your ways and not in the ways of the world, even the ways of those who supposedly have all sorts of expertise. We know that following any path that's not yours is a road to destruction. And we as your people thank you that you've called us out of that path of destruction. And put us on the way to life that's rooted in truth. We thank you that your Holy Spirit illumines our minds so we can understand these things. We ask that we would feel the presence of your Spirit among us as we discuss these matters here in just a moment. We praise you and thank you for who you are. And who you've made us to be in Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Alright, so take two went better than take one. With a low bar, I know. So my uh So is that why a lot of like Orthodox churches do the incense thing that swings? Is that the censoring? Yeah. Is that what that's called? Yeah, yeah, if you've been to uh Roman Catholics sometimes will do it too on certain certain holy days, they'll they'll bring it out and they'll they'll swing it out and they'll put the incense on the people. Yeah, that's that's what you should kind of envision, although I don't know how large the ones used in the uh temple and tabernacle were, 'cause the ones they tend to use in these contemporary celebrations that we see are typically smaller I imagine they would have been bigger. And heavy and hot and dangerous, right? I mean they're taking the I mean they're taking from the altar of sacrifice, it's burning hot, it's consuming fire, and they're taking that And they're putting it in the sensor and carrying it. So I wonder if the silence isn't heaven. As believers, if we have a sense of that on earth before the final judgment, I wonder if there's some sort of a awareness. I would imagine there would be, right? 'Cause at that point. You know, all of the That's interesting and then answering a question like that becomes so complicated because of the layers of meaning in revelation. So in one sense I think it's appropriate and right for us to think in terms of okay there's kind of the last days and then there's the last day. Right. Right. Um well this is speaking of the last day because the judgment is to follow with the trumpets. Yeah, well, yes and no. Okay. That's Because there's a recasting. So we're entering into the judgments. We're just about to enter into the judgments through the trumpets, but we just came out of the judgments with the seed. Yeah. So I would imagine that's like a big deal. I mean you said that. The point on what I'm trying to say is there's so many things that could be said. So I think that the I think it's right and fair for us to think in terms of And again, maybe not a literal silence, because we don't want to get uh wooden in our understanding. It's not like God's hanging out with homies in heaven and they're all throwing a big party and then they stop for a half hour Because heaven's not spatial in the way we tend to think about things in the universe. So again, it's trying to make a point. And so the point is that something highly it's not like there's this cacophony of sound necessarily in heaven either that there's like utterances coming through some from somebody's diaphragm through their physical vocal cords That's kind of missing the point too. The point is that there's this idea and this sense and this reality, this truth of worship of God that never ends. The worship of God that never ever ends. But here we're talking about like it's a heightened sense of a worship. It's such an off-field worship that they're quiet. And it's profound because all the imagery leading into this is the worship was noisy. And now he's trying to say it there's a profundity here of worship. And I guess what I'm saying is because it's that There's this recasting, but it didn't happen all the other times there was recasting. It's only happening this time. So what's making this time Different. Well that's all. I'm trying to do it. I I guess uh maybe I should try to figure out a way to cut to cut to the chase one I'm trying to say uh in an officer Because I'm trying to make sure I don't undercut or discount what you're saying, because I agree with the point you're making. But on top of all of that, I guess, it's not either or, it's both and. And so I th I would argue that on top of that It's a half hour, not a full hour. What does that mean? So part of me, and I didn't put this in the sermon because uh I'm not convicted enough that I'm right in this interpretation, so I don't want to preach it, but in the context of a discussion, I don't mind putting it out there. You know, um I'm wondering if I I think the full silence is talking about perfect peace with God, the perfect shalom where everything is right and well with the world and there's There's no more commotion, there's no more judgment, everything is as it should be, and we're in in in a quiet place with God, if you will, for forever. But as you've heard me talk about before on a number of occasions, I think that, you know, there's this already not yet tension, this reality where in a sense for God's people that already exists. Mm. But it's not completely fully consummated just yet. So I'm wondering if the half hour is pointing to that. that we have the silence, but it's not the full hour of silence, if you will. It's a half hour of silence. Maybe let's get to it's not a fullness. It's an already not yet. I'm wondering. I've been playing with that idea, but I'm not sure that I'm right. But I think those kinds of ideas are probably the sort of thing that John has in view So I think it's talking about the church age generally, it's talking about the world as a whole in relation to the church, and then of course ultimately it's talking about the final, final end of everything, and it's doing all of those kind of at the same time. Uh it's like you have a diamond on your ring and you could uh say you you've got like one diamond. But it looks different depending on the angle at which the light hits it. The angle at which you approach the diamond. It's gonna look and appear differently because of the different facets. I think that's what's going on with with Revelation. I think it's like a diamond. And it's not that one facet is wrong, it's that one facet maybe isn't completely the full version of what he's trying to express. And I'm doing my darndest. As you can tell we're taking our time through this. We're doing like maybe three sermons on average per chapter. I mean, we're really being laborious through this because there's so much going on and I get so concerned the pastoral instinct kicks in that there's so m much misunderstanding. People try to oversimplify what's going on. So I'm trying to tackle as many of these facets as I feel convinced are true. But there are other facets that I consider, and I'm just not a hundred percent convinced that I should preach it, even though I'm becoming convinced that that's probably right. I don't know if that's answering your point. I think it is pointing to the very, very end. Right. Um You could almost look at it as, because there's no versification and chapter divisions in the original. So we're coming out of chapter 7, which is this big elongated pause. in what's going on between seal six and seal seven. And then here, the seventh seal is almost like an extension of that pause, but said in a different way. I think heightening what was said in the chapter before. That's why I brought that up in this context. I do think that's what John's doing. I think he's connecting the ideas in chapter seven with what we understand to be the start of chapter eight. But in his writing, he's just connecting the idea of what he just said and using it as a pivot or as an extension to what he's about to now be saying. Does that make sense? I I um our tendency I think is to want to make it feel real world and gritty. You know? And I think we have to guard against that instinct to want to make everything seem very practical. Yeah. I mean when you think about very linear the what it all represents, it's helpful to then have that because there is that unknown and you're like trying to figure it out. So and you're trying to Press into and so I think that's just a natural you know happening from that, that's all. Yeah, I th I I and I think it's fine uh when we think along those lines, and so I'm not trying to discourage any of that or it's not certainly not dismissing or judging it negatively in any way. I do get a little bit concerned about when we just that's as far as we go and we live there. So we can ask the question, we should be, I think, at some level asking the question, okay, what is this half hour of silence, like what is that about? And how does that connect with the the last moments, the last day, and the final judgment? How does it all connect to that? But if that's all we're doing is speculating about you know, specific word choices and stuff. We're losing the bigger picture of what's really being accomplished here. John is trying to tell us that we need to be in worship before God. And this is a profound thing. And these judgments are serious. And we need to prepare ourselves for it. So because honestly, none of us pray as much or as often or as fervently as we Some of us are better at this than others, but even the m best prayer warriors among us don't do it as well as we should. And so those that are really good prayer warriors should double down on the strength that they already have. And those that aren't there yet, we need to get better at getting there. And trusting him and because that's it's about worshiping him. The whole thing's about him. It's not about figuring out what's gonna happen in the world. It's not gonna it's not about what's gonna happen to me even. It's about who is Jesus Christ and what does that mean? That's the point. Because remember, very beginning of Revelation 1, this is the revelation of Jesus Christ. It's from him, it's about him. So Anything else that struck you? I wanted to emphasize, I've done it a few times already in various sermons in Revelation, and I made it a point to emphasize it again because we're about to enter into a lot of imagery. It's like imagery overload. We're gonna get whacked with imagery over and over again. And if we're too wooden about it, uh we can really get into some unhelpful cul-de-sacs in our thinking and and we need to stay on the highway what John's trying to tell us. Um and so I want us to remember that as we enter into the sermons through the rest of chapter eight and nine, actually through the rest of of Revelation for that matter. And there are differences of opinion on how the end plays out, and you know, the dispensationalists and the all millennialists and the historic premillennialists and the post millennials and all that. So I I everybody's got their different take. And we can agree to disagree on some of that, but we can't agree to disagree on what the thrust of the main point of what John wants us to know in the different portions of this book. And this is a book of worship. This is a book about worshiping Jesus Christ. And he's showing us all the various reasons, all the various aspects, all the various perspectives on how and why he's so worthy of the worship. those who were not destroyed worshipped. Yeah. Another way to think about the half hour of judgment, by the way, is that recurrently throughout church history, there's been a half hour of judgment Silence, right, what I say? Judgment. Yeah, half hour silence, sorry. There are periods where there's heightened persecution or heightened judgments on the world and that sort of thing. And then you can kinda get into a season where it seems relatively mellow. So part of me wonders if what's happening at the beginning of chapter eight is that's a point or two. You know, you can have some seasons where It's feeling kind of silent in the people like during the Great Awakening, maybe me, that was a season of, quote unquote, a half hour of silence, maybe Again, I'm not I'm thinking aloud here. This is not I'm not preaching at this point. There's a reason why I didn't share these thoughts in the sermon because I'm just kind of vamping and figure some of these things out myself. I I I try to uh only preach the things that I'm firmly convicted that I've got right. So Has anybody read the book of Zephaniah recent recently? Yeah, I don't know. It's one of the more neglected books of the Bible probably. It talks about how we are the apple of his eye In Devonia. Yeah. Most idioms come from the Bible, or at least the largest percentage. Yeah, I would doubt that. It's talking about the bride, right? The bride of Christ is the apple of his eye. And all these things are interconnected too, you know, so a lot of people they major. When they study the book of Revelation, they major on Daniel. Right. And maybe they throw in a little bit of Ezekiel, possibly some Isaiah, and of course Matthew twenty four. And that's like all they want to talk about, but they don't spend anywhere near enough time in In Zephaniah and in Joshua and in Joel and in and in in Luke. And they're not so What they're the Amos, yeah, all the so they end up getting kind of a lopsided view and it's not like anything they're saying is wrong, but the problem is it's so lopsided that they end up with conclusions that are incomplete and therefore I guess you could say wrong, right? If you're in school and you're giving an answer and you give an incomplete, you know, that you don't get an A for an incomplete answer. It's marked as wrong or partially wrong. We've got to try to be fully and taking all of the scripture. So trying to think of any other themes in there that would be good for discussion. Is there a part of Revelation that you're most looking forward to us getting to? You will wipe every tear. You want to get to the end. Right now I feel like I'm ringing Grimm's Fairy Town where they've that's exactly what I the brothers Grimms. Yeah, I gotta say it selfishly. I did have a couple of sections I was most interested in really pressing in into studying, but as I've been preparing these messages and really doing my homework, I'm uh it's evolved to the point where now the part I'm looking to forward to the most is the next part. And because I'm realizing how little I really knew about what John is saying in the book of Revelation all throughout. And I'm probably like, wow, I thought I kind of knew something about this and I I didn't forget a half of it. I didn't even know a tenth of it. I didn't know a hundredth of it probably. And I probably still don't, I don't know. But I'm really excited to hear like how to understand what's next. You know, and I'm and I'm reading ahead and through, but not in preparation if that makes sense. Like I'm reading ahead to see how it connects to it, like we referenced uh chapter eleven today. Uh because it connects with chapter eight. So I'm reading ahead for that. But as far as really understanding specifically what chapter eleven is saying, I haven't done that So I'm looking forward to chap the rest of chapter eight and chapter nine and chapter ten. And I'm sure we'll have some controversies in the room because we have a rather diverse uh eschatological group that's part of the household of faith in Christ. And what we're hoping to and what we're hoping to model in these discussions like you're saying he by himself has diverse views? So I'm I'm hoping that we can model that, you know, these are not gospel issues per se. They're not, you know, salvation questions. And so we can We can agree to disagree and we should be willing to enter a dialogue and even debate each other on these things a little bit, the iron sharpening iron and and you know we can learn something from each other and not get divided over it. So we're trying to model that Uh if somebody goes to our website, you'll notice that we do not have a position on the end times as part of our beliefs. You know, I have a position And I'm not shy about it, but it's not gonna be the official position of the church that everybody who's part of what we hear. Yeah, so our statement of belief are things that somebody, you know, they should know that they need to agree with those things, otherwise like we're not gonna be able to fellowship together because I think there's they're non-negotiable. But anyway I I was gonna say the only thing that as far as looking forward to is you know with all of this you know, I mean obviously there's plenty of horrible things going on, wars or reservoir Wars, death, diseases, you know, fun stuff like that. I details. Um Um watch what you say around the house. Yes, thank you right now. Um echoelic at this stage. Yeah. And she's not just echoing it, she's learning how to use it in context. Yeah, that's always fun. Um I I I guess like as You're fine, you're you're fine. That was actually a pretty fast landing. Yeah, that was a good tumble. Right on your cookie. Oh. I as a mom, I wish that that there was something that could give me some sort of assurance. You know, that i if all of this happens in my lifetime that I could protect my kids. So you know, um I guess that's the gospel that does that, right? Yeah, and obviously as as far as their, you know, eternal life goes, um That's well ultimately after that's gone. But like I I can't save my children. You know, I can train them up in the way they should go and and that's obviously incredibly important. physical emotion. I I guess I I mean yes, I would love to protect myself from my slate. Sure. You know, maybe it's just because right now my kids are so little. Right. They're just scary. The physical part is scary. But that's not But that's not new either. I mean all the stories of the of the Christian martyrs and stuff, all the way back to the first so that's not necessarily uh a a new thing. But um Certainly we've you know, we're we're designed with a self-preservation instinct and so that's natural and that's good. We just don't want to make what's natural and good the ultimate. So the ultimate concern is the eternal. I think I'm hearing the sounding of a trumpet. I thought I was hearing wars. But um Is that a war or a rumor of war? Oh no, this is not rumor. Anyway, so it's first hand Uh and as far as you know concern about like you know, your your child and your salvation and stuff, look uh this is something that I think that the book of Revelation helps us understand that Christ is in control. Yeah. He's using everything, everything is an instrument in his hand That was one of the points that was made in the sermon actually today. And so God knows those who are his. I have firm confidence that that's true. And uh we can trust in his goodness and his ability to accomplish his purposes that we need to be obedient. So as parents you need to train up your children in the way they should go, be busy about the business of making disciples for Christ, all that sort of stuff But uh and and not worry about the end because God's got that. Oh yeah, well and that's the whole thing like I can't save my kids and I know what you know what my job is as far as training the muscles. And so with that motivation, because yeah, you could be the most expert parent ever, connect me with that last illustration of the sermon, no matter how expert you are, you're gonna fail. Uh and if you make all of your energy focusing on saving your daughter, for example, uh you you you m both might perish True. Right. So you gotta be obedient to God, and a big part of that obedience is prayer, but also a big part of our heartfelt concern for our children and their eternal well-being is prayer. Mm-hmm. So the best thing parents can do for their children is prayer for them. That's one of the things that's annoying to me. Is it annoying to you when someone says, uh, you know, well um there's nothing else to do but pray It's like it's the last resort, there's nothing uh it's like no no you start it should be your go to and we're all And what you're left with when and also what you're left with. Yeah. When you can't do anything else obviously. Anyway. Alright, well I think we'll wrap this up. Um I get a lot of talking. Does anybody feel like they want to close us in prayer? Maybe Nadia will. Oh. Hey Nadia. Nadia, it's your turn. It's not your turn yet. Apparently she wants to stay in time out. Alright. Are you in a good enough frame of mind to close us in prayer? Okay. Dear Lord, we thank you for this day, we thank you for this fellowship, and we just thank you for this worship we're able to do with you, Lord, and we pray that this fellowship be pleasing. And as a church, we would all grow closer to you. Uh in Jesus' name we give thanks. Amen. Amen. Well, if you live within driving distance of Frederick, we'd love to have you consider joining us here. uh on Saturday evenings you can reach out to me all my contact information is is uh on our website at uh www household the faith in christ dot com. Till next week God bless