And it looks like we're good. Welcome to the uh live stream portion of the Household of Faith weekly worship gathering. Household of faith in Christ. You can find us online at household the faith in Christ. com We already read Isaiah chapter 11. We're continuing to read different parts of the Bible to see how it's all interconnected and all the different themes uh point to what's happening throughout all of Scripture, including the book of Revelation, which is where our focus of our study is right now. So if you want to get your Bibles ready, we'll be in Revelation 8 chapters seven through twelve today. If you don't have a home church, we invite you to check us out online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com, see what we're all about. And if you're within driving distance of Frederick, it would It'd be wonderful to have you worship with us because what you see on the stream is only about half of what we actually do together. Um like I mentioned we read Isaiah chapter eleven together. We're about to Read from Revelation chapter 8 and there are other scripture passages that will be brought up, uh either read or alluded to uh in the message and during the discussion, I'm sure. And so I want to remind you all of these different portions of scripture They are inspired of God. They're God's word, and God does not make mistakes. So that means that his word is without error. It is infallible, inerrant. And uh as such is therefore a fully sufficient rule and guide, not just for our faith, but for our life practice. You want the truth, you find it in God's Word. So those are the ears to hear Left them here. Many weeks ago we examined the imagery associated with the seven seals of the book of Revelation of Jesus Christ, and in doing so we could see that the Son of God is in control. And after a lengthy pause of parentheses in the earthly action, we now return to Another cycle of judgments. This is the second cycle of judgments within John's vision. And once again, we will be reminded that our Creator rules over history. This wondrous apocalyptic masterpiece, it depicts this very encouraging truth that God is in control from various angles. And this newly introduced angle, the the sounding of trumpets, it reveals to us that the Lamb is sovereign even when he chooses to use through means, like in this case is ministering angels, those who blow the trumpets. So let's begin to work our way through the first four trumpets today, picking up with Revelation chapter 8, verse 7. The first sounded, and there came hail and fire mixed with blood, and they were thrown to the earth, and a third of the earth was burned up, and a third of the trees were burned up. And all the green grass was burned up. Now something we're going to notice as we work through the uh the trumpets is how frequently the trumpet plagues are reminiscent of the Egyptian plagues that are described for us in the book of Exodus. I mean we just talked about here hail and fire. That parallels with what happened with the seventh plague in Egypt. Blood that matches up with the first plague, as Pharaoh refused to let God's people go. In a few verses, we're going to read about darkness and later on locusts. This brings to mind the eighth and the ninth plagues Within the Exodus narrative. And in both cases, in the Old Testament and the New Testament here, we find God executing judgment on idolatrous worldly powers. And the judgment in both narratives, in Exodus and here in Revelation 8, is limited in scope. Because not everyone, not everything is wiped out forever in Egypt. And neither is it completely wiped out with the sounding of the trumpets. Now, regarding verse 7 You might have noticed that the intensity has ramped up a bit from where we've been earlier from the judgment judgments that were depicted with the opening of the seven seals. Because in those passages, the devastation, it was global and limited And basically about a quarter of the world gets s smacked in the head. Well now these vivid descriptions of calamity, they're still global and they're still limited, but we can see things get bumped up a notch from one quarter to One-third of the world getting smacked upside the head as God gives everyone every opportunity to have some sense knocked into them Now, if you've taken a sneak peek ahead to the seven bold judgments, and I've been encouraged people to read throughout the entire book of Revelation, all in one sitting, if you can. And if you've done so, then you notice the seven bold judgments in chapters 15 and 16. And uh if you've read that, then you know. God's restraint does not last forever. Total devastation of God's evil enemies. It will come. Now for now, here in chapter 8, the plagues they crush lots and locks, lots and lots and lots, but not all. Not even half, actually. Although, this is where my personal quirks come into play. I've spent some time thinking about the math, and I'm not really sure whether I'm onto something here or not, but I'm going to mention it as one of those probably inconsequential random thoughts. Here's what I was thinking. The first round of judgments with the seals, they bring destruction to 25% of everything. That leaves 75%. And the second round of judgments, the trumpets, that brings destruction to 33% of everything. Now, if we were to think of this as destroying 33% of the remaining 75%, What's one third of 75? 25. So that's mathematically another 25% of the original 100%. Are you following me? Now I'm not saying that this is necessarily the way we should interpret the numeric symbolism here, but it just it got me thinking. I was thinking, well if we did Then after the two cycles of judgments, the seals and then the trumpets, we would see only 50% of everything still standing I think it's 25% of the original 100 with the seals, and then another 25% I just talked about with the trumpets of the original 100. You have 25, 25, that's 50. Now I do know it's possible that some of us have been outside of grade school for far too long or, you know, maybe uh It wasn't that long ago we were in grade school, but we're still victims of the government-run schools, and so our math schools could be a little rusty or limited. But uh I found the numbers conceptually a little bit interesting. So it's my gift to you if you're a weirdo like me. And uh if you're not a weirdo like me, well then I thank you for loving me anyway. Anyway, kind of getting back on track. Since I mentioned the bowls a moment ago from chapters 15 to 16, for those who have read ahead, then you probably noted that While the intensity of the judgment is greater with the bowls, there is a significant similarity and even a symmetry between the judgments with the trumpets and the bulls With the trumpets, we find judgment falling on the land, a third of the earth and the trees, and the grass is burned up. In a moment, we're going to learn that a third of the sea is affected too. Well with the bowls, all of the land and all of the sea is affected. With the trumpets there is bitter drinking. With the bowls, there is drinking of blood. Rather bitter idea. With the trumpets, there is a problem with the heavenly bodies. And with the bowls, likewise, there is a problem with a heavenly body, the sun. So there's a connection, and I'm bringing this up because I want to understand that that's why I'm encouraging people to read Revelation, if they can, all the way through in one sitting and to do that recurringly so you can kind of catch where these themes and these ideas and these images they they come up again and they all interconnect and intertwine in some fashion as we work our way through the book. But spend too much time in fifteen and sixteen, well then we're getting ahead of ourselves because we're not there. We're in chapter eight now. So um Let's get back to the text today that we're in, picking up with verse 8 and 9 of chapter 8. The second angel sounded And something like a great mountain burning with fire was thrown into the sea, and a third of the sea became blood, and a third of the creatures which were in the sea and had life died, and a third of the ships were destroyed. Now there are some they see a mountain burning with fire to be a volcano And many of these volcano folks, they uh they make a connection to the hail and the fire that's mixed with blood, and they see this as fallout as the result of a great volcanic eruption. Others view the great mountain thrown into the sea as a meteorite or an asteroid, something like that. And they're burning with fire, these commentators would say, because these uh these space rocks are surrounded by gases, and these gases ignite when they enter the Earth's atmosphere. We have others who believe that these images are representing missiles or uh atomic blasts, acid rain, things like that. There are others who think that the hail and such, it's pointing to not things in the future or things in the present or even in the the recent past of church history, but going further back in time, they see it pointing to something that happened With Rome, with the Gothic invasions of the Roman Empire, it took place in the third through sixth centuries, and there are other ideas on top of these. Well, who's right? I suggest to you that it doesn't exactly matter. Because the book of Revelation is not an advanced copy of a documentary that depicts future events. Instead, it is a spectacular vision, heavy laden with symbols. And strange imagery, intending to drive home a point of truth. And That point is that whether it's militaristic warfare or natural disasters caused by man's inhumanity to man or global climate change or space junk falling out of the sky all the way to Earth or whatever. All of these pictures of judgment are ultimately helping us to be absolutely sure of one thing. God is sovereign over it all. And he has as his purpose to defend his people And in this section of Revelation, his purpose also is to warn his enemies to repent. Because if they don't repent, well, they might just have a refrigerator dropped on their head. Now having touched on some of the imagery and interpretation that is out there It's a particular kind of a milieu that's the stuff of movies and novels. But there are some other thoughts out there that might not be quite as commonly heard, and I'm going to talk about some of those now. For example, there's a case be made that the mountain is a picture of great earthly power. And it's burning with destructive force. So an earthly power with destructive force. And the fire and brimstone stuff, some would say that that that smoke, that sort of thing, that could be alluding to gun smoke. That feels rather anachronistic to me. So I wouldn't go quite so far as this However, as far as it goes, they're trying to make a connection with military might, destructive might from an earthly power. You know, I I I would go along with that kind of an idea for sure. Now the sea being disrupted, that might best be understood as the sea lanes being destroyed. If you remember, there were no trains, no planes, no automobiles 2,000 years ago Weren't even all that many roads back then. And so moving stuff across the water, that would be a way for major commerce to take place Well, when the sea is devastated, the sea lanes are devastated, a third of the ships are destroyed, well that would truly have a very negative effect on the supply chain We know something about supply chain disruptions the last couple of years and the impact that can have. I mean can you imagine? I mean I know it's kind of fanciful, but could you imagine like a bunch of fancy German cars like Porsche's, for example on a freighter freighter in the sea lanes and then the freighter catches fire and it sinks to the bottom of the ocean and those portions are lost forever. I mean could you even imagine such a thing? I know Sounds kind of whacked out and impossible, but just read the news articles from about a month ago, middle of February, where exactly that happened. Now with all these warnings coming from God, warnings to repent, there are still going to be a whole bunch of people that are going to say what they want to say. There are always people who are going to say what they want to say. But they can't honestly say. But they haven't been warned. Those who eternally perish, they've been warned. Over and over again, they've been warned. And compare some of these ideas with what we know from early in Revelation. Christians, we know suffering. But we also know kingdom. We know who God is, and we have blessed, intimate access to him And non-Christians, well, they also know suffering. But they do not know kingdom. They know judgment. Not blessed access. Have you heard me mention it before? We're in a war And a person is either in allegiance to the Lamb of God or is in allegiance to the serpentine dragon. Are you paying attention? All of this stuff, if you're a believer, follower of Christ, then it's an encouragement to you as part of the faithful. But it is a dire warning to the worldly, to the apostate. Let's move on to verses 10 and 11. The third angel sounded, and a great star fell from heaven, burning like a torch. And it fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs of water. And the name of the star is called Wormwood, and a third of the waters became wormwood, and many men died from the waters because they were made bitter. A great star falls. You know, a moment ago we were hit with the uh image of a mountain. You know, great mountains, they they depict in our minds something that's awe-inspiring, something Remarkable. I mean my wife, she just loves mountains. She sees a majestic mountain range and it just brings her to a place of worship. So the mountain imagery, it adds oomph To scripture passages like Job 9 and 28, and Isaiah 34 and 54, and other Old Testament texts, like Judges 5, and 1 Kings 19, and Ezekiel 38, and Micah 1, and Nahum 1, and Psalm 46 and New Testament texts too, like Matthew 21 and 1 Corinthians 8. I mean, it's all over the place where these mountains are adding ump and they're they're symbolics of power, right? Mountains are symbols of great power In Isaiah 2, that power is the church, God's people. In Amos 4, it's worldly power. In Isaiah 41, it's the power of Israel's enemies. So mountains and power. Well, what does a great star in heaven symbolize? We see in Psalm seventy-two that the sun and moon are examples of stability. The sun's a star. See this idea also we could turn to Psalm 136 or Job 9 or Jeremiah 31 with the idea of the stars or heavenly bodies, the sun and moon, being images of stability. So a great star falling from heaven, that could symbolize instability. And what brings instability? Confusion. Heresy does. Infidelity does. Apostasy does. Have we seen any heresy, infidelity, apostasy of late? Yeah, I wonder. They saw these sorts of things in the first century, too, of course. There's nothing new under the sun. And they saw a physical phenomena in the sky, as has our generation. And interestingly, we're told from history that in A. D. sixty-eight they saw two total lunar eclipses in the Jerusalem sky in less than a six month span. And this happened right before the Roman Emperor Nero killed himself. Talk about instability So there are ways to consider the Book of Revelation in the context of particular periods of the Roman Empire, maybe, in addition to applications to other periods in history and even to the future. Now before, where we saw that the sea was impacted, in verses 10 and 11, it's the rivers, the fresh water, or the springs of water. Matthew Henry, he's a famous Bible commentator who lived hundreds of years ago, and he points out something that helps us to personalize the symbolism here a little bit, I think. Henry writes that the fresh water being contaminated with the fresh water contaminated, the souls of men found their ruin where they sought for their refreshment Yeah, it's just like following humanity because of our sin, our our vices, our violence, our unrepentant hearts, to make repugnant and deadly something that is supposed to be satisfying and Life-giving. There's so many examples I could go through right now. In interest of time, I won't mention them. Maybe you have some going through your mind. And think about the difficulty here with this image. The difficulty of defiled water source brings. And consider the Flint, Michigan water crisis story that dominated news coverage for many months this last decade That's just one little city. It's not the rivers and fresh water all over the place And we see Wormwood here. Wormwood's a word that we might have heard even before we ever read the book of Revelation, because it's a word that was made additionally famous by C. S. Lewis when he used it as the name for one of the characters in his book, The Screw Tape Letters. So maybe we've heard the word, but what is wormwood? Well, wormwood is a plant. And from it a bitter extract is derived. In fact, some of our English translations don't translate the word here as wormwood. They'll actually translate it as bitter. And it shows up in Scripture eight times in the Old Testament, and it's found in the New Testament only here in this one verse. In the Old Testament, it is regularly used metaphorically as a way to connote things that cause bitterness, things like perversions of justice. And also chastisements from the Lord, which brings sorrow and woe to people. So it's not surprising. To hear John sound the same metaphorical note using the same word here. But there's something more intense about John's meaning. Because wormwood, it's not technically poisonous in that if you eat it or drink it, you automatically would die. Now having too much Wormwood in your water, drinking this bitter water, having too much of that, it could make you drunk, perhaps. And uh can make you feel kind of sick, maybe. And it is bitter, we're told. And it tastes horrible, I understand. But in John's vision, it's more than a bitter pill to swallow. It's a deadly pill. I mean after all think about it, the centers of population. Where are they tipp where the where do we even today, where do we typically see our centers of population? They're where there's access to water. But generally near where there's a natural fresh water supply. Making the drinking water undrinkable, that'd be quite catastrophic, wouldn't it? This is why so often in traditional warfare, generals, they might try to cut off an enemy's water, or they might try to pollute the water supply so as to make it undrinkable, unusable for their enemies. So this is rather devastating when we really think about it. Speaking of devastating, verse 12, we hear the next trumpet blast. It says, the fourth angel sounded, and a third of the sun, and a third of the moon, and a third of the stars were struck. So the third of them would be darkened and the day would not shine for a third of it, and the night in the same way. Now, exegetically here, it's going to be important for us to recall what was written during the descriptions of the opening of the seals just a couple of chapters ago. Now, some they they want to assume that John's vision, it records things that happen in history in a linear chronological order. However, if we compare what's recorded in Chapter 6 with what's recorded in Chapter 8, it seems I don't know. It would appear anyway that making such an interpretation is somewhat untenable, at least on the face of it. As a reminder, here's chapter six, verses twelve through fourteen. I looked when he broke the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth made of hair. And the whole moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky fell to the earth, as a fig tree cast its unripe figs when shaken by a great wind The sky was split apart like a scroll when it has rolled up, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places. So you notice in chapter six, the sun became black. In chapter 8, the sun's back in view, and a third of the sun is struck. It becomes darkened. Chapter 6, the moon, it becomes like blood. In chapter 8. The moon is struck, it becomes darkened, which is something like a lunar eclipse, to our way of thinking about it. We would call that a blood moon. In chapter six, the stars fell to the earth, no longer providing their twinkling light. In chapter eight. Stars are struck. They're not shining their light in the same way that they had before. So you see, in chapter 6, the point I'm making, the sun is completely black, and the stars, they fall from the sky. But in chapter 8, the stars and the sun, they're back. Only this time they're partially dimmed. This is one of the many examples of John's style. His approach to giving us the meaning of the vision that Jesus revealed to him. John recurringly uses repetition and recapitulation throughout this book. And along with all the numerology that we've spent some time talking about and the Old Testament themes and the vivid apocalyptic imagery And this habit of cycling through the same concepts, the same ideas over and over again, this is key to understanding the main points and the primary message of the letter. Get too hung up trying to pin down all the little various points of minutiae, we could run the risk of abusing the visionary genre of this book. And while discussing a totally different subject, I heard Dr. James White, who's a noted Christian apologist. He's rather famous. for having participated in some very high profile formal debates and I heard him talking about the color of his shirt and it was gray. And if you wanted someone to understand the big picture of Dr. White's and his shirt, well they they'd be right to understand that his shirt was part of an ensemble. Covering his upper torso with stylish gray fabric. I mean if you saw a picture of his shirt, it would be gray. If James described his shirt to you, he'd want you to understand that it's gray. He plucked the shirt from his closet, pulled it over his bald head, and wore it to his office that day because, well, darn it, he wanted to wear a gray shirt. You're getting the point, his his shirt is clearly, plainly, obviously gray If you had any doubt, you could just ask him, hey doctor, what's the color of your shirt? And the good doctor would accurately answer, gray. And yet, there are some they would want to find some secret meaning in the shirt. And they would zoom in with a microscope and they would notice that some of the threads in the shirt are actually black Some of the threads are white. A few might even be mixed in shade. And that could be an interesting exercise. Might be good to know the ratio of the different colored threads, but Then they'd go far beyond the intentions of the shirt manufacturer, far beyond what Dr. James White wanted to share with the world when he put on that gray shirt, and they would boldly proclaim, Look ye here, most of the threads in the shirt are white. Fewer of the threads in the shirt are black. You, doctor, are a racist. And we could almost laugh at the ridiculousness of that if we hadn't lived through the last couple of years, at least I mean it sounds absolutely nuts at some point, right? At some level. But that's exactly what too often we might be tempted to try to do with the book of Revelation. Look, John's vision, it's like what can be seen at the airport. Through John, Jesus is taking us on a tour into the heights, to the air traffic control center. And up from that tower we can see the the overall flow, the coordination, the dance-like beauty of the plan for keeping the people safe, the planes on time. And while we're up there, we get to hear the directives for those who are in control, telling others how they should execute that plan. Now, this analogy that I'm sharing now borrows somewhat from words that are written by Verne Poethras. And his mind is sharp, but more importantly, his heart is in the right place, and he argues. Rightly, I say, that the entire Bible is about God. And the tabernacle and temple of the Old Testament, these were images and shadows of God's throne room in heaven. And theologically and biblically, the throne room of God is represented here in the book of Revelation 2. God And his rule is at the heart of the universe. It's at the heart of meaning. It's at the heart of history. And so the history of the universe from creation to consummation. finds its significance in worship. That's what Dr. Poithrus says. And he's right. That's what revelation is about worship of God Worship of the Lamb who is worthy. Worship empowered by the indwelling of the Holy Ghost. As the bride of Christ is now the tabernacle, the temple, the dwelling place of our Lord with his people. The symbols in Revelation they point us to true things. They point us to the true meaning of things. The physical appearance of things, that's important to take in, to process. It absolutely is. But we miss the point of revelation if we're merely or overly making the practical material universe applications uh based upon the physical appearance of the things that are described in these visions. For instance, we should not expect Jesus to look like a lion when we meet him in heaven. It's not as if he'll be walking around on all fours with a big mane, enormous mane of hair, and a long tail Nor should we expect to see him as a a talking woolly farm animal animal who needs to be taken to the shearers. And we get our mind off track if we insist That there is actual furniture in the heavenly throne room. A physical material altar, for example. shouldn't expect to see that sort of thing in a spirit realm that's not bound by the physics of creation. I want to make sure I'm not misunderstood. Everything In the Bible. Everything is literally true. But we must always define literal accurately. If I say I'm so hungry I could eat a horse, it's literally true that I am extremely hungry. When George Bailey tells his girl, You want the moon? Just say the word and I'll throw a lasso around it and pull it down. It is literally true that George loves Mary and he will do all that he can to make her happy. Someone knocks your socks off. It's literally true that you are overwhelmingly amazed. The keys to the kingdom, they're not a ring of metallic skeleton charms hooked to a belt, you know, with one of those fancy retractable cords that you used to see the janitors at school carry around with them. We should keep this in mind. And we should do all that we can to understand the historical setting of a text. We should get information about the author and the original audience to the best of our ability. We should find out the date the words were written if we can, and of course take in the canonical context, the the full sixty-six books of our canon, and we must always Always, always determine the genre. And how the one utilizing that genre is teaching us about the person and work of Jesus Christ. Because that's what the sixty-six books of the Bible are all about. Including the final book. The Book of Revelation Now as I end, I should mention that a message it preaches from this section of Revelation would normally include verse 13, I would say. However, we are going to save that verse to help lead us into the transition for what God and His Word has to say in chapter 9. So we're going to pause here today and have a word of prayer before we start our discussion. Father, you are such a good God. Your ways are so beyond our ability to truly, fully, 100% understand. And yet, you illumine our minds through your Holy Spirit so that we can understand what it is you have for us. We know that you are in control. Nothing surprises you. You have a plan. It cannot be derailed. It's a plan that brings you glory, a plan to save your people unto yourself. A plan that is consummated at the return of Jesus Christ, at his second coming, after which we who are faithful followers of Christ Will live with you for eternity in a glorious, perfect kind of a communion How we yearn for and look forward to that day. We ask that you would keep us faithful in the meantime as we're busy about the work and staying on mission here on earth. to proclaim the gospel, to make disciples, and for those that are converted, to baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. We thank you that when we come to you in prayer, in the name of Christ, that there's authority in that name, there's sufficiency in that name. There's protection in that name. We know that you hear us when we pray in that name. So it is in his name, the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, that we pray. Amen. Let me see how I can position this. Because last time I noticed when I had it on a soft surface, it didn't seem like it picked up stuff all that well in the room. So I'll try that Well the message had the desired effect on one person, at least. Is that like a light? Yeah, right one thing. Uh-huh. So anybody can share whatever they want in a second. I just wanna I'm gonna piggyback on something that Dina and I were talking about uh recently about you know what's going on in the world and how even when you're you know in Christ you can get a little sideways and you can have some doubts about the future, you know, how God's gonna move and work in the world. certain situations and you c you can fall prey, even as a follower of Christ, to anxiety um and speculation wondering what's gonna happen in Ukraine. What's gonna happen with the Western Church, what's gonna happen with China, what's gonna happen with the Great Reset and all these sorts of things. And we should be paying attention that we should be alert and aware so we can be equipped to respond in in ways that are Christ exalted And God honoring. So I I just feel like I want to emphasize the whole Bible, including in the book of Revelation, it's reminding us that God knows what he's doing. He's not ever caught unaware, like, oh my gosh, I wish I thought of that one. He's got it under control. And the primary I mean, if we once had a a pastor Who did a sermon series on Revelation that I think lasted a month? So it was very survey in orientation. And the reason he only spent just a few sermons on Because he didn't want to distract from what in his mind the main point of revelation is, which is it's easy. Jesus wins. That's the point. And he's right, that is the point. There's so much stuff here, so much fodder for some debate, discussion, confusion perhaps So I'm taking a different approach. But as I take that approach, I don't want us to lose sight of what the m main point is God is in control. The Lamb does win. He is sovereign. And we can take assurance in that. And the people of God are safe. The enemies of God are not safe, even when they feel like they're safe temporarily. So I just want to think back on our conversation before and really drive that home, that we should be feeling safe in the arms. arms of Christ. Perhaps more I'll speak for myself. I should more than I do off too often. There's too many times when you know I get anxious about things happening in the world and my thoughts Life is too focused on those sorts of things. I I need the reminder so many times when I'm preparing the sermon or even when I'm preaching the sermon, it's like I'm preaching to me. So Anyway, that out there. Any thoughts on the the sermon or the passage? Uh I guess Verse 10 and 11. The burning stars that so to me when I first read that I thought that was like Satan being cast out from heaven. There are some people that uh they think in terms of the s this there are there is reason uh there are points within scripture where stars would seem to be indicating So that could be a fair application. And then given what's going on in the context of the broader context of Revelation, they'll see this star and they'll think of an angel and they see it being cast down that it's like uh Satan being cast out. Um I don't see it here as uh being Satan. Because it's too late in the game or I think it's the wrong it's it's the wrong timing, it's the wrong context within the book. God is sounding these trumpets. And you understand my framework, and I I've alluded to it and perhaps done more than alluded to it, but just I am firmly convinced, and I'm persuadable that I could be wrong, but I am firmly convinced that what John is doing here is he's telling us the same Saying over and over again. And it's not just revelation. When we were in the Epistles of John, some people in this room I don't think were here for the Epistles of John, but I made a point a couple of times to point out how often John repeats himself. He repeats himself a lot. And he carries that tendency that I that that that's his teaching method. It's just, I'm going to drive home that point and then say that same point again, slightly differently. So he's Recasting things. Now just to him. So Jesus is doing that through John as well. I don't want to make it as just merely the word of God. of of John. But what's happening I made the point today, what's happening with the seals, in some sense that happens again with the trumpets. And in some sense that happens again with the bull. And then there's an ultimate end. So if I'm right about that recapitulation, then was Satan cast down to earth with the seals as well and then with the bowls, like i if the symmetry gets lost. So there's that problem. That's not a problem you couldn't overcome, but there's that. And the other thing is Satan gets thrown down to earth like in the middle of everything Yeah, I mean the timing is definitely the timing is weird. It it feels like it's a force. A lot of people talk about, you know, a third of the stars uh get wiped out and they connect that to the falls and this here here this is a star that falls. Um I don't necessarily personally think it's going to be an asteroid or something like that. Uh because again, I'm not myself, I'm not all I'm not saying that that's not possible It's not precluded from my way of thinking, but if God wants to send an asteroid, he'll send an asteroid. I have no doubt that he can do whatever he wants But given the highly charged symbolism in this book, my first instinct is to say, okay, it's a symbol, what's it represent? Well, and also because they And by nature that means bitterness and just um it's like a almost like a environment of of bitterness. I mean I don't know how else to explain it. It's it is it's like this whole embodiment of it. Yeah and nowhere in scripture is saying around given the name Wormwood. Right. Right. So I yeah, I to me it makes sense that it's probably an asteroid, and the reason why I say that is because the science scientists um looking at constantly studying the the um brains have been saying the the uh astronomers that are constantly studying the skies are basically saying there's so many of them it's only a matter of time before one crashes into the earth. That actually they they're constantly crashing into the earth. It's just that they're burning up because most of them that are doing that are are small enough that they get burnt up before they ever hit the surface of the earth. So to my way of thinking, it probably is an asteroid that God is going to allow or direct to hit the hit the earth um to um as as a judgment. And you know, and I think like I said, that's within the purview of possibilities in one for the Like the very end could God choose to do that in the in in the very last moments of the last days kind of thing? I I I think yeah, I I think that's possible. I don't know if I would say it's probable or not, but it seems possible. But then I want to think pastorally. I would encourage even those of us who aren't pastors, you know, to make sure that we're thinking about things pastorally so we can minister in other other people's lives. And how does it apply to our lives now? How did it apply to the Christians' life 200 years ago, 2000 years ago? What's the application And again, I I didn't drive it home, but I was pointing to the idea that John is making use of a word and an imagery and a metaphor that's rather frequent, eight times in the Old Testament. It happens eight times. And it's always in the context of bitterness and oftentimes judgments from God. And so I think there's this idea that we face I I'm convinced that our nation right now is facing judgment. I think that the institutional church, at least in the West, is facing judgment. And I think that God's people and nations throughout history have faced God's judgment. And so there's there are aspects of bitterness in our And so there's that. And one of the things I didn't t highlight it in the sermon because I wasn't as convinced that I wanted to put it in a sermon, but I tabled it in the back of my head for discussion. In case you should come up and you your question just reminded me. Some people think that the star is talking about those that are supposed to be proclaiming the truth, the light of the gospel. And that those who are the sh the the the the the on the the you know the light on the lampstand, you know the star, supposed to be what's good and right and beautiful and and and powering, that they fall into heresy and then that brings bitterness. I'm not sure that I agree with that interpretation. There are some commentators that think that. But for just for the sake of our discussion, whether we want to say that's what this image is, clearly when those are supposed to be leading the charge Pointed people to the light of truth and they fall from doing that well. I mean one really good example um you know the past number of years would be a Tim Keller who was considered to be a great light in the church and now uh he's not considered to be a great light in the church and has caused all sorts of com you know Matt Chandler, other big names in the church that once upon a time are thought of as great and then they fall. So that could be an application, but I don't want to make a Beth uh more mistake and get the right conclusion from the wrong text. A lot of times when I would hear Beth Moore teach something or read something in one of her books, I was like, yeah, you got your conclusion is exactly right. But I don't know how you got there using that text because that's not what that text means So I don't want to make that mistake, but the point is the same. And I I I'm talking probably too much, but I'm trying to provide a fullness, and I'm going to be as transparent as I can There might be one exactly right answer, and if so, then I don't properly understand the text because I'm not reading most of this symbolism that we've been through up in through these eight chapters so far as every single time this image must mean that. This image equals that period full stop, that's all there is to it. I could be wrong, but my sense is that there's multiple applications and layers in the symbolism. So you could say this symbol means that, and that's correct, in my view. oftentimes and somebody else will say this symbol no no the symbol means that yeah you're also correct. It's just different facets, different connections. I I I think this is such in in my view, this is the most artistic piece of literature ever. Not just in the Bible, just ever. The intricacy, the interconnections. You could spend your whole life studying this book and still not get anywhere close to pointing its death. So part of what you're thinking is, could it be Satan? I don't think so. But just for the sake of our, I wouldn't put this in a sermon. But is it beginning to get us to think in terms of could it be Satan? No, good question, but it's preparing us for later on when Satan does make an appearance, we were conditioned to be expecting Satan later. So maybe there's some small way in which it is bring us there. I don't To me it doesn't seem like it 'cause he gets judged Well could it be every everything wicked if there's a judge. Could it be some sort of like uh close trash can? Um parallel. Well some sort of earthly evil figure. Because and I ask that because again, like I love my little electronic bible. Um it has in that the area where it's talking about the star, um It has a note that says, hey, this, you know, this might be in uh in related to um this passage in Isaiah 14. Which says, How you are fallen from heaven, O day star, son of dawn, how you are cut down to the ground, you who laid the nations low. And it goes on to talk about you know, said day, star, sun of dawn, um trying to ascend to heaven above the stars of God and um And and stuff like that. Uh uh the man who made the earth tremble, who shook the kingdom. Who made the world like a desert, who o who overthrew its cities, who did not let his prisoners go home Uh again I think there's a fact I swear we at some level with different percentages is assigned to each answer at some level we might be able to say all of the above or there's some small sense that might connect. But I don't want to my concern with a book like the Book of Revelation, not for us necessarily although for us too I guess, but just more broadly within Christianity, uh there are some people they insist, and they will and I've had these discussions like on my radio show or other context where they fight tooth and nail that this star falling and and making the waters bitter and it's burning like a torch, clearly it's a missile. Oh. And when it hits, there's a nuclear blast and the atomic fallout makes the water undrinkable because it's radiated and you can't drink the water, and that that's what it means. And it's like that's what it means. Like, there's no room for any other possible application or nuance of understanding. And I'm like, you know what? That could be part of it too. I'm not going to say you're wrong, but it doesn't have to be It had to mean something to John and his audience two thousand years ago. Well it had to mean something to the church a thousand years ago. Isn't waters a biblical metaphor for nations or people Groups. Whereas nations are kinda like mountains. People are like bodies of water, usually like a river or something. like that. To be honest, I don't know that I'm f familiar with that analogy or connection, so that might be something I'm gonna have to I'm not saying you're wrong. I don't know if that appears here, like that carried over, but that is like, you know, more Old Testament poetic notion. I I you you I'm sorry, your question was did the waters represent people? Yes, it's like mountains are nations, waters people. Right, right. I mean there there there there is that symbolism in the book of Revelation. when they talk about the beast coming up out of the sea, they they're saying that that means that the beast representing the Antichrist and the seed represents the population. So they're so what so using symbolism they're saying John is saying that's telling us that the beast will come from the population of the people, that he will not like you know the real Messiah came from heaven. Well this one will just come from the population of the people. But he won't be born of a spiritual nature. Right. He he won he won't be no well he'll he'll just be born from Right, not from not super na exact but he won't have a supernatural origin. He'll just be a a a a really wicked person. But uh it seems to me that in in the book of Revelation, when you when you kind of back up and you look at like a bird's eye view of it, it seems to me like the point of it or the point or the the the the when w when you go all the way back to to the chapter I think it's four where it talks about the land breaking open the seals and all this stuff coming forth, it seems to me me like what this is saying ultimately in in terms of all these calamities is that the Lamb is breaking open these seals and and and and allowing these trumpet judgments because he's judging a very wicked world with the Antichrist in it. That's what it looks like it's saying to me like and and how and however whatever wormwood is, whether it's a nuclear missile or whether it's uh asteroid, whatever it is, it's almost not but it's almost beside the point. The point is there's going to be something that is going to be unleashed that is going to make all the w I believe it's it it all the waters literally will be bitter because it goes on to say people will drink them and die. So I mean Um you know, if there's all these these interesting ideas and that's fine about you know about what or could it be that people are drinking it Meaning that they're absorbing it. They're taking it in as if it's nourishment and 'cause water, right? Yeah, but they're but it's uh a belief that leads you to spiritual death. And and maybe maybe that symbolizes the fact okay, you refuse And all that to your point, maybe that symbolizes the fact that okay you refuse to partake of my nourishment and you you know, you've been uh yeah, right. And so now I'm gonna give you bitter water to drink and I'm going to kill you. That kind of thing Yeah, spiritually and maybe physically. And physically. I mean if Christ is the living water, then bitter water sounds like what I don't want to do. Bitter water is a euphemism for This is true. It is um salty water. They would call bitter water times. So the understanding that you know There's fresh water and then there's bitter water. Right. But this is making the the fresh water bitter. Exactly. Yes, so if you're turning fresh water here. Right. Or returning like Or if you want to make this more about people it's turning people bitter. I guess. Or what we're Christian. Whatever this is overhound. Oh right. Because they took it as near But it was a false and yeah. Yeah, it's a kind of an echo of something I already said in the sermon, but there's these you know a star in the sky is a beautiful thing. It's a magnificent thing, it's a good thing. Particularly our great the greatest star from our perspective is the sun, right? And what we need the sun for warmth and energy and And and all and grass and growing off all that sort of stuff. It's a good thing. And so are you still playing off of your your Fauci How many people in the medical community who are well studied, they learn a lot of things, they pay attention to these sorts of things to help protect the population from bad things happening medically So there's a goodness there and there's a power there. Somebody like like like uh Fausty would have great power and yet when he falls like a burning torch And he flames out. And as a result, where we should get our refreshment, we should be able to go to our doctors and say, I need help. I've got a virus treat me And instead of getting the help, they give you something bitter that brings about your d your your demise. So yeah, a again there's It could be an application to like Antichrist. So there's there's there's some aspect of, you know, however this might be talking about the Antichrist, it's also talking about Antichrist's The smaller level kind of thing. Oh wish somebody like a Fauci could be, right? I mean narrow the emperor could be that sort of thing. Well there there are many people I think we can name that are Little bitty baby antiqu. And so not to to beat the dead horse, but as fun and interesting and sometimes confusing confusing as all this can be We could spend hours and hours talking about it, and in the hours and hours of talking about it, during that time we end up forgetting what the main point is is. This judgment is horrible. A bunch of people are gonna die with bitter like poisonous water. But that judgment came from God. God's in control. And he knows exactly what he's doing and in what measure he's going to put it out like you know the seals. It was significant, but it was not the majority. And here it's even more significant, but it's still not the majority. Eventually it's not going to be merely the majority, all of the enemies are are white out. But he's doing things in a progression. He's got it under control. It's not like he's going to send something to Earth and say, oops, I wiped out ninety eight percent of the people. Didn't didn't intend to do that. Bobby. Well I think the thing that That was getting to me and how the season of life that's going on right now that we've all been thrust into is is the amount of death that I'm surrounded with. Okay. You're alive and you're breathing, but are you? So as we were sitting today out in public I was watching all of the people going about their business, um, having parties and ha and I was sitting there and it it it struck me and I was like, how many of these These people am I gonna see in heaven? Mm-hmm. Not many. I don't know their hearts, but we know from the words are very low. We know from the word that there's so Many who are enemies of God. And that's where I am struggling And I shouldn't because the joy of the Lord is my strength. And I was like so there it's I'm having a hard time having joy when I know there's so much destruction. Yeah. That's where I am. It's depressing. She's fine. I just she's right on it, so her little sounds are gonna sound huge. It's rema there's I think it's in one of those those really horribly produced uh left behind movies. Um there's a scene I I'm almost positive it's one of the left behind movies where there's a scene where he's like at a sporting event or something And he looks into the crowd and it's like God gives him eyes to see and he can see those that aren't saved and they're like zombies, skeletons. Like he can see those that are spiritually dead. I think it's if it's not that movie, it's a movie about the end times, I think. And that's what you're talking about. Yeah. It just it It's it it just hurt hit me hard. And there you know, I don't I just there's nothing I can do about it. I mean, yeah, you can share the gospel, but I can't save anybody. You you you can do your best to plant some seeds But at the end of the day, whether it bears fruit. I'm not the Holy Spirit. Right. I'm not God. I'm not gonna save anybody. And so I think that's one of the toughest things for me too. Yeah. I'm good at revolve around people. Right. From kids to I mean it's just so to me knowing that so many people won't make it. And I know that once I get to heaven I will be fulfilled enough. I will be fully I it I will be okay then. But until then my heart breaks for them. Absolutely. It's really hard. 'Cause we know what the truth is and so we can project that onto them, but you know, they don't feel bad about it. They will. They're getting uh they're getting exactly what they want Even for eternity, we were talking about this earlier today. You know, they're gonna be gnashing their teeth in anger at God They are rebels and they will forever be rebels. Not like they're going to be in heaven, I mean uh be in hell and all of a sudden be like, oh I wish I had thought differently. I will I wish I could repent and God would save me now. Even when they're in heaven. They're going to be, no God Yeah, it was on I was pressed. Fine, send me to hell, I don't want you anyway. He had um the face of Christ, it talks about in some of the translations. It was, you know, the the glory of God was upon him. And they and it enraged them and they they rushed them. And that's that same And with determined even more determined. Exactly. The people that hate God will hate God in hell. I g I guess my well yes, the ones who hate I guess the Venom is the word. I I guess the way that I see it is that I think Oh boy, I think that there are people who aren't saved, who don't know Christ Um and not that they haven't heard of Christ, you know, um but they aren't known. Right, but I don't think that that always means that all of them necessarily hate him either. Um well God says to love him is to is to obey him. So he he defines love in terms of our behavior less then in terms of emotions. So so when what what is this the hard truth, a hard truth is by God's definition of love, at one point we we Until we got saved, we all hated them. Functionally yes, but I guess the the point of like but do they Is it possible for them to regret later being like, ah shoot. Like in the people that weren't necessarily uh you know. won't be it it'll be a a regret of uh uh more along the lines I think of something like uh I I I regret that I couldn't get away finding a way to get out of this. I regret that. Well yes, no, they they regret that there is pain. I couldn't be yeah, I regret my pain. I regret that uh I wasn't starting to go find my way out of this No, I I'm not saying that I think that they will be like, darn, I regret this and now I love the Lord to that extent. Right. But I don't think we love something we love something. We either love God or we love God love sin. So they love their sin so much that they they might not regret loving their sin, but they just regret that they, you know, they had to pay for their sin. Um I mean have you seen children? I don't regret hitting my brother. But I do regret that I am now right. There there is a passage on this Yeah. Luke sixteen, uh the rich man in Lazarus. Which kinda touches upon it, but it's not Yeah, again this is I I believe this I've always taken this passage as more like metaphorical. It it's an allegory for I I guess my main purpose of the passages, and this really comes in with terms of evang evangelism and stuff, is that you know, if then if they didn't believe the law and the prophets, they're not going to believe uh in the resurrection. So, you know, I I look at them now and you know, you look at a lot of these people apologies, they want to outsmart the Bible in terms of reaching people. And it's like if they don't believe the Bible they're not gonna believe in the resurrection. Exactly. So or your cleverness in in doing that, yeah. So it's not about the event. Like, wait, what? Well that's kinda what a lot of these people did, like you know, you know, William Lane Craig or uh Robbie Zacharias. To some degree was very much like that. Let me just go a pithy way around. But you You look at the passage, it does deal with the idea of someone in hell saying, I don't want this for my brother or whatever But you know, again the point of that passage is these people rejected all of God's word and all of God's revelation. I thought if you could change my just give me a drop of water for my tongue, it's the agony or whatever. But it's a it's a parable. Yeah, it is an parable. And so the parable has a there's there's a lesson being taught and what's the point of the lesson? And so I think we we want to be careful, kind of similar to what I'm saying about Revelation, we want to be careful about taking parabolic language, parabolic imagery, saying, oh, because it was used as one could argue, at the very least one could argue, as a hypothetical example to make a teaching point and make that hypothetical example a must-have in reality. So there must therefore be people in heaven who are regretful and are are have heartfelt concern for their family. Not necessarily. So can can can I share one thing one little slide? I thought that I've heard and I thought it was an interesting point, which is um for the Lazarus story not the revolution Lazarus, but this Lazarus, right? It was actually it was Charles Stanley who said this. He said um it actually happened because Jesus Jesus never used names in parables. He said this is an illustration because a people were named in it. So his his view of it is it it really did it really did happen. This or this is in other words, possibly that rich man right now is in hell suffering Um that Lazarus really really did exist because Jesus never named names in parables. And and when you look at all the rest of the parables, you're all you're and it says the parable of the this and the parable of the that No, isn't the parab when it says the parable of this, isn't that us indexing scripture? Typically yeah, um because I mean in sometimes in scripture itself you just say now let it tell you. Never use a thing. Right. Or the woman or or like the um women woman with the woman point or after we're going to be able to do it. This is how verse nineteen begins. Now there was a rich man and he habitually dressed in purple and fine linen, joyously living in Splendor every day. So that's the first passage of the first verse of that. And it begins like most of the other parables begin, so it it's Charles Fanley makes an interesting argument there, but it does begin as most other parables. But Lazarus was named. And that's what that's what makes that's what differentiates Well there's Lazarus and then there's Abraham. Yeah, I it definitely the fact that it's the only time where there's a name in a parable. It begs the question, it's like, huh Why do you there must be a reason. What does Lazarus mean? And I'm yeah, to be honest, I don't really know. But Does the name have a meaning? For now I guess I'd be willing to say there's might be something we're saying, but it's hard then to square that with the rest of what we understand. understand about the rebellious nature and heart of those who are opposed to God. You mean in terms of the man that that that's in health. Yeah. So yeah, I I I I think I think we could still say that um he he's in regret and um and that he he died a rebel. Um but I I also believe that that there are different levels of different intensities, I should say, of rebellion and Maybe, you know, I mean there's there's there's your Hitler kind of rebellions and then there's your Garden Variety Center and he he he might be closer to that. But you know, he's still a he still died a rebel, you know. I'm sorry I need to cut you off. Oh, go ahead. Does the Bible and I should have I should know this, but does the Bible talk of like for the believer there's levels of um crowns, right? Right crowns. Rewards. Are there levels of destruction in the I think there is levels of judgment over I would agree with that because High injustice. And so you're going to get the the level I think of suffering that it that is pure justice for how evil guys. Everybody's gonna get the reverse of what we get as as a believer. Right. You didn't repent and accept Christ, so you can't get into heaven. Right. But maybe it doesn't mean that you're that is Hitler's going to get punished the same as that is you're right. You won't get a Hitler punishment You're gonna get a punch for you. Right. There's the uh the millstone comment that you think that it would be for a millstone to be tied around your Right, so that does indicate a special level of punishment. Yeah, exactly. And even in heaven there's levels of reward I mean everybody gets a basic basic um but I I you know I I don't I I I I don't think I'm gonna get I didn't die for him. So right. I mean I'm probably gonna I'm probably gonna get maybe a Married a Mary Mother of Christ reward but I'll I'll I'll get some kind of reward. I mean there's different crowns that you can earn. Not everybody's gonna get all the crowns. Sure. You know. So even in heaven, with respect to rewards. Um so I I for for me I see the justice of God in both places. Um but it's just that hell it's just that in heaven the The baseline is paradise. Right. And then you get different levels of reward. And then the baseline is sovereign and you get different different levels of judgment. Well, are you heating it? Because it's not it's not the absence of God in hell, it's the judgment of God God. Because God's not gonna God doesn't become vapor. He's everywhere. You know what I mean? Well because it's a I mean the judge in the presence. Because in his presence there's peace. In his presence there's calm. And they don't have that. So his you know, they don't It's almost like he did he's allowed this thought of existence to well exist without him there. Well and in a way that makes that makes hell a real miracle because One of the attributes of God is He's omnipresent. Right. But he's gonna find a way to be present for them. Yeah. Well yeah. Yeah, but you all in in a special way because because not because I'm not omnipotent but because I am I'm perfectly righteous. Right. And I'm choosing and I'm choosing that righteousness is not told that. It's like when he removes his spirit, goes to hell in a handbasket. Right. Because l we're left to our own and And we're evil. So that's probably what goes on in in Mell. Some kind of some kind of variation that I don't know if they ever fully understand I don't want to understand. I don't want to know. Exactly. The lowest level of Heaven. Way, way, way, way, way I mean, if anything better. Yeah Annika, I'm cool with that too. This is really quick and so It's not enough for me to ever preach it yet, but uh really quick, uh Lazarus Lazarus is the uh Greek version of a Hebrew name and that Hebrew name would translate would mean God has helped or my God is helper. Right. Well in connection with this though, it it could be that If somebody wanted to try to make a point that Charles Stanley doesn't necessarily have it right, he could be saying, look there are those even these poor people that are having dogs look at their sores Ultimately they're going to be in heaven as a as a a child of the of the faith of Abraham kind of thing. God's going to help them. And the rich man who's not depending on God for help is depending on their own riches. So he might be So it's referring to God's help as opposed to a human being. He mentions the name. I'm not saying that's right either, but I just you raised the question, what does the name mean? That's an excellent question. I did that quick Did you okay and I I think I was looking it up the same time you were saying it, so I uh did anyway, I apologize. I would have had that point scored that point earlier, but Yeah, I remember that subject specifically, this parable coming up on my radio show like ten years ago, but I can't remember what we ended up deciding as we were debating it. I don't remember. So Yeah, that's good stuff. What were we talking about before we got off on that tangent? Anybody even remember? Alright. Well we've probably been on the stream long enough. You want to uh wrap up the stream? We'll move in there and we'll go up. Alright. Well then uh We're going to sign off here. If you would like to follow along with what we do as a church, our social media, our sermons, blogs, what have you. I would encourage you to go to household of faith in Christ dot com. It's kind of a one-stop shop to connect with everything that we do, including some of the ministries that are connected to our church by the members. Like if you want to check out the Evangelical Dark Web. You can find that pretty easily by going to Household of Faith in Christ and you'll find a link on the resources page to something like that. So anyway, till next week. We got started a little bit late today. Hopefully we'll get started closer to 6 o'clock next week But um 6 o'clock ish next Saturday we plan to be back together on the stream. Till them God bless