In the same way. And I then I looked and I heard an eagle flying in mid-heaven, saying, with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe to those who dwell on the earth because of the remaining blast of the earth. Thank you. And uh we just turned on the live stream, so welcome to those who are now joining us at the Household of Faith in Christ, our regular Saturday gathering this is a live stream portion of what we do. We we had a time of singing and a time of chaos and a time of fellowship and uh time of reading scripture. We read all of Revelation 8. Um we had some time for prayer, that sort of thing. We're going to be alluding not just to Revelation chapter 8, but other parts of Scripture as well. And I just want to remind us all that The Word of God is without error. It's infallible. God does not make mistakes. This word is inspired by God. It's his word. As such is a fully sufficient rule and guide for our faith, for our life practice, and so, as normal, I invite those with ears to hear, to hear. This message tonight is uh my primarily focusing on Revelation chapter 8 verse 13. But it's going to encompass um elements from the entire kind of a review of the entire chapter as well. And it's titled this, I think appropriately enough, Woe, Woe, Woe So a storm rages across the continent, and there's a huge torrential downpour and wind is whistling, tearing down trees, there's lightning and tornadoes are seen for miles The very rocks in the mountains, they're shaken loose, battered loose by the unrelenting, violent weather. And through it all There's a flower. Delicate flower. Rather weak in many ways, but it's beautiful. And it is tucked between the crags of the rock. Flowers unharmed by the intensity that's swirling all around it as it is nestled in safety in the perfect spot, like when Yahweh had hid Moses in the safe space, if you will. As the glory of the Lord passed by. Well, having the fullness of that glory vaporized Moses to a crisp. The delicate, vulnerable flower is likewise kept safe by God. And so it is with Christ's church There are great woes in a world under judgment by the Lamb of God. And there is struggle and sorrow and suffering. And for Jesus' followers, there is also persecution. But these slings and arrows symbolically represented in the analogy that I shared by the wind, the lightning, the tornadoes, they do not spiritually harm our makers elect. His chosen people, his bride, his beloved are cared for amidst all of the woes in this world. And I would like for us to keep this in mind as we examine the lessons that are taught in Revelation 8, verse 13. In fact, we do well to keep God's protection and provision in mind as we examine all the lessons taught throughout the entire book of the Revelation of Jesus Christ. Because when we know the end of the story, it is so much easier to handle the rough parts. Knowing it's gonna all be okay, it's how some people are able to make it through to the end of an intense movie. That's why a person like this will ask the person sitting next to them, somebody in the theater who's already seen the movie before, are they gonna die? They just can't stand the tension of an uncertain outcome. Well, for the Christian, we know the answer. And with regards to Jesus, is he going to die? Well, no. Not again, anyway. Because he already died. He rose again. And he protects his followers. And yes, they might very well face an untimely physical death. But they will live with their Savior forever in the new Jerusalem, the renewed heavens, the renewed earth Today's scripture verse is Revelation chapter 8, verse 13, and it says, Then I looked And I heard an eagle flying in mid heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe to those who dwell on the earth, because of the remaining blasts of the trumpet of the three angels who are about to sound. This verse has sparked some translational debate over the years. We're going to address some of that. And this verse also comes in the middle of the sounding of the seven trumpets, and we will address that too. Before going further into our study of this genius book. Let's reorient ourselves just a bit. The seven trumpets, they have many similarities with the seven seals, which are featured two chapters earlier in this book With the opening of the first four seals, we heard the announcement of horses and their riders commissioned to bring all sorts of calamities. And with the sounding of the trumpets, we hear these calamities described. We see many similarities also with these seven bowl judgments. that will be revealed to us a number of chapters later in the Book of Revelation. For instance, the first four trumpets strike plague upon the four main regions of creation the sand, the sea, the salt water, the fresh water. The sky. And when we get there, we're going to see the same thing to be true. It's the same case with the four bulls. The first four bulls. What we uh will see in chapter 9, the very next chapter after this verse, is a transition in the targeting of the judgments. that come with the sounding of the final three trumpets. Last week we detailed a number of things about the first four trumpets with disaster befalling the spheres of the world which support human life. Things we need, you know, things like land, we need that. And we need the vegetation, we need the sea lanes, we need the fish of the oceans, we need fresh water to drink, that's for sure. We need the protection of our atmosphere. We need good clean air to breathe. I mean, we need all of these things. And all of these things, they get walloped throughout chapter 8. But in the next chapter, the target of God's, shall we say, hand of discipline is humanity itself. First, the things all around the humans get doubted about. But the upcoming trumpets, they will apply God's paddle, his his switch, his belt, directly to the backside of the people themselves. In chapter 8, verse 13, it indicates this shift. And so in verse 13, God's word pops the clutch. Because circumstances are about to downshift hard Now, one of the points of contention about verse 13 is the translation of the word that is used to describe whatever it is that is flying in mid-heaven. The word in lots of English translations, such as the NASB, which is what I've read from today, is the word eagle. Lots of others, like the King James, for example, they opt for the word angel. And there are a few outliers. They opt for large bird or messenger as their translation. Now the Greek word here is ayatos. And it could be translated as gleaning flash Because of its association with very large, very fast birds of prey. And that's actually the closest we can probably get to a wooden translation, bird of prey. Throughout the Bible we see this most often in the context of eagles and vultures. Now I looked, I couldn't find an example of the word being used anywhere As a reference to an angel in the Bible. So eagle or great bird, it does seem to be the best option here. So No disrespect for our King James Only fans, but I think that the King James doesn't get it as right as the NASB does, for example, in this particular case. But regardless, this is the book of Revelation. So let's not get all hung up on the physicality itself, and let's instead press into the meaning of the image. What's it mean? I mean great giant birds, like vultures, like eagles, they can be soaring seen soaring from a significant distance. They have magnificent flight. They are regal in appearance. This symbolizes power. And authority can often also be portents of death, destruction. See, for example, Jeremiah chapters 48 and 49, or Hosea 8, Matthew 24, Luke chapter 17, and it's all all over the place, these ideas, and these ideas are why this image is here in this verse. birds of prey. They come swiftly. We have this pointed out to us in Job chapter nine, verse twenty six. And they bring with them a certainty of woe for those upon whom they have set their sights. And many times in the Bible, there are prophetic references that picture the birds circling over their victims. Throughout history, there have been stories of these magnificent creatures circling, wheeling over battlefields. So is it possible, though all that said, is it possible that the the the uh ayatos is an angel? You know, I don't want to die on the hill. It's not worth dying on that particular hill. So if you are a King James Only fan and you're like, it must be Angel, okay fine, maybe it's Angel. Some think it's Christ himself. Could it be Christ? Yeah, probably not. Some people argue that it's John, the writer of Revelation, that he's picturing himself here. Is that the case? Well, not likely. But these three guesses, they're all debated by those who like to conjecture about such things. Others, they like to suggest that the symbol signifies Roman legions. I've heard some say that the gleaming flash here in this verse is America. This makes even just a little bit of sense to me only. A little bit of sense to me if the translation were limited to the word eagle, and even then, seems quite the hermeneutical leap. You know, this game of eschatological charades, it's sort of fun for a while. But the theme standing behind the image, that's what's important. So whether it's a bird or a gleaming flash of light or some other form of messenger, here's what's going on here. It is An angel, a messenger, a bird, or whatever, announcing for God the coming woes. And the announcement it comes from mid-heaven. This means in the middle of heaven, which in olden times that uh would have been called the meridian. Noon time, the time of day when the sun is at its highest point in the sky. It's zenith. In other words, the one bringing the message is visible to all. It's possibly right in the direct line of sight of the sun. There's no missing it. The announcement is for everyone. There is no hiding from it. There's no earthly escape. The announcement is horrible, horrible, horrible. Or if the bird were named Charles Barclay, it might be terrible, terrible, terrible So I can change things up a little bit. It's horror, disaster, catastrophe. We might enjoy grappling with some of the translational preferences, but the message is clear. There is judgment coming from heaven. And not merely things that can be explained from the natural, but also from the supernatural. The demonic, as we'll see in chapter 9. Now having explored most of the major translational differences in verse 13. I want to bounce back for a moment and touch upon a similar variety of understanding from chapter 8, verse 3. Some translations have the word messenger in that verse. But almost all translations have the word angel. And so that's not really the issue in verse 3. The question in verse 3, the question's arisen as to the identity of this angel, this messenger. And some think it's Christ. Now most who are motivated to say that it's Christ are they're motivated to hold this position because they just can't accept the idea that the prayers of the people would be offered by means of an angel. But this is an unnecessary and actually somewhat awkward interpolation I mean, who says a messenger can't be involved as the means of offering the prayers of the people? I mean, think about it when one of us here in this room. On behalf of all those who are gathered here, offer us up a prayer. Are we not having the prayers of the people offered by means of a messenger? And keep in mind, you know, messenger and angel, they mean pretty much the same thing. In this context, they mean the same thing. Now it's not as if this another angel that we see in verse 3 is giving efficacy to the prayers. That'd be a totally different thing. But that's not what's going on here. So there's no need to force and say that this must be Christ. Now, does it mess things up if someone insists that this another angel is Christ? You know, another hill that I'm not going to die on, so probably not. If you want to insist it's Christ, you know, have at it, whatever. But I gotta say, nowhere in Revelation is Jesus referenced as an angel. And so this would be the only such usage. And given that the surrounding context makes it feel a bit forced, at least to me it does, I see no advantage at all. Nor really any persuasive reason to think that the angel in verse 3 is Jesus. Nor should we think that the seven angels with the trumpets are Christ, either. Some people think so. Now it's totally true that the judgments are coming from Christ, but God is more than capable of working through mediators whom he wants to use, when and if he wants to use them. But here we might have raised yet a different question. If they're not Christ, do we know who these seven angels are? Do they have known identities? Well, my personal position is probably not, but That said, there is a Jewish tradition holding that there are seven archangels, and they have names. Raphael, Uriel, Raguel. Sarichel, Saruel, Saruel sometimes called Remyel or Jeremio, and there are two with names that are more familiar to us, Mikael and Gabriel. Michael and Gabriel. Occasionally these seven archangels in the tradition are referred to, referenced as the Watchers. And if you saw that horrible Russell Crowe movie from 2014 called Noah, This watcher's idea in that movie, that's where it comes from, is this tradition. That's where all the sci-fi stuff in that movie came from. It's a horrible movie. If you haven't seen it, I would not waste my time. Anyway, if all this stuff about the watchers and these different seven names and stuff is a tad confusing, a little disordering to you as a Bible reader, you're like, wow, I don't remember seeing this sort of stuff. Well, it's disordering because all this stuff is from non-biblical writings such as 1 Enoch and the Testimony of Dan and the Book of Jubilee and so forth. So I mentioned this not because it's authoritative, it is not Authoritative. I mention it because non-canonical books, Jewish mid-rash, speculative guesswork, particularly speculative guesswork when it comes to the themes that are found in the book of Revelation They're all in the rage in recent years, especially among the, we are so much smarter than you, so-called scholars. They build their worldview out of what's been labeled higher critical method, rather than building their worldview on the word of God, the authoritative word of God. We need to have a world where it stands upon that. So anyway, I mentioned this, again, not because it's authoritative, but because it's increasingly all the rage, and so it could possibly come up in conversation And I am hoping to spare you that awkward deer in the headlights look, if it should come up. So now if it comes up you can say, yeah, you know what? I I've heard something about that, but it's extra-biblical, so I don't think we should spend a whole lot of time worrying and focusing on that. Let's focus on what the Bible says. Now I don't want us to go off the reservation in some sort of other bizarre different direction either, of course, because there are angels. Right? We know this. There's an entire field of study called angeology, in fact, and we read about angels in the Bible. And there is a great angel in Daniel chapter 12, verse 1. A lot of our English translations Call him a great prince instead of a great angel. And his name is Michael. He's called an archangel in Jude verse 9. And there is an angel of God's presence in Isaiah chapter 63. And there's an archangel mentioned in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. And Gabriel, of course, he is a key figure in Luke chapter 1. But there is no group of seven angels mentioned anywhere in the Bible, except in Revelation, where it happens ten times. John loves his numeric symbolism, doesn't he? Seven, ten, twelve, four, three, all these important numbers. You might recall the seven angels to the seven churches. They're all referenced there one by one, chapters two and three. And it does seem fair, by the way, to connect those seven angels to the seven churches, to connect them to the seven angels with the trumpets here There are literary grammatical reasons why we might want to do so, although I don't think the text demands this of us, so you don't have to connect them, but you could if you want. Now as a quick aside, there are some who wonder if the seven angels should be connected to these seven spirits of God. Remember that being mentioned in chapters one, four, and five. But if you remember it being mentioned in one, four and five chapters Well, you might remember in those sermons I made the case that we should see that language as talking about the Holy Spirit. So the seven spirits of God, not angels. It's the Holy Spirit. But what's key to remember here, the angels, no matter how many, no matter their names, they work for God. And they sound the trumpets as instruments signaling the Lamb's initiation of events. And they are announcing plagues coming from the hands of an angry God. And some of the plagues are natural, and some are supernatural, and as I said, some are demonic. And all of them are wake-up calls to repentance. And they actually help the church, the Christian church, to proclaim the good news against the backdrop of all this bad news. The exalted Son of Man is speaking with a trumpet-like voice. Do you remember Revelation chapter one when we first were getting started in this series? Chapter 1, verse 10, it says I was in the spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like the sound of a trumpet. That's the voice of our Savior. It is again in Revelation 4, verse 1, After these things I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven, and the first voice which I had heard, like the sound of a trumpet speaking with me, said Come up here and I will show you what must take place after these things. It's Christ's voice. It's God's word. Sounding through those trumpets given to the angels. And the angels, they act only within and under the mediation of our Messiah. He's in control. And to Christ's bride, the trumpets. They make a beautiful sound. It is the sound of God's coming judgment over the wicked, making things right. And it is at the same time the sound of God coming with the salvation of his people. You know, last week during our time of singing We ended up singing a song that we didn't prep in advance. We sang a song called Beautiful Sound. And in retrospect, I remember I said, Yeah, this this is a good song, but I don't know if it was really a song that lent itself to corporate worship. And yet, through God's providence, last week we sang a song called Beautiful Sound, and this week we have a sermon where we're focusing on the beautiful sound of The trumpets. And so God works together all things for the good of his people. Now I have gone out of my way numerous times in recent weeks to make the point that God is in control. I've done this in a variety of ways. And I've done it because, well, we need reminding. There is a purpose to the horrors of the planet being turned upside down as described in chapter 8. As believers, we know we're cared for. We are cared for as a third of just about everything is disrupted There's time extended with life-altering warnings given by a patient God. He's calling his enemies to repent, to become friends. There's an acknowledgement of the terrible darkness of human wickedness. And the absolute necessity of repentance from the ugly, progressive habits of sin. And after all of this in chapter 8, all this horrible imagery that we have, the situation then gets really bad. That's chapter nine. The first four trumpets, which are connected, somewhat interdependent, they affect natural life. Final three trumpets, which are rather more individually distinct, kind of detached from one another, they affect spiritual life. And the negative effects on natural life, as we know from our last couple of sermons, are bad. The spiritual effects we're going to begin studying when we get into chapter 9, they're far worse. The natural effects that we've been studying so far in chapter 8, they are so dramatic that people have spent lots of time working to understand these things. In very specific ways. And so sometimes they look at these so specifically, they'll say, you know what? The earth under assault? Well, that must be Rome And the trees, well, that will be the princes and the grass, that's the common people, and the sea, well that must be the barbarians, I guess, and one-third of everything. That's clearly a nod to Western Europe and so forth. They have all these very specific ideas that they have about what it means in the past or what it might mean in the future. Very specifically. And it's interesting to me, I'm not saying those of us in this room are prone to this and those that think like us, although we're a minority, I think, uh don't think like this. I think the vast majority of people They're looking at this sort of disaster that is described here in Revelation 8 and what's coming up in Revelation 9, and they see it, they view it as befalling someone else's generation. It's either those that came before us or those that are coming after us, but never us. Because we don't know God's movement in our history. We we don't recognize the need. for repentance in our time. You got people who are saying things like, uh, wormwood, verse 11 That might have something to do, by way of contrast, with the sweetening of the water at Moriah back in the book of Exodus, chapter 15. Or maybe it has something to do with Elisha in 2 Kings chapter 2 And it has something to do, I'm sure, with the future, but there's no reason that we should think it had anything to do with John and his original audience and the churches in Asia Minor, and nor is it relevant to our lives now, in this moment. Presently cogwash You know, we need to understand, I mean it's the connection to the waters of Moriah, the connection to Elisha, all that sort of stuff, there are connections he made there. But it also connects to us now. We need to understand that the imagery of these trumpet judgments is a call to repentance and obedience. And because people, for the most part, do not repent with the sounding of the first four trumpet blasts, well the final three woes, they're even far greater. And we can't be smug and and think, well, I'm glad all this stuff has nothing to do with the world I live in right now. The fire of verse five. That is the Lord's fierce consuming anger. We shouldn't concern ourselves with that. The incense being poured out in that very same verse. It's described with the use of a perfect verb tense. This indicates a continuing action. So the angel doesn't just Dump the contents of the sensor all at once and that's it. No, no, no. The angel, it takes the fire from the altar and it continues To rain it down on the earth as the seven trumpets do their damage. But let's not examine ourselves. Let's not pay any mind to the ways that God might be dealing with our society, our culture, our government, our church Our family, our marriage, our personal individual life. No, no, no. I refuse to let God give my attention. Not gonna happen. He's not gonna call me to repentance. The earth is quaking right underneath our feet and too many of us We say Do you feel anything? No? Must not be anything then. I mean God's anger is being poured out on the inhabitants of earth and we shrug. When's baseball season going to start? Is today the day that I'll finally get a new personal best of my favorite video game? What's for lunch tomorrow? I wonder if there are any really funny political memes being shared on social media right now. Look, evil sin, it obscures light. Is the light being obscured in your life Are you obscuring it so the others don't see the light? Our high priest wears a resplendent long robe, with a golden sash signifying his beauty, wealth, and exalted status. And he is filled with wisdom, strength, and power, and he comes in judgment With intense, pure, glorious fire Do you know him? Do you know that? Our Lord rules over all things at all times in all Circumstances, the loud voices, the loud noises represented in the revelation indicate the authority and the universal relevance of the message. Perfect. And the events that are revealed. It's universal. So that includes me. That includes you. It includes everyone. Are you talking about this stuff with everyone? Not everyone is receptive, I get it. So what? You might feel ill-equipped. You might be worried about what they'll think of you. They'll think you're weird or not so bright or you're annoying or you're judgmental. I get it. So what? Don't spend so much time in your own head wondering, well, what will happen if I do this or that? Instead, the question is simple. It's just three words. As you live your life as a follower of Jesus, the question alone should be Is it right? What will you see happen if you do right things? Well, maybe nothing as far as you can perceive it. So what? Our intuitions, our perceptions, our feelings, they don't bind God. You plant the seed, or you know, you you water the seed planted by another. You take in the harvest of those who came before you. Do what is right. In every given moment, the question is, is it right? And if so, then that's what you do, even if you don't personally see the positive results. Even if all you seem to see are the negative results. Do what is right. Even if you're very careful. And you rightfully plant an acorn. Even if you do every single thing about that right, you still might not live to see it grow into the majestic Amazing, mature tree it was designed to be. So what? Our conception of time does not bind God. There are woes coming. There are woes we're experiencing. There is a great glorious future for those that are in Christ. Telling people about the coming judgment, pointing them to the future glory for those that trust in Jesus Christ. Doing that, sharing the good news. That is right. That is always right. Now as we draw to a close, I want to end with a quote from Lewis Brighton. He is a Missouri Synod Lutheran who sadly died in 2015, but not before he left behind a legacy of some really wonderful scholarship on the book of Revelation. And Dr. Brighton wrote Human strength and action cannot save. God Himself will put an end to war And so the Lord is exalted among the nations and exalted in the earth. The silence enjoined upon God's people of the Old Testament was an act of faith and worship. before the awful majesty of God's action of judgment toward their enemies. Actions which would also save his people. The judgment and salvation brought about in and by the great day of Yahweh moves God's saints to a fearful and awe-inspired silence before the mighty God as he acts for his people. John was mindful Of this Old Testament theme of silence as he experienced and later meditated on the silence of the half hour in Revelation 8:1 It was a silence of awe and mystery, as the exalted Son of God made ready to unfold the remainder of the message of revelation, involving the acts of the judgment of God upon the earth. Which would be revealed by the seven angels. All these acts are for the glory of the exalted Lord Christ and for the assistance of his church on earth. We might be tempted to shift our gaze from the bullseye. We might be distracted by the noise and the confusion that's around us. This is really a tendency for us when the heat gets turned all the way up to eleven, as they might have said in the movie's Final Tap, right? Not just up to ten, but all the way up to eleven. But don't do it. Don't take your gaze off the bullseye. Not even when the triple woes hit the world between the eyes in chapter nine. As we talked about before, there were no punctuation marks in ancient Greek. And so a way to add an exclamation point was to say a word twice. And if you wanted to take this to the highest, most superlative level of emphasis, well then the word would be said three times. And in the next chapter, we will read about our holy, holy, holy God bringing woe, woe, woe. And it will be all too easy to stare at the storm. To look to God's enemies. Get caught up in the tribulation. and forget the main point of the Bible and of history. The message of Revelation, the message of all the scriptures is about the awe and mystery and glory of the exalted Lord Christ. Let's keep our eyes fixed upon him. Let's pray. Father, we are amazed at your patience with us That your plan for your people, your provision, protection of us, as you arrest the attention of the world, who can't help but notice that things are awry. Things are bad in the world. They need to turn to you, trust in you. We know that we can't persuade someone to do that. Only you win hearts and convert people. But we ask that you would give us the strength. And a renewed conviction and commitment to sharing the truth of your coming judgment and salvation alone in the person and work of Jesus Christ. We ask that when we feel inadequate to the task, that we would lean upon, rest upon the knowledge that you indwell us by your spirit and you give us the words to speak. We ask your blessing upon our conversation. That we would apply the truth of your word into our lives in very practical, noteworthy ways. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Alright. So any original uh original initial out of the gate thoughts Yeah. I don't know how to translate that. I wish I would address your thoughts though if I could. Yeah, I know. Whoa, whoa, whoa is coming. I get it. But if you're a Christ, you have to cry. Well a couple of things I was trying to accomplish um in the sermon uh by way of extension, not really name, but if I'll touch on those. Uh as you guys know, I'm not uh I'm not committed to any one particular translation of the Bible. I do think there's some bad ones. Uh and there are some I think are better than others. But there's a a cluster of pretty good Bible translations and I think any of those are suitable for reading, for studying, for preaching from. Uh there is a I think ever dwindling, diminishing contingency of people that are firmly committed to the King James. And there are some people that are not as firmly committed, but they're you know, they behave almost as well they are with the ESC. fans, uh that they're they feel like that's the only one that's right. But um what's important is to understand what the message is and these different translations can help us understand that message differently and You know, what really matters what what we think of us as being inspired is the the original writings, the original languages. So unless we're all going to learn how to read ancient Greek and ancient Hebrew Um I think we s we serve ourselves well by interacting with a handful of trustworthy English translations. And if you take three, four, five, six decent English translations and compare and contrast, you're pretty much going to get to the actual real meaning of what's being said in in in the text. So I was trying to by highlighting all the translational differences, I was trying to highlight that. And by touching on some of the different approaches of how to understand some of those images. Is it Christ? Are they angels? Are they Birds, what are they? Um these are the kinds of things that I think that we can agree to disagree on as Christians. But you know, I've got my opinion of what I think is right. And and there are some who The barrel's leaking. It's working. There we go. So we can agree to disagree on some of those things, but we can't disagree on the idea that judgment is coming. God's in control of it. He protects and preserves his people through it. I mean those things we know to be true. So those kinds of things are part of what I was hoping to uh to do with today. And then obviously at the end, um There are too many people that do not know even what the gospel is, much less being able to share it. So we've got to know what the gospel is, we've got to internalize it, we've got to live it, and then We've got to really believe it. And if we really believe it, we're going to want to share it. And so I was trying to impress upon us the need to be obedient in that regard. Not that that's going to necessarily save any more people because God knows those who are his, he's going to save those who are his. There's a blessing. God chooses to work through us, work through means, work through messengers. And there's great blessing in participating in that. So if I want us, anybody who's watching online to share in Experiencing that blessing. So anybody have any questions about chapter eight? Needs for clarification or It's interesting to point out that the first four are the physical and the last three are spiritual. Yeah, and I I didn't mention it but uh in the sermon, but you know, we we've learned through uh the first eight chapters of Revelation now the number four tends to stand for. Creation. Yeah, creation. So the natural creation. So the fact that the first four trumpets will be dealing with creation certainly and then the number three throughout scripture has a tendency to focus on Not always, but uh very often we'll focus on things that are spiritual because it's the Trinity you think of the Godhead and that sort of thing. So that'd be part of the imagery there. Uh but I think it's also there's a stepping up, like God's gonna do what he can to get your attention with natural things so you realize, oh my gosh, I don't have control over when that volcano breaks. uh there's something bigger than me, that's something is someone who's God. If that doesn't get your attention, then he's gonna get your attention spiritually with more dramatic spiritual kind of plagues, which I think we're feeling right now. Differently from some of our dispensational friends, I don't think that we feel these just at the very, very end. I think that there are spiritual plagues that befall uh the world in a cyclical manner over time. Not to say there's not an ultimate time of that at the very, very, very last moment, but I think I think that uh John and his readers experienced this in their time. You know, people in the Roman Empire dealt with this. People in the Middle Ages dealt with this. People in America 200 years ago dealt with this. You know, people in China or other parts of the the world that have faced you know ungodly circumstances, they've dealt with this twenty years ago. And now in America we feel like we're maybe finally starting to deal with it. in some of these ways. I mean going back to the four horsemen, the first one was uh tyranny, right? Mm-hmm. So yeah. But the idea that they go move cycles over and over and over again makes it hard for people to have any sense of of being able to place stuff and link it to historical events. Yeah, and this is why there's so much debate. Um you guys can tell where I'm coming at on this. I think that If somebody wants to say, what's happening here in Revelation chapter eight is talking about the first century, I'm going to say, Yeah, I think it is. And then somebody else is going to say, Yeah, but I think it's ha it's talking about something in the Roman Empire that happened like in the third or fourth century. And I say, Yeah, I think it is. Well, I think it's about something that happened in the year, you know, like one thousand or twelve hundred or something like that. I say, yes, I think it is. I think we're looking at it backwards when we try to rip things from the headlines You know, rip things out of the pages of history, rip things out of the newspaper and say, this connects a revelation. Yeah, I think we can make that connection, but I think It's better to look start with Revelation and see how it connects with everything that is happening in the world and everything that's happened in history, because it's all relevant. This meant something. The book of Revelation meant something to the initial readers. The people who were around, you know, 1900 and some odd years ago, this meant something to them. It wasn't like, oh we probably shouldn't really read this because it's probably not going to apply for another 2,000 years. That's that's not how any of the Bible really works. So I think the message is clear. It's one of repentance, which is the entire message Message of scripture. So it's it's just proposed in a more dramatic way in Revelation. more pronounced way. A more does this get your attention yet way? In a more fantastical kind of way. Yeah, I mean I think some of the parts of scripture are pretty direct and dramatic too. But yeah, there's there's just nothing quite so fantastical as the book of Revelation. There's some parts parts that are close. But nothing quite like it. And what's interesting is yes, God's people are protected, but it's clear we can see now that the remnant is going through. I mean the remnant wasn't uh you know wasn't uh escaped from COVID or whatever or um precluded from or the remnant isn't precluded from the from being beheaded, you know, when we see so many people who were tortured for their faith, it's you know, that's just not accurate. And for the younger people in the room, particularly those that have really young people in the room as parents, or those who, you know, in the probably not too distant future might become parents that have little ones. That's something that's you guys be thinking about. Um I've been thinking about it a little bit more these last couple of weeks because of our situation having, you know, a grandchild on the way. As hard as we think the world is now And it's well uh there's the chance of that for sure it feels like, right? I mean we're we're in some weird places uh in history, particularly in American history right now. And so I wonder what it's gonna be like for people who are now under twenties when they're in their fifties or sixties. But imagine when the people who are now just born or are going to be born in the next five, ten years, what is it going to look like for them, assuming that Christ doesn't return in the meantime, what is it going to look for for them when they're fifty or sixty or seventy Um as much as we are beginning to feel in America like we've got some persecution coming at the church, we haven't experienced anything like what the church has historically in different contexts experienced. Are our children and our grandchildren going to be able to have the ability to stand up to that? Are they going to be equipped? Are they going to know their Bibles, know their Lord? have an assurance of faith strong enough to deal with it when it when the uh woah woe woe arrives in their life I think we've got to be thinking about that. It's important to train up our our our kids. It always has been, but I mean we need to really wake up and train up our kids. And part of the reason why we're in the mess we are in this country right now is 'cause for more than a generation now we haven't done a good job. training up our kids. And so we've got people in leadership who don't know Jesus. They don't know truth. You know, they don't even know basic like physical truth, much less spiritual truth. She's not a biologist. So, yeah. By the way, you your comment about, you know, the uh the first uh the first uh horseman port uh rider and his horse, uh tyranny. There is a logical sequence, I think, to how that plays out. There's you know there's tyranny and then and there's war and there's uh there's uh Whether it's pestilence, disease, famine, you know, all these sorts of things, uh, you know, kind of follow in a sequence But I don't think we want to fall into the trap of thinking that everything that flows in a sequence in the Book of Revelation is chronological sequence. It might just merely be logical sequence, it might be literary sequence So it's not like first comes this, then comes like we can't possibly have people uh starve to death until there's been a war. Like it doesn't have to be in that order. But there there is an order. And I think the the better way of thinking about the order is the order in which they're presented recurringly. So the connections that John is making with the seals and the trusted Trumpets and the bowls. There's a kind of an order there that repeats itself. Yeah or or at the yeah typically generally but it's not quite but yeah that's generally true but it's not quite as atomistic as that but you can take the cluster like the first four definitely go with the first four Okay. If that makes uh sense. Generally it's one to one, two to two, but then it's it's not quite as exact. There's a little bit of artistic director's freedom. What is that called? Oh license. And I think that's part of what throws people off the set on how to understand revelation, because if there's a little bit of liberty, they're like, oh so this must be something completely different. No, it's kind of the same thing, said differently. Like when you tell your your wife you love her, you say it exactly the same way every time? Like sometimes it's a word, sometimes it's an action, sometimes it's a look. Right? Sometimes it's a it's a touch, sometimes it's uh Yep. Yeah. And so oh so when he when he gave her the flowers You know, he really loved her because he gave her flowers. Like when he just like you know lightly brushed her hair away from her eyes and looked into them longingly for half a second, he didn't really love her there because he didn't give her flowers No, no, he loved her both times. He just expressed it slightly differently. That's part of what's going on with Revelation. He's saying the same thing. And I think I said this last week. John repeats himself like all the time. You read his epistles, it's like, oh my gosh, he's repeating himself over and over and over. But you know, he'd be a good preacher. Because we need things repeated over and over again. It's like in advertising, right? You gotta keep pounding that message over and over and over again because we're forgetful. We've got to hear it over and over again. No controversy? Come on, somebody stir up some controversy. We're instructed not to be divisive? That's true. Yeah, marching orders from uh from me. From scripture. Yeah, it's in Timothy or Titus. I'm not saying to be dis divisive. Uh this seems like the break in between the connection. controversy. I mean the part about the Eagle was pretty interesting, which you know, how many countries would use the Eagle as their standard? Yeah, America's not the only one to prove the evil, so They can't imagine like America's not in Revelation. It has to be. It's such a consequential country. We've got to be in there somewhere and they're going to try to force America into the text. That's not how we should read the Bible. Now for the sake of argument, let's just say America isn't the text. Okay, let's find it. Let's read the text and find it from the text. If it's there, we'll find it. Let's not force it into the text. Let's not have these weird connections that well it has to mean this, otherwise it America's not in revelation. Okay, well maybe America specifically isn't in revelation. You know, I mean forbid humans is Just outside of America. The Eagles were the uh were a symbol for the Nazis too in Germany, right? Right sideway, yeah. Oh, that's what you said? Yeah. Well yeah, 'cause I mean it's a long standing German thing. The right saddler just got redesigned. over the eight minutes. Oh that's the official word for it. Yes. Oh. I need you learned something new dear. Bike saddler. Yeah. Rike Saddler? Bike Saddler, like third break. The second Reich had it. It's kinda fun to say. The First Reich had the two headed eagle. Nerd. Later on when we're all done, we're just gonna say, like Sadland. Actually we're not. We'll make it a game. You speak German now. Well if nobody has anything else that they want to add that they you know think the group would benefit from or somebody online would benefit from. I was going to do this after. We'll do it on the stream and then we'll shut down the stream. Who who can remember what the five words are that we here at this particular congregation use to help us remember how to share the gospel. Who can remember the five words? Creation. Fall, redemption, sanctification, glorification Yeah, that'll work. Sanctification is the is uh kind of the same idea. The word I'd usually use is restoration, but sanctification Uh I I she I go with restor no no I think it's the same kind of idea, but I go with I go with restoration because restoration has a broader application than just sanctification does. Thank you. So sanctification is part of our restoration. But I think restoration also is about restoration of relationship, not just rest restoration of obedience and ourselves and that sort of thing. But okay, so pick pick one. Pick one? Yeah, one of those five. Glorification. Alright. Who would like to take a stab at sharing the gospel starting with glorification? Come on, Ray, you could do it. Yeah, I mean yeah, I'm sure I can do it. Well it was like a hit, like, oh I'm volunteering you All right, who else wants to go? I saw what you did there. I mean I can try. Any go any form. in the middle of looking up some of the verses from anyway. Um Hi Daddy. Okay. Good job. Uh um Uh it's a glorification, right? Uh so I guess the way I think of that then is that I mean that's kind of our whole purpose. That's just why we were created in the first place. That's why man was created was to be in relationship and glorify God. Um so that's that's the end goal. Um and we will eventually get back there, but unfortunately after creation we kind of screwed up and well literally messed up the world with a sin. Um which led to Christ needing to come and And pay for those sins so that we don't have to therefore bringing us back into relationship with God and So that we can inherit the kingdom of God and go back to glorifying him. There I made a circle. Yeah. That was that was wonderful. And in today's political context we have an opportunity uh occasion to start there because so many that are on the left end of the political spectrum they've got these faulty ideas about a utopia And what their purpose is. And and their utopia is you will own nothing and you'll be happy. But our utopia is better because we will own everything and be happy. Because we are co-heirs with Christ and Christ owns everything, and so we will own everything with Him. Isn't that better than owning nothing and being happy? Isn't it better to own everything and be happy? Yeah, it could be green. You don't have to pick. You can choose. So anyway, so that could be a way to enter into the conversation by starting with glorification. You know, we're like use the example of those beer commercials. It just isn't any better than this. Oh actually it does get so much better than this. We're gonna have glorification. We're gonna be g in glory with Christ forever So the web opportunities is start there and like you perfectly do it, you circle around and and you cover all five and you've done a full presentation. I like the glorification one too because a lot of I guess a lot of information. A lot of people are just like, Well what's why is this worth anything? The world sucks right now and What's the point? W why am I even here? What's my purpose? Right, exactly. Like what is especially if you know The years keep going, the years have been going for long before I was born, you know. I'm just a small section of time. What does it matter? Wow. Ha ha you see. Right. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. So anyway, I would encourage you to practice at home. Creation, fall, redemption, restoration, glorification, those are the five. Pick one and try to go in a circle. Through them all. Cycle through them in your head. Pick one to start with and then cycle through. And uh you'll get better at it, get more comfortable and I gotta say, uh have that feel compared to like the first time I put you on the spot Um well for one I got a lie. I don't think you saw my first few attempts. It was And it's because it's on camera. Well first of all, I mean y you you were way more confident, your body language was way better and you actually volunteered. I didn't kind of like I got that. I own it See, so we can we can get better at this. See, I had something in mind for it when you said it and I was like if I don't do this next week it's gonna start with something that I don't know as well It's like raising your hand for the question in class, you know really, really well so the next time teachers can call on you. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway. Well Thank you for uh joining us online. You can find all of our stuff archived at sermonaudio. com and odyssey. com. You can link to that to the sermons uh and all of our social media and our blog and all that sort of stuff um at our website household the faith in christ household the faith in christ dot com House of the Faith in Christ in town. Got that com Till next to week around six o'clock. God bless.