Not gonna stay put the entire time anyway. Okay, we're rolling it looks like. Welcome to the streaming audience to the uh weekly gathering at the Household of Faith in Christ. We're going to have a a lower key version of what we typically do. I I mentioned this on occasion on the stream. If you are without a church and you're within driving distance of Frederick, reach out to me. And we'll see if we're fit. Had somebody reach out to me actually this past week who was interested in checking out our church, but wanted to make sure that we didn't uh believe that the Bible was fully sufficient. Wait, what? Because what did they want us to ask? They they want well you know, they they just uh they don't want to worship the Bible. The Bible's not sufficient. Um so good luck with that with us. Uh the Bible is clearly fully sufficient. It's it's the word of God for crying out loud. So God doesn't make mistakes and he knows how to instruct his people and uh and help us to make our way. And because it's inspired, it's you know so It's it's flawless. It's uh has no errors and uh as I say every single week it's fully sufficient for as a rule and guide for our faith and life practice. So anyway, this wasn't a good fit for that person. So But if you want a church that's all about the Bible and what God's Word actually says, then we might be a fit for you. Um One of the things that we've been doing in in recent weeks and months is we've been uh sharpening our skills at sharing the gospel, articulating the gospel and the The way we kind of articulate it here in House of the Faith in Christ is there's there's a five-fold aspect to it. Who can remember or or hopefully all of us remember, but who wants to give voice to what those five are this week? Go Kelly. No Look at you. Go Kelly. Creation, fall, redemption, restoration, and glorification. That's right, creation fall, yeah. The the the nuts and bolts that most people think of when they think of the gospel. Um but I've I've felt convicted that we need to add the the the growth aspect, the restoration aspect and then keep the final goal uh in view in glorification. So creation, fall, redemption, restoration, glorification. So um what did we do last time? We started with glorification. And it is now So who wants to just pick one other than glorification to start with and share the gospel from one of those five as the beginning point? Let's pick a beginning point. Let's do that first. You the person who picked the beginning point, now I have to do I don't think. Now I have to do the Do you not want to do it? I'm surprised you wouldn't want to do it Uh you can start from restoration then. I volunteer restoration. I was thinking about picking that one because that one seemed like the hardest. That's why I chose it. I'll go. You want to do rest I'll do restoration? Well, no, I certainly don't want to take it Dean has done it more recently than you, so I'm saying it's not true. True. I live with him. So I do it a lot. Oh she's spinning up Angela. So who's going? Okay. Restorations. So you know it might be a cliche, but I am indeed a changed person. Like I am not the way I used to be, and that is because I'm right with God and that guides everything that I believe and do now. So what you see in me now is You're seeing God work in my life right now and each day, you know, I'm hopefully on the way to becoming a better person than the previous day. Kind of like what we anticipate out of a stock market chart. So but you know, it wasn't always like that. I'm j I'm trying to fulfill what God's plan for humanity was. And if we go back to early on, you know We were supposed to be fruitful, we were supposed to multiply, we were supposed to have dominion over creation and then we did not do that. We rebelled against God 'cause we thought we could be like God. We thought we could be better than God. And that damaged our relationship with God, that was rebellion against God. Yet because of God's love for us, he sent his only He sent his begotten Son, Jesus Christ, to die on the cross for us in our place because we needed someone to live a perfect life and die as punishment for our sins in order for us to receive a gl in order for us to um be reconciled with God. And then f you know, everyone's going to be resurrected. There will be a resurrection of the living and the dead and our resurrection, because Jesus is the resurrection and life, we will be resurrected with the living. At the end of the age. So Yeah, I haven't been oh I guess that's it. Glorification. Oh I did glorification. I was just cheering, sorry. I was cheering, not too much. So is that as hard as you imagine? Yeah. The reason I I'd like this to start in different places is because you have different entry points in conversation. So somebody might actually say something like, Boy, you know, Ray, there's I've noticed there's something about you. There's you know there's been real growth and change and you know, like what's going on? Are you eating a better diet or you're working out and you change jobs or whatever? And you can say, Oh, you know It's all part of the process of having a restored relationship with God and I'm I'm working, I'm getting better. I'm not as good as I'm gonna be. You know, certainly when Christ returns I enter in glory with him, I'm gonna be, you know fully the person I'm aiming to be and God intended me to be. But anyway that could be and then you circle through. So that could be a natural opportunity for bringing it up. Otherwise if we didn't have The restoration piece is somebody say, Wow, you're you're really changing. There's something going on in your life. You almost have to force it into s another category if you don't have that fifth category there You almost have to go into back stepping into, well, you you should have known me when I was, you know, you almost have to go to step two because you don't have step four available to you. So anyway, I I've just developed this, like I said, it's kind of my I'm not sure if it's the absolute best necessarily as I do it, but I'm telling you since I've recognized uh this cycle of five it has made sharing the gospel so much more natural and easy. It c I mean if you talk to somebody for ten minutes you will have an opportunity. One of these five will somehow offer itself. If you're listening for it, you're listening for the cues. And somebody will say something along one of the five and it'll give you your in. Right. It's interesting you should say that because, you know, or whatever. Yeah. And with restoration I feel like the easiest place to start off with is what you're doing in your current I think that is your you know, if you're like in some sort of activism or doing some sort of ministry Anyway, so good job. Let's uh I'm gonna share a couple of short passages from uh From the Bible, the uh the fully sufficient word of God. And then we're gonna have a little bit of prayer and then we're gonna do kind of a more of a devotional style thing uh today. Um I've got a variety of reasons for that. Nobody cares later. I'll tell you why we're doing things a little bit different than our norm this week. So in Psalm twenty-two, verses twenty-seven and twenty-eight, it says, All the ends of the earth remember And turn to the Lord. And all the families of the nations bow down before him. For the dominion belongs to the Lord, and he rules over the nations. So that's in the Old Testament and the New Testament in Ephesians chapter 6, verses 23 and 24, it says, peace to you, brothers and sisters, and love with faith from God the Father. And the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with an undying love. So we have there kind of a combination there. It's a A good word from the Lord, so kind of a benediction, and uh also a kind of a call to worship a classic text for that as well, because we are here in worship. And I want to remind us that we're going to do something that's kind of devotional style today, but it's a devotional in the spirit of worship. So we're here gathered together as a people of God, worshiping God, edifying, building up one another. Uh and so we're going to w work through different passages. I've got a list of of things we can do and we'll see how long it goes. So we're gonna read Small little chunks. We're gonna pray in just a second, but I want to get everybody who's has a Bible, if you want to get ready, we're gonna be going to John chapter six here. uh relatively shortly. So and those who are comfortable. The Gospel of John. Yeah. And those who are comfortable reading aloud will be taking some turns reading aloud and and then commenting on. Before we get into all of that though Uh why don't we uh have a time of prayer and we're gonna do more popcorn style prayer so there's no pressure in this. People who aren't comfortable praying aloud. You know, this isn't a test to see you know how how uncomfortable we can make you. So you can pray silently, although over time uh I would encourage anybody who's hearing me to know that there's a real blessing, not just to the person who's praying, but to those who hear the prayers, to get to a place where you can pray out loud. So If it's not today, you know, the day will come when you will join the chorus of those who pray aloud, but it doesn't have to be today. So since you almost uh s did the uh sharing of the gospel, how about you open us in prayer? After Gina prays, anybody else who feels led to want to pray aloud, pray in turn. And after a period of time when it seems like everybody who's wanted to pipe up has, I'll close us and pray and then we'll get into our look at John 6. Lord, you are amazing God. All glory goes to you for you are worthy. We thank you for counting us as worthy because of the sacrifice of your Son Jesus Christ. We are in awe of everything that you've accomplished and are accomplishing So you knew the end from the beginning. It does not look like you are in control right now. But we know better as followers of you that the world is not spinning out of control. It is actually playing out exactly how you intended. For you are omnipresent, omniscient, and king, and you are on the throne. And we thank you and we praise you for that It is definitely um concerning being an expecting grandparent having children in this world. And I ask that Lord you would please knit that baby together in our daughter's womb and that She would bring her healthy baby. I pray that you would keep Danny healthy as well. And I pray that you would keep Annika and Nadia healthy and pray that you would train them up in the way that they should go. Pray that they would grow to love you, honor you, bring you glory. Pray that they would know you, know who you are, and receive you. Pray that you would give them everlasting life Lord, I pray for each one of us here that we would know you, that we would know the plans that you have for us, that we would walk in them confidently, boldly, but humbly. We ask that you bless our time together of fellowship and worship, and that you will be glorified. It's in your name, Amen. Almighty God, we turn to you in heaven, knowing that you are also right here with us. You have lifted us from the depth of our depravity and you have filled us with your Holy Spirit. You've removed from us our heart of stone, turning it into a heart of flesh. And now you dwell within these new hearts, guiding our steps to rest them firm and strong rock rather than run. The slimy mud that would otherwise have us mire in the pit of our own making. Your Spirit fills our mouths with songs of praise for you, God. We pray that As we live these new Holy Spirit-filled lives, that the eyes of a watching world will take note, and that the lost people of the nations will put their trust in your Son for their salvation. All who put their trust in you are blessed, all who turn aside the false idols of our culture and the ways of the proud, all who declare by the power and illumination of your spirit. The truth that your son offered himself up for the sins of the world. All who speak the truth and recount the stories of your creation, your wisdom, your provision, all of these Are your elect, chosen from before the foundation of the earth to bring glory to you, Father, by the power and guidance of the Holy Spirit? You do not desire sacrifices from us because the once-for-all sacrifice has been made, that of the perfect life lived and snuffed out, the perfect sacrifice of Jesus Christ. All the wondrous things Jesus accomplished. He said his followers would do even more. And we would accomplish it by the Holy Spirit sent to work in and through us. As we gather here in assembly to proclaim your word and glorify your name, we ask you to help us to feel and acknowledge the presence of your spirit among us. You would keep us faithful and true while we worship you. We are too distracted and distractable to do this on our own, Lord, until we cry out to you, seeking your mercy. Fill our hearts with your love. Ease our minds and the concerns caused by troubles that surround us in our lives. Guide our wills to the place of confidence in you that gives us peace. You know all there is to know about us. You know the number of hairs on each of our heads. You know the frailty of our faith in most situations, and you know we need encouragement as we battle our feelings of shame and confusion. So God, please fill us with your Holy Spirit afresh as we continually are being filled by Him. There are many who would like to see us cave into the pressures of the world. the temptations of our own sinful flesh. But we will never turn back from you. You have promised that this is so, that you never lose one who is truly yours. And so we rejoice and are glad. We have the gift of salvation, and we know this is so because the Holy Spirit has opened our eyes to the truth. And the same spirit leads our praise to you now, saying, The Lord be exalted. We are poor and needy. That you think of us. You are our helper and our deliverer. We sing your praises, Lord. Father, Son, Holy Spirit, we sing your praises. In your name, in your will, we pray. Amen. Okay, so I'm not sure if Angel's gonna be able to get in here, but um let's go to John chapter six and we'll we'll we'll start at the very beginning of the chapter. And uh well look let's start by looking at the first fifteen verses. Somebody wanna read aloud the first fifteen verses of chapter six. I can read about Oh I was gonna I was I thought you were gonna leave further. Um after this Jesus went away to the other side of the Galilee Which is the Sea of Tiberias. And the large crowd was following him because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick. Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand. Lifting up his eyes then, and seeing that a large crowd was coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these people Philip answered him two hundred denaria dinaria worth worth of bread would not One of the disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a boy here who has five barley little And two fish. But what are they for so many? Jesus said, Have the people sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down. Jesus then took the loaves, and when he gave when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those who were seated. So also the fish, as much as they wanted. And when they had eaten their fill, he told the disciples, Gather up the leftover fragments, that nothing may be lost. So they gathered them up and filled twelve and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the Five barley loaves left by those who had eaten. When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, This is indeed the prophet who has come into the world who is to come into the world. Perceiving then that that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus threw again to the mountain on his side. So this is a f famous passage in the Bible they're talking about Jesus feeding five thousand people. Are those your thoughts on the passage? Thank you. Maria. B. No, you're can you say please? There you go. So we want to When we're reading scripture, be paying attention to what the text is actually telling us. Help us to understand who Jesus is. our need for him, how he fulfills that need, how it all fits in within his plan. So when we look at this passage, these first fifteen verses of John chapter six, the famous story about John feeding the five thousand. What are some things that we can know to be true about what the Bible tells us about us and our relationship with Jesus through this passage? He provides. He's our provider. He's clearly supernatural. So he's he's pardon me. He is fully man but fully God. Right. We can see that from this passage. We can see certain parts of the uh the gospel presentation. in this if we're if we're thinking about it right. I mean he's supernatural. He he can provide these things because he's creator. So he's got control. So that ties into he's he can create things. He does create things Uh we have great need. We're hungry. We have challenges and physical ailments and whatever in this broken down ramshackle world that we live in because of our sin. And that need is met in craw in in Christ. And it's not just Christ at the cross. That's something that we so often focus on. It's not just that Christ died, it's that he lived. Amen. And he lived the perfect life that we are unable have have proven over and over again to be unable to live. So it's not it's not just that I mean Otherwise, he could have uh arrived in Mary's Valley and been aborted and paid the sacrifice. But he didn't. He lived a life for you know 30-ish some odd years or whatever to demonstrate uh obedience and to fulfill the law. And so it's not just that Christ died, it's that he lived. And not just that he lived, but he lived the perfect life. So we can see that uh in here as well. Um what about some practical, tangible kinds of applications to our situation in the world these days? How does it connect with concerns we have or situations we're facing? Can you repeat the question? Yeah, we we're we're still uh going off with a passage you read, so the fifteen verses from first fifteen verses from John Chapter 6 and Jesus feeding the 5,000. We were talking about how this helps us to see Jesus and our need for him and it actually helps point us to the gospel. And now I was looking for like a practical application of how this how the Bible, the word could be speaking into our lives now. So it's relevant to us now. Certainly the gospel is relevant at all times. But in addition to that, you know, there's there's uh there's a cherry on top of the icing oftentimes. And so what what what's the cherry on top application? How can we see the truth of this in our life now? Mm. Well, if we look at this is the five thousand being fed, they have a this pressing need and And then what they have to fulfill that need is woefully inadequate. The five uh and the two fish and the five loaves or whatever. That is yeah, that's woefully inadequate to fulfill the need. And then Jesus not only supplies that need uh and satisfies the need as well. Didn't they have leftover? Yeah. An application I see is that um when there is Jesus doesn't need much to work with for us to if he just asks us to give what we can and he can take our little and do a lot with it. Well we shouldn't underestimate how much much like he can work through one person as well. It's not like, oh, everyone anyone who has a cracker in their pocket, I'll turn it into enough for you to eat, like one person. had something. And a boy at the Yeah, and in in a young boy. You know, it took what one person had and used that one person that what what he brought to the table to to feed five thousand men. So Obedience is another application, I see. Yeah, how so? Well, I mean He says do this and they do. In their heads probably go You finally lost him there. They were obedient and obedience is better than sacrifice. We know that from the Word. Yeah, and so and and there's so much this is why you know you could spend days and days studying just one particular passage of scripture and and be varying it out. So we're not gonna do that here today, but just some other little touch points. Because yeah, I I noticed the same thing. But it's not merely a direct obedience to Jesus, but Jesus works through messengers because Jesus said, have the people sit down. So he didn't tell, hey everybody sit down, and they listened to him. He told his disciples, his messengers, have everybody sit down, and the messengers went and relayed And so there's authority in his word even when it's relayed by godly sanctioned messengers. And so that we can we can see that here. We can see um There's almost this effort, there's a phrase I like to use, overrealized eschatology. It's the idea of taking, we talk about the five-fold gospel, we take the glory Which is to come when Christ returns, we try to pull it into now. We try to make it happen now. And that's what we see in verse 15. The people were expecting a deliverer to be a military conqueror And they wanted it to happen now. And Jesus, seeing that they intended to come and make him king by force, intending to execute an over-realized eschatology, if you will, to make what is a future promise and make it fully present uh outside of God's timing and his plan. That's not what we're called to do. Uh so we need to trust God's timing, His plan. He knows better than we do. Uh so and there's there's more, but those are uh And the other thing I I noticed, sometimes the means are s are surprising. It's just one little word. But the first three w uh the first three or four words in verse nine, at least in the NIV, it's uh here is a boy. Now it goes on to say he has a bunch of uh not a bunch, but he's got some some uh bread and fish. But we've got this huge problem. There's this a massive crowd, they're hungry, they need some food, they're gonna get they're gonna get hangry if we're not careful. What are we gonna do? And so he says, I know, here's a boy. Right? Oh, did you point that part out already? That seems very non-secular or I apologize. I might have been distracted by some of the uh commotions going on at the time. I apologize. No no disrespect intended. So um there are people that we know that are like they see themselves maybe as that boy. Like somebody's gotta do something in the world. Who's gonna do it? Well maybe you're that boy. You know, maybe you're the one that should share the gospel with your next door neighbor. Maybe you're the one that should run for office. You know, that should change the political climate. Maybe you're someone that should get trained up to do ministry. Maybe you're the the person that should uh sew into the next generation or go and pray with the elderly at the uh nursing home. Maybe you're the one that should be that boy. Oh, I couldn't do it. Maybe you're a boy who's got a couple of fish and a little bit of bread, you know, and God can use it. All right, let's uh jump ahead, same uh chapter, but let's jump ahead to verse 25. And somebody want to read, let's see, uh do 25 through 40 Oh chapter six. Yeah, the days are gonna come when you won't be able to read that Bible by the way. See, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you get here? Jesus answered them and said, Truly, truly, I will say to you, keep You seek me not because you saw signs, but because you ate the loaves and were filled. Do not work for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you, for on him the Father, God, has set his seal. Therefore They say to him, What shall we do, so that we may work the works of God? Jesus answered them and said to them, This is the work of God, that you believe in him, whom he has sent. So they said to him, What then do you do for a sign, so that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written, he gave them bread out of heaven to eat. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, it is not Moses who has given you the bread out of the heavens, but it is my Father who gives it to you gives you the true bread out of heaven For the bread of God is that which comes down out of heaven and gives life to the world. Then they said to him, Lord, always give us this bread. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will not hunger, and he who believes in me will never thirst. But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me And the one who comes to me I will certainly not cast out, for I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. This is the will of him who sent me, that all that has that he has given me, I lose nothing but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who beholds the Son and believes in him will have eternal life. And I myself will raise him up on the last day. Okay. Initial uh reaction to that. Same kinds of questions. How are we? seeing who Jesus is, what he does for us, our need for him here. The gospel is here in all these pages of scripture. So how where do we see you know some touchstones for the gospel here? Well, we all hunger and thirst. And we try and fill and fill, and the only thing that satisfies is Christ. And so he points that out. He's like, Hey look, you're seeking me but not because of signs. It's because you were filled. You finally are understanding what I've been saying the whole time. I am the bread of life. And you finally get it. And And you've you've now taken and eaten and you feel satisfied. You don't have to search anymore. You found what your soul has been thirsting for. That's what I see. I mean I mean I I kinda saw like the disciples they were I guess trying to repeat history. Because they thought that Jesus was, you know, bringing down the manna and they could just subsist off of that. And they were missing the larger picture. That Jesus is the one who brings the bread. Or you know God the Father brings the bread. And they were missing the picture because they were too focused on the temporal matter And they thought that they were just witnessing the ret the new Moses and bringing manna down from heaven. Well they were missing the point. I feel like they had an aha moment. I mean I should hope at the end of this they had Yeah, well they they should have and we now can look back and see how it's it's there for the taking, it's there to be seen, but we know that they didn't actually have In fact, it's possible some of these people some of these people were the ones cr shouting, Crucify him. Because another way to think about this is, you know, it's one of the challenges um that we have in a culture like our own where Uh people have most of their needs met. You know, people that uh can only afford one pair of hundred and twenty dollar sneakers are considered poor, you know. Um you know, we've we've we've got an abundance of material wealth. Um it's really, really difficult to go hungry in this country, for example. You can if you want to. But it's really hard to go hungry in this country because you can find food and you can find people and organizations and You can find jobs and w you know, work and buy your food. It's I'm not saying that there's not an issue with poverty and some starvation, but it really, I mean, it's hard. And so you look at a place like where we are right now in in Frederick You know, uh the m median household income is probably about eighty five thousand dollars in in Frederick County, something like that, and a lot of job security and it's not just eighty five thousand dollars where a lot of those people have great perks and benefits. And they've got government jobs and that sort of thing and so they don't have so their bellies are full. And so they're satisfied. Like, oh God gave me my belly full, I'm good. Missing the point that it's about the eternal glory That fifth step in the sharing of the gospel, right? That's what it's all about. And those that are believing in him They will have that and it's a lock rock solid guarantee. Christ doesn't lose any that the Father gives him. Um But you know, what must we do? Right? What are the what are the works that God requires? Work of God is this, believe in the one he has sent. If you want to call that a work, right? I mean um and actually that is a It is a work because um sometimes believing God even if you even after you have believed in Him, sometimes believing effort and um that's actually like one of my that's my kind of my people have have a life scripture. That's really That's my life scripture. Just believe. Yeah, it's it's the bottom line of everything else we can do for God is to just believe him. Um the failure of our first parents was that they didn't they failed to stop believing him and they believed a different voice. Mm-hmm. And that that tiny it was such a tiny m it seemed like such a tiny mistake at the time. Yes, we are living the consequences how bad That one misstep um caused humanity to stray away from God because uh there are people that are doing things that If they you know, if they believed God, if they believed in the Bible, they definitely would not be doing those things. They didn't take him at his word. Yeah. And it's interesting the way it's phrased. At le again, I'm I'm reading off of the NIV, so the turn of phrase might be a little bit different, but the NIV. Um I mean what what what must we do? And Jesus answered, the work of God is this. It's interesting because faith is a gift from God. And yes, we need to work out our own our own sanctification, work out our own faith. You know, we need to finish the race. There's a there we're we're involved actively, but even in the way that that said, you know It's it's comes from God. We're trusting in what He has done, and that's part of what we're believing in. And we're believing in the faith that He's given us kind of thing. We're not really believing in the faith, we're believing in Christ, but um we can believe we can have the assurance that that faith won't be shaken, ult ultimately, permanently, forever shaken, for those that are his, because of what it says in the latter part few last few verses that we read. Verse thirty nine, uh this is the will of him who sent me that I shall lose none of those he's given me, but shall raise them up at the last day. I think also that, you know, choosing to believe you know the the whole you This is the work thing, like choosing to believe. Um Is that my brain stopped working? Um Um you know the the it's not all in vain as well, you know, because choosing to like you know uh believe the women one that he sent, you know. So that I mean not just believing in Christ, but believing everything that Christ said. You know, once you start following that path, you're believing a lot of things. You're believing so many things that go against what every society on earth tells you. You know, that goes against the, you know, look out for number one or Um you know, y you're believing in all of these things that the world would say is you know counterintuitive. It is this isn't um Um and so not only are are we believing that this is the way to go, but we're believing that it's not futile in the end. It it it's like this there is a purpose for this. We're not just going against the world for the sake of it. We're we're doing the work of God. We're listening to the one He sent and believing that it will work out what we do with those who believe in him. And that's work. It's not going against the world isn't exactly, you know, a walk in the park. Especially lately. Yeah. Well before we read the next section, I'll re I'll read the next part. Uh take my turn. Um but I feel like in uh verses like uh like twenty-six, twenty-seven. That uh we kinda have something that's at least obliquely uh speaking against prosperity gospel. It's not about the material thing. It's not about the promise of material, you know, f food in your belly necessarily. It's about eternal bread of life. It's about the glory that awaits kind of thing. Sometimes that's the great delayed gratification. You know, not everybody who's a Christian is going to be driving a Rolls-Royce around town. Um so and speaking of the eternal bread, I mean uh verse 35 is a Yeah, all the verses are important, but it's a particularly noteworthy important verse. It's one of the famous I am statements in the Gospel of John. Jesus says, I am the bread of life It's not by accident that he says that. He is the the uh the ego ami, he is the uh he is the uh the Yahweh is what he's saying there. So I'm gonna pick up where we've dropped left off on verse 40, I'm gonna pick up with verse 41 and read through to verse 59. At this the Jews began to grumble about him because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph? whose father and mother we know? How can he now say, I came down from heaven? Stop grumbling among yourselves, Jesus answered. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up at the last day. It is written in the prophets, they will all be taught by God. Everyone who listens to the Father and learns from him comes to me. No one has seen the Father except the one who is from God. Only he has seen the Father. I tell you the truth, he who believes has everlasting life. I am the bread of life. Your forefathers ate the manna in the desert, yet they died. But here is the bread that comes down from heaven, which a man may eat and not die. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. This bread is my flesh, which I uh will give for the life of the world. Then the Jews began to argue sharply among themselves, how can this man give us his flesh to eat? Jesus said to them, I tell you the truth, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. For my flesh is real food, and my blood is real drink. Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood remains in me, and I in him. Just as the Living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so the one who feeds on me will live because of me. This is the bread that came down from heaven. Your forefathers ate manna and died But he who feeds on the bread will live, on this bread will live forever. He said this while teaching in the synagogue at Capernum. So What do you mean? You wanna come sit down, Baba? Sunday we go away. Mm-hmm. Thank you. No Okay. All right. Yeah, they're looking it sounds like the there's that the people then looked up to the generation that got led out of Egypt. But Jesus is kind of I don't want to say can well he's kind of condemning that generation like they died. And you know, since he's speaking in a spiritual context He's saying they got the physical needs, but spiritually they were dead, which is why they had to be basically called from the herd for the new generation to go into the promised land. So, you know, he's kinda con there's kind of like a condemning in that generation is like you want to be like them rather than like have the actual bread of life. And then there's like a lot of communion stuff in there as well. Oh yeah. There's a lot of communion stuff in there. I wonder uh the people uh knew that at the time where if they were just like it it's Yeah, no well yeah, those are hard sayings and if people didn't understand for us it's pretty obvious because we know what that symbolizes and everything. But for them I can only imagine they're just like Um dude, that was okay. Is there enough to go around? Oh, I think he really weirded out. Well they didn't understand that he was speaking Yes. So w one of the things that I see in this passage every time I read it is um they just had a very elementary, like selection level understanding of things And he even goes on to say further in the fat passage that my words are spirit, that I'm speaking my words are spirit in their life. And they still rejected those the the same even after he explained, I'm speaking to you spiritually. I'm not literally offering you my physical Yeah my physical body. Um but uh yeah It's just um people who who don't have a very deep relationship or have a like a purpose, a shadow relationship with the Lord. They look at they tend to look at things um um superficially and on a on a fleshly level. And they don't they tend to not look at things spiritual. They don't like ask the question like, hey, what is they don't see the spiritual application. They just see the fleshly kind of yeah they they uh not not not a fleshly application they they I don't want to say it that what that way they they say view it in a fleshly way is what I'm saying. No no thinks to ask, you know, like well what do you mean by that? I mean the Catholics do both. It's spiritual and literal. They think it turns into That's true. Well, I mean even even if they think that I mean I mean I I that just may be uh uh a way of saying we we take this physical bread, we're with our faith, we're gonna treat it Some of them actually believe it turned into human flesh. lose on understanding. They at least do understand the spiritual side. Exactly, exactly. They're saying they're they're under they're understanding something spiritual. there's a serious spiritual aspect to this. He's not talking about here go fill your belly. Right. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah, a couple of things that uh are interesting if we think about the whole narrative flow. So we've started with the feeding of the five thousand. And it's I think it's the very the text I think tells us that the very next day when this episode in the latter part of chapter six happened. So he just fed five thousand and they're saying, So where's our manna? And he's like, I just fed five thousand people out of crumbs from a boy's basket, for crying out loud, seriously. But that's not even the point. So he's saying, it says in the going back to verse 35, I am the bread of life. And then he doubles down in verse 41. And by the way, I am, God is. So who's the manna? God is the manna. The eternal, like spiritual, perfect manna? God is. And then in verse forty-one At this the Jews began to grumble about him because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. So they're grumbling about God being the answer. Isn't that so like human beings. I wonder if this is why handouts are a bad idea. He beats five thousand people and they come back the next day. So you gonna do it again? Well no, they're just like but I wonder if they even get it that's that when he's gonna be asking. Yeah, they're not getting it and so because they don't get it, he's like, okay now in verse forty eight he doubles down and says, I am the bread of life. Your forefathers ate man in the desert, yet they died. But here is the bread that comes down from heaven, which a man may eat not die. And again, I am is God And then in verse fifty-one, I am the living bread. God is the living bread. He's like, look, you're looking for manna. I am the manna. And better than the manna, I'm the God who sent the manna. I'm God incarnate. And they do not see it. It's not the messengers this time. You got the real deal. But they heard him correctly that he did claim that he was God. They couldn't receive it though. Right, right. Yeah. But they didn't understand that much. Theoretically they should have been able to s understand the language. They didn't understand what he said after that, but they understood that this was a divine claim. Yeah. And they were but they were rejecting it, so they they they Right. The book of the Gospel of John clearly debunks that on several occasions. But it's like in fact they they got offended they said it's a good idea. Right, exactly. So they should know that one. They they they they they went, they said, Okay, here are the facts that we know. He's a car Carpenter's son, who's from Nazareth. Right, right. Nothing good. And and Nazareth the um the previous day just kinda flew out of their heads. Like he gave them evidences of who he was. And And and they still couldn't receive b they still went back to what they understood in their humanity and they didn't um look at it spiritually and I again everything every mistake that people have made spiritually we make today. The inability to think outside of what we already can see in our little narrow tunnels of understanding and believing. Or how many times has God can't come through for us us is something and then the next time we have a crisis we just fall apart in panic. All the time. Like here's a little bit of pushback on the general point. Could this audience have not have understood that at the time when Jesus was saying? Like the actual thing that we were talking about Language? No, because he would have he would have he would have made sure he in my opinion, he would have said it over and over and over again so they did understand. Because that's who God is Well, the point is they had the Old Testament scriptures. They had the ability to know what the Messiah was actually going to look like. look like but they had they have no an incorrect understanding. They have no excuse for not understanding but they clearly I mean how do we underfind understand I feel like Bill Clinton all of a sudden But however we want to define understand, they didn't understand it in the sense that they were internalizing it and receiving it. They didn't understand it in that regard And I would say that they might not have even fully like it might have gone right over their head possibly because they were so spiritually blind because earlier in the passage, isn't this like the son of Joseph and Mary? Yeah. You know, like wha what's going on here? So they're not they do not have spiritualized to see, and God is the one that opens the eyes and and and and replaces the heart of stone with the heart of flesh so that we can say that you're saying this but they could never accuse him of saying you didn't explain it well enough because Obviously he's got to be a three times. Right. At the end of the day they're disagreeing with it. Exactly. Exactly. Right. It was a hard thing. And it's also not that I don't yeah, I think that Jesus conceptualizes the spiritual versus Uh not spir uh physical extremely well. It's that they disagree. because the answer they they have pre they have a preconceived notion of what the Messiah would have looked like they they did they this this humble man that came from Nazareth who had, you know, these peasants As parents, I I I don't think they could receive it for that reason either. He's from the boondock. And and the the evidence of his his of his deity and that he displayed like literally the the day before just flew out of their head and they said there's got to be a This is this is a prophet, this is someone who works for our king. This can't be our king. I think it's probably where You know, wh where they were coming from. They just couldn't. Sometimes I wonder how much of it and it's probably both. How much of it is that they truly struggled to wrap their head around the fact that it's different That Christ was different from the team they were expecting to come? And how they couldn't bring themselves to accept it. Well I think I think it's all intertwined. of what he would look like. They're emotion, yeah. Right, and what they were taught what the generations before them expected. Mm-hmm. And also the fact that what they expected to come was what they really wanted. And of course they wanted someone to come in and just make everything okay again. We can definitely relate to that nowadays. Uh yeah, especially with how bad the world is. try to wrap the Bible around that rather than that's definitely what they were doing 'cause they had the Daniel countdown. So they had the countdown. They kinda knew the Messiah was coming and this would be the time that it would happen. So you know That does seem to be the reason why Jesus is kinda hesitant at times to use the word Messiah, like in like uh is it Mark ten or whatever? But uh so there is a bit of that because you know, these people have the Daniel countdown, there's a bit of a powder keg with the Roman Empire. And that's what you know, but so they fit the Daniel countdown into their current situation and kind of wrap and you know, make everything a physical need rather than a spiritual one. And I think application currently, um, at least for me personally, there are a lot of times Where I'll be in the Word and I'm trying to seek God for a particular situation that I'm going through, a personal matter or whatever, a work matter or whatever. And I'm trying to fit a scenario in something I'm trying to see a pattern in scripture, but because God is supernatural natural he doesn't only play by he's outside of he doesn't have to do things the same way over and over again. I mean yes there's wisdom and we can lean from things but there are so many times times when God's doing something new there's nothing new in the sun, but you know what I'm saying. And because it's so outside of what I could even think would be possible. But I'm looking for and I'm like, really? Are you sure? Just because scripture is always applicable does not mean that it's always going to play out the way that we're looking for it. Exactly. And and that and that's where you have to believe and yield and trust to God and go, okay, this doesn't make sense. At all. I mean I can remember a season where we had counseled to invest money into some sort of a fun thing and we prayed about it and we were like, Yeah, we're not supposed to do that. We should pay off And we were like and we were told that there's no wisdom in that because you can earn more percent if you did this blah blah blah blah. And we prayed about it, we were like, Yeah, but That's just not how it's supposed to be right now in this season and you know, and and it was it was definitely what we were supposed to be doing. But it was counter what other people would consider to be real. Other people had to follow the same path. Absolutely, that's my point. The patterns are there for guidance and yes they are helpful, but sometimes God says sometimes God says I'm gonna do this instead because he maybe was going to have us do that. And then, you know, who knows what would have happened. But yeah, absolutely. Alright. Um do you have your Bible with you? 'Cause you have baby duty, you don't have it on you, right? No, I I I can I I have the scripture pulled up, though. Gotcha. Let's finish out the chapter. Do you mind, Angela, maybe reading verse sixty through to the end, which is verse seventy one? Okay. Therefore many of his disciples, when they heard this, said, This is a difficult statement. He can listen to it. But Jesus, conscious conscious that the disciples grumbled at this, said to them, Does this cause you to stumble. What then if you see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh Profits nothing. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and are life. But there are some of you who do not believe. Who they were who did not believe, and who it was that would betray him. And he was saying, For this reason I have said to you that no one can come to me As a result of this, many of his disciples withdrew and were not walking So Jesus said to the twelve, You do not want to go away also, do you? Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we Shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. We have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. Jesus answered Then did I myself not choose you the twelve, and yet one of you is the devil? Now he meant Judas, the son of Simon Scariot, for he One of the twelve was going to betray him. So we're talking about how hard the previous saying was about eating his body, drinking his blood. You know, scripture concurs. It's a hard saying. I mean there's that meme that's hard pills to swallow. Yeah, that's what went on right here and a lot of people didn't want to swallow those pills so they just left. And it's kinda like, you know, if a large megachurch priest the gospel a lot how many people would come back the next week. Right. That's kinda what just happened. Here's the antidote, but it tastes better. Five thousand people fed and then twelve remain. That's a pretty small percentage. I think it also another point just came to me. Some there are some things in life, some truths in life that just can't really be understood unless they are looked at some or look at entirely from a spiritual perspective. And that's that's that's this kind of truth. That's because on a natural perspective Yeah. Right. Mm-hmm. I think that's one take takeaway we can get from this. There are some truths that are so deep, that's the better way to put it, mm-hmm, so deep, they really can only be That's why you have to be born again. You cannot understand it without the mind of Christ. How could you possibly? That's why people will say like, oh Christianity's a cult. It's like I mean yeah, if you look at it if if you just take everything as how the words that you would use in daily life. Right. But that's not how they're meant. Yeah, absolutely. You you're you're you're taking uh um you're you're you're taking something something and you're trying to take out like very important ingredients. Like if you were if you were going to to bake a cake and you're like and and you just You don't have certain ingredients, it's not gonna come out as cake. It's probably gonna be pretty gross. So they were seeing it as this gross thing. And so to reemphasize what Jesus was saying and tripling down on before, like you need to see this spiritually. He's like, you're not y y you're grumbling about this idea of eating my my my uh flesh and drinking my blood because you're not seeing it spiritually. Well you know, what if I were to go back up to where I came from before? Like you He's trying to again help him see, I'm speaking spiritually here. I'm going to ascend back. I I am the man up from heaven incarnate. And I'm going to ascend back. What are you going to do with that if you were if you were to watch that happen? And and so he's He's not holding their hand and walking them through the logic of it. He just keeps hitting them with hard truth after hard truth and they're like I just can't be pelted by the truth anymore and they start to leave. And that is kind of where we are in the world. I think Ray touched on this, the world we're in now where people are You know, if you preach the hard truth and pelt people with the truth, yeah, how many how many will be left standing in your typical mega church Like let's use one of the more famous mega churches, you know, Lakewood Church in Houston, which is Joel Osteen's church. There's like forty thousand people supposedly in that church. Uh if he actually preached the gospel, the hard truth, and pelted people with the truth, how many of those four of those forty thousand would still be there? Maybe none. Because they don't get the gospel as part of their diet if that church should be. personality. We're looking at H uh Hillsong. Clearly not our church. Uh her personalities are way too grating for that. But uh you look at like Hillsong it's like Brian Houston's gone and just as I predicted would happen. The entire organization is collapsing. Because they've relied on one personality to keep it together under all the other improprieties that were going on, that one personality could kinda hold it together. And that's the danger of the CEO CEO model when the CEO is is a mere human who is sinful. Because we kinda have a CEO model with God. God's in control. But Jesus doesn't fail. So he's not gonna fall like Brian Houston. or CJ Mahaney or Mark Driscoll or fill in the blank of famous pastors who have fallen over the last ten years. Um So Jesus does not fail. In fact he he like triples and quadruples down on that in this passage um as well. But let's talk before we wrap this up, the last couple of verses You know, about uh Judas. Jesus doesn't just stop done telling us, you know, doesn't lose one that the Father has given him. But he loses Judas. So how do we process and understand that? Judas was a fake disciple. So but I I this is something that that I had conversations with people about, not necessarily Judas in specific, but the Whether or not you can be saved and then rejected later on. Go like, you know You can you can believe, accept Christ into your heart, and then say, never mind, get out. Um because Um you know, I I've met people who are like, no, once you're saved, you're saved, no matter how bad off you get. And other people are like, Well, that means you were never saved. Um And I find it interesting. Oh, what w where was I reading in yesterday in it was in the New Testament towards the end. Um John Peter. Yeah, yeah, somewhere around there. Um where it was talking about, you know How bad it is to be someone who understands the message of Christ and then rejects it. Yeah. It is just so I'm not sure is it that Christ Like you know, he doesn't lose one that God has given him. Is there then a difference between Accepting Christ and being given to Christ. 'Cause if you if you can you know, accept space and be saved you know Do you then it's actually it's not forced on. Is it then also our choice to continue to receive Or to say, no, just kidding, I cancel my subscription. The Lord ultimately would have to answer because there's so many scriptures on both sides of the aisle that can be used as proof ships. Fleeting Judas and Judas. Did I kinda rather the you have accent like But Jesus was able to come to him because he was on earth. So theoretically everyone all those five thousand came to Jesus. Maybe not a spiritual sense. Well the scripture says Jesus chose Jesus. He chose Jesus for the purpose to make to make him a traitor. Well, no, he didn't chose to make it a traitor. Judas chose to be a traitor and he knew that Judith was gonna be a traitor. But he thought he he chose And I think the reason why one reason why baby girl I think one reason why he chose Judith probably is to demonstrate that he goes he goes for the person That he gives you every chance. And they um go along for the ride and they play the game only for their own own ends. And I think what Judas did one one of the things Judas did was he the the scriptures say he was a thief. And I think one of you know you have people that join the church and they get these positions because, you know, they they they want it's it's a get rich quick scheme for them. They're getting something out of it. You know, but does God reject them? No, God accepts them and gives them a chance to repent and and they don't they don't truly repent. They just c they just go along and they play they they play uh uh games you know there there's another scripture that says there's um it it's in one of the epistles where Paul says, you know, there there are people who um they think that the gospel is a means for gain. You know, it's they think it's a means for their personal gain. It's a way to to give rich for them. And I think for I think that was j part of Judas' problem. You know, it was a means for gay. Now but Judas all along the time that they that Jesus was doing his ministry, he saw all the miracles, he saw people being raised from the death He saw everything he needed to see to realize that Jesus was the Messiah and the true blue deal, and he still was too greedy and the in the long run to to repent from his sin and receive Jesus genuinely. And I just think that he's an example of that kind of a person that um Looks like it's so convincingly a Christian it takes God himself to point out that this person is a fake because it took Jesus to point out that Judas I mean he was theoretically their treasurer, so he had some sort of leadership commit or leadership position on their committee or whatever. And and they didn't know he was fake until the the Last Supper when they were saying And he said, Somebody one of you is going to betray me. And they were like, Is it me? Is it me? Is it me? Who is it, Lord? And and Jesus had to point out himself who it was because they didn't he was that convincing. And I just think one of the reasons why the Lord chose him was to show a that's that's the kind of a person that joins the church. And they look so convincing, but but they have they they're doing it for self Yeah, he did have a role to play. I mean I'm not sure if you're not sure. And I think it w he was chosen for that role because he Right. I agree with you on that. Yeah, I'm I'm not I'm not saying that that that but what I his heart was hardened for this role. He was grieved He was gre uh no, I don't think God hardened his heart for this role. I think he came as a person, as a so-called genuine seeker. The Lord received him anyway. He came as a seeker as as as as was seeking out out the Messiah, was given every opportun Now the the Lord knew the end from the beginning. Well but no none of the Jesus chose the disciples. He went out and called them to join him. That's what I'm saying. Judas is I uh we don't have an account of how Judas came to be one of the twelves but presumably if we go off the others, the ones that we do have an account of Jesus called them out. Exactly. He drafted them, not the other way around. Exactly. And I uh yeah, I we we're in agreement on that. What I'm saying is I think Judas along away was given every opportunity to repent. Jesus knew he never would, and that's why Jesus chose him to to um uh as one of the one as one of the disciples, Jesus knew he was gonna have to lay lay down his life and it was some kind of mechanism it was gonna have to happen and and he chose this person I think not only for that ultimate reason but also to show that There is a type of person who joins the church and looks like the true deal. Like the true deal. In church history, he is the first false teacher. I or I would I definitely agree with that. But I think that isn't there a prophecy in the Old Testament about Judas? That Jesus would be betrayed by someone closest The the Messiah would be portrayed portrayed by someone close to him? Is there a prophecy? And there would be a serpent that would bite at the human No, the the It has to do with the money and when he killed himself. I believe there are the problems tied to that, right? Okay, okay. Well the there's the the there's a connection to the money and the field. Mm-hmm. Yeah, yeah. So that means there has to be a few years. Steals what's the guy's name drawn a blank? Uh Jezebel and Ahab steals the one these Elijah. Oh Nayman. Not not Naaman. By the way, uh so I don't forget the question uh that started this whole conversation. Um A verse we want to at least put into the conversation is 1 John, not the Gospel of John, but 1 John 2, verse 19. It's talking about those who behaved like Judas and they betrayed the church. They left the church. They went out from the church. They might have even become persecutors of the church. I mean, because things were crazy, like they are now. So verse 2, verse 19 of chapter 2 of 1 John, they went out from us, but they did not really belong to us. For if they had belonged to us, they would have remained with us. But their going showed that none of them belonged to us. So, and then he goes on to talk to those who stayed, but you have an anointing from the Holy One, and all of you know the truth I do not write these things because you do not know the truth, but because you do know the truth. So I think it's an important question that those who profess to be Christians need to wrestle with. Because D'Angelo's point there are a lot of people in the church that professing Christians they might go to church, you know, fifty seven weeks a year. I mean they might they may be out just outdoing everybody. Um but they aren't truly committed to following and believing in Jesus. Maybe they like the perks that come with church membership, they like the networking contacts for their business, they like the the sense of goodness they feel in their soul, like, oh I'm a good person. I go to church every week. And those are all nice things too, maybe. I mean that's th but that's not the thing. That's chasing after the manna. That's wanting to have your belly full. And Jesus no no. It's about the spiritual reality. That's what you need to be placing all your chips and betting on that. And those that don't, and well we've seen how many pastors even this past couple of years didn't have enough of a commitment to following and believing in Jesus, that they shut down their churches or they they put extra biblical requirements on people to gather for worship and that sort of thing. So again, chapter uh two, verse 19 of 1 John, I think is is helpful in thinking through uh that kind of a question. And I probably should, just as a real quick aside, because it came up all the Lord's Supper imagery in here in the Roman Catholic view. Not that anybody really matters all that much, but the Roman Catholic view is that when they do the Mass The elements, the bread and the wine, actually become the body and blood of Jesus Christ. We just can't see it with our senses. So it's like an optical illusion almost. So it actually is the body so they have a high reverence for the elements because they're actually handling the body of Christ. Um that's something that Protestants have rejected. I would count myself among those who reject that view. The Lutheran view is that it's kind of a both and It's it's bread and wine and also body and blood. Like there's a commingling sort of a thing. The two are are with each other somehow. uh despite what our senses see, but it doesn't transform into merely body and blood, like the Roman Catholic view. It transforms into body and blood while still being bread and wine. That's the Lutheran middle ground view. And then the rest of the Protestants, for the most part, hold one of two views, either the it's purely symbolic or just tokens, remembrances, and there's nothing more to it than that. or the view that I hold, which is it is symbolic, they are tokens, they are representative. And while they're not the literal body and blood of Christ in any physically manifest sort of a way, there is something of a heightened spiritual importance invested in what's happening in the supper. So it's not actually the physical body and blood of Christ that is masquerading in a as something else. But it is the spiritual, if you will, uh presence of Christ in the elements that is there. And I think that that uh gets closest to I mean it's kind of a mystery how it all works, but I think that gets closest to really capturing what's going on. It's not just a memorial token. What you just said actually captures what What Jesus said at the initial one. Right. He said, This is my body. Now he was sitting right there. Was that his body? No, he was sitting right there. Right. So what what he was saying is, if you eat this bread And you take and you drink this wine in remembrance of me, if you do it with faith, it is like you're eating my body and drinking my blood. I think that if we have that attitude, then it to your point, spiritually something happens. It's a reverence. It's a reverence and and and and I believe it it can actually give physical health to our body to our physical body. Oh yeah. At the same so if we if we eat that bread that physical bread and drink that physical wine and honor and and and and and because by doing it we're we're first covenant with him as well as an act of worship. If we do that with the right attitude Right heart attitude. I believe the Lord says, I'm gonna treat that. I'm gonna make that act as if it really is my body and my blood in you, and I'm gonna bless you spiritually and physically We've been going for almost an hour and a half, so I'm going to uh Wrap up the the stream part. We're going to continue with what we do here, but uh for the geeks and the crowd that like these sorts of things, uh the Roman Catholic view on the sufferer is called transubstantiation, it transforms into Transubstantiation. And the Lutheran view is called con substantiation. Con uh is the prefix for with or alongside of. So it's it's the bread with the body, it's the blood with the wine alongside of. So consubstantiation is a Lutheran view. Uh I'm not sure what the uh the spiritual presence view, if it has a name. I will say this, I didn't credit where it's due, everybody likes to have their favorite theologians and disagree with to certain things. I certainly don't agree with John Calvin on everything he ever said or was recorded of of him having said, but I gotta say he got he's the one that really helped to clarify that spiritual presence in the supper It's Calvin at its best. He really nails it, I think. So I'll uh it's it's Calvin's view on the supper that I that I that I hold. So anyway. You can join us next week if you like, or you can join us in person too. But if you can't make it here in person, you can join us online. Next week we'll try to start right around 6 o'clock as usual. Till then, God bless.