And it looks like we're rolling. I think we're live now, if I'm not mistaken. If somebody wants to confirm that we've had a little bit of a difficulty get it going today. Sorry for starting late if you're joining the stream. I know there's a few people that like to join us live, and so if you're waiting on us, I apologize. So as I mentioned to the group that's gathered, if you are joining us now, and you joined us last week, you know we did something a little bit that's uh out of the norm for us, but You know, I've I've realized our norm isn't always the norm here, is it? You know, we've we change things up uh with with some regularity. We kinda have a norm, but we break from that norm, what, at least six to twelve times a year. So, but that's one of the blessings of having the kind of church that we have. We can kind of meet the needs or the the f fit the dynamic of what we have going on here. So last we we worked through John chapter 13, or trend chapter 6, rather, most of John chapter 6 And this week we're going to be looking at John chapter 13. So if you want to get your Bibles ready as we do that. And before we get started on all of that, I wanted to uh deal with a couple of dangling participles from last week. Um I don't think any of us successfully recalled the name of the uh the person who owned the plot of land that got Stolen by Jezebel and Ahab. I think we've we've wrestled the tri I don't know if we ever totally nailed that. But it was the the vineyard of Naboth. So that's the name we were all looking for. I don't know if we ever actually got it last week. Um famous story happens in uh in Jezreel. A little uh free Hebrew lesson, Jezreel means God uh God will sow. So it's interesting there's a field and a vineyard involved and God will sew, so there's maybe a play on words as you study. It's in first Kings chapter twenty one, by the way, if you wanna Check that out later. Um and the other thing is uh Ray brought up the the point that uh Judas betraying Jesus, like that's prophesied in the Old Testament, and when he said it I was like, yeah Yeah, where is it? Where is it? And I could not access the file in my brain of where specifically it is. And so afterwards I looked it up. I should have probably known this, but uh we're actually gonna be touching at it again today in John 13. But Psalm 41, verse 9, uh it points to uh to Judas, not to Judas by name, but to the idea of somebody who uh is breaking bread with him uh will will betray him and turn on him. So that I think is what you had in mind. And I could not think of it off the top of my head and again same on me. I I should have been able to do that but you know what are you gonna do So today we're going to be in John chapter 13 and we're going to do something similar to last week. We're going to read what was that? Oh. I got it. I got it. We're going to uh Anything delivery. Oh okay. It was Mr. Rogers speedy delivery. Mr. McFeely. Um So we're going to read sections so everybody can take a turn reading a little chunk. We'll be doing that and we'll have some some uh stream of consciousness sort of response to that. But before we get into all of that, uh we had kind of an opening prayer right before we went on the live stream But in it given the the import of what this week, this upcoming week represents in the life of the church. I mean tomorrow would be uh would be Palm Sunday. If we had a if we had a typical kind of church probably be hanging handing out palm branches to people and that sort of thing. And then of course next weekend is Resurrection Sunday and uh you'll note that I I consistently refer to it that way. I'm I'm personally not a huge fan of calling it Easter because of all of the uh uh pagan ideas that are packed into that particular word. But Resurrection Sunday is eight days away. So this is what people call holy week. Um, and so I thought it would be appropriate for us in the spirit of Holy Week and the whole Lenten season, if you will, to really spend some time together as a family. Um in prayer. There's a lot to be praying about. You know, the world doesn't make a whole lot of sense and I don't know how people who don't who do not have Christ in their life are are navigating unless they're just completely tuned out. and just going through the motions of life and not connected. But I don't know how anybody who's connected to what's going on in the world is doing that in a healthy way without Christ. So we've got the benefit of we have Christ, and because we all have Christ, we have each other. And one of the things we can do is we can build each other up, we can encourage each other, we can We feel we can edify one another, and one of the ways we can do that is not just to press into the word and talk about it, but to pray together. So um We're gonna do kind of the popcorn style thing, maybe, honey, if you'd be okay with opening us with prayer. I think you did it last week too, actually. After Dina opens with a prayer, anybody else that feels led to pray is certainly welcome and encouraged to pray. And then after a period of time, I will uh I will close this in prayer and we'll press into John 13. Heavenly Father, thank you for our gathering. Thank you for your promise. Thank you for the sacrifice of your son. Thank you for fellowship, sweet, sweet fellowship that we can be encouraged in such a lost and evil world. hard to call to mind your promises when we see so much evil. It's hard to rest sometimes in the fact that you are on the throne, it's hard to rest sometimes knowing that you have everything figured out because you see everything at once. Our minds are so so finite. We're so we're so in our moment we can't possibly see what you see. And we know that your ways are higher than ours. We know that you promised to see each of our journeys with you to completion, that you would never, ever leave us. or forsake us. Even though we go through trials, that's a promise that we can stand firm on. Remind us of that yell at us through your word those truths, those promises, so that we can hear you over the clamoring of the evil all around us, of those who who want to be like gods and who are in positions where they are making policies To advance their own causes as opposed to your cause. We pray that you would remind us that nothing happens Happens that you aren't allowing, that you still are in control. That you are king. You are our one One true King. And we thank you for that. Thank you for rescuing us. In Jesus' name, thank you, Lord. Um Dear Lord, we just want to thank you for us being able to have a church together. Um and you know, we just recognize that that is not something to take for granted. And uh we're just thankful for this opportunity We're thankful for your church, Lord, and we're thank you for the fact that you bless. You you have blessed this church and we're thank you thankful for that. And we just pray for that continued blessing and just pray for renewed focus as we head into Palm Sunday and Resurrection Sunday and uh Good Friday in between and we just uh pray for a renewed focus on you that this would be ever present in our minds and And uh, you know, just that we remember the price that you had to pay is specifically for us to be covered And you know, to be to receive what you deserved, you know, we received the inheritance that you Yeah, w we become co heirs with you. Despite the fact that we didn't earn it. We're just ever thankful for that. And uh we just looked up your name for praise in Jesus' name. Baby, baby mommy Do you want a Mommy, Mommy. Mommy. Father, we thank you for the blessing of little children. Like all things in this world, they can uh they can bring stress as uh They bring surprises and needs that we might struggle to meet, and yet we know your word tells us that they are an absolute blessing, and we do not take it for granted. And we thank you for giving us the the opportunities for personal growth and the challenges of helping to train them up in the way that they should go. We thank you for the opportunity to share in the suffering of Christ as we navigate a really lost and wandering, meandering, broken world. Uh when I say that I mean just the the the general population and even so many that would identify as part of your church and yet at the same time we know that there are those that are uh They have evil aims, using evil devices, very specific and strategic, looking to tear down your church, tear down your truth, to replace it with a lie from the enemy. And so many have fallen prey to that, so many even inside of your church can get knocked to and fro for a moment and lose our focus on the reason that we have hope Insofar as that's true for us individually, we ask that you would strengthen us, forgive us for our lack of faithfulness. We beseech you that you would encourage us and continually equip us to be agents of change, agents of preserving what is good and right and true. That we would not give in to any sort of temptation to hide your light under a bushel basket, that we would continue to be salt and light, that we would be ambassadors for truth, that we would be unyielding in being ambassadors for truth. But we would do so With kindness, when when and where appropriate, with gentleness, always with self-control. That we would be nourished by it, those that are eavesdropping on this conversation via the internet, that there would be a blessing there as well. And that all that we do would magnify the name of Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Okay, so we're going to uh be working through, I guess, if you want to phrase it that way, John chapter 13. I think it's an a good chapter to piggyback on after John chapter 6 last week. Um so we can just do like ten, twelve verses at a time or something, maybe if somebody who feels like they might want to read the first portion, chapter thirteen, let's say verse one through uh Verse eleven. Okay. Okay. Now before the feast of the Passover, Jesus, knowing that his hour had come, that he would depart out of the World to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. During supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Joseph Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, to betray him. Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hand, and that he had come forth from God And was going back to God, got up from supper and laid aside his garments, and taking a towel, he girded himself And he poured water into the basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded. So he came to Simon Peter. He said to him, Lord, do you wash my feet? Jesus answered and said to him, What I do you do not realize now. But you will understand hereafter. Peter said to him, Never shall you wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you have no part with me. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, then wash not only my feet, but also my hands. in my head. Jesus said to him, he who has bathed needs only to wash his feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not all of you. For he knew the one who was betraying him. For this reason, he said, not all of you are clean. Out of habit I feel compelled to say that we just listen to the reading of God's Word. It is God breathed, therefore it is infallible, is without error, fully sufficient as a rule and guide for our faith and life practice. And sometimes I wonder if I'm a broken record when I say that, but in the spirit of the day, when the sufficiency of Scripture, the inerrancy of Scripture is under constant attack, we need to remind Our seller shared last week somebody was interested in checking our church out but wanted to make sure that we didn't believe that before they would come. So they're obviously not going to be coming because we do believe that. I I don't know. If we can't trust what the Word of God says, then how can we trust that our faith is real and true? How can we know that what we that what we believe and know to be true about Jesus is actually historical, that it's actually you know, applies to our lives. How can we know that if we can just make it mean what we want or pick and choose or it might have mistakes and Yeah, like John, he wrote down what John really believed, but that doesn't mean it's the truth. It's just what John believed. Well, if that's where we live our lives, I don't know. I mean what's I think we'd be pitied if that's where we where we are in this. So anyway. So those with ears to hear, let them hear. So what did we hear? We heard that um Jesus made it clear to his disciples that That's what he can take to know that a sign that we belong to And one sign of the word of God cleansing us. Is that we are true to him. And I think that to your point earlier, a lot of people are doing that to the Lord now. That they are betraying him, a sign that they really don't belong to him Is that they um are re they are uh shh they have no loyalty to the word of God. You know, they they constantly question it, they constantly challenge it. it they constantly undermine it with with with what they say and their attitudes toward it. So I um I think that today's modern attitude Application we are seeing it all the time these days. As you to your point, as a perversion of it Yeah, there's so much where people, you know, uh they believe in Jesus, which can mean that they believe in the idea of Jesus. They believe in him as a great example or a great philosopher or a great imaginary figure. They believe in him in so many different ways, but we're called not just to believe in But to believe. Believe him at his word, right? To believe what he says. And this is where we know what he says. And yeah, so if we believe him at his word, we're going to do what he says. Yeah, see you're uh that is the battle. That's uh that's uh definitely I think one of the things we can draw from this. What else? We have to be washed in the blood of Christ. You know, and I don't think obviously he wasn't trying to be disobedient to the Lord. He just didn't understand. You know, we have the benefit of having the whole the whole book. Exactly. So I don't know that I'd be so harsh on him, but then once he realized what he he heard Jesus Jesus. He didn't just listen. He heard him and he was like, Oh yeah, absolutely, yes. So there wasn't like there was a uh a rejection of it, there was a full embrace of it. So we As believers need to fully embrace a full washing of the word. So I guess the spirit question I was having because I I I had the same observation that you Yeah. This is like being washed in the blood of Christ was the metaphor going on here. But why then would was Peter incorrect that only the feet needed to be washed. Like I was confused by how you know, theoretically I think we're aren't we that sinful that we all we need a complete car wash to our bodies metaphorically, but I thought actually the wash the the the washing referred to the word and not the blood at this point because in John fifteen seven he talks about being washed with the word And I, since he hadn't gone to the cross at this point, technically, he had washed them only with his word was my understanding of the scripture. And you're right though about that. What's the whole deal about why you know w wh why did Christ say only well after Oh after you've been cleaned, only your feet need to be washed. And I I thought about that and I I think what he might be saying there is that after you have a after your mind has been cleansed, for instance, um, or your heart has been cleansed Um you only need um in other words, after you've been cleansed Like generally you only need a tweaking to be clean and that's just your feet like you know taking If you're not like a otherwise filthy person, you just go around and you get your feet dirty from traveling. Right, but from walking in the world and walking in the centers or just being in the world. as opposed to of it. Yeah, yeah. So the complete washing is because you're of it. Yeah. But now that you've been cleansed, now you're just in it, so you're gonna need to be having the regular the sun bath thanks for having me over And it's so like Peter to go over the top. That's his personality. I love Peter. Peter gets me, I get And and I think that there's something about that with a lot of people, maybe all of us at certain s seasons or stages in our life, but some people it's more definitive of their overall personality to also be over the top as well And I think this can be an encouragement when we feel like, oh, uh I'm not washed clean enough, or I'm not doing enough, I'm not surrendering myself to Jesus enough. And so I think we can take some encouragement and confidence from this is like, no, no, no Jesus says, you know, unless I wash you, so that's one of the questions, right? Who does the washing? Jesus does the washing. And he's washed you plenty enough. You know, oh he needs to wash more, but he's wash if he's called you and you're his, he has washed you plenty enough whether you feel like he needs to No, that's not a get out of jail free card Oh, I can continue to sin all the more, so grace my band. Like we don't want to have that attitude. But we can trust that Jesus accomplishes what he aims to accomplish, and if he says he's done enough, and we know that at the cross for those that are his he has done enough. And so you know I think it's the w I think that that also speaks to that you don't need to add works to it. It's just it's the sufficiency of of the blood of Christ. Well and that I think ties into we don't want to become pharisaical. Right. We don't want to add to the law. Right. Because the Pharisees, they lived these very religious lives, which would be great if their religion was rooted in what the Old Testament actually said. They had all these man-made extras. where the God's word said, all you have to do is wash your feet and they said, Well you're not really godly unless you wash your whole body. I'm using that to connect with the idea here. And we don't want to It seems extra pious. Oh well if it says we should go this far, well I'll go even further. That's a different kind of a of a sin. So we want to be on guard. We want to take God at His Word, do what God says Anything else before we move on to another section in here? There's at least one more thought that I had that. Called what? Vainglory. Oh vainglory. That's kinda what that would be. Yeah, that's actually a good term. That's not that's not a term that's used very often, right? In our modern cont our contemporary means Oh or okay, like empty glory Like when David was being chosen anointed, his brothers his older brother Eliab was accusing him of vain glory. Or um, it's kinda like virtue signaling. Okay. Like your means the moment Or you're fo focusing on your glory of self rather than the glory of God. You're sending a signal to magnify your own glory. Okay Which in today's culture I think virtue signaling fits to that's at least one application. But you had something in addition to that, I think. Uh I think Peter got it when you know, when the Lord said, Unless I unless I wash you, you don't belong to me. No, no, no. What I I think what's what's Sticks out to me there is that the very word that had cleansed all of them, I mean the word and Jesus the word, but the word and the spoken word that cleansed them and said Sanctified them to the truth. Um, every one of them heard that word, and yet there was only one man who was not clean. And that was Jude that was Judah. Jesus had to emphasize to Peter, you gotta let me do this. Otherwise you don't belong to me. Right. Um and Um, you know, Peter probably didn't mean to be proud, but maybe what Jesus was saying is, if you don't let me do this thing that seems lowly to you, that's actually a problem. And then you won't belong to me. There was one proud one there that Jesus was not able to clean. And so there's a practical application for those of us that profess to be followers of Christ, you know, uh are we? Judas would have counted himself. Well, but this point the text tells us that uh he uh he he had already Uh been prompted to portray Jesus. But before that, Judas would have counted himself as one of the disciples. He was self-deluded. I don't think that Judas started following Jesus, this is my understanding, that from the very get-go, he knew from the instance he started following Jesus that he was going to betray him. I think that he followed him for the wrong reasons and had mistaken ideas of what he would do and and then he became disillusioned and that provided an opportunity for Satan to make the move that was preordained to happen anyway. But I s I wonder how many of us might be deluded And in recent years, there's been a lot of high-prof relatively high-profile pastors that have turned and they've deconstructed, they call it, their faith. You know, and they're no longer Christians anymore. They basically turned into Judases. And I think that we need to be examining and that's not meant to cause us to have doubt in our salvation. But it is it is meant for us to be seeking to always be affirming that we have the salvation that we have, to make sure that we're doing what Christians are supposed to do and to check ourselves and and be honest about it. Say, you know, I'm not I don't have very much spiritual discipline in my life right now. I I I could do better. You know, we were talking earlier about this, you know, some Some dads will say to their to their kids, you know, this is like in our house it's the skinners, right? Hey, you're a skinner. Skinners don't do that. Or skinners do do that. So we gotta make sure we're doing what Christians are supposed to do and check ourselves. So Judas wasn't doing what Christians are supposed to do here. There's at least one other thing here that I noticed, but anybody else have something There's a theme in these uh nearly dozen verses of knowing. So in in verse one, Jesus knew that the time had come. In verse 3, Jesus knew the Father had put all things under his power. And doesn't use the word new, but in verse 7 he says, you don't realize now what I'm doing, but later you will understand. Well Jesus, he's saying, You don't know, but I know and then in verse eleven, for he knew who was going to betray him So Jesus knows what's going on. He knows what time it is. And he knows because he's not only Jesus born of Mary walking the earth as a human But he's deity. He has a certain kind of an insight. He knows. So this doesn't happen to Jesus. I mean it does in a sense, right? But Jesus offers himself He's in control. And that ties to the big theme in the messages we've been working through as we go through Revelation. All the stuff that's happening. It's not happening outside of God's control. Jesus knows. He's bringing it about. So that's uh that's a a a big theme uh here. And he also knows those who are his. You know, that's uh that's a connection here too. All right, we can read the next section unless somebody has something else they want to add to these verses. We can do verse uh Twelve through twenty. Who wants to read that? I know that. When he had finished washing their feet, he put on his clothes and returned to his place. Do you Do you understand what I have done for you? He asked them. You call me teacher and lord, and rightly so, for that is what I am. Now that I, your Lord, and teacher have washed your feet, you also should wash one another's feet. I have set you an example that you should do As I have done for you. Very truly I tell you, no servant is greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. Now that you know these things, you will Be blessed if you do them. I am not referring to all of you. I know those I have chosen, but this is to fulfill this passage of scripture. He who shared my bread has turned against me. I am telling you now before it happens, so that when it does happen, you will believe that I am who I am. Very truly I tell you, whoever accepts anyone I send accepts me, and whoever accepts me, accepts the one. That sounded like somebody had their hair pulled or something. She just got like jabbed by baby nails. Oh. Yeah. That smarted, huh? Yeah. Alright, so Oh the I am jumps out. Yeah, that jumps out at you, doesn't it? What version is that? Uh Uh this is the NIV. No, that wasn't the NIV. That's what it says. Really? That must be the updated NIV. Because I got the NIV open in front of me and it and it says uh I am he. It doesn't say I am that I am or whatever you say. So they must have the they must the NIV does have a couple of versions. My version in front of me is the nineteen eighty four version. I don't know what this one is. It's the online version. Probably newer than arrivals and the V. Yeah, I would say uh f little you know most of the people might know this, but the NIV has made some revisions over the years. All the revisions leading up to and including 1984 are fine and pretty solid in my view. Any revisions since 1984 Be very, very careful. They've got a lot of gender-neutral language and gender inclusive language. There's there are passage where it'll say where the the actual original Greek will say something like, brethren And the new NIV will say Brothers and Sisters, which is fine as far as it goes, but the original doesn't say and sisters. Now, as a teaching point, when it says brethren, it's including the brothers and sisters. And so that's why theologically doesn't change the meaning. But it changes what's being said. You're altering God, you're adding a word to the Word of God. And it and why does this matter? Because one of the important points in understanding how the gospel applies and how it plays out is to understand adoption and headship and inheritance, all those sorts of things and if you understand it in the context You know, the the the firstborn son is the inheritor. Well we're we're co-heirs with the firstborn son, if you will. Uh with Christ, you know, the the the one and only son. And we've co-heirs, and so that point gets driven home better when we fully understand that we are brothers, even the women, are we you have the inheritance of a man Right. Even though the cultural point that's being scored would have told you otherwise. That's a profound reality. And I if we're not careful, we're gonna lose Right. Those nuances and those nuances undergird the importance of the gospel. So I I'm not a fan of changing me neither the word. So anyway, I was a bit of a rabbit trail, but since it came up. Exactly. You know, exactly. May fed into this current situation where, you know, at first you you had to you you couldn't just say male or female, you had to say um or you could You didn't just say male, you had to always say he and she and and and and now that's morphed into something else. This is what I'm just And you know what's gonna if if logically speaking, I uh it probably wouldn't get quite this crazy. But if it did, logically, how would those who want to make everything gender neutral and and uh fluid pronouns and and and And a man isn't necessarily a man, woman isn't necessarily a woman. What's that keep us from somebody introducing themselves and saying, Hi, my name's Troy, my pronouns are uh Cantaloupe, bull moose, and uh periwimple. Those are my pronouns. And they're gonna say, those aren't even pronouns. Says who? I've decided that periwinkle is a pronoun. Prove me wrong. You can make anything be anything. And that's kind of the the the track word going on. That's why it seems like a little thing to add something to the NIV or any of these other translations. But it gets us in a world of hurt really fast. It wasn't it was less than ten years ago when the Supreme Court decided that uh men could quote unquote marry men and women could quote unquote marry women. And it wasn't just a marriage question, it became a j uh uh quote unquote gender issue, a sexuality issue. And We're not even gonna know what a person is. Right? I mean, who says it has to be a man and a man? Why couldn't it be a man and a boy? Why couldn't it be a yeah, why couldn't it be a why couldn't it be a man and a and your favorite farm animal? Yeah, why'd already decided what a person wasn't first. Well yeah Well now we have a Supreme Court Justice who doesn't know what a woman is, so I'm just saying like they are they didn't know what a person was in nineteen seventy So now we don't know what it is. Yeah, we've definitely redefined that and devalued it. And then and I'm piggybacking on that is the idea that you know if you eat a hamburger, you've murdered a cow. Yeah, like we put a cow on e equal footing with humans and yet we won't eat as I say, but we're not even putting on even footing, we're putting the cow above the unborn human. It's crazy Yeah, anyway, that was uh so with the when I was reading the text it because we were talking about the theme of washing you know, it talks about um now that he finished washing their feet. Yeah. You know, he's like, Do you understand what I've done for you? And then he says, you know, you need to do this for one another. And it kind of draws a expanding the conversation you could see an application saying that, look, fellowship's really important. You need to do this for one another, call one another out in accountability. Because you're in the world, but make sure that you're having that continual washing of the feet so that you're you don't get caught up because you're just because you're in it. Don't become of it again. We c you've gotta make sure that you're just staying in it. So make sure you're doing this for one another. You know? I can see that application here. Yeah, this were a sound anywhere. This is a symphony. You got things to say too? One of these days we're gonna know exactly what you're trying to say. She likes Angela. Ray. She heard Angela. She heard the name. She knows. Angela, boy, she's crying. Angela, how crazy. There you go. But this is this is this would be a point where you might hear it in a sermon where it gets reverses 17. Now that you know these things, you will be blessed if you do them. And that's that's where the pastors say, are you doing them? What are you doing to serve others? What what are the ways that you're serving? So let me ask let's you know this isn't a sermon, this is a discussion. So what are some ways that we're This isn't to be braggadocious, but what are uh use it as a chance to uh be instructive for others. What are some opportunities you've had to be of service to others that somebody might be encouraged by and say, Oh that's a good idea, I could do that or Oh well, running for office, clearly, between Ray and Angela. I mean talk about serving. Absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. That's certainly one way. I put a paper towel on it. I'm stuck in Julie. Oh. I'm sorry. I don't even know how that happened. I don't want to know. I'll take care of it. I'll move this over here again So one of the things that we can do this is a practical thing and everybody in this room is pretty good at it because we're here like ninety plus percent of the time. But some for the benefit of somebody who's maybe watching the stream or listening to it, or as a reminder to us here, one of the things we can do to be a service to others is actually to show up for fellowship So many people will they'll they'll complain like they don't go to church and say, Oh, why why'd you leave that church? And uh you've probably heard it. I wasn't being fed. I wasn't getting anything out of it. It really wasn't doing anything for me. Didn't seem practical. Didn't apply to me. All this me, me, me stuff. And you know what? That's part of it. And the church should be meeting the needs of the people and all that. But it's also what we bring. You know? Um there's a blessing, even as an encouragement to the young parents in the room, you know, even with the babies and stuff that are fussy and making noise and stuff. There's a blessing in them being here because now look, you've given Angela an opportunity to step up and be of service to your youngest and to you as parents. And so and she knows she's being a blessing and others can see her being a blessing and that's blessing everybody. That doesn't happen. That doesn't happen if Angela's not here But what's that uh there's an old I don't know how accurate the stat would be, but it's like a bumper sticker kind of a thing. You know, success is eighty percent i it's showing up. So you gotta show up. So if you're not going to church, y you need to go to church. You gotta show up. You can help somebody else by just just by being there. That's something we can do. And praying for somebody, witnessing to somebody. Oh, we didn't we didn't go through that yet today. Who wants to uh Re recount, recall the the the five elements of the gospel as we teach it here at Household of Faith in Christ. Uh creation, fall, redemption, restoration, glorification. Very good. And I think we've already talked about sharing the gospel from the perspective of the last two, the last few weeks, right? Restoration and glorification. Uh Ray thought restoration was the hardest. What do you think is the easiest one to start with? Yeah, that's true because the first time we had Ray Sheridagos, he went with You Are Horribly Depraved. You are depraved He does start there. Gets your attention if it's nothing else. Yeah, and that is a classic way that it's shared. You try to get somebody to admit that they have a sin problem that you address. So that is common. Yeah. Alright, so I can't let's see. I think Dina did it last time. Ray did it last time and I did it last time before. Oh, okay. So, Angela, you want to take a stab at walking us through the gospel starting with we're horrible, depraved sinners? Or words to that effect? That's like not Angela's favor. Well um the way I like to explain it is um Um I like to think that I'm good, but there are little things, not necessarily the big failures, but there are little things that sh show me that I'm really not very good. Tiny things, small things, things that seem insignificant, but nevertheless they show how I've how I'm constantly messing up And one of those seemingly insignificant things is just the simple fact that if I'm on my laptop trying to type an email, I can't even get through one email without making a mistake. I'm constantly making mistakes. And and and if I pay attention to that, that shows me that I am just error prone. And being error prone in the small things points to the fact that I'm error prone and the much more significant things that points to my lack of goodness. Not really good because of I really good. I could do the small things without messing up, but I can't even do the small things without messing up. And so that is what shows me that um Um imperfect and If I'm to believe that God is good, then I would have to believe that He's perfectly good Perfect and I would have to believe that I fall very short of his perfection. And I know how it is as an emperor perfect person how difficult it is to be in relationship with just another human being who's imperfect. The hurt that happens, just for the little things. So what I would propose to someone who um thinks that they're good enough to make it to heaven, I would propose The thought that if you're good enough to make it to heaven, one way you can prove that is to just get through the day without making one mistake. And that'll show you whether or not you're good enough to make it to heaven. Um how we can I'm kind of petering off here, but um that that is for me a way that I have gotten some clarity that I'm not good at enough because I cannot even get through one day without making a mistake somewhere. Whether it's forgetting something, whether it's doing something I shouldn't have done or thinking something I shouldn't have thought or just not even being able to type one lousy email without making a mistake I am error prone and I need help. And I say and do things that can hurt other people people and I'm not even trying to. There's a theological term for that by the way. It's called the noetic effect of the fall. So it's not talking about we have a sinful nature. It's talking about we have a broken nature as well. And we don't always think well. We forget things. We make mistakes. You know, we mean to type out a word and we misspell it or we type the same word twice or we make these our capacities uh as humans have been diminished by the fall. Adam and Eve um They didn't make mistakes as they were initially created, but then they sin and this brokenness, this fractured image of God enters our reality. And so that's one of the things when we are in glorification with Christ, we will no longer be prone to making those kinds of mistakes. We will think rightly. We will articulate our thoughts. Like perfectly well, we will have capabilities that will feel superhuman, but the reality is, no, no, they're truly human What we have now is a broken humanness, but when we're truly human, we won't have those noetic effects anymore. And it's all possible because of the perfect life lived and the sort of perfect sacrifice offered by Jesus. I remember a number of weeks ago. I forget what the topic was, but Angelo really rose to the defense of Jesus not so we were talking about the chosen actually. And uh and and Angela made the point about, you know, I don't like that aspect of one of the episodes of the chosen because it makes it seem like Jesus like was forgetful and absent minded and it he wasn't perfect. And and you're absolutely right. He's the he Jesus does not suffer from the dramatic effects of the fall because he's not fallen And so yeah, we so you're absolutely right to to point that out. But we are still fallen and we still are prone to mistakes, and I've clarified this in sermons in the past. Mistakes aren't necessarily sins But mistakes can point to our limitations, which then can remind us of how we're sinful. Well I've used the analogy a number of times where if you y y you knock over carton of milk, you know, that was a mistake. It's not necessarily a sin Um but if you purposely knock over that milk or something to to to uh out of anger or to be wasteful or something, well that would be a sin. Uh so we want to get better at uh sharpening our abilities to not be sinful or or pr make progress in our and our sanctification so that uh things will be made right the way they were intended from the beginning. When when God made us, He didn't make us to make mistakes. But we do make mistakes. And so yeah, it does speak to our fragility. There's a social justice word using a different context. So all right, let's uh I don't we'll go to the next section. We got a little derailed there. Let's read uh Unless anybody had any other thoughts on the verses we just read. Let's do verse 21. Alright, we left off at 20, correct? Let's do 21 to 30. When Jesus had said this, he had become troubled in spirit and testified and said, Truly, truly, I say to you that one of you will betray me The disciples began looking at one another at a loss to know of at a loss to know which one was he speaking. There was a reclining on Jesus' boss bosom one of his disciples whom Jesus loved. So Simon Peter gestured to him and said to him, Tell us who it is of whom he is speaking. He leaning back Thus on Jesus' bosom said to him, Lord, who is it? Jesus then answered, That is the one for whom I shall dip the morsel and give it to him So when he had dipped the morsel, he took it and gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. After the morsel, Satan then entered into him Therefore Jesus said to him, What you do, do quickly. Now no one Now, w no one of those reclining at the table knew for what purpose he had said this to him For some were supposing that because Judas had the money box, that Jesus was saying to him, Buy the things we ne have need of for the feast, or else that he should give something to the poor. So that after receiving the morsel he went out immediately and it was night. Therefore Yeah. All right, any uh anything strike you in reading that? Whenever we're reading, one of the things we want to do is we want to look how is this helping us To understand who Jesus is and how that applies to us in the context of the gospel. Because the entire Bible helps us to understand the person of work, person and work of Jesus, our need for him. uh our hope in him, uh all those sorts of things. Now it's it's easier generally in the gospels, but I'm pointing it out, I point it out last week and again this week because I don't want to take it for granted. Oh, we're in the gospels. Obviously it's about Jesus So let's not take it for granted. Let's press and say, okay, what how does this help me understand an application of the gospel in the world, in my life? Well I think it's interesting that Right off the bat, Jesus was troubled in his spirit. So it's not as if God isn't bothered by the fact that there are those who will and have rejected him who are not called had troubles him. But we love every single human. We're image bearers. Oh yeah. So so that's a huge And I don't know that I can't imagine how heartbreaking that would be to know so many of the people that you that you love that you consider your children, even if they are not going to then be children of God. Right. It just so that kind Kinda jumped at me that he was so troubled in his spirit over that. Knowing that the betrayal is there. I mean I think it speaks to the fully human nature of Jesus that you know, he you know, that there's a God side that knows that the betrayal is coming and then there's a human side that's reconciling. Right I mean I think I think feeling the weight of it. Yeah. Yeah. I think there is some visible anxiety inside of it, but And one of the things that might not be immediately obvious, but I noticed it might not be immediate because the way we're reading this. We're reading it in chunks and we've got these big gaps what we're discussing. But the uh the very first chunk we read tonight in uh verse two, the evening meal was being served and the devil had already prompted Judas Iscariot uh son of Simon to betray Jesus. So uh the devil had already prompted Judas. And now look at what we just read. Well now it says where is it? Which verse is it? Uh it's verse twenty-seven. They thought that he needed to get more food or no, what's verse well does anybody have uh the first part of verse twenty seven handy? Oh, when you take in the mo So the f the so earlier, the beginning of the chapter, he's prompted. So that's you got the devil on your shoulder whispering in your ear, prompting you, tempting you, right? But what happens here is different. It's not a prompting. He he entered him. It's an entering. It's a possession. Like he's given over. Was Jesus talking to There's a there's a there's a heightened thing going on? Jesus or Satan when he said go do what you need to do. Well, it's an interesting c I hadn't never thought of that question, but you know I I take it as he's talking to Judas, but I think Ray's right Satan enters him, so so he's talking to folks. But like yeah, because he gave himself over he's a co-heir with the enemy. Right for him. But so he he's sharing in the death. And he's not the obvious I mean looking back it's obvious to us. But he wasn't obvious. All the disciples are like, Is it me? Is it right? I mean Judas is he's handling the purse strings, is really something you would trust. I find this music of the girl like, who is it? Who is it? Right. Oh Judas was like, nah, I can't be out. So I think that again that's a way for us to check our spirit, to check ourselves. Or not to be gullible with others and just assume that everybody who claims Christ is actually a Christian. Even if they're in a pastorate role. You know, and trust me, these past few years there's a lot of pastors I Man, I hope I'm wrong, but I don't think you're safe. So one thing before I forget that I found interesting um was that uh That one that Simon Peter motioned for another disciple to ask him. Like I always kind of wondered that that's kind of stood out to me every single time I read this passage. Was one of them more was he just not as vocal as the others? Like was he not as confident in asking? Like Peter gets to deny Jesus three times instead. specifically mentions one of the other disciples saying, Hey, hey, you ask me like one of the kids asking a teacher. Like I don't want to look silly in front of the class. Yeah no no but my point is like think of it in a class you're in a question like I don't want to silly That could be honest, I never spent a whole lot of time meditating on that. I just kinda took it curious. The disciple whom Jesus loved was reclining next to him and Simon Peter motioned to him and said, So I just took it, oh he's next to him. But they're all talking, so I don't see why it would be necessary. Like you wouldn't motion Dina wouldn't motion for me to ask Ray. Right. Now we all uh come to understand, I think, that the disciple whom Jesus loved here is John And we know that John and James and Peter are kind of the inner circle of the twelve. And so maybe it's uh, hey, we're all his disciples, but You know, the three of us are like the tight ones and you're closest. Ask the teacher's favorite. Discreetly without letting everybody know what's going on. Hey, bet just between us, like we're the insiders of the insiders. Why don't you ask 'em And then if the teacher wants, they'll share it with everybody kind of thing. It might have been something like that. Maybe it's an indication of the tightness of the inner circle. I don't know. I haven't really wrestled with that. question. I don't know how deep it I just always curious. I think that I don't know. I feel like there's something to be plumbed there. I don't uh how much it helps us understand our need for Jesus and all that sort of stuff. I I don't but I think it's an interesting thing. Before we move on to the next session, something else I want to point out. Um it's again, we're not in a study of John. overall, but if we were, we would be rec recurringly uh running into ideas of light and dark. John loves the con the contrast of light and dark. And so it's interesting to me that in verse 2, the evening meal was being served. We know what kind of a meal it is. He doesn't have to tell us it's evening, but he tells us it's evening. We know that at evening it's dark, and in that same verse the evening meal was being served, and the devil had already prompted Judas to scariot Mike says during supper. Which translation do you have? Verse two just starts what, during the supper? During supper. N I B E says evening Evening meal. AF says during supper. NASA says during supper. The NIV to add the word evening. So ESB, AFV, and now the other thing. Yeah, maybe. I don't know. But I just if if this isn't the Greek and if it's not, then it's just something I'm noticing in the in the English. It helps remind me of a theme in John, but it's not as not nearly as uh Important a point. But if evening is in the Greek, the idea that evening there talking to the devil had already prompted Jesus, he's connecting to the darkness, the badness. And then he he sends Judas on his way to do his dirty deed, and it ends with, and it was night. So again, the emphasizing the darkness, but it might not be, verse two might I well clearly it is uh in verse thirty, it is dark. Right. So th she's definitely emphasizing it there. I was making a connection that i in both places where it's talking about the It might have just been talking about the progression. Because you know, during supper and then later, hey, it's already night. We're not talking about supper anymore. It's nighttime. He's going out at night. Doing sketchy All right. Well let's let's finish out the chapter. Um thirty-one. Uh thirty-one to to the end, which is what, thirty-eight? Want me to read it? Sure. When he was gone, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified and God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will glorify the Son in himself and will glorify him at once. My children, I'll be with you only a little longer. You will look for me, and just as I told the Jews, so I tell you now where I am going, you cannot come. A new command I give you, love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another. By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. Simon Peter asked him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus replied, Where I am going you cannot follow, but you will follow later. Peter asked, Lord, why can't I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. Then Jesus answered, Will you really lay down your life for me? I tell you the truth, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times. That's gotta hurt. That's gotta hurt. Yeah, Peter's like, wait, what? No. Alright, so this will be our last section before we close down the stream. I think I mean you know, vibing with Peter here. I because we know that Peter Peter's uh character and his kind of the way that he is um he's all in right? He always like is the ambitious one, you know, wash my whole body, it's not just my feet. So again, it's it's Very much Peter being Peter, saying, Oh, I'll do this, I'll do this And because God knows everything it's almost like God's protecting him. Jesus is protecting you and saying, look, I appreciate your enthusiasm. I know you better than you know yourself. Don't overpromise and underdeliver. Because that's what's gonna happen. And I just um I relate to that. How many times have we committed to something and then we're like, oh wow, okay. That was more than what literally just it that the past couple weeks or I've been preparing. Yeah. I mean right? So I can relate to I did deliver, but it took way more expensive. We don't and s and actually that is the walk, right? You can you have to deny yourself and follow him. You have to pick up your cross and follow him. So you do have to be all in. The problem is Peter was trying to be all in on his terms in his own strength. And when we're all in, it's because we have the power of the Holy Spirit doing it for us. Yeah, Peter's kind of the caricature of a Baptist, right? Denominations like the poke fun at other denominations and one of the caricatures of poking fun, good natured of course, a little poke in the ribs kind of thing. But they'll say, um the Baptists, uh their their whole mentality and approach to ministry is shoot, ready, aim. And that's kind of Peter here, right? Shoot, ready aim. I mean if you think about it, it's kind of for the good that Peter cannot follow God or else Like that was always going to be the plan. And you know not that he would have made it that far anyway, 'cause he he'd have been dragged in and he'd have been like Just Kidding Well, and that's the thing, right? He was professing that Jesus was Lord. And uh assenting to his divinity, but at the same time he knowingly did not put his life on the line for that truth. And ultimately there was a purpose in that so that Jesus would die on the cross alone, lest no one could boast that they could Endure what Jesus endured for the pain and suffering for our sins. is, you know, we think when um when Jesus says in verse thirty-eight that he says to Peter you're gonna disown me three times it seems very dramatic Here. Mm-hmm. But I've been so convicted in my own life by not following the prompting of the Holy Spirit. Yeah, even if you're not just going, oh Jesus fell, I never heard of them. It was just because you're not being as Overt. Right. And I and I cause I remember when I was reading this and I was earlier in my walk and I remember thinking like to myself Well duh, Peter. I mean, my God. And I'm not it was like that very same day Dog was like, uh, yeah, you did it too. And I was like, Oh, oh shoot, oh, I am A sinner. Oh man, I totally denied the Lord. I mean literally like within a sec. Unbelievable. Because we didn't know. Think Yes. Same thing as denying them. Same thing. The same thing. And our lives aren't even in the on the line on it. That's kind of oh yeah. He would just he would not like somebody who might unf Yeah, I know. He was afraid for his life. Reasonably so. Yeah. And we think we're like, dude, how could you? And then we're like, But he might be funny. Or we might be shunned. Or we might be Not invited back. Peter's testimony could've in theory at least caused a mistrial with the Sanhedrin. I'm just saying like he could have you know, like Paul was able to cause a mistrial by saying, you know, I'm here to testify to the re the resurrection, which you know the Pharisees believe but the Sadducees denied, so he was able to do that. Like he could have gung like he could have in theory helped Jesus' standing, obviously. Assuming we weren't going for the and then that would have messed everything up you're saying Yeah. No, I'm just saying like we be. So and is that your point? No, that was not necessarily my point, but it's like Peter, you know, there were stakes. And he wasn't willing to endure the stakes. Well, he denied Jesus in an instance where he could have helped. It's it's not a situation where he's like, Yeah, I'm denying you to save myself, but even if I didn't deny you, it wouldn't help you anyway, so I might as well save myself. This is a i a situation where I think an even bigger thing was going on which was this. The L Peter needed humbling. Yeah. And so this needed to happen so that he could realize because the one thing about he had a strong personality And the thing with people with strong personalities is they they can be a little over overconfident. Yeah, well no strong personalities are strong in most respects. Right. Whether it's a good or bad aspect, they tend to be strong. Exactly. He needed to be humble. So I think God had a greater plan. We'll see the plan play out that Jesus goes to the cross alone and You know, there next to two thieves, not even one of his disciples. And you can imagine the alternative history would be so confused. Like there's enough confusion Because of the Catholic Church's uh post human uh uh people uh descendants 'cause they you know they retroactively made posts. Bigging up so that they could say that Peter they have an unbroken line. So there's a lot of confusion with Peter already, but If you can imagine if he died on the cross next to Jesus, how much confusion there would be. Yeah, so to tidy a couple of things up on these points, it looks like you might have a comment to read, but before we do that just But um we're not saying that it's it's a good thing that Peter denied his Lord. Oh, right. But God uses all things and he used it for the greater good of the church And he also at the Angelo's point used it for the greater good of Peter himself by humbling him and then what a blessing to the church that ended up because Peter ended up being a much better leader because he had been put in a in a proper But you know, give him credit. He spoke out of turn and he was over aggressive. A peers are wrong. Right? He ends up following he does die. He is put to death for Christ. He does follow, just not in God's timing. So he was he was g he was getting out of order of things. But he jumped the gun, but his Well, you cannot follow me now, but you will follow later. Right, and he does. Uh that is a will. He he di he he He stumbled along the way but he got back up. He's like, No, I'm I'm s I'm still in for you, Lord. the Lord. Right. I guess if you really want to die for me, I'll give you the shot. But right now it's this is a clear time that he doesn't lose one, right? He never loses one that he calls. So I was in verse 34 it says, a new command I give you, love one another as I have loved you. So you must love one another. By this everyone will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. This is one of my favorite passages. It's a great passage, but boy, is this being bastardized partially into Right because it's not the true church and they're saying you have to ex Because that's not love anyway. And that's not how close loved. Exactly. But it's so hard for an immature believer because of the the state of our quote unquote church right now which is putting forth lies and saying that that is love and it's Like happy feelings or love is not. Yeah. And I I praise God that he is still in control and he's using it to lead out and boy. It's hot I it is. I love that those two verses, um because I see it as a promise. Um because again, we can't save. And there are so many times when even if we know we're doing what the Lord is calling us to do, whatever that might be for an individual, it can be very disheartening with I mean especially the world around us right now and uh the church as as you just pointed out. Um so i I have so many friends that I love so dearly that quite frankly I don't think I'll see in heaven. And uh but you know by this all people will know that you are my disciples if you You have love for one another. It means a a promise that that um You know, if we are doing our best to I is this one of your favorites too? Go for it. Oh, she got very uncomfortable right now. But um the idea that one of the best scene one of the best things that we can do not only for each other, but for those who aren't believers, is to love one another True love, not not not the fluffy love, but he's but true love as love as Jesus loved. Exactly. And he didn't he was absolute he was Merciful and forgiving and understanding and empathetic and all of that stuff. But he wasn't false about it. You know, like, oh well because I love you, sure, you can keep sinning. He was like, No, because I love you, please stop. I don't want you to die. Mm-hmm. Um, and I just I love that because, you know, like by loving people that's how I can show people that you know Right. I can show them Christ even if I can't save them, even if they won't listen to my words. You know, even if their ears are closed y they're you know, there is a possibility that real love will reach them. So that that's always been of favorite passage of mine. Assumed assuming you're using the word love correctly. I kind of struggle because Jesus does give a objective outcome. By this all men will know that you are my my disciples. So we are seeing now. No. It's hard to see. Well, all men meaning this would include people who are not disciples. Yes. They will be able to see this. And I guess the only way that I can really I I'm trying to like see where I can see that patch is applied is is that you don't really see I mean you'll see some people acknowledge like liberal and by liberal I mean apostate churches and denominations. as legitimate, but you'll never hear anyone say that the conservative, you know, the ones that are faithful to Scripture, you'll never see someone say that those aren't actual believers. Yeah, like you don't really see that. So but here's the thing. Those people wouldn't acknowledge the apostate liberal churches as believers. Like n you know, you're not gonna see like You know, are are Baptists really gonna dignify pres uh Episcopalians as Christians? And it's like, not really. Um But w but you know, would those people have the same call to say, yeah, those fundies over there aren't really Aren't really believers. I don't know. So I'm just trying to think of how this actually manifests itself. people have the wrong idea of who Christ is. I mean a lot of them, even other religions will claim some sort of Jesus. Um is it Mormons who think that Jesus became a God? Um, you know, like they're like, oh yeah, we know Jesus. Okay, you know who you you got very you think Do you know Jesus, but you don't know Jesus, you know some fictional character that that you you know. Um if we love people as Christ loved us, they will know whose disciple we are. Unfortunately, the world doesn't necessarily like that version of Jesus, the real one. Yeah, there's a couple of things here I wonder about. And you know I didn't prep for this as I would for a sermon, so I'm I'm vamping a little bit, so you know don't uh don't necessarily try to cash this at the bank. Um but there's a couple of possibilities anyway. Uh one we know from other parts of scripture when the the word all uh sometimes is a categorical all as opposed to a particular all. So it'll say when it's saying all people, all nations, all men, uh sometimes what's being said there is not each individual of the seven billion people on the planet, it's meaning all kinds, all categories of men. So some So I'm wondering, uh, and I'll I'll I'll tell you why I'm wondering if that's a possible application here. But we have to say, in the end, we know that that's true. Mm-hmm. At the very, very end, everyone will know, all knees will bow and people will realize who was on you know, who's on what's team here. It'll be very clear. So I don't know if that's what Jesus is saying here, but at least we could we can affirm that that part is true. Also, I think there's an aspect of it's aspirational. You guys are to demonstrate love for another so that others will know that you are my disciples and they'll be drawn to me to do what I'm doing because the Son of Man is glorified and God is glorified in him. You're to be glorifying God and so there's an aspirational aspect. But I'm wondering, you know, just right before that, in verse thirty-three You will look for me, and just as I told the Jews, so I tell you now where I'm going, you cannot come. A new command I give you, love one another as I have loved you. You must love one another. By this all men So it's interesting, but a sentence or two earlier he mentions all the Jews, and then right after that he's talking about all men. I'm wondering if that's possibly again I'm vamping a little bit, but I'm wondering if it's possibly connecting to look So not just you and my disciples and the Jews, but all men will know. Uh meaning the Gentiles too will know. uh that you are my disciples and that you should hear this message and glory. So I'm I'm again I don't I that's more of a thought exercise that I'd want to press into more. It's a kind of question when I'm doing summer prep that I will ask myself and I will And I'll look more specifically at the Greek and see if I have a uh have any shot of being right. And then uh if I become persuaded then I'm wrong. Sometimes I'm persuaded, yeah, you know what, I don't think I'm right and I give uh I kind of move on And there's other times I'm like, you know, I think I'm I think I'm right. I think that that's an important application here, and then I'll look and see if I can find anybody of importance who's orthodox, who agrees with me because I don't want to be on an island by myself. Um well There have been a couple of times when I felt like I was almost on an island by myself, but uh because you you gotta preach your conviction. Uh but I'm I'm wondering. So that's uh It's possible. At the very least, I think I'm comfortable saying this, at the very least it's aspirational. We should all aim to love one another. And uh and it says a new command, but again, that's kind of an idiom. It's not really a new command. I mean that's basically an echo of the same command we see in Leviticus. Uh but what's new about it is there's a revol uh kind of a revolutionary uh aspect to it is don't just love one another, but love as I love lay down your life and be sacrificial and servant oriented and you know that the so there's there's a profundity that's new, but the command itself isn't really new. So one of the things that uh a a reference that it has here is like back to um Ephesians. You know, therefore be imitate imitators of God as beloved children and walk in love as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us a fragrant fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. And then it goes into all the things you know that you should avoid, like sexual immorality and Impurity and covet covet I can never say that word. I can't do it. Never been able to say that word properly. Problem. Um but so it goes into that and it's uh again not only speaking to the kind of love that it is, but like the sacrificial part. And I think that if we really are loving in that way, sacrificially and to the best of our abilities purely I think that a lot more people would recognize that than we than we realize. We have a tendency too flat on how we understand this, uh, in my estimation. We think in terms of laying down your life meaning you get you know, crucified up cried down, right? Killed. But you know there are plenty and I'm trying to do it now, but there are plenty of places where you can see that what's really being talked about is you're laying down your life, mean you're laying down your livelihood, you're laying down your reputation, you're laying down You're dying to self. You're laying down yourself, which goes to the point you were making a while ago about being willing to put yourself out there. And if people think badly of you, your rep your reputation in their eyes is tarnished You know what? You you need to let that part of you die, that ego, right, that that desire to be loved and liked by the world. You need to let that go and die to that in honor of Christ. Um And yeah, how often do we do that well? Yeah, and and that's I guess one of the things I was saying is that, you know, like Ray you were saying, you know like Like that you struggle with it because you're like, I I can't see how this is working. It it people maybe aren't seeing that we're disciples of Christ. I mean and then you have the world will go after anything that's even remo nominally Christian. Like I think of like Killsong and how like there's a very concentrated effort to go after them, but for many reasons, because obviously they have like a mountain of scandals going on. But it's like that is they're like symbolic of something that they don't really serve. Right. Which is kind of weird to me. Well, we had eight people in the room at one point. And we've got three now. So I'm going to end the stream. We're going to transition what we do here. I think we're actually going to do the Lord's Supper today. And if you don't have a church, I would encourage you to uh find a good Bible-believing church. And if you're within driving distance of Frederick, then I would uh encourage you to consider us as a possible place. uh for you to worship. So anyway, till next week. You can find us online by the way at household of faith in Christ dot com. Household of faith in Christ dot com. God bless.