Welcome to Household of Faith in Christ. The day between the cross and the empty tomb, the resurrection. We appreciate those who watch us live, I know some some do, and those who watch us later, uh appreciate that as well. Um an easy way to find if this if you want to watch all of our stuff later is to go to our website, Household the Faith in Christ dot com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. That's where you can link to all the places where we house our messages, our blogs, our resources, that sort of thing. So last two weeks we did uh kind of an open conversation about things going on in the season. Two weeks ago it was kind of in the spirit of the Lenten season. Last week it was in the spirit of uh Palm Sunday and entering Holy Week. This week uh I'm not sure. Is there something going on in the church calendar this week? Uh there's some there's something this week So we're going to do that again this week as well. And then next week we've got something special and the people in this room need to know this. And if you're online, care to listen along to what's going on. So next week we are meeting, but we're meeting at an odd time for us. So next Saturday at 3 o'clock. John Harris, people online, if you don't know, John Harris is a pretty uh popular online uh YouTube uh blogger and he's an author and he's a producer of of documentaries. He's uh he's uh one of the foremost experts on uh social justice questions, critical race theory, those kinds of things. He's gonna be here uh next week And he's going to be here for general consumption at 4 o'clock, but he uh already knows to expect that those of us here uh we'll have time with him before. So we're gonna meet at three o'clock. And between three and four we're gonna have some some uh some church, you know, some praise and worship and prayer and stuff, but also have a chance for us to have some time. with John before everybody else gets here. And then at 4 o'clock, John is going to make a presentation about the social justice issues as they affect the church. Uh I expect that that presentation Yes is gonna last about an hour or so. She really likes him actually. And then uh we're gonna have time for uh question and answer and time with John for another hour after that, maybe even an hour and a half. So anyway, so plan next week from 3 till at least 6, maybe 6. 30 at the latest. Uh so that's a little bit different. We don't usually don't start our stream until 6. So and I haven't confirmed with John if he's okay with us live streaming or not. I'm anticipating he will be, but I don't want to presume, so he might not be for whatever reason. That's fine But if we do a stream next week, it'll be at 4 o'clock instead of 6 o'clock. So just FYI. So that said, um would you mind opening us with a word of prayer? No. Well I didn't ask you. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. We ask your Holy Spirit to fill this room We ask that you would lead us, that you would encourage us, that you would show us the way home. We know that this is just A temporary home for us. We also know that you give us the abundant life here and now until you call us home. We know that we are co-heirs with you. What a privilege, what an honor. That's only because of what you did for us. You at the cross. You endured such hardship. You endured You endured what we deserved, but for the joy set before you run to the cross. Thank you. May you be glorified. May you lead this discussion in Jesus' name. So the last two weeks we picked essentially we picked a chapter each week and kind of work through almost an entire chapter and discussed it and stuff. We're gonna do something similar except this time we're gonna hopscotch through through different parts of the Bible. So if you want to get your Bibles ready. And I'm going to need somebody who's uh willing to uh read nine verses from Matthew. Matthew 28 The first nine verses, do you have a revival? I'm happy to do it. So again, that's Matthew uh twenty-eight, verses one through nine. Now after the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to look at the graves. And behold, a severe earthquake had occurred. For an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled away the stone and sat upon it. And his appearance was like lightning, and his clothing as white as snow. The guards shook for fear of him and became like dead men The angel said to the women, do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus, who has been crucified. He is not here, for he is risen, just as he said. Come, see the place where he was lying. Go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him. Behold, I have told you. And they left the tomb quickly with fear and great joy, and ran to report it to his disciples. And behold, Jesus met them and greeted them. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshiped him So this is a uh familiar passage of scripture for lots of people and one that's uh I'm sure being preached on and discussed and talked about this week. Um so we might already have some preconceived notions and ideas about this, so and that's fine, we can share those. But also if there's something that strikes you in the moment uh about this passage, we can talk about that too. Any words? Sometimes it's helpful to do you have a Bible by the way? Okay. Oh electronic. Yeah. You young lipper snappers. It there's one right in here too. I usually use that one. I was just on the shelves. There's plenty of 'em. Do you not No offense. But you're a man. You're probably staring right at it. Thank you. No, that's where Dina needs it. Oh. Thank you, thank you. Thank you. Are there any uh any words maybe that jump out and help you to see maybe a theme? But look at the first uh the first verse. How would you describe in a thematic sense something that we can draw from that first sentence? I'm not sure I understand the question. Okay, I mean I'm I was being oblique on purpose, but look so We see dawn, first day, so we see something, right? Dawn is a start of a day, first day of the week is a new week, so there's kind of a theme of a new beginning Okay. Right, so we can see that. Um and it says after the Sabbath, which is interesting. So it's something new after something, and the Sabbath would be connected to the uh the the the law of Moses perhaps And so there's something new coming on the heels of what was old. And so uh this is new, right? Mm-hmm. I mean, when was the last time somebody rose from the dead before this happened? So What it was interesting to me is that you know there was a great earthquake But the angel of the Lord rolled the s the back of the stone, not the earthquake. You would have thought with all the moving around that the stone would have moved, but it was the angel of the Lord that did it. It's like only it had to be a divine thing that only a uh something with the divine not that an earthquake isn't also uh a super not a supernatural, but a but I i I don't know. It just seems like it was more it had to stand out 'cause you think about an earthquake, that like shakes everything. That I don't know, it just seems really interesting to me that an earthquake didn't do it and the angel of the Lord did. Sometimes Different translations. Do you not have earthquake? I have earthquake. Sometimes the way they say stuff got different it's for my the this is right. That's the new king. This is the new king, yeah. I'm reading out an NASB which says that. Um that's the one I usually read on the screen. And mine says he rolled back the stone and sat on it. Mm-hmm. I almost I'm almost wondering if the earthquake is what shook not that's the earthquake had to shi shake the angel out of the sky, but it was almost like the earthquake symbolized this movement of God. with the angels coming out of the sky. Because it seems that they were one right after the other. And behold there was a great earthquake for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven. it it seems like they go hand in hand. The earthquake happens and as it's happening the angel of the Lord is coming down. That's how I'm reading it. Is that how you're reading it? Yeah. Let me I'm gonna try try to find a different translation to say it renders it any differently than that. 'Cause sometimes it's just the the idiomatic way that they say things. It's just not we we just have a Western mindset. We don't talk that we don't speak that way, so the the that that subtle change will you know, we read in a different translation Translation then you you know, you you get what they were saying because you're air phrase. I think I get where you're yeah, I guess is it seems like the angel part of the earthquake that will destroy Oh. Hmm. Yeah. Oh interesting. Yeah, yeah, there was an earthquake and then the angel Angel came down and she was asking you were asking why would the angel why didn't the earthquake do it rather than well the angel was the earthquake. Oh you're reading that as an angel. Verse 2 says for an angel came down. It does say that, yeah. And I think one of the main points here is it's supernatural. Right. The guards didn't roll the stone away. Something outside of the norm and the natural is what's happening here. Right. Well you know, I I read it out of a paraphrase, the Living Bible, and it also says for an angel of the Lord came down and every every translation yeah they say for an angel came down. So maybe yeah, the angel brought the earthquake or the angel. Well the angel coming down was the earthquake, which was part of the earthquake. I think it's the way to look at that. Hm. Kind of how I read it. But why would the angel need to need to make an earthquake the angel's strong enough to roll the stone away without there being a little bit more than a lot of the things. I wonder if it's to um like an announcement. You know. And that that's, you know, like w kind of what Ray's saying and what we're saying combined together. Mm-hmm. You know, the angel coming down is the earthquake for an announcement that something big is happening. And it's not un unusual you know when when God is coming in his glory or his his he's present with his glory that there's flashes of lightning which we don't see here, but also earthquakes. Right. Thunder and thunder. Yeah. Showing that, you know, he is the God of all creation. There's something that's outside of the creative norm here, somebody's risen from the dead, and so you know, something substantial here. So this is driving home the fact that this is a God thing. I mean I think in simple term oversimplifying it maybe, but I think we should really understand you know, Matthew's going out of his way to make sure we understand this is a God thing. Don't try to explain it some other way. Right. Something something supernatural is happening. Maybe there was an earthquake. Right. And the angel rolled the stone. Like, you know, it's a good thing. The earthquake also inspired fear of the soldiers and the next Right. And there's and that's something else that's it's a theme in these, by the way. Right? We see so on uh The guards were afraid, that's verse 4. But then in verse 5, the angel tells the women, do not be afraid. Right, and then uh then on verse eight the women they hurried away and they were afraid. And yet filled with joy, I think I find that um to fit very nicely with um the I I'm gonna paraphrase it because I can't think of exactly how C. S. Lewis says it, but C. S. Lewis is often either quoted or paraphrased by saying it's from Chronicles of Narnia, you know, who said anything about God being being safe? God's not safe. But he's good. And so here yet they're afraid yet filled with joy. So God, he's not safe. He can cause earthquakes. He can send angels to roll away stones. He can raise Nebuchadnezzar. Yeah, he can raise somebody from the dead. I mean he can he's a all powerful God, but he's good, so they're afraid yet filled with joy. The the afraid thing, that's sticking out to me now because Because you have two types of fear going on. You have the unbelievers sit there to guard the tomb Right. At at the direction of the Pharisees who said, you know, guard the tune so that that deceiver doesn't trick everybody by so called resurrection. So they're there on orders. Um in in in in the capacity of of reverence. Right. But the women are there in the capacity of followers. Yeah. And have a love for God. And so both parties are afraid, but one is afraid with terror. Exactly. While the other is afraid with like uh uh It's a f it's a it's it's more of I think of of a reverential like an awe. Awe fear. Not a I'm scared to death. You know, they the the guards actually fainted because they were so Terrified. I've never been that scared. I hope to never be so scared that it makes me faint. That's that that's some powerful terror right there. But the women were like It's him that's not an angel that he said You know, that kind of and it was yeah, it was it was too wonderful to believe yet they they they were believing it. And uh I think that that's gonna be judgment. Yes. That's gonna that's exactly it. That's the same thing. You know, we're gonna be like, holy cow, yes! But it's gonna be like, oh my god! There's Jesus, look at it! But I have to look out. Yeah. There's gonna be this amazingness Where they're gonna be like, Oh my, oh boy. Yeah. But they weren't lying. But the unbelief but the the rebellious folks are going to just be undone. Undone with with terror. Yep. Apart from Christ. And the the fear thing is actually going to be a loose theme today and I don't want to get ahead of myself by saying anything more right now, but just One other thing, at least, that I wanted to make note of uh uh in the passage we you just read a few minutes ago. If you look in uh verse nine So Jesus then meets them and he greets them and they came to him and they in the NIV it says they clasped his feet and they worshipped him. And this theme of worship, it's going to come up again a paragraph later when uh the disciples see him and they worship him. This is an important thing because as as people who've been following our series know, we've been working through Revelation and John falls down to worship one of the messengers. And the and the messenger says, Don't worship me. But here we have Jesus being worshipped and he doesn't say, Don't worship me, only worship God. He accepts their worship. And that's one of the evidences that you know Christ is the Son of God. He is God. He is deity. He would be rebuffing their worship otherwise. So it's not just that it's not like Lazarus was raised from the dead by God. This is God through his own power raises himself, if you will. By the power of the Spirit, the Son is raised. Um and it's a permanent raising because God can't can't be dead. And so anyway, a lot of people will like to argue, oh Jesus isn't God. Uh well, if Jesus isn't God, then Jesus sinned in this passage because he accepted worship as though he was. This isn't isn't the only answer before he went to the cross he accepted which he did it repeatedly Yeah, no th yeah, this is just an example that since we read it, I'm I'm pointing that out. I had to deal with somebody uh via social media who's trying to argue that Jesus is a God. Takes all time. Right. Um let's flip to Hebrews chapter ten. Somebody to read uh verses ten through eighteen Yeah. I should have flagged her much, although everybody else anyway. Hebrews ten and then ten through eighteen. By that will we have been sanctified through the offering of all of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest stands ministering daily and offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice, For sins forever sat down at the right hand of God, from that time waiting till his enemies are made his footstool. For by one offering he was perfected forever, those who are being sanctified But the Holy Spirit also witnesses to us, for after he had said before, this is the covenant that I will make with them. Now there is now where there is remission of these there is no longer offering for sin. All right, same exercise as before. Anything that strikes you as A theme or something noteworthy important about this passage? The notion of footstool. The notion of footstool? Yeah, like they will be a footstool. So a lot of times we think of footstool in like a reclining sense. But there's also a more aggressive st stance because back then they didn't have stir-ups. So how how would you get on a horse? In many cases, you would have someone kneel down so you could step up so you can climb onto a horse. Mm-hmm. So, you know, you think of like Jesus being like this warrior mentality and that's what the footstool would kinda be about. That's actually a pretty cool idea. I've I've never thought about it in terms of a horse before. That's Yeah, because they didn't have stir-ups. And we kind of forget that syrups weren't always a thing. No saddles are one thing. Syrups meaning what your feet go on to get onto a horse. Didn't have that until like after w after Rome fell. Like Rome didn't have those. Yeah, so that's an interesting uh image and idea that I think is is is helpful. Um it also sometimes it it comes in connection with like the throne room idea Yeah. And so there's a sense of Uh he's gonna be in authority sitting on his throne with his enemies vanquished underneath him, under his feet. Right, under what kind of things there's that. Um the earth is also described as as God's footstool the whole earth. Right. Yeah and heaven is the throne and earth is his footstool. But I think he's in this in this context I think he In in the heavenly example versus earth, I it seems to me that in that that context He's saying he's just simply saying the earth is subdued to him. It's his cook for you. But in this context, it seems like he's saying, I'm crushing my in It's a different way of to me that's how it comes across. Do you know what translation your electronic Bible is that you're reading from? ESV. ESV. Um what does the ESV say in verse 14? For thirteen you want to do it. No fourteen. Provide a single offering he has perfected for all time those vertical type size. Okay. And is yours ESV also? What's yours? N E S V? Ray. Uh it's NASA. Yeah, okay. How's how what's I just want to make sure they're out. I think it says a virtual the same thing for by one offering he has perfected for all time those who are sanctified. Okay. And yours is amplified? No, I I actually have to be Reading the NASPOC and the King James and How does their spears or by the one author he has perfected forever Yeah, I just wanted to make sure and the N the NIV which I have in my hands. Because by one sacrifice he has made perfect forever those who are uh being made holy. I just wanted to make sure, I'm pretty sure I just wanted to make sure there wasn't uh the original Greek, uh if my memory serves, uh all these translations are doing a good job capturing the past tense nature. Has made perfect. Has perfected. It's using past tense So that's an important message for Christians to hear because what does Christ say on the cross? It is finished. It is finished. Mission accomplished. Right? And so by one sacrifice he has made perfect. It is done forever those who are being made holy. So those who are Christians were still being made holy We're still being sanctified. We're still in process. But we but it's but it's it's a guarantee, we've been given our surety. Christ has made the down payment and he's good for the full fulfillment of that down payment in glorification. And so you might feel like your life's a mess. You might feel like you don't measure up. You're s you're still prone to some sinful uh behavior here and there kind of thing, like, oh my gosh, I thought I was a Christian. Why am I s why am I struggling in this area? Uh if you're truly a Christian, it it's a just it's a done deal. You just can't quite see it yet. And out of gratitude for knowing that it's a done deal, you're given the courage and the confidence to press forward and continue in this expectation. So that's uh The Amplified also says cleansed and perfected Yeah, and that's an important thing too, because the cleanser for fact I like putting those two together because we're not talking about because it says right after that we're being made holy. We're still being sanctified. So we're not Morally perfect yet. We, the the the bride isn't morally perfect. We will be, but we're not now. But we're we're perfect in the sense that we're Nothing that's unclean and unholy can be in the presence of God. And so we're cleansed. And so we're in God's eyes, we're seen as clean. We're seen as justified. we're seen as perfect. Well that's why our prayers are the prayer of the righteous is effective because we are Clean. So yeah, so what's perfect is our ability to draw near to God. We've been drawn near to God, because this is talking about the priesthood of Christ. Right? And so uh we're all a kingdom of priests. So the the the the high priest would go in and would be the one who could draw near. But now all of us are able to draw near. So it's a done deal. So we kinda have like two ideas. We have in tools enemies being made of footstool, which sounds like So I guess the question I have is in in this context, are his enemies those who are now sanctified? Kind of alluding to Romans five, or are we Or are the enemies referring more to Satan alluding more to Genesis three? Hmm. I gotta be honest, I've never preached on this and so I haven't done a deep, deep, deep dive. And my sense of this has always been to take it in terms of he's gonna vanquish his enemies. And save his people. But it's interesting. I think your question Can you repeat that? Because I actually didn't totally understand So there's like two ideas for enemies here and because the verse immediately afterwards talks about people being sanctified. So I'm wondering whether this is an allusion to the idea of the enemy part being an allusion to Romans five, well we are enemies, you know, Christ still died for us. That's taught in Romans 5, uh out of love and all that. So Romans 5 idea versus Genesis 3, he will nip you at the he will crush your head and you will bruise his heels, it more along those lines of enemy? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I feel a little bit confused Well I mean there's two ways to take enemies of God. You could take it as those who were enemies and Christ died for. I think it's interesting as a thought exercise, but looking at the grammar here, I'm gonna have to stick with my original view on this. So I think what's interesting about it is the idea I think what you're getting at the idea of God is taking those who are his enemies and and making them His footstool. And there's a sense where that's true, but we're co-heirs. But in this context, I mean On the one hand he's saying he's were since that time he waits for his enemies to be made his footstools. That's future. Because by one sacrifice he has made So these people are already made. So those who were his enemies are now his friends. And those that are still acting as enemies, he's gonna squash them and they're gonna have to bow and acknowledge he's Lord too. I think that's probably the better reading, but it's an interesting thought exercise because there's an element where that's true. Right, where somebody before they profess Christ and follow Christ and serve him as their king. So we were predestined. Everybody's been his enemy. Right. Exactly. Well the idea is that we were born of Adam that we had enmity towards God. Right. So that's true. So everybody was born his enemy till we till we get saved. But what he's saying, well I I agree with your interpretation Troy. I think he's talking about his forever enemies here. Okay. People who will never repent. Right. It's just a question worth positing because it is the immediate following verse is talking about those who are sanctified. So it's like, you know, are we talking about two different groups here? Are we talking about the same continuous group? I mean Jesus calls his disciples his friends. So I don't think there you know before he went to the cross he said, I no longer call you um uh slaves, but um Friends? Is that what you said? I think so. I no longer c so I don't yeah, I I I don't think that those who are considered friends of God Yeah, particularly since not only is the following verse uh past tense, meaning it's done, but the verses right before, verse ten. It also says, and by the and this is the NIV version anyway, and by that will we have been made holy. Have been, again, past ten, made holy, set apart. Right, so we can draw near to God uh through the sacrifice of the body of Christ once and for all. One of the important things here that I wanted us to make sure we understand what ha what's represented by what we commemorate and celebrate this weekend, Christ is not just the sacrifice, the perfect once for all sacrifice, but he's also the high priest, the one who's doing the sacrifice, who's who's uh enacting the sacrifice. So it's not like against his will Christ is is killed or no nobody takes Christ's life from him, he offers it up. You know, so uh that's something I think that can get lost sometimes. There's this focus on the the brutal beating that Christ takes and the suffering on the cross and Uh and then he somehow overcomes what the enemy did to him by raising from the grave. And there's an element how that's there's some truth in that, because we're all his enemies and we're all we all drove the nails. Through our sin as well. But it's not as simple as that because wes our sin is responsible, but we didn't We weren't in control. Christ is the high priest and he offers up the sacrifice himself. So even though we have responsibility, he's still in control. So all right, let's do the next passage. How about uh you know what I didn't I didn't write down what this was. Yeah. Let me see if I'm right. Let's see if it's John. It might be John. I'm not sure. Yeah. Because we we we had touched on this, but I wanted to in the in the the the theme of the fear, I wanted to touch on this John chapter six, I'll read it. Verses uh five through fourteen When Jesus looked up and saw a great crowd coming toward him, he said to Philip, Where shall we buy bread for these people to eat? He asked this only to test him, for he already had in mind what he was going to do. Philip answered him, I would take more than it would take more than a half year's wages to buy enough bread for each one to have a bite. Another of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, spoke up Here is a boy with five small barley loaves and two small fish, but how far will they go among so many? Jesus said, have the people sit down. There was plenty of grass in that place, and they sat down, about five thousand men were there. Jesus then took the loaves, gave thanks, and distributed to those who were seated as much as they wanted. He did the same with the fish. When they had All had had enough to eat. He said to the disciples, Gather the pieces that are left over, let nothing be wasted. So they gathered them and filled twelve baskets with the pieces of the five barley loaves left over by those who had eaten. After people saw the sign Jesus performed, they began to say, surely this is the prophet who has come into the world. I wanted to revisit this because in this story, the people have a need There's a little bit of fear like how are we going to meet this need? What are we going to do? Christ meets the need, and there's what is a pretty good response. The response is surely this is the prophet who is to come into the world. But obviously it's not the full understanding of what they should have understood about Jesus because this is chapter six of John. It's early. It takes a long time before they they they understand the new beginning nature of of things. And it just reminds me, it's interesting that, you know, our our habit is to gather on Saturdays. A lot of churches uh this week they might have had a Monday-Thursday uh gathering where they'd have footwashing perhaps and the Lord's Supper. A lot of uh churches had a a Good Friday service yesterday. Uh almost every church is gonna have some sort of a uh you know, maybe even a sunrise service tomorrow for Resurrection Day and all that sort of stuff. Very few churches are doing anything. today, we just happen to do things on Saturday. And so it just got me to thinking, it reminded me, we're in that in between. So on Friday, but we now look back and say, good Friday, because Jesus pays the price for our sin, good, even though it's the darkest day in history, right? Love incarnate is murdered, that's pretty bad, and yet we can look back on it knowing what we know now, and it's good. And of course we know the resurrection, which is celebrated tomorrow, is good. But put ourselves in context The the who we now call the apostles and all the other disciples on Saturday. So imagine, yesterday, the guy who we thought was surely a prophet who was to come into the world. just died yesterday in a brutal hor uh a brutal horrific way. And we don't know about tomorrow yet. So here we are today. And they're they're confused, they're bewildered, they're afraid, they're hiding, they're, oh, they got him, they're coming for us next. And I I want us to think about and talk about that. Like we have this opportunity because we're meeting on Saturday, talk about that in between. Because I feel like we as a people, even the church, unfortunately, but certainly as a general people in our culture, we're living afraid. We're living in the in-between And we're living in between in the broader sense, between the first and the second coming. So we know he came the first time. Great, we celebrate that. We know he's coming again. Great. We're celebrating the the truth that that's happening, but here we are. Living an elongated Saturday. We're living in between for however old you are, decades now. So let's m I think I don't know. I have some thoughts that I don't wanna jump into much. I uh hopefully I've said enough to spark some formulation. I just thought I I I kinda came to the same thinking that we are in between two comings of Jesus. I mean this time we have the Holy Spirit, so that's good news. Yeah. But You know, but you know, Jesus does say to Thomas, you know, blessed are those who have not seen yet believe. I think we this this this phenomenon we experience it constantly along the way. it it it it's like you said it's it's it it's emblematic uh we're in a Saturday until Jesus comes back. We're in a Saturday Saturday. And we've been in a Saturday for two thousand years, the church has. But to Pastor Troy's point, we are in that Saturday Saturday personally. Nationally. I feel like nationally we're in that Saturday. Um The peop people here know that I'm part of a prayer call and one of the things we keep uh the focus of that prayer call is to pray this nation around so that a a revival comes into the nation. Mm-hmm. Because we are in desperate need of a revival. And um many people on that prayer call have dropped off at this point Hmm. Because you know, they we we we've stormed heaven with our prayers and we and people as That God was going to answer in a certain time or in a certain way. Right. And he did it. And the disciples, you know No, um it's it's it's interesting. They thought that, um, even though they had the promises of God that, you know, if my people who are called by my name And they you know, I will hear from heaven, I will heal heal their land. They've heard that, but but be along the way, incrementally, God has not answered how they thought So now, so they've fallen away. The disciples here, incrementally, Jesus said, I'm gonna go to the cross. I'm gonna die. And they didn't they did they heard the words but they would they couldn't even pray with him in the garden. They fell away. They fell asleep, they fell away. Yeah. I and I'm the same way. They had a perception. You know, and I think a lot that that so um but yet, you know, the Lord is faithful. He kept his word and he He was risen on the third day. Um this is a this diner that's that's a human thing that you know So we people struggle with that constantly, whether it's individual individually, nationally, the church. It's the you know, that that that Saturday is helper. Yeah. And you really have to fight You really have to fight to to keep your joy after on Saturday. I'm not saying that the women were joyful, but I mean the men were just totally despondent. They were just like, this is it, you know. But the women were like, the women at least they they went to the tomb They went looking and said, you know, we're gonna do that. You know, they had enough, I guess, faith, I don't know what you're gonna call it, to go to the tomb and and anoint the body or whatever. And you had I mean, just that's a picture of the church too. Um Um you have some people who are just wholly despondent disciples. These were disciples are not these aren't just believers. They were disciples. They were followers. And so you have a picture of the followers who just get totally beat down by the circumstances. That's why only by the faithfulness of God that any of us any of us make it to heaven. Yes. We'd all fall away It's interesting because the disciples they were told what to expect. They just didn't really understand. And we've been told And yet we don't have to be a big thing. Do we really understand that he is coming again? And he's coming in glory and he's coming in judgment and he's coming to vindicate his people. I mean all of those things are so true and yet we live too often like we don't really know that it's true. And the disciples on Saturday They should have known the truth. Maybe in some sense they kind of did. I mean it's hard to know what they did and didn't understand, but they weren't behaving as though they understood. That much is clear. Like there might have been part of like, well he said he would raise like Jonah on the third day, but they didn't really act on it or believe it strongly enough or something. Maybe, I don't know. Maybe they just didn't it was completely over their head until he shows up and like, oh now, aha, now I get it And maybe it'd be like that like that for us too, when Christ does return to be like now we like this. Mm-hmm. That's what the faith was doing. It w it rose, it did at one time it rose so high that Peter said, I'll go to the cross. Right. With you. Yeah. And and Jesus is like and then he goes to the cross and they're like And he denies them. And he denies them. Yeah So th I mean the strongest disciples had the strongest faith arguably. You know, even he so I mean it's just it's our i it shows human frailty. Oh big time We constantly big time. And I don't I don't want to make the mistake of of trying to correlate us to them too much, but there are s I I think some things we can draw from. And so you've got, I'm sure on Saturday, they're saying, why did you know Judas have to betray R our rabbi and cause him to die or or why did the people turn on him and say crucify him and s and and and uh And instead let a murderer go free. You know. All these regrets they might have had, all these questions, why did this happen? Why did that happen? How was this allowed to happen? How was God moving in all this? And then he's he's raised and they all can see what's going on and then all of a sudden it all makes sense. This is why God allowed this. Judas betrayed him because It was all part of this. I think the same things might be true for us. When Christ returns, we're up m right now we're like, why is food ten times more expensive than it was a year ago? You know, why are my parents so mean to me? Why are why is my boss such a jerk? You know, wh wh why is has the church proven to be so consistently unfaithful in their behavior of witnessing for Christ. Why are all these things happening? And when Christ returns, I think we're gonna be able to say, Ah it makes sense now. I can see why Well, and the word says we will see fully. Now we see through a glass that's pretty much murky and you know and then we'll see clearly. Yeah. Well the next passage actually picky backs and it connects pretty well with uh with what Angela was talking about people dropping off the the the the prayer call and losing their focus, losing their game. So for Hebrews, we'll go back to Hebrews again. So there's a chapter six Hebrews six. I think. Yeah, Hebrews six. Uh picking up with verse four through to verse twelve. Anybody want to read that? For in the case of those who have once been enlightened and have tasted a The heavenly gift and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit and have tasted the good word of God in the power of the age to come, and then have fallen away. impossible to renew them again to repentance since they again crucify themselves the Son of God and put him to open shame. For the ground that drinks the rain, which often falls on it, and brings forth vegetation useful to those for whose sake it is also tilled receives a blessing from God, but if it yields thorns and thistles, it is worthless. And the and close to being cursed and it ends up being burned. But, beloved, we are convinced of better things concerning you And things that are accompany things that accompany salvation, though we are speaking in this way, for God is not unjust so as to forget your work and the love. which you have shown towards his name in having ministered and still ministering to the saints. Through verse 11 Through verse 12. Okay. And we desire each one of you show the same diligence so as to realize the full assurance of hope until the end. And verse 12, too. Okay. So that you will not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises. So you see how I see a connection with what you were talking about with the people in the prayer call? So the uh Any thoughts you want to give voice to on those uh but the nine verses Um yeah. Um Yeah, um I I think this this uh scripture speaks to um Well see it's it's talking about belief. But there were people who were actually enlightened. Sorry, stop talking. And it says, enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit, and have tasted the good Word of God and the powers of the age to come, and then have fallen away. It sounds like people who have experienced And um and peace who have actually experien it's different when you've experienced God and not just heard about Him. Um because now you have experiential understand you know you you understand things better when you experience them than when you just hear about them. You know if somebody describes what apple pie is like that's different than having actually eaten it Mm-hmm. And this scripture is actually one of the reasons people argue that people can't explain Experience God, have an encounter with the living God, and then choose to reject Him. let out cho even though they know and and and the scripture goes on to say it's impossible to renew them again to repentance because they've experienced that they haven't just heard about him, they've experienced him. And this is one of the reasons some people believe you can, it's not that you lose, maybe it's the terminal Well you never had it to begin with. You just had an experience. But to experience the Lord is to this says and have tasted of the Spirit. And I I I'm thinking of Saul, how he had the Holy Spirit, and then he kept rebelling, kept rebelling, kept rebelling, and then the Holy Spirit left and an evil spirit came out. So I'm just sh this is one of those scriptures that people use and then that exact illustration of Saw is why some people believe you can actually experience the Lord and then and then choose to reject that even after you've experienced them because You have a ch you always have a choice. Um and I yeah, I I think one of the reasons it's difficult I think one of the reasons it's just so controversial is because we talk about No, I think we can just See what what it says here after you've actually experienced them and then you choose to reject them, it says it's impossible again to renew them To repentance. Because they in other words, they know them. So that's the s that's the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. That's the own um only unrepentable thing. Okay. That's the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. They know him. I don't see the connection between Yeah. Well, but Judah but Judas that's the language it's kind of used here. 'Cause it talks about you crucify the Son of God yourself. Right. So Judas, that's a good that's a good example. Judas tasted of everything Jesus did. He was right there with them when he did all the miracles. He was um he he witnessed, you know, people being healed from impossible things and even people being raised from the dead. What excuse could he could he possibly have Well, I don't know. I mean you have you had a you have a doubting Thomas who was like, well I have to see him um be resurrected before I believe it. But that's different than than betraying him. Mm-hmm. Right. You know I mean but that's not blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. But I I think blasphemy of the Holy Spirit is then you deliberately you know the truth and you deliberately reject it and you what's the one thing that that that God can't forgive. God can't save a person who refuses to be saved. And I think that's what blasphemy he would never force his way. He won't he won't force his way on you. And I think that's what blasphemy of the Holy Spirit is. It's not people who haven't heard of Jesus, who haven't experienced Jesus, who haven't tasted of the Spirit. It's not that, it's people who have, and even after that That they still say, Well no thank you because I'd rather have this over here and I think for Judas it was money. He'd rather have money. That's why it was only only it only took thirty pieces of silver for him to sell Jesus He was so greedy for money that even after he experienced the the the living Christ for three years, he was still willing to sell the Lord for for money Uh thirty six shekels of silver, that's not a lot, right? It's not. It's it's the price of a slave from what I understand. So he was just he but he was that greedy for for whatever and for some people for a lot of people it's money. I think for a lot of people Right. Right. Whatever you think you get saved out of it and you taste of the Holy Spirit, you taste the good things And you go, huh? But I'd rather have this. So it's different than like 'cause we're none of us are without excuse, right? Because we see need But that's just there's an awareness as opposed to the Holy Spirit coming upon you and saying, I am The risen Lord and you're like, Wow. Or what if what if you can say what if you get delivered out of something that is impossible for you to Right, right, right, right. So you can live delivered all the lifestyle, you get a miraculous healing. Right. But you would have to uh know that that came from God. Someone would have to say As opposed to just the general um common grace. Yes, exactly. And and that's what he's saying. That's not that's in addition to common grace Right, it's a it's an additional common grace, Pisa, because he says who have been enlightened, so number one they've been enlightened, they have the truth. The truth is penetrated, they know the truth and have tasted of the heavenly And have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come. the age to come speaks to miracles, healings and deliverances. They've tasted so they've experienced all that and then have fallen away. It is impossible to realize. I think some contemporary examples could help us to, you know, put some meat on the bones here. You you I don't have to name names necessarily, although we I'm not a afraid to, but that's not the point. There have been some high profile pastors who over the last few years have uh have claimed to have deconstructed their faith and they're no longer followers of Christ. They've they've rejected Christ And they they were they were pastors for crying out loud. But we have and so I think that's part of like that'll be a contemporary example of how we would apply this, but we have to take into account the full counsel of God. And this is a challenging passage. It is much debated. You're right. It's actually very controversial and people def that this is one of the centerpiece passages. in the debate over whether somebody can, you know, lose their salvation, not lose their salvation, that sort of thing. I think we've got to read this within the full council of God and we can't ever forget what John writes in the first John chapter two in verse 19. So think about that high profile pastor who deconstructed his faith and turned his back on Christ. He might have been a pastor for twenty years and now he says, I'm no longer a believer in Christ. John would tell us about them. In uh 2 John verse uh chapter 2, verse 19, they went out from us, but they did not really belong to us, for if they had belonged to us, they would have remained with us. But their going showed that none of them belonged to us. And so I think that's why we see here in the Hebrews passage in ch in verse nine of chapter six He's saying all these things about you can you know if you fall away, you've you've you've shared in this, you've participated in that, you've tasted that. And even though we speak like this, isn't the NIV translation Even though we speak like this, dear friends, we are confident of better things in your case, things that accompany salvation. So you're saying, look, there are people who are going to deconstruct their faith and leave, but whoever the author of Hebrews is, some people think it was Paul or say it was somebody else. Whoever the author of Hebrews is, he's saying, look, I agree with John. If this is you, if you've shared in the blessings of the Holy Spirit, if you've tasted the goodness of Christ's church and the benefits and the blessings of that, And then you left it behind? That's evidence that you never truly were part of the family. So God knows our hearts. Also I think we ought to ought to pay attention to is that these aren't necessarily canceling each other out because there's all kinds of people, right? And there there in in other words, there's a kind of person who's a faker, who who fakes their their who they were, and they were never really part of the church. But that doesn't preclude the kind of person who actually did taste of the heavenly gift and and and experience the powers of the age to come and everything that's in that list and and then gave it away. And then and then because I mean are people are people capable of of of of of being like the proverb says, you know, after the pig's been washed they go back to the sloth. People are capable of doing that. So so what is blessing of the Holy Spirit if it's not that? Well that's much debated too. My my my my view on it is that it's it's basically it's rejecting the gift of salvation, which is only possible by the Holy Spirit. So if you're rejecting God's saving grace, which comes from through the Holy Spirit. There there's no repentance overcome that then. That is the rescue. You're rejecting the rescue operation. And I I agree with that. I think that's what it is too. But some people may it could be that some people reject they in other words they get the aha moment, they know things until later. Right. Some people reject immediately and some people reject after they taste it the heavenly gift. And I think it has to do with the soil. Like the paramo the different soils. Now you can have a hard heart and God can can can sow the fellow of your heart and soften it um because there's a scripture about please remove our stony hearts of sins of the hearts of flesh. So we can have a hard heart and God can work on that. But um when you look at the spectrum of humanity and the kind of people who get saved and who don't get saved, I think you have all kind you have you what the Bible does is give gives us a picture of all different kinds of sinners and I think I think what this is saying is that I'm in in in this particular picture I think it's talking about the type of person who takes the word taste to me is significant in in Hebrews Because again because you ingest Christ. Taste the Holy of the Holy Spirit. Yeah, if you take it without without eating Interesting. But but but but if you if you taste it then then it's just not something that's been on a shelf for you. You've experienced it. Right. Right. It it it's experiential knowledge, which is always superior to head knowledge. Yeah, one of the challenges we we have in a culture like ours is it's such a it over not so much anymore, but over the years historically it's been a very Christianized culture. And so a lot of people would call themselves a Christian, and they've been exposed to all sorts of Christian things uh Christian traditions, Christian teachings. They might even possibly be able to tell you what the gospel is, although in my experience most people can't. But they might even be able to do that, but that's not the same as actually having authentic faith and trust in Jesus and treating me as Lord and Savior. And so people have become inoculated against it. And it's so much harder. It's much easier, I think to go at somebody who's doesn't know the truth at all, has no exposure to it, and introduce them to the truth for the first time. Well we're getting there. Than to talk than to talk to somebody who Oh yeah, been there, done that. I know I know all about that. I know all there is to know. The way I phrased it and and there might be some disagreement in this room and that's that's fine. There's there's room for an Arminian view and a Calvinist view. in the household of faith in Christ as far as I'm concerned. But the way I've um thought about it and taught it is the idea that I do subscribe the idea that once someone Uh the kind of the one saved, all we saved. From before the foundation of the earth, God knew those who were his, so Christ doesn't uh none are lost that Christ has saved. But but the question is, okay, if you want to use that bumper sticker once saved, always saved, the question we need to ask, and that's I think what's going on here in Hebrews, while it's tying it to the rest of the theme we've been talking about today. Okay, once saved, always saved. The question then becomes, have you indeed been once saved? And if you have, you'll pay attention to verses 11 and 12 in Hebrews chapter 6 Where it says, we want each of you to show this same diligence to the very end in order to make your hope sure. We do not want you to become lazy, but to imitate those who through faith and patience inherit what has been promised. So I would are my position is I would argue that you're not going to lose it if you have it But if you have it, you will do this. You will not become lazy. You will persevere. You will maintain patience. You won't give up on the disciplines. I'm not saying the people who give up on your prayer call aren't Christians But that's an example of the kinds of things we're talking about. If somebody claims to be a Christian but then you know the first twenty years of their life they went to church every week because that's what their family did, but now here they are forty And they haven't been to church but three times, once for their wedding, once for their grandfather's funeral, and once for some other time. And they still call themselves a Christian. Yeah, I'm sorry. You go into church every week for twenty years, that doesn't make you a Christian You know, or saying all the uh the nice things or wearing a bracelet that says, you know, WWJD, what would Jesus do? That makes me a Christian. That doesn't make you a Christian. You know, you've got to persevere to the end, and those who are Christ's bride do persevere. But you can't just be like, oh, I can sin all the more, I can do whatever I want, I don't have to press through. But why does it tell us to not be sluggish if it's not possible for us to be sluggish? in our faith. Why is why are we being war in other words, why is the writer of Hebrews admonishing us to not do this if it's not possible for us It's one of the mechanisms for those who are true believers to have assurance. So Christians will have some Christians oftentimes will struggle with, am I really saved? And it's something that a pastor can then say, well, are you doing the things the Bible admonishes believers to do? And if you're doing those things That can reinforce your assurance that you actually have what you think you have. So that's one of the reasons I think that we have those admonishments. And sure, and uh so we have the admonishment because it's possible for that to apply to us But but that if it's possible for that to apply to us, it must is it seems to me it must be possible For us to also fit verse four, which talks about those who have already been enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift and been made partakers of the Holy Spirit And then chose to aga again I I think what throws us off is that we we ask, can we lose our salvation? I don't think we can lose it. I think we can give it away though And that's a different thing. I if we don't guard if if we if we do not purposely perceive Pursue a relationship with Christ. I think I think a marriage situation in the natural is a really good example of it. relationship with your spouse. I think we have to be intentional and this is telling us to be intentional. I think that if we're not intentional we can be seduced by the world and then we can choose just like people choose to give up on their mar their natural relationship, people do that all the time. And and they'll they'll give you they'll give you all kind of excuses why. But the bottom line is they chose it because they weren't intentional about their relationship with the Lord. I think that because we are in a marital relationship with the Lord and because love is all about choice and never about force. We are constantly along the way. Because the Lord's gonna be faithful. He's not gonna ever not, you know, but we can choose to be so hard hearted and just so lazy and so um I think I've met somebody who who who who fits the scripture. I think I've already met that person and my life. I think about her all the time. Um how she started out so loving the Lord and um she began to slowly creep into this other way of thinking and her husband remained faithful to the Lord and it it it's it's it's really a tragedy. He remained faithful to the Lord and um and as she was slipping into this he was he was he was a very passive person. A godly man but just really passive And as she began slipping into these things, um, you know, he he continued to serve at his church, at the at the church where he he continued to do that, and then after everything was all set And they were out of my life, the Lord sh talked to me and he told me he didn't follow the Timothy, I think it's first Timothy admonition that if you don't have your own household in order, you can't serve me. His household was out of order because his wife was slipping into something and he should have been fasting and praying and doing whatever he needed to do to get her back on track, but he didn't. And she slipped until she started believing things that were I mean, laughably crazy. Mm-hmm And and sh and they wound up being divorced and it was very sad and he actually passed away not that long ago but lost his marriage, lost his, you know, they had a you know, they had a child. All that was destroyed because she Um I mean she tasted as far as I can tell she tasted of the heavenly gift the power the good word of the of of God and the power of the age to come. She started believing in new age stuff, had crystals all over. I mean, just slipped deep into apostasy and it was impossible. I tried my I tried my very best reason with this woman. And and her her Trump card was but I have sp it was Gnosticism. I have special knowledge. You wouldn't understand You know, I I I I think I think that the Lord has caused me to see that and because you know when I experience stuff And then I come across the Word of God and it seems to stick out to me and I'm like, was this illustrated to me personally? I think it was. That's what happened with her. Right. She deliberately threw her face away. And I and so I don't disagree with what you're saying. I would say, like, let's just say I went through a season. Lord forbid it. But I know that I know that you had gone through a season because you got saved at an earlier age where you were but But but but and this is I think that's the biggest word. God disciplines those that belong to him. Yes. And you were disciplined to come back. She wasn't disciplined. And doesn't sound like she was disciplined by the mighty hand of God. I I don't I don't know whether she was or not, but I would the only thing that I that that comes to mind as you say that is Saul God changed his heart and he still continued to rebel. It says in the Bible, he changed his heart, and that was remarkable to me. God gave Saul every opportunity to be the king, the piece that he looked to be. And Saul still rebelled. He just refused. Just dug his heels in and just kept on disobeying God. And I just think that people b because again love is a choice, people can just flat out refuse. Even though they know better. And I just, if I hadn't experienced that and had my experience, I agree with you though the Lord got a hold of me. Right. Um but by the time he did I was nearly an atheist. But he got a hold of me. I I did want to I did want to return. But I don't think I did have to. I didn't have to I didn't have to re it was my choice. I didn't have to return. Um but I did because I I went, you know No. I don't know God very well, but I I want to get reacquainted with him because this out here is is really crazy. And I don't want I I want no part of this but you have that kind of person who's just really, really just they're stay handed, they're like the devil. They just they refuse. They know better They don't care. Even in a situation like that, if somebody, you know, uh makes a choice, you know, that that choice is an act of faith. Yeah. And faith is a gift from God. So God's still the controlling interest in that. And I'm It's more of a rhetorical trick probably, but uh trying to find like a a way that we could navigate this and try to get to a place where we could have some uh some semblance of of of an agreement before we we wrap up the uh the live stream anyway. We'll we'll take a shot at it. I'd be willing to go so far rhetorically to say that you can't lose your faith if you can give it away. But if somebody does actually in fact give it away, then I would argue that scripture would indicate that the person who gave it away didn't really have what they thought they had to give it away to begin with. They fooled themselves. Yeah they were fooling themselves. They were giving away something they didn't truly experience. They had possession of it but they didn't really own it. And they were giving away something they never really owned. No, no, how can how can I how can I give you this phone if I don't currently have it? You I Thank you. No, it doesn't matter what you think. This I have this in my hand. How can I give this to you or to anybody in this room if I don't presently have now if I don't really have a phone in my hand And I'm deceived about that. That's a different question. But if I have but if I have a phone in my if I if I really do have a phone in my hand, how can I give this to you if I You can't give away what you don't have. It seems to me that's impossible to give away what you actually do not have. Well to use that as an analogy then maybe it'd be you see something bigger, because that most people would outright own their phone, but take something bigger that people can't always outright own, like their house. And they say, That's my house. I own it. I live it. All the furniture is mine and then they don't make a few mortgage payments and it's repossessed. And they're like, Wait a minute, it's my house and the bank says, No, it's not. It was never yours. It's ours. We let you live there until you paid it off. But you know that. You know that it's technically when you know that when you are buying something on time, it's not really yours until you pay the last. I think that's a little bit different than you actually have it And and and then you give it away because Well then I don't know rhetorically I could go there then. Uh I I was trying to find a middle m I don't know the r rhetorically I could say then in any sense that somebody could uh uh can't lose it but they can give it away. Um I I'm gonna have to say then okay they can't give it away then either. They just never actually had it. They were deluded into thinking they had something they didn't have. Because God knows those who are his from before the foundation of the earth. And he knows it because he dec because he decreed it. That's true, but but what I'm but what I'm but what I would ask how I would answer that is He would all he would already know that as well. He would all if he if he knows and he does who's already his he knows that uh the he he knows the person who would give it away that was never really his. He would already know that. He would know the person who would reject it outright. Because he knows our thoughts before we even have them. He says Jesus said, My sheep are uh know my voice and they follow me. They are in my hand. I am one with the Father and no one can snatch them out of my hand. What what I believe he is saying there is that listen, from my end Nobody can take you away from me. I can't lose you. It's impossible for me to lose you. It's not my father's will. It's impossible. Not gonna happen. I can't fail. But you want to do it again? You can choose against me and because I'm not going to force anything on you because you know the force thing The force things on people is a uh we usually think of it in terms of sex and call that race. So um God is not going to spiritually raise us if we actually choose against him, even after we've tasted of the heavenly gifts and all those other things, he's not gonna force it on because that would be that's against his character. It's against his nature. So but he on his end, he cannot fail us. What his his blood, his sacrifice is perfect. It it's you know, it it's complete, it's it's it's omnipotent. He can't but just like Adam at the beginning could choose, although he knew better. He just stood there and he just watched eve. He wasn't deceived, the Bible says. He wasn't deceived, but he just watched it. He knew better, gave away his salvation Let it happen, watch the train wreck, gave it away. Well, I don't think they necessarily had salvation in a sense because they had the tree of life and then they had the tree of knowledge of No, they were saved before they they ate they before they sinned. They were they were saved. They were saved or not saved because they were saved. Um I I I yeah, I but but so you know what I'm saying? They weren't lost. They weren't they had eternal life. Right, exactly. They had eternal life. Well they have the tree of life, but Right, but they would have been able to eat from had they obeyed God but Angel is saying is they gave the eternal life away in exchange for four. It wasn't a matter of God failing them. It was a matter of them failing. Now I th Adam and Eve are probably saved. They're probably saved. I'm c I'm guessing they're saved. You know. But the the the the uh what that illustrates is that from the very beginning people have the capacity to know better and deliberately reject the truth and give away the most valuable thing that they could ever possess. I don't think that's changed. And I don't think that's changed over time And again, I think it's the terminology that's that's thrown us off. We talk about losing our salvation. No, we can't lose it But we can choose to give it away. Now the cell phone example is limited. I can obviously lose the cell phone. So this is a limited example. But but where this example I think was valuable is that the only way I can give a give it away. I in uh in other words, I can't give away your house. I don't possess. But to use the cell phone analogy, this is the part that I'm trying to uh show Trying to make connections based on how we're talking about it here. Right. So the father gives to the son The bride, right? So the bride is the phone and the father gives the phone to Jesus. And Jesus can't lose that phone. Nobody can cause their phone to be lost, but somebody could could take the phone away from Jesus, could choose to take it away. Okay, so the limitation of that illustration is that this phone doesn't have a will, though. It's an inanimate object. So with creatures that have a will, it's I it is different because now now you can choose because you have a will. You're a sentient being You have a will. And that's was I that's that's where that limitation I I uh I think doesn't up or that illustration wouldn't apply to the firm. Well I'm gonna uh draw to a close the final couple of verses to to try to cinch this. Uh the whole the whole point that uh you know we can have the the it's kind of a classic uh debate that's been going on for centuries in the church. So we're not going to necessarily solve that here tonight. But the however if you want to think about that particular question, the idea of hanging in there through the tough times, being obedient, persevering to the end, uh we all would agree, no matter what your view Whether you're agreeing more with Jacob Arminius or agreeing more with John Calvin, we would all agree that we need to be obedient and we need to s to to persevere to the end. And going back to the theme from the beginning, that we're we're living in a day after day after day Saturday, where we're living between the two Advents. And every day feels like the Saturday between Good Friday and Resurrection Sunday. day and it's hard. And so in John chapter 6 again, verses 27 and 29, I'll just read them at two short verses. Do not work for food that spoils, but for food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you. For on him God the Father has placed his seal of approval. The work of God is this, to believe in the one he has sent. So if you profess to believe in the one who is sent, continue to profess that and then prove it out. by how you behave, how you act, and do not put your hope in food that spoils. Put your hope in things that endure, that are part of eternal life. Um, it's hard. You know, we've we've had to deal with things in this country for the first time the last couple of years that people in other parts of the world have had to deal with for generations probably. And so we're having a it's a an a it's a fresh experience for us And we're seeing just how hard it can be. And to be honest, I feel like it could prove to get an awful lot harder even in this country. So steal ourselves. If you're not if I'm talking to the people in the stream right now mostly, if you're not part of a church, you've got to get part of a church. You've got to gather together with other believers. You've got to hold each other accountable, you've got to encourage one another, pray for one another, pray with one another, uh do life at some level with one another. You because if you try to do this as a lone ranger Man, oh man, oh man. So you've got to come together. Doesn't it be some big giant church with a thousand people? In fact, you're probably better if it's not. Um but even if it's only, you know, uh less than a dozen people. If you're coming together regularly and you're in each other's life and you're not micromanning each other's m micromanaging each other's life and you're not in every moment of each other's life, but you're there for each other and you and you know it and you get to really know each other and you can have the kind of dialogue that we just had. This is a really good example of that. Uh Angela comes from a school of thought within the the the Christian realm uh that is uh at odds with uh The way of looking at certain questions to the way I understand things. I think the way that Ray, the way that you're talking about things today would agree. And yet here we are, still in fellowship, recognizing that we're gonna believe in the one he has sent. That's what it's about. And we can argue the minutiae later, uh you know, and Angela I'm sure is 100% sure she's right, and I'm 100% sure I'm right. And I'm And one day, yeah, will either one of us be proven to be right and the other one wrong, or we'll both be proven to be wrong, or some bizarre way we'll both be proven to be right in ways that we can't quite understand how that could be That that's not the point, but we gotta hang in there and don't be lazy about your faith. If you're yeah Now the people who are on the prayer call and they dropped out, hopefully they're still praying. I mean if the only praying they were doing was on their prayer call, well then they're they're in trouble. So as we prepare ourselves for tomorrow, which is a glorious day, everybody gets excited about that day. Let the excitement of what that day represents, victory over death, eternal victory over death, let that sustain us on the what seems the endless stream of Saturday. So um we're gonna wrap up the stream here. Ray, would you mind maybe closing us with a little bit of prayer before we say goodbye to our streaming fellows? Yeah. Uh dear Lord, we thank you for this day. We thank you for yesterday that was Good Friday and tomorrow that is Resurrection Sunday and the day in between. Which builds up to your glory. And we just thank you for that. And you know, we feel that we are living in that day in between, your first coming and your second coming, and we pray that it continues need to build up to your glory and your glorious return. And we thank you for the gift of salvation that you've given us. And we pray that you may extend your mercy on many more. And in Jesus' name we pray these things. Amen Amen. It is good news, and I I know we got a little bit into some theological weeds a little bit, and that could confuse some people. Let me simplify it for you really quick. God is in control. He is sovereign. Jesus Christ is King. He rules even now, not in the way that He will one day rule, but He rules even now. He is King today. And you need to bow your knee to that king today. You need to trust in him for forgiveness for your sin because you've got sin. Trust me, you've got sin. Trust me I've got sin. We've all got it. We've all got a guilt problem. You've got to know what to do with that guilt problem. And we have certainty that we can trust in Jesus because he demonstrated that he is who he said that he is. He proved it when he rose from the dead. Our faith centers on historical fact. It's not mythology. It's not wishism. It's not Gnosticism, sort of secret knowledge. It's hard and fast historical fact. Jesus said, I'm going to die, and on the third day I will rise again, and he did. And so everything else he taught, everything else he stands for, we know it's true. And if you'd like to know a little bit more about that, check out our resources on our website. And you can reach out to me, call me, text me, email me. I would love to talk with you about it. Till next week, God bless.