This is a little bit academic, a little bit technical, but it's the history of from the 1960s to the present, how social justice got into evangelical Christian organizations and denominations And then this is the last one I wrote. And this is this is the one that I I've probably been the most excited about just because I think it's It's the main information I think people need to know about social justice and the threat it is to Christianity and to the gospel packed into one book. So it's It's pretty tight. There's a lot of footnotes, a lot of opportunities if you want to research to go off into other areas you can. But uh this is um Christianity and social justice, religions and conflict. And I just take you through the history. We're going to talk about this actually today, the history of social justice. social justice philosophy, how it contradicts what we believe as Christians. And so we'll we'll talk about this. We'll talk about the social justice gospel. and all of that. But that's this is usually the one that I tell people, if you're going to get one, this this is probably the best one that'll give you the most comprehensive take on it. So those are in the dining room as in leave if if anyone wants any of those And uh like I said, if you don't have the means please just take one or all of them or yeah. Did you bring enough copies or are we gonna have to fight each other? There's a lot of copies all day. I think I brought enough. Yeah. Although I wouldn't mind seeing a fight, so we didn't have all of them so I have a couple of them. Yeah, so did did someone else oh no? Okay. So yeah, feel free to um to avail yourself of those. I'm gonna start off uh today I was debating where I wanted to start off here. Um I want to start off though with a question and some something I think we can probably in this room all relate to, especially since all of you are within two hours. of Frederick, right? So I'm assuming from what I've heard about Frederick and the people warning me about coming to Frederick, I did get warnings in the comments and I said, I'm going to Frederick and they're like, that place is super woke. Why are you going to Frederick? Uh you probably you probably have heard something about social justice and wokeness and maybe a little bit of BLM and all that, I'm assuming, being within a two-hour radius, but probably is part of your everyday life. And then I'm also assuming that being from this area, you've also had some pretty strict COVID restrictions and you've seen churches shut down, businesses, and and all the rest. And um and I I'm assuming just a lot of leftist thought is probably pretty prevalent in this area. And so the last three, four years have been uh probably very eye-opening. There's been a lot of change, very sudden change. Almost change that's so fast you're trying to figure out like wow why is this happening so fast? How does this make any sense? Maybe you've heard of conspiracy theories that have tried to explain all this. And um we were talking about some of that at at lunch. Uh and I think Um many, and I'm maybe in this room, but maybe just people you know, have even turned to coping mechanisms to try to deal with how fast this country has changed culturally, socially. And the question I think that people are trying to answer is why and what? Two questions really. What is happening and why is it happening? And that goes for people even that aren't Christians, people even on the progressive left, who might be secularists, they're even trying to, some of them trying to answer that question. Like they know something's in the water, something's different. There's a change in the air. What is that change? Because it doesn't all seem positive to us Um it there's there's an angst out there. I can actually see that even in just the movies that are being produced. I don't really go to the movies, but I see advertising this now and then. There's a lot of dystopian stuff out there There's a lot of like just depressing themes that are being, you know, come watch this movie. It's so dark and depressing. Like why would I wanna my world is like that. I don't know why I'd want to see this, but You can you can just tell that there there's that pain's in the air. And I wanted to read for you um a few quotes from some of our founding fathers that I thought I thought really speak to this. And I'll start with Samuel Adams. Samuel Adams was a young man at the start of the Revolutionary War. And he warned that what would happen if America gave up the principle of Christianity and self-government. He said a general dissolution of the principles and manners will more surely overthrow the liberties of America than the whole force of the common enemy. While the people are virtuous, they can not be subdued. But when, once they lose their virtue, they will be able to surrender their liberties to the first external or internal invader. Now that's very prescient. That's an amazing observation reading it in 2022 because that's exactly what we're doing. We're giving up our liberties We're looking to the government. When something bad happens, we cry out to our God, and it's not the God of the Bible. It's Uncle Sam. What are you going to come do for us? We're We beware we have a virus. I don't know. We have we have a natural disaster. Uh we have systemic racism. We ha whatever it is. Uncle Sam, what are you gonna do? And so we look to the government more and more for really what ultimately people used to look to God for. Because we know that some of these things are so great and so big, that they're so beyond any anything that we can collectively do. We need the mercy of God. And so Samuel Adams says that's the real threat. It's not the Russians or the Chinese or another, those are threats, but the real threat, the most pernicious threat, that will overturn our liberties is from within. It's when the people lose their virtue. And so we were talking about this a little bit at lunch. And we were talking about evangelicalism, but evangelical Christianity, this could be said for just about every institution At the bottom, what's actually going on? Uh is it, as some have said, oh and forgive me if some of you don't understand some of these theological terms, but is it postmillennialism? That's one of the solutions that's been given a lot. Says that the church was just post-millennial. I'm not postmillennial, but I have friends who are, and they said if the church was just that, we our problems would go away. Or just we're just not Calvinist enough, that's what it is. Or not Arminian enough. Or or the you know the real problem, John, and it's it's none of those are the real problems. The real problem is that men have sinned. Ultimately the real salvation. Men are corruptible. Our founding fathers understood this because of their Christian backgrounds Um, that men can be bought off. Men can selfishly try to impose their own agendas and uh they they want they're to line their own pockets and they w they don't want uh a life that might be challenging and so they want a life of ease and so they get lazy and they're not brave. These are the kinds of things that lead to the corruption that we're in today. I think that's what's holding true across every institution, whether it's the Boy Scouts of America, Southern Baptist Convention uh your knitting club. I mean it it's really like any institution has leadership problems, corruption issues, um and and and and that behind all of that is sin. It's that there's a loss of virtue somewhere along the line. Now, our founders, like like a garden, if you think of virtue like a garden, our founders knew what we need to do, how to cultivate that garden, how to keep virtue healthy. And the way to do it is make sure that religion is uh supported and able to thrive and is prominent among the people individually, the citizenry of the country James Madison proclaimed the honorable determination which animates every votary of freedom is to rest all our political experiments on the capacity of mankind for self-government. Self-government. Well, what's self-government based on? Thomas Jefferson said reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle. 'Tis substantially true that virtue or morality is a necessary spring of popular government. So here's here's what the founders, broadly speaking, is what they thought. And and by the way, some of these not Orthodox Christians, but very much influenced by Christian ideas. In order to have liberty, we have to have self-government. In order to have self-government, people have to restrict themselves themselves. Otherwise the imposing hand of the government comes and will restrict things for them. So people have to be responsible. But in order for people to be responsible, they have to have religion. And that religion was Christianity. There wasn't any other religion at the time. It was Christianity. And that's, I think, the main thing that's changing in the United States. And the last few years have been the result of that. It's the waning of Christianity and the rise of something new. Something new at such a fundamental level. Religion is the most fundamental level. For our society. Of all the different aspects of society, you can think of religion is the one that motivates us, shapes us, forms us, more than anything else. And there is a seismic shift that we're in the middle of right now from a culture influenced by Christianity to a culture influenced by, it's the term I'm using, social justice. A state religion. And there's different terms people have used, right? Some people say it's just Marxism, right? Marxism is a religion in some senses. Francis Schaefer called it a Christian heresy. I think that would fit to some extent. We're in a this is neo-Marxism. This has some some development that's that's taken place and we're talking we'll talk about some of that. Some have said this is just postmodernism, that's what it is. Think at the end of the day, social justice is paganism, though. It's paganism. It's a return to pre-Christian ways. I don't know if this is happening in this area, in the area that I live in, I was shocked. I I grew up in upstate New York most of my life. I've moved down south for about four years. I went back up to upstate New York last fall and I'm like, what happened up here? Why why are there witches everywhere? I like walk into Marnes and Noble and there's a book on casting spells as I walk on the display shelf I was just like how well who who's buying this? Um there's a town that I live by. Woodstock. What's that? Woodstock Yeah. Yeah Woodstock is uh we we never went there anyway, but yeah, I was there not too long ago. I saw some like warlock guy on the side of the road doing stuff and I was like Like um but they've always been a little weird. But there's a town near me, New Polts, um, and there's I I couldn't believe the amount of transgender people that I see walking around. I you know, four years made a huge difference in that particular area. And I'm sure you've seen the difference uh maybe even here. And and all of this is is rooted in a a kind of paganism, a kind of worship of the creation instead of the creator Elevating man to the place of deity, believing in our collective ability to save man from himself in some kind of a utopia. Tower of Babel 2. 0 Uh and if you're not on board with the agenda, well you must be a horrible person. You must not love your neighbor. You must not want to stop the spread. You're not in this together, I guess. Right? And so um That's where we're at. This is a religious battle. I think the founders would have identified it as that. They would have said this is a threat to self-government This is a threat to individual freedom. And the reason we're losing those things is because we don't have virtue and we don't have Christianity to support that virtue. So with that being said, I want to talk about social justice, and I'll give you some history. We'll talk about the philosophy of social justice, and then we're going to compare it to biblical truth. So we'll open our Bibles. So I want to give you a definition. The modern social justice movement, here's my definition. And I'm going to read it to you again after we talk about it. So this is kind of technical, but I think it'll be clear to all of us after we go through some material here. The modern social justice movement is a repackaged configuration of egalitarian ideas, heavily influenced over the past century by postmodern and Marxist derivatives. Its purpose is to rectify disparities in advantages between social groups through reallocation. Thanks, John. That all makes sense now, right? I don't even need the rest of it. So let me let me um let me go through some things, and we're going to go right back to that definition. I want to take this apart. Social justice, the term itself, and people will tell you that there's this has been used in really uh pro-Christian good ways, and there's a good kind of social justice. I argue in my book there's not. So it just Historically, you can't make that argument. There's uh I don't want to get into the weeds on it, but the social justice itself was popularized mostly by a guy named Walter Rauschenbusch. And there was a few others in that time period, this was the turn of the century. And they really liked something called Fabian socialism. Fabian socialism is the idea, we call it progressivism. But it's the idea that by increments we can get to the revolution. We don't do it all at once, but we march through the institutions. So we can wait it out a hundred years, we'll get there eventually We'll have our socialist utopia. And the Fabians were, it was a British group called the Fabian Society, and Walter Alshenbusch, who is a professor in New York actually, a Baptist history professor. traveled to Europe and he liked the Babyans and thought these guys they have it right. They're they're great. And he thought here's the problem though. If I come back to the United States and I all I tell them I've seen the light. Socialism is the answer. We all gotta be socialists. They're gonna think that, number one, I'm an atheist because all fabians are atheists And number two, they'll think that I'm a degenerate because the atheists were pretty pretty bad folks. And so the word socialism or socialist has some bad connotations. If someone called you a socialist, that was really bad. You don't want to be called that. So we thought, how do I market these ideas, get Christians to believe them in the United States without calling it socialism? How do I do that? So he had a clever idea. He wasn't the first one that did this, but he was the one that made it popular. He said, well, I'll just call social justice instead. And I have actually a number of quotes in my book I could read to you now of other ministers and thinkers in Great Britain, in the United States especially, that did just that. uh late 1800s, early 1900s. They took the term social justice, and what they were marketing though, when they used that term was Fabian socialism. They wanted socialism. And so there were societies set up to try to advocate for social justice at the time And if you do like a Google, there's a, I think it's called N-gram Google search, where you can see words throughout time, how they've been used in published materials, you'll see this big spike in the term social justice right at that period of time. And then all and then it goes it uh it starts going up and then in the last like twenty years it spikes again. That term has been used over the past century or so. And it's that tradition that we're talking about when we talk about social justice, the way it's been used popularly, and really it's one of the same with socialism. Different iterations of it, different forms of it, but every single time it has these three elements. It wants to achieve an egalitarian ideal. Now, egalitarianism is a French word that just means equality, but it came out, it was popularized from the French Revolution. because they wanted ideal egalitarianism. They wanted equality among the people. No disparities between people groups. Everyone has the same. And This was before the use of the term social justice. This was redistributive justice. It's the same thing. But during the French Revolution, the father of the French Revolution, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, said, we need to achieve this egalitarian state. This this state in which everyone is equal, no one has need of everything. It's just a great society. And we don't have that. And the problem is, number two that we have social institutions that are preventing its achievement. So number one, we need to achieve an egalitarian ideal, no disparities between anyone. Everyone's equal. They have the same s amount of stuff, the same access to health care and privilege and all this And number two, we have to dismantle all these horrible social institutions that are preventing this from happening. We would have this society if only We had we didn't have families. Families really get in the way of this. I mean they pass down their wealth to their children and their grandchildren and they keep the wealth in the family and the nice house and they're not spreading it out. Not everyone has access to That doesn't seem fair. Um what about the church? I mean churches have tons of m everyone gives money to the church and they call the pastor pastor as if he's important, you know. And uh it's this horrible institution that's just using guilt to get what what they want. And you have labor relationships that aren't fair. You have these employers and employees and one has authority and one doesn't and there's men and there's women and women are having to submit to men and it's just everywhere you look there's all these problems, always inequities around us. And we got to get rid of these. So how are we going to get rid of these social institutions that are preventing this? Well, number three, we implement a force capable of executing the utopian dream. So in other words, the government or some central authority comes in as the bigger bully on the street, says, all these little bullies, you're preventing so you're preventing social justice, so We're going to force you to make sure that your company, your church, your family, your region, your police department, your prison system, whatever, we're going to force that institution to be equal, to have equality. Now they call it equity, diversity, inclusion. And we're going to make sure we're going to police that Now think about this with me for a moment, right? The whole point of this is there's inequities out there. There's disparities. There's some people have stuff, some people don't. This isn't fair. And we need to get rid of these social disparities So the way we're going to do it is we're going to create the biggest disparity the world has ever seen. A big all-encompassing government. We're going to wipe out all the voluntary associations and intermediate organizations and then we'll just have individuals It's just the individual and the government. And that's the new hierarchy. And that's going to be fair. Because democracy will make sure that the well we're going to keep them accountable. Right? That never works. The story of the 20th century is It never works. Communists always say that on the front end and then once the revolution happens, oh my, we have a new disparity. You have a bunch of people at the top making all the money and getting all the privilege and then you have all the slaves at the bottom, the civil slaves. And so that's the story of trying the attempts to implement this over time, but yet they keep trying to implement it. And they think, well, if we just tweak this, or if we just do it this way, or if we it'll be different this time They never achieved actual equity. They never achieved the dream they're looking for, but they're always trying. They're always trying to get back to the Garden of Eden somehow. So it's a it's a to maybe they can sneak by the angel who's guarding it and they can get right back in there. If we just have the government, right? They'll be able to do it. So I'm going to take you on a jet tour through history here and some of the developments in this idea. And this is all in my this is all redistributive justice and this is all in the family of social justice You have communism, Marxism, first, and basically Marx said that, you know, the real reason that we don't have equality is because some people have stuff and some don't. There's economic disparities So here's what we gotta do. We need to make sure that there's mechanisms to abolish bourgeois property. No property, no private property anymore. The state's gonna control the credit, the transportation, the production. We're gonna have free public education. That's a communist idea. I hate to break it to you, but it's not a new idea it's not an old idea. It's actually a fairly new idea. He said if we do that, then Everyone's gonna be equal, have the same amount of stuff. Well, the revolutions of 1848 failed. A lot of the people uh who were communist revolutionaries in Europe fled to the United States, a lot of them became journalists They did, that's true. A lot of them were started newspapers and uh they haven't left. And and we never got the the the revolution. They never got the revolution. And Marx said it was inevitable. Like this is just the law of history. Eventually there's going to be revolution. And so um in comes a gentleman by the name of Antonio Gramsci in the early 1900s. He wrote a book called The Prison Notebook. Aid book, it's made it's uh a series of essays he wrote in prison called the Prison Notebooks. He was um he was detained by the fascist government in Italy because he was a communist But in these notebooks, he basically said, look, Marx got some things right, but he got some things wrong. And what he got wrong was it's not economic inequalities that lead to the current state of affairs And there's not going to be an immediate revolution. And the reason for that is because all the oppression that exists is within culture. It's not within economics, it's within culture. So we call this cultural Marxism. He said the workers failed to revolt because they were controlled by the property class through things like libraries, schools, voluntary associations, architecture, street names, and the church. So that's this makes sense of what happened with the monument stuff and the renaming of things and all. This is all i basically his idea is that you're you're born into a society and then society tells you who to value Who who that you you should look up to, who you should respect. You're opening doors for women, right? That if you're a a gentleman, right? Well that's oppression. You're saying that what they can't open their door yet That's the kind of thing that that allowed Marxists to drill down deeper into culture and to say, well, it's not enough that we redistributed wealth. We need to make sure that uh that platforming is equal and privilege is equal and we we need to like make sure that uh certain classes of people don't have the same uh or have the same access as other classes of people to libraries and it's all this kind of thing. So it this created this critical approach to to to um society. And uh this is really kind of the the platform off which the Frankfurt School jumps. The Frankfurt School meaning the the people who came up with critical theory, the Social Research Center in Germany, uh that eventually came over to the United States Uh and this was much later. This was uh this started, I believe, in I think I thought I had the date written here, nineteen twenty four, yeah So this is the Institute for Social Research, the Critical Theorists, that's when they start going. But they don't have an influence in the United States until really the 30s and the 40s. And then the 50s and 60s, they really have influence. And they drill down even deeper into culture. So it's not just that there's economics, it's not just that the things that Gramsci outlined as being the sources of all the inequities and the problems in society. They say, wait, it's even deeper than that. It's even deeper. When you see a commercial for a car, you're being oppressed because they're trying to tell you you need something you don't need. And it's like you're captivated, you're a slave to it, you gotta go get the car. And that's oppression. And they found oppression in everything. Let me give you one example. Theodore Adorno was one of the members of the Frankfurt School. And he wrote a book in 1950 called The Authoritarian Personality. And in this book, he suggests that traits such as submission to parental authority, belief in traditional gender roles, family pride, fear of homosexuality. A strong devotion to Christianity and the notion that foreign ideas pose a threat to American institutions signaled implicit pre-fascist tendencies. So what is he saying? You're a Nazi. So he's saying, you're a Nazi. This is in nineteen this is this is in the nineteen fifties, nineteen fifties when he wrote this. Well this made its way into universities and the psychology departments in the 1960s of the major universities said, oh that's a great idea. That's how well diagnosed people. They come on in and they say, you know, doctor, I'm having problems with my mom. That's because you're a Nazi. Oh and this has now made its way into the general public. That's what happened in twenty twenty. All the stuff at the universities were already cranking out. They were already this was Totally alive on university campuses. You just didn't see it in the streets. It just went mainstream. That's all that happened. So this stuff has been decades in the making. So he drilled down deep into culture, and now anyone who's a conservative or even just to the right of Bernie Sanders is a Nazi somehow because They they love their family or they love their country and it's like that makes you a Christian nationalist. They have all they have alternative words now, right? That they use. It's not just Nazi anymore, it's it's all kinds of things. Toxic masculine or whatever the case. So there is another group that also drilled down deep into culture, and they got their start a little later, the postmodernists. And um and I just I call this radical subjectivity, that's what it is. They they they said, you know what, it's not enough to just look at uh economics and cultural things and say that there's oppression that exists there. We gotta look at concepts like knowledge and words in our communication. We've got to drill down so deep, we're going to drill right into the meaning of things. And we're going to put those under the microscope and see what kind of maybe Oppression exists there. So I don't know if you know anyone in this room has used these oppressive terms, but have you ever s called someone like a man? Ever said that? Like that person's a man. Or that person's a woman, God forbid, right? That's a that's a uh a a very um uh oppressive word to the modern left as well, because if they don't want to be called that then you're imposing your beliefs on them, you're imposing your values on them. And so two of them I'll introduce you to Jacques Derrida and Michel Foucault. These are two of the most popular ones. Deconstructed, you heard that word, deconstructed, uh meaning and knowledge. Jock Derrick believed that meaning was not found in what was said, but in what was meant in accordance with the hegemony of language. What are you saying there? is that there's not a rooted objective reality. When I call someone a man, doesn't mean that there's this thing called manness that the creator weaves into his creation that I'm identifying. He's saying what I'm doing is I'm imposing my standards and values on to this person and I'm using that I'm actually imposing an oppression of sorts. I'm imposing my meaning, and that might not be his meaning And so I shouldn't actually have the right to do that unless he gives me unless he also thinks he's a man. And then of course, you know, but but the the whole issue with this is that Under the surface, there is no objective meaning. There is no creative norms. It's all just subjective social groups clashing for power and trying to impose meanings that benefit them. Michel Foucault deconstructed knowledge by making it dependent on power. So any knowledge claim is a power claim. So let's say there was something like on the street here, there was a shooting that just happened, let's say And let's say it's one of the shootings we've heard about in the news where it's a cop, and the cop shoots a suspect who happens to be a minority. And this becomes a big thing, right? And we and we see it. And we have a story to tell about it. We say, well this I saw what happened. You know, and we and whatever the case may be. We uh it it was a high speed chase And and the vic the the the culprit crashed and got out and was running and threatened the cop and tried to grab his gun and that's that's the story, let's say, we see. Well Michel Foucault would say, according to your power structure, according to the I mean maybe, maybe you're trying to tell the story in such a way that it benefits the cop, benefits the police officer Because that's your preconceived notion. Or it could be from the other side, you're trying to tell the story in such a way that it benefits the quote-unquote victim. Because you love people, I guess. You're great. So it's not about truth anymore. It's all about power dynamics and which side benefits from the way the story is told So there's no objective truth, everything subjective, accordingly and and we must preference behind this is the idea that we must preference certain classes of people who have been underrepresented according to the sociologists. We we gotta tell the story the way that people who have been deprived of the right to tell the story would tell it. That brings us to critical race theory. And this is the the final uh part of of the the history here. Uh Derek Bell was a law professor at Harvard, one of the founders of critical race theory, and he believed that progress in American race relations was a mirage. Obscuring the fact that whites continue consciously or unconsciously to do all in their power to ensure their dominion and maintain control through white privilege. So all the ending slavery and segregation and all meaningless doesn't matter because there's still this thing called white privilege And so he taught that racism is systemically embedded within the fabric of society and can only be addressed by first interpreting the world through the lens of minority experience. So in other words, you're not able to even approach this topic and talk about something like police brutality. You can't even talk about it unless you have the special minority lens. So this is drawing on what we just talked about, the cultural Marxism, but also that radical subjectivity that there is no objective truth. There's subjective truth. There's different social locations and they see things differently based on a set of experiences that they have. And if let's say you're off the tribe a little bit, like you're a Clarence Thomas, you're Bodhi Baccha. You don't get the privilege of being known as a black commentator because well you you didn't you don't have the same experience. You're not representing the people in your tribe And so what critical race theorists have done is they've told a whole class of people that their opinion doesn't matter. They just have to sit down and shut up. They have nothing to contribute to a conversation And it's all because they lack the knowledge. They don't have it because they uh have a privileged position that they've, and it doesn't matter, they could have been poor, living in Appalachia with no bathroom their whole life, they're privileged. And that's the assumption behind it. So um we could get more into detail on that, but uh for the sake of time. Uh intersectionality uh also is a aspect of this now. One of Bell's students, Kimberly Williams Crenshaw, said that Um basically there's different converging identities of oppression that one can have. So you could be a racial minority and you could also be Gluten-free, I guess. Or you could be left-handed, or you could be uh, you know, LGBT or something. So you you have these all these factors that make you who you are, and all these oppressed factors need their own political representation So this has created a uh a race to the bottom, essentially. Everyone wants to be a victim now. So instead of the United States of five, ten years ago even, but certainly thirty years ago where people took pride in their accomplishments. And that's what we wanted to really uh if we wanted people to know about us. We wanted to know I'm really good at whatever job I have. That's gone. Now it's I want people to know I'm a victim. And that's why we're getting all these weird categories of victimhood coming up and and you know, like I'm introverted, which means I'm like what? Like you know I I I've heard this from people. Like like like I'm so oppressed 'cause I'm introverted and like I don't know, people where there's people And like you need to listen to my story of and I'm like, no I don't. You need to get out and be with people. I'm an extrovert, but I married an introvert and uh and we help each other out She's like, John, you're being loud and obnoxious. And I'm like, and you need to talk more. Um not oppression. But everyone wants to be oppressed. And that's I I you know and and the white males especially are like, uh, what do I What do I use? Like I gotta be impressed somehow. Like I don't know. I drive an old car, you know, it's got pity on me. So at the end of the day, the goal of all of this, and this is where it gets serious, is to destroy Orthodox Christianity and to replace it with something else. And I've catalogued a lot of the different quotes from social justice thinkers throughout time, and they all line up on this just about. Karl Marx said that the social principles of Christianity teach the necessity of a ruling and oppressed class. In other words, Christianity says that there's hierarchy. Hierarchy exists. Therefore, Christianity is not in keeping with communism. Antonio Gramsci said that he wanted socialism to quote kill Christianity. Michel Foucault desired to liberate people from political rationality which stood on the idea of Christian pastoral power. And of course, replacing Christianity was always the goal, replacing it with a new religion. Jean-Jacques Rousseau, father of the French Revolution, I mentioned earlier. Believed Christian law was harmful to the Constitution of the State, instead, he imagined a religion that would one day make a revolution among men So he's saying, well I'm against Christianity, but I I think there's still room for religion. Like we're gonna have a religion. It's just not gonna be Christianity. H. G. Wells, you ever read The Time Machine or Yeah, uh what else? Word of the Worlds? H. G. I like H. G. Wells. Then I found out he was this atheist, godless communist, and I was like, man, I still like H. G. Wells though But he dedicated himself to achieving a global utopian uh utopian cooperative called the open conspiracy. That was his term. which would replace, listen to this, it would replace economic, traditional, religious, familial, and national loyalties. All of those things were to wipe away. They'd be gone. Imagine there's no heaven. Oh, they're all gone. And he proclaimed it will be a world religion. Direct quote. In 1940, he changed the name. He didn't call it an open conspiracy anymore. He wrote a book and he called it, and this is not my term, this is his, called it the New World Order. 1940. I could read I could just read quote let me give you one more. Derek Bell, father of critical race theory. He thought fundamentalist Christians divert political protests and reaffirm the conservative values on Which the white middle class's traditional illusions of superiority are grounded. Nevertheless, he said that he saw how a new interpretation of Christianity could lead to enlightenment instead of pacification. So what you get with social justice thinkers, and there's many other quotes in my book, is a desire to have a new religion. That's at the bottom of all of this. Christianity has failed us. Christianity has been the building block of Western civilization for 2,000 years and it's failed. It did not produce this utopian society. We need something new. Scrap the old in with the new. Some of them had different views of what the new should look like. Some of them thought a new kind of Christianity. That's not the old traditional Orthodox Christianity, a new interpretation. Others have thought, no, no, scrap the whole thing. It's just a new religion entirely. This is why we have in Christian denominations fights over what where the fights are over a new interpretation of Christianity. That's what it is A new, uh, uh a completely social justice-infused Christianity has now taken over denominations and seminaries and they're producing instead of pastors now, um they're they're producing activists, community organizers is what they're making. And they're coming into your community and saying, I'm a pastor and I can quote Bible verses and I can use the same terminology. And yet they all they sound an awful lot like a Democrat uh like um politician And that's because they have an infused social justice-infused Christianity. Now, at the root of all this, like I said, is paganism. It's a new religion. It's a religion that does not actually take care of our sins. Instead of the bad news according to Christianity, which is that we all have sin, original sin, we have divine law that we've broken and there's judgment coming, but we can be born again. We can be sanctified in Christ, and there are things for us to do, like go to church and get baptized in communion, and then we can go to heaven when we die. We can be with the Lord. Instead Original sin is whiteness or heterosexuality or maleness, right? I'm I'm doing bad. Um or Political correctness. That's the new law. You've you've broken the the rules that we have on equity, diversity, inclusion, which we changed last week. You can't even like keep track of like, well what am I supposed to do? You know, I I get in trouble all the time. Um judgment is getting canceled. There is no afterlife. We gotta have justice now. So let's like not just fire that guy. Let's make sure he never gets a job again. Let's make sure that guy will be destroyed. The good news is that you can become woke. That's their born-again experience. And when you become woke, you have your own sacraments, which are progressive political things. And then heaven is on this earth social equity, inclusion, and diversity. That's your own heaven. And they have their own scriptures, right? Their canon is woke perspectives, woke books. You can't question them, they're infallible Right? Um they have they don't even need seminary, they have all the colleges. Uh they have um their prophets in the media and their priests, the critical theorists, clergy or community organizers They have their evangelism, their implicit bias trainings at work, their activism. They have their saints. Which are the victims of police shootings generally, like it doesn't matter what they did. It could have been the worst criminal ever. But if they were shot by the policeman, like you know, you cannot say anything about that person So it's a different religion. And the COVID stuff is very similar, right? Salvation is vaccination. Sacraments are masks, social distancing, lockdowns and booster shots. Proselytizing are public service announcements and social media virtue signals. Membership is your vaccine card. The heathens are the unvaccinated. The heretics are the anti-vax conspiracy theorists The high priests are Anthony Fauci and government health officials. God is government and the savior is science. It's the same thing. In each case, at the end of the day, God is government It's the solutions are going to all come from the center, and and we just got to trust that. And if we deviate or we don't trust that, then we must be a hater. We must not want this great new world that they're trying to construct. And the reality is, no, we don't, because we know it's hell. Like we know that this is not the road to anything good, that this is actually the road to something very bad. And if we love people, we stand against it Because we know innately as Christians there is no good in man. And any philosophy that says the solutions are going to be man and the problems are systemic, not a heart issue. It's out there. And where if we just from the goodness of our hearts fix what's out there, that's not going to work. Actually what has to happen is what's out there has to restrain what's in here Because we're evil and we are in need of a savior. And so this this flips everything on its head. Now, um I I want to read for you the definition I gave at the beginning again The modern social justice movement is a repackaged configuration of egalitarian ideas heavily influenced over the past century by postmodern and Marxist derivatives. Its purpose is to rectify disparities and advantages between social groups through reallocation. And I think that makes more sense now. That's what we're dealing with. It's a wide umbrella and it encompasses a lot of things. Like the two movements is in this and I don't even know, there's the environmental movement, there's so many. At the end of the day, though, their goals are always the same: achieve an egalitarian ideal, dismantle social institutions that prevent its achievement, and implement a force capable of executing the utopian dream. Now, I want to read for you, this is Colossians 2. 8. It says, see to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world, rather than according to Christ. This is what we have to remember. And Christians have fallen for this over and over again throughout the centuries, syncretizing social justice with their Christian faith. And it's easy to see why. I don't want the blowback that comes with standing away. against this, right? And there's a deception in this that maybe if we go along with them, they'll leave us alone. We just paint the blood on our doorpost and the angel of death will pass over. That doesn't happen They just go to you last. They're like, oh good, you're on board with us. All right, we don't have to worry about you right now, we'll come back to you. And eventually, and then we've seen this in communist regimes, we've seen this in Nazi Germany, oh they come for the church There's no outlastingness. And so it's foolish to try to appease a false religion. And this is what the children of Israel were always in trouble for. That's why God judged them. So I want to very briefly, and I'm just going to skim across the top of service here, go over social justice teaching as it stands today. I'm going to talk about their theory of truth, what truth is. I'm going to talk about their what their metaphysics, which means basically what they believe exists in reality, their view of reality and what it's composed of, and also their ethics, right and wrong. So we'll start we'll start with the metaph or the um uh yeah metaphysics Social justice warriors believe in something called ideology, which is a rationalistic, closed system of thought designed to explain all of human behavior through simple precepts. And so for them, it's the the easiest way for me to communicate this is probably with a movie reference here. If anyone's seen the movie The Matrix, if you haven't, I'll explain. But it's basically a bunch of people that are in computer world, but it looks like reality. And really though, everything's ones and zeros. They uh look like a shark over there. No, it's just a one and zero. It's a computer code. Social justice warriors think of the world that way Everything's some level of oppression. It's all oppression, oppressed, oppression, oppressed. Oppressor to apply it to humans and oppressed. Oppressor, oppress And so they can see oppression on the McDonald's menu. They can see it anywhere. I mean they're skilled at seeing oppression sometimes. And like my shoelaces do not offend you. Like why? But they can find it in the weirdest things. And I I have some examples in the book where there's been articles in like mainstream magazines about like beers are racist or farmers markets Or um oh yeah, beards. Oh cause you know who used to cut those the hairs. Like what? Um I mean like it it gets Really weird. Classical music, it's racist. Those notes are racist because that's a Western European thing. Like, um, so this is the kind of thing that's happening more and more and more in academia, right? And this is the result of something called ideology. Now, to respond to ideology, first there's a logical response, and there's a biblical response here. The logical response is this. If I find my note on it. It was gonna be very profound. It's okay, I can't find my note. But here's here's the response. So the the philosophical response is Ideologu never take their ideas in their own mind about oppression and apply those ideas to themselves. They always create An exception for them. Have you noticed liberals do that often? They just create an exception for themselves. Like, we need to help the poor. It's like, so you take that guy's money. You know, they never give their own. It's I shouldn't say never, but uh most generous states in the country are Mississippi and Utah, which I thought were like religious crazies and bunch of backwards racists. But they give more to charity, isn't that interesting? And Mississippi's impoverished. So it the the left coast and and the northeast they don't give much to charity but they talk about it a lot. So that's how they they tend to operate. But when it comes to ideology, what they're doing they're saying everything's oppression. Everything has a value of oppression. We're seeing oppression everywhere. What about the idea that everything is oppression? Couldn't that idea be the result of oppression too? If everything's oppression, the idea that everything's oppression is also oppression. Why not apply that to itself? It's self-refuting. But they never, they don't, they carve out an exception for themselves. Now here's the biblical response. We, as human beings, are not abs the just abstractions. We're not just reduced down to, I'm either an oppressed person or I'm an oppressor We're so much more than that. Doesn't mean that those things don't exist. But listen to this. We're all made in the image of God. We're all accountable to God. We're subject to His law. We're in need of salvation, and if we're redeemed, we're part of the body of Christ. Man, there's a whole bunch right there. There's a whole bunch of glue to help us stick together, to help us to see the humanity in one another, and I didn't even have to talk about oppression. And this can transcend class or whatever lines you want to talk about. Now there's also ways in which we're different. We have, and this and God ordains many of these things. Things, gender, male and female, culture and geography. And we have a race in this too to some extent. We uh Acts 17 talks about how God sets up every nation of mankind and points their times, their boundaries We also have different abilities. I can't do some things you can do, and vice versa. Spiritual gifts if we're in the church. We have different hierarchical positions. Paul writes about this a lot. Wives and husbands and children and parents uh rulers and subjects, um labor relationships, in that day masters and slaves. There's there's different relationships and God governs these things. And we all play a different part. And God puts you right where he wanted you for such a time is this and it's not an accident. And that gives me work. That gives me something beyond just whether I'm an oppressed person or I'm an oppressor. I'm a child of God and He loves me and He put me somewhere And that gives me value and worth and a sense of place. And I'm not insecure all the time trying to figure out who I am or what I am So I have um a number of questions that I like to ask for people who are ideologues uh and uh and some of those are I think in the book. But Going to the philosophical one, could the motives of social justice activists be connected to a desire to oppress? That's a good question to ask. Well what about you guys? You're saying everyone's oppressed. What about you guys? Are you trying to oppress it? They don't apply it to themselves So the second uh area that contradicts biblical teaching is in the field of epistemology, which is just the idea It's just a fancy word for saying, what is truth? How do we know truth? And social justice activists believe in something called standpoint epistemology. There's a whole history of it, I won't get into, but basically what they think is that experience is what gives you knowledge. If you have an oppressed experience, you have an added knowledge that someone who's not oppressed doesn't have. And it means that it colors the world a certain way. And so if you think with me for a moment of two boxes, one's red and one's blue. And everything to stick we'll say it's two stick people. Stickman red looks at everything and it's a shade of red because he has the red glasses. And stick man blue looks at everything and it's a shade of blue because he has blue glasses And everyone's stuck in their box, you're red or you're blue. Well, that's oppressor oppressed, okay? Now the sociologist comes in. The sociologist says, well, red is oppressed, therefore we've got to listen to what red says. Everyone should try to put on their red glasses I know you can't because you're stuck in your blue box, but you should at least try. And we gotta see everything in that shade of red, and then we'll have the truth. Now, again, not applying the exception, not giving themselves an exception, the sociologists, for some reason, aren't stuck in a box. They can transcend those boxes and look at them and compare them and say red has the truth and blue doesn't. So they give themselves an exemption. They don't they're not stuck in a box. They're not chained to their social location. They can somehow have a God view. And that's really what's happening here. And the government now, more and more, is the one that produces the Godview with their official spokesman We have spoken from on high, and this is the perspective that we are evaluating because we said so, and you shouldn't question it. Now, as Christians, though, we believe there's actually God And God sees all, God knows all. And forget about red glasses, blue glasses, the lenses you see. We want God's glasses. We want to see the world the way that He's created it, because He's the creator, and we're just the creation. So he's given us revelation so we can know things. He's given us special revelation in his word, and he's also given us natural revelation. We can look around us and we can see the beautiful day with our senses. So God has not left himself without a witness. Now social justice activists, they you can see the standpoint theory everywhere. Every time there's a school shooting, they put on television someone who survived it fits to lecture us on firearms. Well, what gives them the right to lecture us? Well, they had an experience that was oppression. They survived a school shooting. That somehow needs them special glasses. That's the assumption. Or believe women, why should we disbelieve women because they made an accusation? Was there women? That's it. There's no innocence till proven guilty So we see this all around us, unfortunately we see this in the church, but the Bible has a lot to say about truth. If we just even looked at the Gospel of John, God is spirit, those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth You will know the truth. The truth will set you free. I am the way, the truth, and all we can go on and on. It's the man of God, according to 2 Timothy, that is able to rightly understand the word of truth. It's not the social location that's oppressed. It's the person who understands the revelation from God, who understands wisdom. Proverbs has a lot of examples from natural revelation. We see though that the man who knows the Word of God, who is in special revelation, has wisdom. Those are the people that we should go to when we have problems. We should ask them. It's not going to the person that has the oppressed experience as much as it is the people that understand how justice actually works. It doesn't mean we don't listen to people. That you can't overcome because you don't have a specific experience. That's what we don't do. So we believe there's objective truth in the Word of God. And we see this throughout Scripture, and I can give you so many. that we don't have time for. One of the questions I'd like to ask though is would we assume someone is qualified to write instruction manuals for surgeons simply because they underwent an operation? No, I don't think I'll pa I'll pass on that, right? We want the person who knows who has a and and who has passed the test, who's qualified, who who has and experience plays into this, has actually done surgeries But we don't just want some social location and that produces experience. We know social locations don't just produce truth The third issue is ethics, right? And I like this definition of socialism from Secretary of the Treasury Leslie Shaw. He said that socialism is the idea that men must succeed equally regardless of aptitude And today's march towards equity, diversity, and inclusion is just that, that everyone needs to succeed equally. And so we see this in positive rights, preferred pronouns, hate speech laws. I have a whole list. Almost every issue of the left comes down to this issue. And so if you can imagine a courtroom, this is what it looks like. Someone walks into court and they've committed a crime, let's say. But you notice, well, that is a female walking into the court, and man, it's also someone who's short. That's kind of a disadvantage. Let's change the punishment for this crime based on those external qualities Let's take Lady Justice's blindfold off and let's take into account their social location in order to meet out justice. That's social justice. Now biblical justice is lady lady justice has a blindfold on. We see this outside of the Supreme Court. Meaning lady justice does not take into account any external factor. Your social location, I don't care if it's your brother. Justice will be applied. And if you something is owed to you, we give it to you. If something if you owe someone else something, we take it. And we see this in Exodus 23. Exodus twenty-three is my go-to passage because there's a whole list of people that you're not supposed to favor. You're supposed to be impartial, it says It says, don't follow after a multitude. Don't be partial to a poor man. Why? Because a poor man can tug at your heartstrings and be like, I'm poor. Don't give me the punishment. I know I stole, but I'm poor. Well, it's like I understand that that you stole So Exodus talks about don't you know give your enemy's ox back. If you know your enemy's ox winds up in your yard, well what do you do? You steal it, no, you give it back to your enemy Don't favor your needy brother just because he's your brother. Don't oppress a stranger. Don't oppress someone who doesn't have all the ways of navigating society. And that goes for the orphan and the widow. So biblical justice runs totally counter. And one of the questions I like to ask about this is basically a slippery slope. Are certain hierarchies, should all hierarchies be uh deconstructed or there's certain hierarchies we should we should keep. In other words, like, okay, so if inequities are bad, what about the family? What about like things like a mom and a dad and children? Like should we just deconstruct that? That doesn't seem fair And and oftentimes there's a stopping point. Most sane people have a stopping point. And it's good to I think delve into that. Why? Why do you recognize that there's a creation thing here, the creative norm that's coming out? God maybe designed people Well, those are some of the ways social justice teaching contradicts Christianity. I want to end though with the most important thing. And that is social justice promotes a different gospel. Social justice in the world, the secular world, is all about creating this state of equity, inclusion, and diversity, and with no carbon emissions Uh and and everyone I guess goes back to the medieval times and or rides bicycles or something. And and this is the kind of world they want to set up. We're all eating insects, we're happy, we own nothing, but we're happy. It's great. Great reset. And this is what some people are living for. They're giving their entire life. Bill Gates, like whole life, is crafted around establishing this. And it's sad to me that that's what they're living for because they're never gonna get it. That's just contrary to human nature. There's always gonna be guys who wind up being the winners and always guys who wind that's just It's inevitable. You'll always you put like ten people in a room and give them ten bucks and you come back an hour later and like someone's has all the money. So The real tragedy is that Christians have tried to incorporate some of this. And I have some quotes. I'm not going to read all of them, but I'll give you a few. Desmond Tutu, famous This is a an Anglican uh figure in in South Africa, known for the anti-apart type stuff. But he I read his book uh that where he says that God relies on us to make To help make this world all that God has dreamed of it being, which means a diverse, equal, and inclusive place. So this is their gospel. God's relying on us. He needs us, I guess. He can do it We gotta bring his dream into free. What's his dream? Wow, it's the Democrat Party. I didn't know God was a Democrat. Let me just give you a few choice quotes. I don't want to give you many, but uh let's okay, so here's one. This is Ron Syder, who influenced Russell Moore and David Platt and a lot of evangelicals today. He claimed that evangelicals denied the full biblical doctrine of the atonement because of a heretical failure to embrace Christ's pacifism. You don't even have a gospel unless you're a pacifist. Now, I can give you quotes all day long from very influential evangelicals. Let me give you one or two more Russell Moore, from the, used to be in the Southern Baptist Convention, he writes for Christianity Today. He believed that M. L. K. Jr. preached the gospel through his activism. Okay, so that was the gospel apparently. It's not the gospel. Might be good things there, but it's not the gospel. If you believe that was the gospel. While Orthodox believers who did not participate in the civil rights movement failed to be a gospel people because of their silence in the face of systemic sin such as poor working conditions for sanitation workers, the shootings of African American young men, and the present segregation in the church. So what's he saying there Might sound really good on the surface, like yeah, we should be about justice, but he's saying, hold on, he's saying that's the gospel. You don't get on board with the political program, however good it might be, you don't have the gospel. It's a serious charge. Is the gospel what we do or what Christ did? I'm confused. So because if it's what I do, if I got to march with BLM or something and that's the gospel, then man I'm failed. I guess I'm going to hell, right? Paul David Tripp, popular evangelical author, confessed that he was guilty of believing a truncated and incomplete gospel which left out the gospel of God's justice. Gospel of God is justice. I'm sorry. Justice is bad news. Justice is like, I'm gonna be punished because I've broken God's law. The gospel is that Jesus paid my fund It's his work, it's not my own. What is the gospel? Well, Sermon on the Mount, Matthew chapter 5, um opens with these words in verse 3 Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God, and blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of God. Of heaven. Blessed are you, and others revile you, and persecute you, and others utter all kinds of evil things against you, falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. Jesus continues his sermon and he condemns the Pharisees throughout this entire sermon because he ups the standard of God's law. He says, You have heard it said, you shall not commit adultery. I say to you, if you look on a woman with lust, you commit adultery in your heart. What's Jesus doing here? He's creating a contrast. He's saying there's a group of people out there that foresee God. They're part of the kingdom of heaven. These are the true believers. And guess what? They have empty pockets. They have nothing to offer God. They're poor in spirit. That's what that means. Empty pockets. They know that they have nothing to give. They mourn. They know their sin, how bad it is. Guess what? They shall become They shall receive the kingdom of heaven. And those who think that they're self-righteous, they're virtue signaling all over the place and putting up big trumpets for when they give money or whatever they do Those are the people that have not met the standard. And they will be condemned because they're living by their own standards. They think that they have contributed to their salvation. They think that they're approved by God because of works that they have done That's never how you get God's approval. Get God's approval not by works, but by faith. By relying on Him and knowing Jesus Christ has to do something because I am Helpless, your God, and nothing to offer you. Paul was concerned about works righteousness entering the church in Galatians. And he said in Galatians chapter 2, by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. He said that the power of in Romans 1, the gospel is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. And there's a whole section in Galatians 1 and Galatians 2 where he warns against a false gospel that comes in that tries to merge works with grace, with law with grace. And he says, these are the pseudodelphos, these are the false brothers. And then he confronts Peter, an apostle, for giving them cover. And Peter wasn't advocating a false gospel, but he was confusing people because he was He was sitting, uh he he was sitting uh with the um with the Jews, not he would he would sit with the Gentiles and then he would uh the whole the whole issue with this was circumcision, keeping the Old Testament law, and whether that was part of the gospel. And so Peter would kind of Make it look like it wasn't, and then when the Jews would come in, he'd be like, I'm not going to view those Gentiles. And it confused the situation. They're like, are you with them? Because these guys are false brothers. And so he was confronted for it Opposed him to his face, Paul says. This is the issue. This is the big issue in evangelicalism and in Christianity and more broadly speaking with our whole world. We're returning to a form of paganism. And every religion apart from Christ is works-based. You always find your righteousness in yourself. I'm a good person, man. I I did my equity, diversity, inclusion thing. I didn't have to even pay anything. I just tweeted. You do good works and you feel good about yourself and you condemn all those who are not like I because they failed to meet your standard, even though you don't meet your standard. And at the end of the day, it just damns you, it doesn't save you. No, we can't save ourselves. And that's the whole idea of social justice. If we just get together And we collectively represent our voice in democracy, and we're going to have justice. And all it produces is more injustice, because the evils in our own hearts come out Christianity offers a better way, forgiveness of actual sins, including injustice from Jesus Christ. Unity in Christ through every gender, tribe, tongue, nation, age, class, whatever. There's a unity that exists in the body of Christ. fulfilling identity, knowing that I'm more than just a power relationship. I'm not just an oppressor. Well I'm not an oppressor anyways. Ask my wife. She was here, she says, no, he's not an oppressor. She oppresses me. Especially when she's hungry, man. We have roles and responsibilities too, social and political. We have a purpose. We know what we're supposed to do. We're not we we have a whole book that tells us I can't even get the things I know right, so I got plenty of work. We have a basis for our rights and responsibilities. The founding fathers knew this. We're going to give up our rights if we don't have responsibilities and responsibilities we tied to virtue. We have all that with Christianity And we have a sense of belonging in our culture because we know what culture is. It's something God's ordained. It's not something just created because of, you know, self-uh uh consumed powerful people who just wanted to create it so they could oppress others. No, it's something God ordained. God ordained the differences. that exists because he likes diversity. There's different kinds of birds out there too, and there's different kinds of plants. I mean it's a beautiful world, marred by sin, but still beautiful. So that's what Christianity offers. And this is why I speak about this and do what I do, because I believe the true gospel must be defended. And that is the true gospel. That Jesus Christ came into this world, that he bore our punishment, and that he made a way that we could be forgiven of our sins, not because of our works or how good we are, but because of his good choice. us, his grace and his mercy. And he just asks us to repent and put our trust in him, not to do anything, just to put have faith in him. And that's hard for people. I gotta do something. No. Don't have to do anything. And once you open that door, it's the most joyful door you can possibly open. And life becomes a whole lot better. Uh life becomes and it doesn't mean that it's not hard, it doesn't mean that you're not persecuted Just means that, like the footprints poem, you have someone to walk through it with you and you know exactly where you stand. And so I don't know where all this is going as far as the world, but I do know that we've had the answers In this book for now thousands of years, two thousand years, we've had all the answers. Um we don't need anything more And so I would just encourage you as you look into this, some of you already have, to be alike to your friends, your family, your neighbors. They're going to have issues if they get taken up. I've seen it myself People go down this road and they get a lot of bitterness, a lot of insecurity. Now they got I wonder sometimes with some of my friends that have gone down this road, I'm like, but you guys won everything. Biden's your president. Like you won everything you wanted and you're still angry. Have you noticed that? Like you're still got all these issues, like daddy issues and all like all this stuff. It's it's and and ultimately they're only gonna be satisfied if they have the cure. And we have it It's Jesus Christ. So um that's uh I guess we can open up for QA if you want. Yeah, would you prefer to orchestrate that? Do you want me to help facilitate that? I can just point at the end. I mean there's there's not a lot of people in the room, so yeah. I probably went an hour and a half, didn't I No. No, no. No, I didn't? No. Might have been an hour. So who's going to be the first person the anyone have a question or comment or cries about the question? Abian Marxism is Abian D well Fraden was first one. Do you see there's an incrementalism in things happening today? Oh Fabian socialism, like the progressivism? Mm-hmm. And how they they kind of made progress in terms of suspended socialism. That's yeah, that's been the strategy in the United States since the progressive era. That's what the I mean, there's certainly people who want the revolution now. Like Bernie Sanders is kinda like that. Like he's not burning down buildings, I mean himself. He's a little old to do that. I guess. He's he's encouraged. Yeah, he doesn't want his burn down. He's he's not burning down buildings, but I think he was a figure that kind of wanted that. Like wanted like right now everything flips. But um yeah, America's always been a tough nut to crack for the socialists because honestly it's our Christianity 'Cause we've been so thoroughly Christian. Um so what they've done what what's happened I think is they they have it w America's been a study for a long time. Like how do we we gotta like we can't say socialism because they'll they'll deny us immediately. We gotta say social justice, we We have to in fact Christian nationalism was the big term that was used by the socialists to promote their agenda. That's a that's a funny thing to me now because Christian nationalism now means like, oh you're a patriot, you must hate people. But back then It was uh they they had these Bellamy clubs that they were called, and there were like thousands of them across the United States, and they advocated Christian nationalism. socialism. That's all it was. But it was a socialism that wasn't class socialism. It was it was a patriotic socialism at that time. So now it's not patriotic, social, but at that time it was like because we're Americans, we're gonna take care of our people and free health care and take care of the elderly and And so they tried to use patriotism, they tried to use Christianity and twist them with the social gospel and stuff to try to like figure out a way to inject socialism. And they mostly failed. That stuff was like it would be popular, but then it would kind of fizzle out. And um the thing that they've been really successful with though is So pro progressivism is basically starting with academic institutions and just promoting training people uh that believe what they believe, putting them in academic positions. The Catholic Church was infiltrated early on with this too. The priests that were Marxists, liberation theologians, they would they just climbed the ranks, and once they got to a certain spot, they closed the door behind them. So like, okay, we took over, now no conservatives can come in. And conservatives aren't like that because we're just like, hey, anyone can come in as long as you can do the job. But they're not. So Uh yeah, that's I think that's what we've had. We've had a long march through the institutions and one of the last ones is the evangelical church, which is what's falling right now. So after this, I mean I don't even know anymore like what institute they have all the companies, pretty much, the major companies They have Hollywood, the media, politics, education. They have Disney. They have I mean I don't know what's left. Like so I think yeah, it's been a long march. So Yeah. Who's next? Uh do you sense a momentum shift or like a counter offensive in the opposite direction? of the long march. Well we're in it right now. Sort of. Okay, but or okay, I guess more specifically, do you think the trajectory is that you got more room to m they're going to march more room before there's subs We have substantial footback uh pushback, but It like we've seen I think historically we've seen this before sometimes. And so um I'm trying to think. So there there was um There have been like issues that people got all like uh flustered about and angry about and and then they kind of subsided like in the I'm trying to think like in the 70s, they're like a whole anti-vaxx thing for a while, like everyone was like We we can't have these vaccine companies, they're doing this, they're doing that, and now we see what's happened with vaccine companies and it it it sort of subsided and we've had um parents like outraged about what our children are learning in the 1980s the religious right was like this. What are our children learning in schools? And um and but then it kind of subs so it ebbs and it flows and and right now I think we're in like a parents are angry that critical race theory is being taught. And we're upset about a lot of the changes that are happening, but um I I don't know like whether or not that's gonna stick long term. And and the reason for that is because of our leaders or because I think what happens I saw this in Virginia when I my little dabbling in politics, which got me a hit piece and got I was like, wow, this is a rough business. Um God bless you for Um it was I I noticed a lot of conservative voters uh were very satisfied to like Have the guy who's the rhino come up with like brand new hunting gear he'll never use and never has used, posing with his gun like I support the Second Amendment and Uh and and then like we're gonna have a prayer breakfast and then they're like that guy's with me and it's like no he's not like that's that's all it takes sometimes and And then, you know, we'll do the symbolic critical race, we'll pass the legislation against critical race theory, but most of the that legislation, not all of it, but most of it doesn't have any teeth So I'm I I know I sound dismal about this, but I'm realistic. I don't I don't know yet whether this is going to be substantial because I think people get satisfied with their leaders. They think something's being done And then as soon as they turn around, the leader's like, okay, like we're not you know, it's not gonna be yeah. So you have to like one well someone told me something that I thought this is this is a really good barometer. Someone said in the Southern Baptist Convention This could be applied anywhere. He said, Southern Baptist Convention won't be retaken by the conservatives until conservatives retake their churches individually. I thought that's psh that's true. Why would we expect something big to happen up here, just because we're all we the demanding it and hardly anyone has the bravery to really I mean it's hard to really stick their necks out, but we think that guy will do it. That's the whole thing with Trump. Like he's gonna do it. That that's good. It it hedges us. It helps. But like long term, the battle's at the grassroots. The battle's not at the center. It's like in our own hometown. It's our own school board. Um so c if conservatives can get oh involved in the school board and the election board, that would make a huge difference. I just don't know if it's happening. That's I d I don't haven't seen any data, maybe some of you know. Yeah, you know? Well kind of along those lines because um just to give a back I came from a communist country. I was born and raised in Poland and Soviet bloc And things were not that bad culturally then. You know, you still had your government owning the means of production, but it was not, you know, family was still family to place I mean what's going on in the this was what was going on in the Bolshevik Revolution. The first gay parade is in 1920 in St. Petersburg and they had this movement called Dalek Student Russian Down with Shame. And then when Lennon died, Salman put a boot onto that because it was getting out of control, kinda like what it is now. But but in America when I started studying this stuff uh a while ago, that's why I came through your podcast like six, seven years ago. And you know, you had like the John Burst Society, the House of Un American Activities and in the sixties, seventies when we were drawing attention to this And really, you know, we are where we are and things weren't done then and now where we are where we are. Yeah, that's a good yeah, that I think that's what I was thinking of the red scare and stuff. People got all upset and and then it's like what happened? Like nothing. But what would I get involved in in and like patriotic circles and republican circles, they're they're all afraid to censor this stuff because of freedom and like the the nineteen sixties revolution of cultural freedom where it redefined freedom to do whatever you want. And you know, America is of a haze code on Hollywood to censor, you know, Hollywood, you know, is of anti black Astronomy laws and all this stuff. So do you think there'll be a return to that kind of mentality? Because Republicans are afraid. They're they're afraid to I mean here in this county they have locked cabinet Republicans, which is I'm sure you know what that is. So what? Oh yeah. So they're they're redefining conservatism and that's what I Democrats are democrats, but I'm like totally freaked out by The people in Virginia that were my age and the Republican young Republicans think LGBT is a Republican value. Yeah, the big pen stuff. I remember I was at CPAC, I think it was twenty twenty at CPAC I'm like, oh this is the conservative political I've heard so much about this, this would be great. And I went in and the first thing I saw was Atheist for Liberty walking past me and I was like And then I saw Lady MAGA, this transgender and I was like, what And then I think it was Turning Point USA had all these gay flags that they were booted, but I was like and I didn't see any founding fathers. I I was just like but this is conservatism and I I don't know, like I'm not very optimistic. And if you're running for office and stuff, like you have to kind of you have to play nice with some of these people because they're embedded in the party structure. But Um but it it take once you get to those higher levels, I mean the corruption and it just really you gotta be like rock solid, right? And uh so yeah as far as like the haze code and stuff, like I see conservatives leave a gap shirt on. And like okay, so like the Gab people seem uh well some of them there seems to be a group on there that's more likely they want to like legislate conservatism more aggressively, but that's so niche. Like most conservatives still seem to be you know, they they have the free market and they want um it's it's hard to let go of what we've had because we enjoyed individual freedom at one point. People just left each other alone. They helped each other. They like it you know, they didn't need the government coming in all the time. It was Andy Griffith, right? Your police officer didn't have much to do in a lot of the small towns. We don't think we're not in that world anymore. So unfortunately, yeah, like um Yeah, on the local level you kinda do need a presence just to keep things safe. And and when like I think what Governor DeSantis is doing is like that's the that is if there's a silver line against that in my mind. Yeah. Because he's actually like sticking it to 'em. He's And he's not I don't even know if he's a Christian. Well they might be Catholic, right? Yeah, I'm not sure. Well he he so he's It's hard to know. He has yeah, principles. Yeah. My view is that there are Catholics who are Christians, but they're they by definition I don't think can be good Catholics, meaning they can't subscribe to all of the teachings. But a lot of people go to church and don't know everything the church teaches. And so DeSantis might be somebody who doesn't agree with everything the Catholic Church teaches and he could actually be a Christian. Right. So but we don't know. I've never met him. I was a Catholic, they don't know what the church teaches. Could you could you speak to that issue a little bit? The the the opportunity, people not really knowing what their what true religion t the Catholics not just the Catholics. The Catholics don't know what the Catholic Church teaches. A lot of uh Bible believing churches have people that don't know and it's allowed an opportunity for people to come in and be controlled opposition. Could you talk about the How do I identify those that they're on the inside, they're in the Republican Party, they're in a conservative quote unquote church, but they're uh they might be wolves. How do we discern who those controlled opposition people are in your view? It's there's no foolproof because subversive people are subversive, so that's like it's an art to it. So um but we can have some basic discernment and common sense and I think So I'll give you an example. Recently, actually, at the church that I attend, we had a missionary come in. We're thinking of supporting this missionary. And it was from an organization that you know traditionally has been great. And then and uh I'm glad I was there that Sunday because I listened And I was like, something's not right about this guy. And it wasn't even anything that he said. It was more I just read these guys and listen to these guys so much that I can pick up on all the mannerisms and And um so I'm not saying you should all do that. That would be horrible because it's taken a toll on me. But um what it did was it inspired me. I just I just could see that he was being soft on certain things and hard on other things that I was like, something's weird. I went to his social media and on his social media account was all this woke stuff And I just I went through just and it took me like ten minutes. And I was like, okay, like this guy is he's a woke church guy. And so I sent it to the uh elder or the deacon board and I was like, this is Just so you guys are aware, I know you're thinking of supporting this guy, but like we should be aware. So what the church did, and I thought, and I helped construct this, but I thought it was really smart was we we put out a questionnaire. And you could use this for pastors if you're going to hire a pastor or but I had like ten itemized questions. to ask someone about social justice. And they weren't like, hey, are you woke? Because that they're like, oh yeah no. Like that as an easy. So it was things like, um, okay, so do you think we get better interpretations of scripture the more diverse perspectives are represented in an interpretation process. Questions like that, where it's like you have to kind of flesh out what you actually believe. And if If you say yes we do, then it's like why do you think that? And if they start being like, well, because you know certain oppressed people have more access to or or minorities have access to knowledge that others something like that, you know, okay, we've got a woke guy here Um and it's going to affect how they read the scripture. Um trying to think of other questions. Like I questions like uh is homo okay, not so if you said like is homosexuality a sin, oh of course it's a sin. But if you ask, is same-sex attraction a sin Or can someone be gay and a Christian if they're celibate or something like that? That's when you start realizing whether if they're woke or not. Because that's the subversive stuff Like that they'll say like, um, oh you can't be gay and you can't see practice homosexuality and be a Christian, but you can be gay, you can have that orientation. So i you have to be specific in your questions, I think. And then you know that that's helped us at least with this one situation and I know other um search committees are using that as well Uh I think I I did an episode on it, so yeah, in the back. Yeah, I appreciate that because I'm a I'm a deacon in my I live in Arlington by the way. And I I'm a deacon of my church and we're I'm on a committee that sort of decides, okay, money goes to this organization, this missionary, this person. And we're trying to it's hard because we're trying to decide who can we partner with in the community that doesn't have some kind of toxic agenda that's attached to it. And I can see I can already see things. We talk about subversive leaders. I can already see things in my church. You know And I d I I guess that's something I have to work on more is just how to think through that. And I'm right down the street from the Claim Bible Church. I I knew Mike Kelsey ten years ago. Oh wow. Well when he was when he was preaching at frontline and I and you know AD Girl listens a lot the the verse because the the words are like flood but they have war in their hearts. And I remember ten years ago Mike tells He was the pasture everybody loved. Smooth like butter. And it turns out he was a time bomb. Just waiting for the right moment to explode. And I and I wish. white people. Yeah, I want to put on stuff like that. And just and I just I and I just I don't I see that kind of stuff like slipping into my church. And we're we're another we're right down the street from the plain Bible And I I don't I'm like, how do you prevent that from happening? Like the best that I and then because sometimes sometimes I I really do feel like I'm crazy. And I have to like talk to friends of mine and was like, I I saw this, this, and this happened. Am I nuts or is this like what are you seeing here? And I how do you based on your conversations with other people other churches and they talk to a lot of people at churches, like what like how do you identify that and just call it out? Well there's wheat and there's tears, right? They that they imitate wheat. They look like wheat, but Um by your fruit, by their fruit you know them. And and so I think um oftentimes corruption like vices also accompany um social justice or or just not even social justice, just bad teaching. false teaching often there's character issues there usually too. Which I don't think is a like So w Southern Baptist, I was just on the phone coming down here with a prominent guy in the and that's trying to kind of retape things. And that was one of the things we were talking about is that the Southern Baptists, they have this woke problem with which they deny, but at the same time it's a huge corruption problem. And I'm like, that's not a coincidence. Like these things are hand in hand, because like the motives for the woke stuff is like they want the accolades of men. They want respect among people they shouldn't want it from So um sometimes that's hard because sin can be secret, but eventually things come out. Eventually you find out there's corruption like monetary things or sexual scandals or um or just the way they treat people. And and so uh so so character issues, obviously, those, but it takes time sometimes to manifest those things. So you can ask all your questions. And they could lie to you. That's the thing. You could ask good questions. They could lie to you about all of it. They could come in. They could deceive you. And then all of a sudden, when they get to a position of power, boom, here's my true colors. But it's at that moment You have to just oppose them with everything you have. Just like Paul opposed Peter, even though Peter Peter repented. Peter wasn't uh even a false teacher. But Paul was brave enough to even oppose someone like that. So I just we're so we're not very confrontational. In in our culture today. Man, they had a duel? Wow, like that really you know. We've gone from that to like you know, these limp wristd like slapping things at the Academy Awards. So back to what you said you gotta start at the top. Yeah. So years years ago I used to attend a physical uh physical Church. And it came about that there was a need for a new bishop for the for the diocese. And so they were interviewing candidates and every every church was to supply a person to the group that was interviewing and things like that, the the candidates. And so our church had after after regular services a meeting every week for like like a month for members who are interested to sit down and talk about what should we be looking for in what should our representatives say is look looking for in the new bishop. And it was all things like um environmental agenda, women's rights agenda uh yeah it's like I I I there was there was actually nothing related to like Christianity or it was it was just and I remember speaking up saying I think we should have someone who's like really a biblical scholar and and is a pr is a proven track record of attracting you know Christians to the to churches and things. And I I said I got I was possibly kidnapped. Wow. You know, one more thing I thought of, um, because this this came up in Naples and and in a lot of the places that have gotten woke pastors, they have a f like a in their minds like this template. Like we want the young guy. He's like really energetic and like he's gonna make us all look cool. He's got like 1. 5 kids and like this great wife who's like always smiling and always opening her home up to everyone and like they have this template. And and and sometimes the guy comes in and he seems to fit that template and so they'll bend heaven and earth to get this guy their church. And really that it's a broken template. That's the problem. It's like you want someone who's a shepherd, who knows the word Who can apply the word and disciple and loves the people. That was one of the things I noticed with a guy from the the from the church I'm at that we eventually figured out was woke. I'm like, this guy doesn't his heart's not in this. Like I can just tell, like, his heart's not in this. He's He's going to be a missionary, but he doesn't he's been there. He doesn't know the people well. He doesn't witness to them. He doesn't have an effective evangelism strategy. But it's all like this fluff, esoteric, vague language of how we're going to love on people and we're going to um you know we we we got this the Kingdom plan that but they're like what's the plan? Oh it's we're gonna we're just gonna have a community form. And it's like all this stuff that there was no actual Um I couldn't see that he actually loved people. And and so that was a little clue. But like it it it is hard. It is hard. So we get okay, Yeah. Oh you you can go. Uh you can go first. Yeah, I want you to go in love. Oh I um I just wanted to give you a little feedback. I'm currently uh Um, first of all, the the thing about the questionnaire, I think that's confirmation that I believe the Holy Spirit hasn't speaking to me because I was thinking about you know In terms of Republican clubs, why are are the Republican clubs so weak? It's because there's so many rhinos, why are there so many rhinos? It's because they're not people are not vetted. Anybody can just join and and the The idea came to me, you need to question people. The clubs need to question people. And they need to word the questions in such a way that the person um will reveal what they believe. And at that point that they re that they reveal that that, you know, say for instance they say, oh, I'm a conservative and but they reveal that they're okay with gay marriage or that then you say, okay, you can join as an associate, but not as, you know, you're actually a libertarian You know? So you can join, but as an associate, you can't be a voting member, that kind of thing. And and the club can control that because So anyway, you confirmed that to me when you said you did that for your church because um um republicanism, true republicanism and Christianity are, you know, they're they're tied together. Because true Republicans are moral. They are Christians and the Republican Party was founded specifically on a moral basis. At that time the hot topic was slavery. And they were saying this is not what you you people want to do is not biblical. You you think people should being changed forever. That's not biblical. Christ is the God of freedom. And so re true Republicanism is moral and and um but our clubs are not effective because Rhinos have diluted the power of of the Republican Club and on the Christian side you can call them Chinos, Christians in name. It's the same thing. So I believe I believe the Holy Spirit confirmed that to me because I was thinking if I was ever president of a Republican club. Okay Lord, I'm going to people are not just I'm I'm going to tell them if you want me to be president of your club, it's on this condition. We are going to vet people And I uh that that's a that needs to be a movement. Okay. In fact, Fred broke away from a Republican club and began the Chr the Frederick County Christian Conservative Club because the the Republican Club was not really conservative. That's the very reason he did it. So we w I I I believe we need to claim just like the church needs to claim back true Christianity, the Republican Club needs to claim back true Republicanism. So I just wanted to share that. I think that I know the Holy Spirit used you to to affirm that to me. The second thing I wanted to say is I do believe that we are in the midst of the country turning around. It's like turning around the Titan It's a big huge thing and it's not going to happen overnight. But I do believe we are in the middle of turning around and and the reason why I believe that is because, first of all, the truth is getting out The truth is getting up. People are being awakened. People are being awakened to the truth. And I'm part of a prayer group that prays, um, that meets seven days a week, 365 days a year And I'm not exaggerating. Does not stop for holidays. Every day this prayer group prayer was a national prayer group. And Um you know 2 Corinthians, excuse me, excuse me, 2 Chronicles 7 14 is kind of if you wanted to give the a theme of the prayer group, that that that scripture that says that my people, my people who are called by my name, if they will repent and turn from their wicked ways, I will forgive their sin and heal their land. Not the pagans. God says that my people do that. Because it was he it's it was his people that started this country. It's his people who have to repent and turn from our wicked ways. And then God will hear our prayer, forgive our sin and heal our land. And God is raising up people to to to get into public, to take his people to take public office. And You know, I I share this at my kickoff. I would not be running for office if if the Lord didn't raise me up or call me to it. Never would I do that. But I believe He has. And and I'm not the only one. I'm just one example of that These are little, I call them kisses from heaven. You know, these little kisses from heaven are indications that we are turning this around because if we do what we need to do, God will do his part and he can't lose. You know, and and so I just share that as encouragement I I I feel that you're motivated to do what you're I believe you're a Holy Spirit motivated to do what you're doing and you're gonna do it no matter what. But I but you know, God is he's on the throne and his people are listening to him And they are being obedient to his call. And and Christ Himself said, the gates of hell are not going to prevail against my church. Right. Yeah. So we we're going to win, but it but it his church by the way is being pruned. We are finding out who the Chinos are You know, a and and and so actually I got that term from David Barton Oh, okay. So I can't claim that I can't I didn't coin that, but um we you know, the church is being pruned and and and and and purified so that we can be effective and it does it it it only takes a remnant. It only takes a remnant it doesn't take a whole lot of people. Christ The gospel went out because of twelve people. But the Lord had seventy disciples at one time and they fell away. But he did possible He did it with twelve so I just share that to in to encourage you and everybody else in this room that don't don't give don't whatever you do, do not quit praying. Do not keep trusting in the Lord. Um um the the the the the the the most um The most hopeless looking day to the disciples was the day that Jesus was in the tomb, but the third day did come. And he rose victorious. And we are in the second day, so to speak But the third day is coming, so you know don't give in to despair and and don't give up hope. Keep praying because God is on the move and calling people, his people to to to office is is an indication of your indication of that, what you're doing. Yeah. Well I admire your bravery and and your optimism. That's uh it takes a lot of guts to do what you're doing. You know what it it I I I'm not naturally necessarily brave It is totally, and I'm not just trying to sound sound pious and say the right thing. It is totally from beginning to end a a a God thing. Fred and and Linda heard my testimony about how I'm I was called the office. It's totally a God thing and just like what you're doing is totally a God thing. And why don't you run a board? I'll say this about Angela. She's got the shield of truth on her Hmm. She's exposing the truth. And God bless her for doing what she does. What is the question of the name? Oh they what is that? What are they doing? Well they're they're they're the people who look like Christians who are woke, you know, like the people he's been talking to Oh, the into politics. Oh, absolutely. Oh yeah. Well what about somebody might say we Christians should not Right, so then they have to explain how the Christians at the beginning of the who started this country why did God bless what they did so abundantly if Christians should not be in politics. They they have to they they they they need to explain um why Christ keeps us in heavenly places with him far above every name that's named. Yeah, I'm not here that I called. Right. Oh you're not going to be able to do that. But but but just to his point, the people who ran this country to begin with were Christians I mean there was no other religion and in fact I think they actually wrote that I personally believe they wrote the First Amendment with Christians in mind. They didn't really write the freedom of religion thing with other faiths in mind. Because they realized it was Jesus Christ and that belief, that's what's what was blessing this country. So freedom of religion really just meant nobody could tell you what Christian denomination you can join. It didn't mean you can you should come over here and a as a as a pagan and you know as a Satanist or or or or as a Buddhist or something and and have office. And in fact the founders would say, um this this country, I think it was John Adams, this country was built for a Christian nation. It's not fit for any other or this country is a Christian nation. Moral religious people is not fit for any other kind of people. He was talking about Christians So, you know, the th the the First Amendment has has been kind of, you know, um kidnapped and and given a meaning that they didn't intend intend at the beginning, uh the freedom of religion thing, but uh um they envisioned early Christians holding office and and they would preach from the pulpit um um who to vote for. The pastors were they would preach from the present and yeah, yeah. But uh so many people don't know the the history that you know that that the you know they they've been calling an alternative history and so they they don't you know their their foundation the foundation of what they understand is messed up but once once you understand what the found what what what the found I think we need to go to the this man because he's Yeah, so my question is when you're interacting with someone who um is Voke and claims to be part of the Christian tradition, how do you and you're trying to witness to them, right? How do you frame a productive conversation? So that it's not just arguments. Do you have a friend? Yeah. Do you have a friend in line? Uh yeah, probably dinner tomorrow actually. Oh man, so I mean it's hard because Everyone's uh so so I I view it as like um you know wokeness is a spectrum. It's not it it it actually it's not even a spectrum, it's like a descent. It's like so it's like are they at the top of the hill, like where are they at in this So like I had a friend who was I thought this guy was like ripe for it in I was at seminary in like 2018 with this guy and They were at the seminary I was at they like flipped a switch after like Donald Trump broke them. Like he just like everything was I was like they were the mission school, Southeastern. They were like great mission school and all of a sudden Trump got elected And it was like, everyone run for your life. They they did all this uh pro-illegal migrants and they were doing like let's take down all the monuments and they were doing like Uh let's support the kneelers at the football games uh at an event and articles about how you you know you're a racist, but don't know you're a racist. And uh it was it was like and and I had a friend on campus and I was like man this guy's gonna Like 'cause I knew him before that and he already had kind of this left he would always like kind of your left and I'd be like, Get over here, you know, and he'd be like, Okay, you know but he's like, We just have to help the poor and he's a very compassionate man and you know, it was very good to see that. But when that stuff started I was like Well that's it, you know. And um and we had some conversations about it, but the thing the advantage for me was I knew the guy already. We had built up trust He knew I was I I love the poor and I would give my I I would even like give to him when he was in tight spots and stuff. So he knew that there was some credibility there. I think that helps too to You know, conservatives are these ogres, but when they see that like if they're able to see you doing something that it counters the narrative, it it can for someone who's open to truth, it can do something something. So he knew that about me. And um and it was it was progressive. Like it was over time, over the course of a semester, me hanging out with them, like on a weekly basis and then just bring it up, hey, you see what happened at the school, what do you think of that? And sometimes he'd have like the conclusion he'd reach at first was not right, but we'd just challenging questions and talking about it. And that guy like hates social justice as much as I do now. Like he's Like totally not woke. Totally and I'm not taking credit for it, but I know I was probably at that time one of the only voices of reason he had in his life. Maybe there was another I'm not aware of, but everything around him. So you can make a difference I think in the life of a friend. But it might take time. And and he wasn't like completely given over. For people who are given over, like this is their religion, and I've known some friends like that where um they just they have a hatred that's just nothing you say I mean if I were to like go help give a hundred dollars to a homeless man, they'd be like, You did that because you wanted to oppress them. They'd figure out a way to make it matters. Like they would they do that. They psychoanalyze you. So I don't I mean I don't know what you can do except just be a good witness at that point and you have to it's an interfaith dialogue at that point. You're like you might claim to be a Christian but You know that this person's not submitting to the Word of God. They're and you just have to confront them with Scripture. You have to do what Paul did and call them out for it. And Either they're a Peter or they're a Judaizer. But you know, but so so I don't know where your friends at on that slide, but depend and and it might need to start with just some really um uh you just really good questions that are worded very well to provoke critical thought. So if the issue let's say is um I don't know, let's say the issue is BLM And your friend hypothetically likes BLM and stuff, and you'd be like, hey, did you see that Perchise Colors just got a mansion in out and what do you think of that? Like she's one of the founders of BLM. W what do you think of someone who's said all this about justice but then does that? And and and it just it's stuff like that pokes little holes in the narrative, right? Oh she's just one of the founders of BLN, okay. She's richer than Bernie. Okay. Yeah. So yeah. Uh I think I think yeah, you uh what kind of pushback are you getting from Big Eva or I've been just invited from a few conferences. Um Um I mean I I like most pushback is like behind closed doors, I think, you know, just they they hate my guts, but um Do you get Oh yeah. Sometimes, yeah. Um I have one death threat, but that it was an anonymous one and I didn't take it seriously, but that I can remember at least. SWATED? No. No, I don't spend swatted. I'm not based enough I guess. No. Yeah, they call me names and like oh yeah, usually it's it's two categories. If I'm a liar, I'm a racist. It's one of those two or a combination of the two Usually. And I've gotten sexist a few times, but usually it's liar or racist. But are are you you're getting that like privately or by No that's publicly posted out there by but it's not like big so you're just asking like the big guys. The big guys try to They talk about me but they try to ignore me on a like a they don't want people to know I exist, you know. 'Cause I'll I'll give you an example. Like what happened with Russell Fuller when I did I don't know if you were listening at that time, I did these interviews with a guy named Russell Fuller and he was uh he was fired from the major Southern Baptist Seminary and he had all this dirty basically spoken built. And I I was just the interviewer. I was just asking questions, right? But um when I released that stuff, a bunch of Southern Baptists, and including some professors there, they decided the best thing to do was just to attack me So first they attacked Russell Fuller, and then they attacked me, and in that way they didn't have to deal with what Russell Fuller was saying about them. Liberals always do that. They always make the issue about you, it's always personal, it's always ad honest. And um in that week that they did that And at first I was I actually thought like it's over for me. I'm like, well it's over, I guess, you know. My subscriptions all went through the roof. Like I had more subscribers. And I think They've learned from that a little bit. They they're trying to figure it out. Because like if we identify this guy, then everyone's eyeballs are on him. And then you know, they may not know who this guy is, but they're like, Oh, maybe he has something to say. Oh were you, yeah. Yeah suggestions and I watched you know I started and watched. Well what was the question you had? Well uh well it was about pushback and uh and if And if there's things behind the things that we don't care about, and uh like you know, there's And I and I think about um the another question is is have any of these folks that have come out uh as well or or progressive or have have any of them realized it and and actually repented to their congregation? Oh. That is a good question. I wish I had like a list available. It's sad because I don't the big problem with big EVA guys at least, with publicly available information for even adult leaders who are in the public light. It they tend to be just very arrogant people in general, so they don't apologize. That's the if there's anything that characterizes big evil evangelicals It's that they don't ever backtrack on anything because they're always right and they'll never admit they're wrong. So I I can't say that I've really seen that. I know that it's happened in smaller churches. Because I've even gotten emails occasionally from people who are like, I was going down this train and then I realized. It's rare, but I do get those. But yeah, on like a big level, I haven't seen it. Like it's it's usually just like the like we were with BLM or we were on the COVID and then it's like a reverse sometimes and like Oh, I'm against that now. I'm against critical race theory. But they never admitted the contradiction. It's all where's the wind blowing today? So Yeah, that's that's mostly what I see. But yes, the the the question about the uh the people behind the scenes, yes I have had interactions and messages behind the scenes with some big evangelical leaders And um yeah, things are not what they seem on the surface. Uh I those are the hard things for me to realize. I'm sure you realize that with the Republican Party. Like you you get behind you and the especially the higher you climb, the more you find out there's corruption and there it's just it's a dirty within the state and the church. Oh in the church. church and probably the Mars Hill, the rise and fall of Mars Hill. Oh right. You know, it bringing out these things that are behind the cur Yeah is is helpful. It is. It's exhausting work and it's not it's you take a chance when you sometimes, you know, I revealed some things and that that and and when you do that, I mean it's like for them all hell breaks loose. They they they really want to destroy you if you reveal those things. That's what's happening with the Tom Buck thing right now, by the way. If you've been following that in the SBC, like that's such a small like I could tell you about a ton of other situations similar where the conservatives or the people that were against what was happening, 99% of the time they don't speak up They're like, I don't want my wife can't handle it, the grief we're gonna get, my health, it'll help you know I I don't want my pension, I could get fired. It's like every reason in the world and I and I found myself on phone calls all the time with people like John, like this is happening. Please say something to and I'm like, I can't verify any of this publicly. Like you have to come and oh I can't, I can't, I'll lose this. And it's I just wanted you to know that this is happening and and I stopped taking those calls after a while. Like people would email me, I have information to share, and I I just email back. And I'm like, unless you want to come out publicly with that information or okay with me revealing the source or that I can't talk to you about it. Is it a waste of my time? It just makes me angry and I have nothing to do. I can't bring it out there and it's just not helpful So yeah, it's yeah, there's that that's just human nature I think. That's that's you know, apart from Christ especially we're corrupt. So we're back, yeah. Yeah, I I You kind of you've kind of answered some of this a little bit, um, but I was wondering if in your travels around if you're seeing kind of you know the Unintended consequences of of social justice movement, critical race theory. I mean we see a lot of it starting to happen with Loudoun County. We see some of the district attorneys that are you know just the results of their thinking is just causing chaos in the street. And but but it sounds like you're not kinda not seeing it as much in the churches like you know the guy who lives in Frederick I've heard lots about McLean but I don't really know what's going on down there. I've seen it in churches around here but it in the church it seems like a little bit I know it's like they're just full head, they are moving full steam ahead, they're sticking with it. But I'm just wondering in your experience are you seeing? And you kind of sound like you said, somewhat no But but I'm seeing it in the political arena. I'm just wondering if it's changes in the case. isn't working and you know so you look at BLM and you think wait a second that's not really who we want to give our I mean corporate structures give them millions and billions of dollars with no accountability and and you know they voted Gascon and and he's letting people out and who's the guy this week said yeah that guy lowered all my sentences and I'm gonna put his name on And and it's just it's like stupidity. And it's like, you know, I I I hear you, I I read Bobby Bacum, I and it's like Why do these people fix this? Like it's just it makes no sense and it's like for people gonna open their eyes. I'm just curious So yeah, if anywhere's gonna have me and they and they don't cancel me, they like are really committed like um we're gonna take a whack at this. Those are usually places that I go that are firm, that are solid. And so um what I've noticed is everywhere I go, it doesn't matter where it is Everything, the dust hasn't settled, but everything's in an uproar. And churches that formed a year ago with 20 people are now 200 people. because all the local woke churches, people are true Christians are fleeing out of them and trying to find each other. So they find this is the church, you know. And there's so I I see a lot of that churches that have just A lot of people are coming there now all of a sudden, depending on the area. Different areas have different levels of Christians, but um but so there's a reshuffling of the debt going on A lot of instability with that. But a lot of the churches forming out of that are so solid. They love each other. They're so happy. Like, wow, we found a like you're normal, thank you. Don't have to wear a mask. So it's true though, it is. And then but then I've also been in churches and this isn't for me to speak, this is just me like visiting family or just oh or because of all the things I have to review, I have to review a lot of services for podcast stuff or people send me things And um the other strategy I've seen, Willie Rice is a good example of this, he was running for SBC president, where he goes woke on this panel he does and it's totally woke. And then it's like, you know he must have gotten some pushback for it. Because it's like a few weeks later he's like, and we don't agree with Creole Parade theory at this church. He's gotta like say that And so what it does is it just leaves confusion for everyone. Because they're like, well which is it? Like you had this so you talked about white privilege, we should read Kendi and uh there's systemic racism that we're responsible for. And then the two weeks later we don't agree with critical race. theory. And and that's a lot they want to keep both sides. I think that's most pastors are like, alright, you can wear a mask. You don't have to like we want we really want Like, um we won't want to just try to sidestep this whole debate so that everyone we can get the money from the Democrats and Republicans, alright? We can you know, no one will leave our church. And it doesn't work. That just winds up in splits or factions and And that's the sad thing to me, but those splits and factions are turning into new churches now. So I think that so I love to see numbers on this. I think since twenty twenty though We've had one of the most, if not the biggest, massive disruptions in church attendance ever in the history of the United States. That's what I personally believe. I'm saying more than the Great Awakenings, more like there's a lot of things that reshuffled the deck. You know, but it took time. This was instant. This was like within a I mean that's a short period of time, like three years And you had a massive change in the amount of people going to church and where they went to church. And I don't I haven't seen any studies on it. It's weird to me, because there should be some studies Uh I know like in 2020 there were people saying uh there was a study that a third of people who went to Zoom church never went back to church. There were things like that, but I don't I haven't seen anything lately. Central Baptists and it has probably diminished by half because of these. That because these draconian things are like all the course okay with online it's gone nuts. And now there's metaverse pastors. Southeastern is doing that. The the seminary I went to just had an advertisement lately. recently I forgot about this where they were they want to evangelize on the metaverse. So they they're implementing something. I don't know if it's courses or what What? But it's yeah, the metaverse being a virtual reality world, it's like what are we gonna do church in the metaverse now? Like you show up as your avatar? I mean that's where that's is where we're going. Like Yeah. So thankfully that's not me. In the interest of respect for everybody's time, particularly John's, I want to ask one last question. I'm going to take the pastor's prerogative and ask one last question because I think it could be helpful Some of the names have already been mentioned, Vodie Walkam, if you don't know who he is, you should check him out. And by the way, just for the record, the names I'm going to throw out that I would vouch for, I'm not vouching for every little detail of their theological perspective But I'm saying broadly speaking ninety plus percent of the time they're really, really good and trustworthy and Body Walkham fits that bill in my estimation. So if you don't know who he is, you can check him out online. Uh AD Robles came up, I think he's doing some really good work. uh online. He does something similar to what John does. They have different styles and personalities and AD Robles would be uh good anyway. The question is, in addition to some of the names already got mentioned, by the way I should have given a shout out at the beginning Ray and Anthony Fava, they they have a a more emerging, burgeoning version of some of the kinds of things that AD Robles and John are doing with a YouTube channel and blogging and stuff. It's called Evangelical Dark Web. Uh he's actually had a pretty good growth. And he's got a pretty good go growth spurt going when uh about a year ago he had I don't know five hundred, six hundred uh subscribers on his YouTube channel. He's well over 2,000 now, so that's he's he's like quadrupled his his following in a year. So there's some good stuff going on there. Anyway, who are some other people, organizations that for the most part we can turn to. Like I would for example give you one because it's in your book. You talked about Stephen Nichols, who was one of my seminary professors and he's involved with Lingonir. And Lingonair was RC Sproll's organization he founded, and RC is now dead, and so I'm concerned about potential mission drift there. And I've heard a couple of messages that HB Charles has uh has done that's been promoted by them that made me scratch my head a little bit, but for the most part I would still recommend them. Uh so who would you recommend? Alpha and Omega Ministries maybe, James White, uh Doug Wilson, do you write the Doug Wilson? Like um yeah, James White doesn't like specific So you're talking about like people who specifically focus on social justice or just a lot of people. No no people that because there are issues that we face that are that are broader than just the social justice thing. Solid biblical theological thinkers who are putting stuff out there for mass consumption that we can still trust. Because like Tim Keller once upon a time I would have trusted him not knowing better and now I realize you can't trust Tim Keller. If you ever could then I was deluded And I'm so I'm not sure if he was just better at masking things, but I've come to understand that he's not somebody that I would you know, the gospel coalition. Some of their articles are really good, but on the whole you y Yeah, y you gotta I I wouldn't recommend them. So who who do you recommend for that? Well, um so I'm I try to be as careful as I can just cause um being in this I've there's been s I I've had like a truck hit me with like everyone just about that I was like looking to and thought was great. I'm like wait you're caving? You're c like I had that moment where I had to like go back to the drawing board and I'm like, what did I get wrong? Or am I the crazy one? And um I you know figured out I wasn't. And I think um So there there are some people that I probably could say like yes but, you know, but just you know but I I don't want to bring them up because I don't w if I c if I can't give a full endorsement, I don't want to do it. So full endorsements, um I think John MacArthur is a is a good ministry. I think um Sinclair Ferguson uh has a has a great ministry uh and I think although RC Sprohl has been deceased now for a few years I think he's got some great material out there, Bible teaching. if you're looking for general Bible teaching. I like to listen to sermon audio a lot if I have a question about something. So I listen to a lot of pastors who you've never heard of and I can't remember the names of because I'm listening to all these pastors in smaller congregations like like this congregation. And I think that's just because I've been I've seen so much the the higher you get the more compromised generally and I tend to think like At those lower levels, if they're giving me the Word of God and it's just the Word of God and they're not trying to play to some uh platform, um I just that that's where I go. I I really like sermon audio. Um For those that don't know, Sermon Audio is the name of the platform. He's not saying he listens to sermon as audio. Like there's a platform, sermonaudio. com. Yeah, and that doesn't mean every preacher on there is great, but generally they they're generally pretty good. Um and and you can search by Bible topic or passage and what do you think of Torah stand? You know, I don't listen to a lot of Charles Stanley. I've heard good things in the past, but I think his he's just kind of retired, I think. He's not I just hear about Andy Stanley all the time here. Andy Stanley is a no-go. That's his son. From what I know about Charles Stanley, I I thought he I think he's pretty good, but I I didn't listen to a lot of him. Uh he he's a he's a general Bible teacher though, and so I think he he keeps things pretty biblical and so um I think Yeah, I mean I I don't I I hate to say this. I don't I haven't listened to a lot of their stuff. I've communicated behind the scenes um especially with some of those guys and I have some appreciation for 'em. I um I don't I don't know what it is. I I've never gone to one of their events. I haven't listened to their stuff that much. So I mean I I I think you'd be safe in listening to them, but you know, I don't that's really about as as much as I could say there. Um I think um there's a guy named Mike Abendroff I like I'm just talking about my who I listen to. I listen to uh No Compromise Radio it's called sometimes. And and I think he's really good. He's a pastor in Massachusetts And he's he's good on this stuff when he does talk about it. Uh who else? Um about Jeff Durbin? How would you have him? I just haven't listened to a lot of him. I have people that are connected to him that I'm connected to, but I I don't know what it is. I think that so like the Doug Wilson Moscow crowd has the Jeff Durbin's kind of part of that. My only connection has been Joel Webin And I've told people like I think Joel's from what I've listened to with of Joel Webin I really like but um I just haven't I don't think I've ever heard a sermon by Jeff Durbin, believe it or not. And I know maybe that surprises some people because he's a big YouTube pastor and stuff Um but uh I think James White's actually a pastor with him. So and and from J from what I've heard of James White, James White's pretty solid on this stuff. Um so I'll probably have a bunch of names come to me later that I'm forgetting about right now. I think that's instructive, that's helpful because we can see that there's not a Just a litany of names that are automatically coming to mind and you're trying to qualify it. And I put you on the spot a little bit and I maybe shouldn't have done that. But by the way to clarify, James White, not there's an African-American bald-headed James White. We're talking about the the Anglo bald-headed James White Just to be clear. Yeah. Well the reason is because the because the the the the black James White is is woke. Yeah, there is a you're right. There are two James Whites. I forgot about that. Yeah. Um yeah, so those are you I mean I don't know you you could live streaming in Detroit. seen a lot of Joel Webin' stuff either, but I will say that some of the stuff I've seen, he was particularly good, articulate and biblical and very just pointed in how he responded to the shut down the churches uh kind of thing. His ministry is right response ministries, by the way. If you want to check him out, particularly on that question, I would recommend him. I'd Uh I haven't consumed a lot of his information, but because he is still right on that issue, I'm prone to wanna wan I'm hoping he's right on a bunch of other issues too. What's that? Oh I had him, yeah. I read it I read his book and he I thought it was really good. He's he's a biblical guy. That's what I like about him. He does. I had that. If I think of others as we're talking, I'll try to bring them up Well it's just past six thirty and uh I thought that the QA would have ended long before now and so I want to be respectful of everybody's time. Let's uh let's let's close this portion of what we're doing uh with a word of prayer. And then I'm going to shut down the stream. And then at that point, uh I'm thinking John might have to dart pretty soon. But as long as people want to mill about and try to converse a little bit, we're not going to kick anybody out just yet. Alright, but let's um let's pray it with him. Father, we thank you that through Christ your people have the truth And through Christ, your people have courage. We ask that you would give your people the prompting by your Spirit to lean into the truth of your word To be bold in proclaiming the truth, to know that it's a truth that the world needs to hear. And that we need to discern the false teachers from those who are proclaiming the true gospel. Lord, we ask that not only would we try to recognize the institutions, the people, the ideologies that are involved that are that are enemies of humanity. truth, but that we would encourage and support those that are proponents of the truth and even more importantly that we would be proponents of the truth. the truth. That we would be on our knees in prayer more regularly than we are. That we would press into your word seeking to understand your truth on that page and apply it into our lives in meaningful, impactful ways. That we would progress in our sanctification, that we would work out our faith, that we would respond to the opportunities we have for iron sharpening iron and and rebukes for brothers and sisters who love us, who are trying to help us in our in our training up, that we be receptive to that That we would be good representatives of your church, that we'd be busy about advancing your kingdom, being involved in that, knowing that the victory is already won It is finished, and that we are humbled to have the opportunity to participate in that. Help us not to look for problems elsewhere, but to recognize the problems in our own lock. And to not merely look for those around us that can help us to To be part of the solution, but for us to recognize that we too are useful to being part of that solution. Help us to take ownership, to be bold, and courageous and unapologetic in sharing The truth and to know that persecution will come. And for us to be honest enough to ask, if we're not being persecuted, why not? Because the gospel is offensive. We don't aim to offend, but we do aim to share the truth. Help us to do that, to learn how to do that, be motivated to do that. And we know that whether or not we do that or not you still win. But there's such blessing for all of your people in participating in it with you. We ask by the power of your spirit that you wouldn't allow us to rob from our ourselves that blessing. We thank you for the opportunity to learn about some of these things in great detail. We thank you for the blessing that John Harris is, not just what he's done here at House of the Faith. Christ but what he's doing on his platforms, uh speaking to people all around the country, all around the world, uh through uh the metaverse. Uh Lord, you use all things for the good of those who are yours. Even the internet. We thank you, Lord, for this blessed time. May you keep everyone safe as they return home. In Christ's name we pray. That the almost enough.