And I think we're running. Okay. We're gonna start with a little surprise before we do our joke. Okay. Somebody's celebrating something this week. Somebody celebrating. Ready? Ready. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, dear mommy. Happy birthday too. Hey shine, right? It's a nice night. Two night. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, big news. We stopped counting after a while So that's our song. Oh yeah, that's that's our song. I don't think we did one last week. No. And we're not really gonna have time for a three, four, five minutes songs we got a lot of ground to cover, but we do want to uh have our traditional joke, you know? Maybe we'll end with a joke. Do we need to end with a joke? Yeah, I guess so. We're gonna end with a joke. So good things come to those who wait. And speaking about good things that come to those who wait, the topic today is what Christians believe about the end time So we're kind of doing a informal series, if you will. People who are uh participating in the Facebook Live are suggesting questions that they're interested about, they've always wondered about, they they're not sure about don't know what to think about kind of things and so this week it's going it's the topic about the end times, the last days, Armageddon all that sort of stuff. Next week is going to be are there such things as ghosts? That was suggested last week Last week and we'll do it next week. So there is a ton of ground to cover, which is why I said we're not gonna have time to do a song. Um we're probably gonna end up covering the kind of material that if this were a Sunday school class, a a group study, a uh a seminary, a college class, it'd be an entire semester. So we're gonna do an entire semester in less than, I don't know fifty minutes is the goal here. So and why this is, is we're not going to talk about things that non-Christians think about the end of the world. There's a lot of stuff we could talk about there. And we're not going to talk about things that would clearly be labeled as heretical with uh by the church and uh there might be some people that are with within the church would hold heretical views. We're going to be focusing on views that uh there's a divergence of opinion and view, but none of them will be considered heretical None of them are salvation issues, and there's a divergence because the Bible is really clear in some particular and important ways and there are some other areas where the Bible is not quite as clear and it's harder for us to know. The edges are fuzzy and we fill in those edges with our own idea. ideas sometimes. Before it's all said and done, I will tell you kind of what my position is just so you know. It doesn't mean I'm the be all, end all and have it all figured out. I mean I would say I do, but if you disagree, that's fine. So here's the framework. And uh you're not really going to need a Bible, so I'm not going to be referencing a whole bunch of Bible verses. There will be a few, uh, but if you want to take notes, you can take mental notes. If you want to jot some things So we're going to have a three-part structure. The first part and last part will be relatively short compared to the middle part. The middle part is very complex and complicated. A lot of stuff going on, and that's going to be the heart of what we have to talk about. There are three primary views of the last days, of the end of time as we know it. Among Christians. Those three views are labeled post-millennialism, pre-millennialism, and amillennialism. So millennialism, millennials The Latin word milae is the Latin word for thousand, so m uh millennial is a period of time is a thousand something, a thousand years. It's a reference to what's going on. Let's talk about in the book of Revelation. And so the post, the pre, and the ah uh have some are in relationship to Christ's return, his second coming, the second advent. whatever label you want to put on that. So if Christ, if a Christian believes that there will be a thousand-year millennium And then Christ returns. That would be the post-millennial view because his return comes post-millennium. Premillennium comes before the start of millennium. the thousand years and the all millennial we'll get into that it's uh it's a little bit more symbolic uh and not a and it's not about an exact timing questions. So post millennialism. Wait, I have a joke. Do you should we do we can do the joke now and then we should probably do prayer, right? Oh yeah that's right. Okay. So I've set up what we're going to do. That's right, sorry. That's distracted by saying Happy birthday. So we'll do the joke. We should have the prayer for sure, and then we'll get into the meat of it. Alrighty. I have a couple of jokes. You guys ready? Okay. What did one toilet say to the other Um terrible need. I'm I'm flushed with embarrassment. Alright, I give it to you. Oh shit. Okay. What do you think of that new diner on the moon? What do you think of that new diner on the moon? Oh my gosh. I can't think of one for that. Food was so good, really not much atmosphere. That's a good one. One more Why can't Elsa from Frozen have a balloon? Elsa from Frozen. She's the one that freezes everything and Um boy, I don't know. Because she's only full of cold air? Because she will let it go. Oh god. Oh my gosh. Thank you. Thank you very much. Some day we'll talk about how that song and the lyrics have actually undercut the Christian gospel message. Sure. this time. Thank you for jokes. Thank you that we can laugh when uh it seems like there's no laughter in our world. We ask that your Holy Spirit would lead this conversation. That your Holy Spirit Would fill this room, would fill those who are watching, that your words would be heard, that you would prepare the hearers of this message, of this conversation. fruitful. We know that your word does not return voice, and so we ask that it would draw people nearer to you. We pray that you would be glorified through this. Yes, this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Okay, so postmillennialism. In this view of the end times People who hold this view, they see Christ's second coming as happening after the thousand-year reign. This thousand-year period represents a golden age in world history. History. Um most people with this view they expect that they're a very optimistic view of how time is going to progress and march forward. So they expect the vast majority of people uh increasing increasing number of people over time to be saved, to become Christians, to be obedient in their Christian walk, uh that there will be an increasing gospel momentum and expansion of the kingdom that will produce a protracted time of of just wonderfulness, of faith and righteousness and peace. peace and prosperity, things are getting better all the time. Very, very optimistic view. And then at the end of this golden age, Christ returns. Now some post millennialists Uh their view is that the Bible says a millennium a thousand years and it's going to be a thousand years. Uh exactly. Others would see the thousand years a little bit more figurative, representing a very long period of time. Time could be hundreds of years, could be several thousand years, where you know that they don't necessarily hang their hat on a particular length of time. This actually has a lot in common with a portion of what the all millennial is position is uh by the way. So at the conclusion of the millennium, Christ returns. Uh this ends history and at that point would be the general resurrection and the final judgment and after that would be uh the eternal order, the the the ongoing reality, whatever that's Going to be after that. Now, you might not have heard much about this because it's not really that in vogue these days in most Christian circles, but this view was the dominant theological view. view among Protestants especially uh in the United States uh and those Protestants who pushed for uh uh reformed uh movements in American history. The uh um the the we're we're gonna have temperance movements and people are gonna we're gonna do things to help people not sin and make things better and better. Um and this was particularly true if you're uh a uh student of American history, you know at the Second Great Awakening. The Second Great Awakening was was was uh pretty much fueled by an awful lot of post-millennial uh thinkers and believers. But as you might imagine, a view this optimistic, you know, in the you know, all the way through in the 1800s Second Great Awakening, but then World War One happened, the uh all the violence of the nineteen twenties happened, the Great Depression of the Thirties happened, World War Two in the forties happened, and the Cold War and the dawn of the atomic uh age and you know lots of unrest and civil strife and so it didn't fit very well with an optimistic view of how things were getting better and better all the time and so this particular view began to receive And popularity among Christians and among uh theologians, uh, because people became more pessimistic and more disillusioned, which doesn't square real well. with this particular view. No, but there's despite all that, there are still some major pockets uh among Christianity who hold this view. Um particularly among those who are currently preaching uh Abolitionism and the social gospel and what is called the um the Christian reconstructionism. Um and you could actually argue that in some way Is this particular view, post-millennialism, is making a bit of a comeback despite critics who push back against this saying they have what theologians like to call an overrealized ex eschatology. Orealized eschatology, eschology of the last things, last days, and overrealized meaning we think that the last days are already here. They're pulling the promises of the future too much into the present. They uh they're gaining some steam. Something that's uh that most non-post millennials uh expect is uh a period of apostasy. of falling away where the the church has uh the church itself or the visible church the the the the the church that we see not the the church that God necessarily sees the church that we see uh becomes less faithful to the word. Uh postmillennialists, because they're so often this thing are getting better and better, they think the church is going to become more obedient and isn't going to wrestle with the apostasy and the saying So recapping, post millennialism holds to the belief that gradually the gospel is going to convert the majority of the world's inhabitants. Christians, as a result of this, are going to Possess increasing political power. In fact, they will rule all of the nations. They will control all aspects of life. In each of the nations, um there will be a genuinely Christian culture that takes root and flourishes, thus Christianizing the entire world, uh the human race as a whole, there would they would hold that there's exceptions, but on the whole, the human race will be obedient to the law of God Uh and so therefore there will be earthly peace worldwide. Right, there will be unprecedented material prosperity. Right? Poverty will disappear. Uh crime basically non-existent. This is what they're thinking is is going to be coming before the Christ returns. Now, proponents of this particular uh view, the post-millennial view, would include the Puritans, who uh were important obviously in the founding of this nation Famous people like Jonathan Edwards, Charles Hodge, James Henry Thornwell, A. A. Hodge, B. D. Warfield, and lots of other famous names. So even though you might not have heard a whole lot of lot about it. It is a minority view in the Christian world right now. There are some heavyweight theologians that would fit in this camp, so it's not an insignificant view. And like I said, none of what we're talking about today would be considered heresy, although I do think there are more problems with some of the views than some of the others. All right. Now you gotta buckle up. I'm gonna do my best to simplify this and and and if anybody watching this video is a premillennialist uh Uh I'm gonna cover this so quickly that you might feel I'm covering parts of it unfairly. I'm not meaning to be unfair, uh but there's a lot of ground to cover in premillennialism because there are so many camps within or under the umbrella of premillennialism There are two primary camps. So you have premillennialism on the whole, and then over here you've got historic premillennialism, and over here, a much larger group, you'd have you'd have what's called dis Dispensational premillennialism. Historic premillennialism is called historic because opponents of this view, they would claim that this view goes all the way back to the early church fathers. that it is the historic view of the church. Now post millennialists and uh our millennialists would argue that point, but they're trying to distinct themselves make themselves distinct This thing from a Johnny come lately on the theological stage with dispensational premillennialism say, No, no, that's new. We're not that, we're something that goes back two thousand By the way, in case you hear terms at some point or you've heard terms before and you're wondering where they fit, the historic premillennialism is sometimes also referred to as post-tribulational premillennialism. Colonialism, just putting that out there. So, again, this view teaches the second coming of Christ, his second advent, is going to occur before his thousand-year reign happens. Because it's pre-millennial. Christ comes and then the millennium comes. And then after the millennium comes a great apostasy that we were talking about a moment ago. And during this great apostasy, this could uh include a Time of Great Tribulation, uh different people within the historic premillennial view differ a little bit on that. Now a major difference between historic and dispensational premillennial has to do with the church in relation to Israel. The historic view that we're focusing on right now Now does not make a very sharp distinction at all between Israel and the church. Instead viewing uh believers, those who are God's people His elect from all ages as part of one group. They hold this in common with an awful lot of our millennialists, by the way. And this plays out importantly that that is why the historic premillennialism Don't want to be thought of as dispensational premillennialists because a variety of reasons, but this is a big one. Historic premillennialists see no issue at all. with the church going through a great tribulation. Um and this therefore eliminates the need for a separate pre-tribulational rapture of believers. We'll talk more about what the rapture is in a moment. But historic premillennialists, they don't emphasize the rapture. Some of them would probably discount that there is a rapture. So that's a pretty big difference between them and the dispensation The proponents of historic premillennialism would include, just like the other group I just mentioned, some pretty heavyweight Theologians like Charles Spurgeon, Al Moller, John Piper, Francis Schaefer, D. A. Carson, some very famous, well-regarded, heavyweight theologians, and a whole bunch of other famous names in this camp. So now dispensational premillennialism. This is where it's really, really thick with weeds. This is the hardest part for you to track with and I'm going to do my best That's to simplify it. Dispensational premillennialism has a number of main branches, all under, so we have the big picture of of the of uh premillennialism, historic premillennialism. Premillennialism over here and then dispensational premillennialism over here. And under the dispensational part, there's a whole bunch of other smaller umbrellas, which would include classical dispensation. Dispensationalists, progressive dispensationalists, traditional dispensationalists, grace movement dispensationalists, and others. So Dispensationalism interprets the Bible through a system, a grid, if you will, a historic grid, that divides history into what they label and identify as dispensationalism. These dispensations are periods or ages of you know periods of time within which God deals uh distinctly and differently with With people and particularly with his people in those moments. So you have this dispensation followed by this dispensation, followed by this dispensation, and in each of those dispensations God is acting and moving and dealing with his people very differently. And so there is a lot of discontinuity in the way that God deals with people over time. And so, hence, there is a definite distinction, therefore, between Israel and the Christian Church. Israel, in the dispensation of the Christian Mindset is an ethnic nation. And the promises to that ethnic nation, to those people of God, need to be fulfilled to the ethnic people of God. of God. And they would say that the church, in distinction from this, would be all the saved individuals who are part of our present age, our present dispensation. Generally, most dispensationalists would probably say somewhere around Pentecost or the the the time of Jesus on earth, very often from Pentecost, all the way up to at least the rapture, maybe through the uh end of the uh seven year tribulation according to their system. So again I mentioned it's classical dispensationalists, they see the uh the present day church, what we the the age that we're in now, the church that we have now they see this time as a as a parentheses uh a parentheses in the progress of ethnic Israel. So again, all these dispensations of dealing with ethnic Israel and then there's a pause. God hits the pause button and there's a parentheses for the church and then at the end of this parentheses God unpauses and picks back up with his promises to ethnic Israel. Okay? And then there are progressive dispensationalists, they soften that Israel church distinction I was just talking about. There are the dispensationalists But it's not as much of a parenthesis, a little bit of an overlap in how they talk and think about those things. And there's also I mentioned the traditional distances. Dispensationalists and the the Grace Movement dispensationalists and the Grace Movement uh folks, they uh they emphasize that the beginning of the church uh began with the ministry of Paul Not with the ministry of Jesus. So that would that would separate them from the other groups. And we're not and there are other distinctives and pr this is why it would take weeks and weeks and lots of books. I just want to put those out this sense of how complicated and to be honest, I would almost argue convoluted it can become sometimes. We're not going to talk about all this uh tonight Uh so again there are almost unending variations among dispensationalists and the number of dispensations vary among the groups. Typically anywhere from three dispensations to eight dispens dispensations most dispensationalists hold to a s uh a time frame scheme that has seven dispensations and these uh seven ages that most dispensational Dispensationalists uh keep in mind as their grid. So when the dispensationalist is reading the Bible, particularly as they're reading the Old Testament, they're thinking, Okay, what dispensation is this talking about? Because God's dealing differently than And so the seven ages uh in dispensationalist premillennialism would be the age of innocence, the age of conscience, the age of the episode. Age of human government, uh the age of promise, the age of law. And then we get to the final two, spend a little bit more time on these two because uh they're talking About the present and the future. The age of grace, which is also sometimes called the church age. That's the parenthetical dispensation that they would claim we're in now. And And this time generally again covers from at least the cross of Christ, maybe the ministry of Christ, possibly Pentecost, somewhere in that, somewhere in the First century, the early first century, uh, up to and through what is referred to as the secret rapture of the church and then the Great Tribulation. Um and I'll swing back to that in a sec. Well no, I'll talk about that now. So the secret rapture, meaning Christ when he returns, he returns in two phases according to this view. Christ is His second return comes partway and then calls up those who are alive on earth and his believers to be swept up off the earth and up into heaven. simultaneously and in a way that the world doesn't notice that Christ came. They just notice that people disappeared. And you've probably seen movies along this line. The rapture where all the Christian believers they they all of a sudden they're invisible, all you see are their clothes, like everything else is gone. That's this view being played out in a book or or in a movie. or that sort of a thing. Um and so it's secret because you don't see Jesus. Nobody knows what's going on. Where all the people go? And and then the tribulation period uh be begins, this great tribulation period that uh in the dispensational scheme is seven years. And then after the rapture and after the seven years of tribulation, then comes the millennial kingdom. And so Jesus came part way, grabs his people, and then goes back, and then seven years later he comes all the way back. And when he comes all the way back, that's not invisible, that's not secret. And then there's a thousand-year reign of Christ on earth, the millennium, which is centered, uh the government for that millennial reign, the kingdom, is centered in Jerusalem. Uh and it ends with God's judgment and uh that final judgment comes after a final rebellion. So Christ comes back, rules for a thousand years, but then there's one last gasp effort by Satan and his demons. and the enemies of God make one last push, it's squashed rather quickly and easily, and then that's it. Everybody goes to the lake of fire who's bad, and everybody else goes on into Eternal bliss. So dispensationalists they believe that Israel as a nation, because again, ethnic Israel is really important in the dispensational understanding. Israel as a nation, as a nation-state, as a geopolitical entity and as an ethnic group of people, they will embrace Jesus as the Messiah. And this is going to happen toward the end of the Great Tribulation, toward the end of the seven years. And that's what primes the pump for Jesus to then return in his second coming. Now, proponents of this uh view, the uh the dispensational premillennialist view, uh would include pretty much its founder, John Nelson uh Darby, its uh first real uh um uh spokesperson or a spokesperson with a huge amount of uh of influence and voice in theological circles, C. I. Schofield, uh Harry Ironside, Miles Stanford, uh R Schifflet, Dwight Moody, uh Lewis Ferry Schaefer, who's the founder of Dallas Theological Seminary. So Dallas Theological Seminary would be a dispensational premillennialism Seminary. Uh and Tim LaHay, who is famous as the author of the Left Behind series, which you know whispered a moment ago. It's it's a series of books that were very popular throughout the nineties and into the two thousands. They made a series of movies about them. I think they might have starred Kirk Cameron in the movies. Camp as well. Now, what makes this even more complicated is within the dispensational premillennial view which has the the classical, progressive, traditional grace movement and other stripes and flavors of dispensationalist. Within all of that, those little subgroups, you then have to split them even further, depending on the timing of the tribulation. So some of them are pre-tribulation, some of them are mid-tribulation, some of them are post-tribulation. And so a pre-tribulation view says that Christians are removed, that rapture we talked about, are removed from the planet through the secret rapture of the church before the tribulation. So it's pre-tribulational premillennialism. Okay? And then you've got the mid-tribulation view, which has a variant, by the way, that's called the pre-Rath view. We're not going to spend any time on that, but just so you know, if somebody mentions pre-wrath, they're talking essentially about the mid-trib view, the mid-tribulation. By the way, that's shorthand, you'll hear pre-trib, mid-trib, post-mill, a mil, pre- Mill, so if you hear those, those are just shorthand for the longer words that I'm using. So a mid-tribulation, premillennial dispensational view says that Christians they're removed from the planet through a rapture, so very similar to the pre-tribulation guys, but it happens at the midway point at the three and a half year mark of the seven year tribulation that they're expecting. And then post tribulation you've probably figured it out. It says that the the the the rapture of the church comes in combination with the the uh final general resurrection of of all believers and that all this happens after the seven year tribulation. So, some final comments on this section because I want to I I one, it's complicated and it takes a lot of uh energy to try to understand and grapple with all these moving parts and these differentiations and stuff. So I wanted to spend some time just to deal with that, but I also want to make sure we spend some time because this is the prevailing view in the American church. Most American Christians would be Well and and they and most of them be tre pre-trib broth by the way. So most American Christians that you run across are going to if they understand what their end time view is, not all of us as Christians have have a formulated view. But if we do, we're more likely than not in America going to be pre-tribulation, premillennial dispensationalists. Why is that? Because it's a view that's actually a minority view worldwide. Most Christians around the world are not free-trib free meal dispensationalists. But in America, most of us are. Why would that be? Well, sh a short aside for a history lesson, I mentioned C. I. Schofield is one of the proponents and a big mouthpiece for this movement. Um have you ever heard of the Schofield Reference Bible It's a big part of why it this is a prevailing view in America. So back in the eighteen hundreds, uh you had the the the the rise of modern day uh psychology and uh uh the very, very, very early forerunners of what has now become known as postmodern Philosophical worldview. You had Darwin and uh Darwinian evolutionism. So as a theory of evolution in the eighteen hundreds, you started to have uh splinter groups that were I don't mean this uh in the way we typically think about cults, meaning you drink the Kool-Aid and you die, but cults in the more theologically clinically descriptive way meaning They're claiming to be Christian, but they're a variant so far afield that it that they they they uh they disavow or completely misunderstand the fundamental core beliefs of Christianity and as we call those Christian cults. Um some of those groups have pit dithered away or reinvented themselves Some of them are still around, we know who they are. The the Jehovah's Witnesses would be an example. The the the uh the Church Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, otherwise known as Mormons This is all happening in the 1800s. And so those who are Bible believers, and they believe in those core tenets of the faith and the foundational fundamental fundamentals of Christian belief, they wanted to react against the Darwinism, you know, the evolution and these these cultic moves and and um and uh what evolved into higher critical thinking. Oh, they wanted to do they wanted to fight back and protect the gospel. And so they emphasize the fundamentals of the faith, which is where we get the phrase the fundamentalists. So somebody calls you a fundamentalist Christian, usually in today's world they're wagging their finger and it's it's a pejorative, they're accusing something bad. Usually I mean you're narrow-minded, small-minded, not that smart, you're argumentative, you're you're just silly, you know, you're you don't get it. Your opinion doesn't matter Like so that's what it means now. But back then they labeled themselves fundament um fundamentalists because they were getting back to the fundamentals. They were proud. But that understanding of what it meant got twisted Anyway, so with all of this, the evolution, all the other stuff, and the and the fundamentalists wanting to really press into what does the Bible say? What does the Bible mean? They were reading their Bible, but they they they wanted some help in how to understand it. And the best-selling, most popular Bible is In America during that period of time was the Schofield Reference Bible. And Schofield was a pre-tribulationist, pre-millennialist, dispensationalist, and so all of his notes. In that his commentary on the scriptures, all the notes that help you understand what you're reading, explain the dispensations. So here you have the the dispensation of law, and here you have the parenthetical church And so we had generations of Christians in America cut their teeth on and grow up on that sort of a teaching. So it was and this was the best-selling Bible in America, not worldwide. So while the rest of the world was pretty much either post- millennial or historic premillennial or our millennial, America over time became predominantly pre-tread pre-mill dispensational Now, in a practical sense, this has had a great influence on our nation as a whole. It has affected our politics. Who gets elected for president, how we interact on the international stage, how we handle the Middle East. Because remember, the dispensationalists place a huge emphasis on ethnic Israel, the nation state, the Jewish state. That's a huge deal for them. And then they got gathered momentum for their movement when in 1948, Israel, which hadn't existed for forever, all of a sudden is a state again, a nation-state again, and all the dispensationalists Went, aha Schofield was right. See it's happening. The last days are happening. We needed there to be uh an uh an Israel again and Jerusalem to be the capital city again so the temple could be rebuilt again so they could offer sacrifices again. so that they could receive their Messiah, who they rejected before. And so all of this plays out in very practical ways as we watch the news. And most Americans are very pro-Israel, and I would argue rightfully so, uh, even if only for geopolitical national security reasons. It's the only d uh uh democratic state in the Middle East. They've been the most loyal ally of America for the last sixty, seventy, eight however long they've been around now? Uh seventy-two years. Um and so for a lot of reasons and then the strategic location of where they are and the impact with it with relation to Syria and Iraq and Iran and uh and back in the seventies, Egypt and Jordan. So it's had a it's it's prime real estate. It's an important issue and So Americans I would argue should be pro-Israel in a general sense anyway, but then you add the theological weight that the dispensationalists bring to the table and it's a no-brainer. You have to support Israel or you're not a Christian, according to this view. And I'm not saying they're wrong, I'm not saying they're right. I will tell you, I'm not a dispensationalist. So what am I? I am an all-millennialist. So what is our millennialism? So going back to the words, uh Milae Latin means one thousand, so that's where we get the Millet millennialism. millennial, thousand year period of time, and ah, what does the ah, what does the letter A before millennial mean? Well in Latin, it's a prefix, it's a negation prefix. Like in uh in America we have prefixes like un and non. You know, um I I so you can say it's non-millennial, unmillennial, not millennial, uh no millennial sometimes. is how people mistakenly understand this view. They say, oh, our millennialists don't think there's a millennium. They say there's no millennium. Well that's crazy. The Bible clearly teaches the millennium, there's a says so right in Revelation. You guys are heretics Uh anybody who would claim there's no millennium would be on that issue a heretic, there's no doubt, but that's not the all millennial position Um there is a reign of Christ and and and there is a co-reign with Christ of his righteous righteous saints on earth. There is a millennium. But how do you understand the millennium. Well people holding this view, the all-millennial view, they interpret the uh the thousand-year period of time, the thousand year period years of the millennium to be symbolic rather than a literal 365,000 days. So Christ does return physically to reign. Uh that's going to happen, but he has already begun to reign. He is king right now over his millennial kingdom ruling from heaven. And again, he is going to come again, but he's ruling now, and he's going to continue to reign forever in a new heaven and earth. And so therefore it's not an exact thousand years. It's just a representation why these theologians, people like me, feel like we can get away with this, is understanding the ancient languages the Bible was written in. And Uh the Jewish language, at least the ancient Jewish language, I'm not sure about present-day contemporary Jewish language, but the the now dead language that was what how Judaism uh how Jew how Jewish language uh was spoken and written thousands of years ago. The biggest number they had a word for was thousand. They didn't have a word like we have the word a million, a billion, a trillion, a zillion. They didn't have those words. So to them, if I wanted to you know remember Carl Sagan is uh he had those those uh those PBS specials back in the seventies and talk about the cosmos and it was billions and billions of years. You know, say him in the billions, big years. Now we talk about the national debt trillions we use these big words with how how big is our national debt trillions I don't I don't even know what that means. I mean think about it a million is a is uh A billion is a thousand millions. And a trillion is a thousand billions. I mean you can't even comprehend these these numbers. So we've got names for these numbers, not that we've comprehended what the numbers mean. But anyway, for for the ancient culture, a thousand was like the biggest number they could fathom trying to count up to. So there were just many, many, many thousands. And I'll swing back to that in in just a second. So uh Amillennialism teaches that the church, which is comprised of those who believe and and their children, right? The children of the believers, uh the the offspring, the ongoing, we're feeding fruitful and multiplying, the church is multiplying. So anybody who comes to belief um is the church and I'm millennialists, they're expecting um That we've got this church, a faithful remnant, fighting the good fight within the church, but there is there's still this cycle of recurring and perhaps even increasing lawlessness in the world. Uh and so there is an apostasy uh from the truth in the broader culture, but also an apostasy from the truth within the uh uh what I would argue are the merely professing churches, the unfaithful churches, those that aren't truly churches, but have all the accoutrements that They they seem to be the churches, but they're they're not really. Uh Amelia would believe that the the establishment of the kingdom of uh of antichrist over the entire world is coming and in some senses maybe has already come in different uh incarnations and periods in time. Uh there is great tribulation, and this great tribulation uh Will impact all, including those who fear God. Uh Amonials believe that there's a sense in which we're living through tribulation even now, and that the church has been living through period periods of heightened uh tribulation and martyrdom and those sorts of things throughout its history. And so the world is in sin, there's cycles of sin. Most Almanulists believe that there's this steady ramping up and a more full development of sin. Sin uh over time, even though Christ is reigning now and hasn't yet returned in in absolute fullness of his glory, but that day is coming. So uh I mentioned that some people misunderstand what all millennialists believe because of the term all millennialism. Uh and so some people with the A-mil or A Mil view prefer now millennialism or uh realized millennialism. I mentioned these in case you see a blog post or a book Ungrinform, it'd be nice if realized millennialism could become the accepted term, but I think that vote has saved. This is going to forever be known as our millennialism, for better or for worse. So our millennialists, um In distinction really from the other views, emphasize that Christ's kingdom is not of this world. It's in this world, but it's not of this world. world. And and Amelonialists would cite passages such as Matthew chapter twelve, uh verse twenty eight, where Jesus he's he drives out demons, and this is evidence that the kingdom of God Has come, so the kingdom is is there then. Luke chapter seventeen, verses twenty and twenty-one, Jesus warns of the coming of the kingdom of God and says that it it cannot be observed. There's there's a spiritual element of the kingdom that we in in the world right now cannot see and grasp. And Jesus says in that Luke passage in fact that the that the the kingdom is already then and there as he's talking among the people. The kingdom is there present among them. Romans chapter 14 Verse 17, Paul there speaks of the kingdom of God in terms of the actions of Christians. Christians are doing the work of the kingdom in the kingdom for the advance of the kingdom. service to their king of the kingdom. Uh so those are the reasons why the all millennialists feel confident and comfortable in their view, even though they're a minority. uh view within the the broader church. Um now what about the thousand years? He says a thousand years And if the Bible is literally true, then it must literally be a thousand years. Well, the thousand years, the millennium, that word it shows up in Revelation, which is famous for its uh poetic uh um broad brush stroke symbolic language and so it's It should be read the whole book of Revelation, given the kind of literature that it is, should be read with that in mind. And so I don't know anybody that takes every image and symbol in Revelation and makes it literal. Like you've probably heard about the dispensations. They talk about, you know, the there's meeting these these locusts and they say, oh, that's going to be the helicopters. Well wait a minute, if you're going to be a literalist and a firm literalist, then you're going to have to say, no, no, locusts don't mean helicopters, locusts mean locusts. You're going to tell me millennium must mean a thousand years, then locust must mean locust. So nobody is purely a woodenly literalist. I'm a literalist, but here's how literalists literalism uh classically is Define how I understand and use the word. Everything in the Bible is literally true. The Bible is a literary work. So how do we understand literature? So if we understand the literature to say something is literally true, we need to interact with it given the genre of writing and type of literature that it is. We don't read poetry and history and news reports and prophecy and legal code and the yellow pages the same way. We come at them with different expectations pages we identify, oh this is the yellow pages. This is not going to have anything that rhymes. It's it's not going to tell a story. I should interpret You read poetry, you go, oh, okay, this is gonna probably have a lot of metaphor and allusions and things like that, so I'm not gonna read it as though it's narrative, as though it's a a story that's being told. It's it's maybe a song to be sung or a a poem to be meditated upon. You're you're going to think about the literature differently. Well Revelation is a is a a a a very uh almost esoteric type of writing and language. And so the thousand years can be literally true. So there is literally a millennium without it needing necessarily to mean it's going to be 365,000 days. So our millennialists regard the thousand years as a figurative duration of time during Christ's reign. Of time has already begun. In fact it has been around for at least two thousand years now, or about two thousand years now, and who knows how long before the second coming, and then it continues He's beyond because he never stops being king. So it's just meant to represent from the time of Christ establishing himself as king over his kingdom forever. kind of how our millennialists would look at it. And now is there any other precedent other than the arguing that Revelation is a distinctly unique book in the Bible that should be understood and read a particular way? Is there any other place in the Bible could point to to think in these terms. Well, are you familiar with Psalm 50, where in verse 10 it talks about the thousand hills? God owns the cattle on a thousand hills. So, are there exactly a thousand hills on the planet? I think there are more. If you could find a 1000th and first hill on the planet, you find hill number 1001. Does God not own the cattle on that hill? Obviously the psalmist there is telling us by saying that God owns the cattle on a thousand hills. Again, thousands, the biggest word they the the the only word they have for the biggest number in their language. That's a poetic way of saying God owns all the cattle on all the hills. In 1 Chronicles chapter 16, verse 15. It talks about the thousand generations to whom God is going to be faithful. Is God only going to be faithful to a thousand generations and then he's going to stop being faithful? God is faithful forever. So this is a way of saying that he is faithful to all generations to come until maybe there's never any more generations. As many generations as there are. So this is a this is a biblical, let's call it a hermeneutic, a an interpretive grid, a way of approaching the scripture. It's a it's a biblical approach. And I'm not trying to necessarily persuade you that I must be right. I am hopefully trying to persuade you that it's possible I could be right and so I don't want to be labeled a heritage. Heretic. But I'm in a good camp too, and I'll mention some of those names uh as well. So uh some of the finer points that I've mentioned is for the other What do all millennials believe? All millennialists uh teach that there is a binding of Satan, that there's a binding of Satan that is uh uh described uh or at least referenced in the book of Revelation And the AML folks, they would say that this has already occurred in a sense, which is what has allowed the gospel to progress. And for the good news to be proclaimed, and for all of the nations, being all the different various people groups, to not be completely other utterly deceived, uh Um if Satan was allowed to run Ruffshod, um he might be able to blind everybody, theoretically, from believing anything, but God makes sure that he calls those to himself who are his and in doing so with those individuals he's calling to himself, Satan has been bound. Now there's an ultimate binding to come, uh and that's a recurring theme in all millennialism, uh some of the other views too, but particularly in all millennialism where you you might hear the phrase already not yet. I don't know if you ever heard that, or now not yet Not yet, Christ is already King, but not yet in the way that He will be. Right? We as believers, we are already saved, but not yet in the way that we will experience our salvation. You can make the argument that I was saved, I am saved, I'm being saved, I forever will be saved. Like there's different ways to understand that. And all millennialism is trying to grapple with those times stamp uh realities and ways of of how God works. Let me pull back my notes here, see if I'm leaving anything out. So there's already not yet. So there's good and evil mixed. Right, evil has already been defeated, but not yet fully. There's an absolute Christ on the cross says it is finished, it is over, it is done. There's no more for Jesus to do. He has won the victory. We have D-Day, right? This week, celebrating D-Day. Day? You know, D-Day effectively was the the the Allied forces won D-Day. And in doing so, they won the European Theater of the War. The European Theater of World War II ended on D Day. Everything D Day till the end of the war was a mop up operation. It was state accomplished. You're playing chess and you just maneuvered and now you know I'm three moves away from checkmating the king. The game's still being played. There's still three more moves, but game over. That's kind of the all-millennial view on these sorts of things. Let's see. And when we talk about the mix of the good and the bad and the evil, and it's already, but not yet, that's true for the visible church. That's why we have so much There is a church and there will be a final visible church that represents perfectly the invisible church. And by invisible I mean the church that we are unsure who's really in the church, God sees. So the church that God sees at the end will be the church But there's a lot of wheat and tares mixed in right now to use that parable there, but we won't clarify what's the wheat. And yet there is a church now. Right already, but not yet in the way that it was So recapping, all millennialism holds that Jesus is presently right now reigning from heaven Seated at the right hand, which is a figurative way of saying, seated in power with God the Father. Jesus is with now and will remain forever with the church until the end of the world. By the end of the world I mean the the end of the world as we know it, until the remaking of the world with the new heavens and the new earth. Uh the millennium began 2000-ish years ago. Acts chapter 2, verses 16 through 21, by the way, would be uh a proof text that might get used in this in this case. Um off the top of your head familiar. That's where Peter uh quotes from Joel chapter two, uh verses twenty-eight to thirty-two, talking about the coming of the kingdom to explain what's what's happening to them in the first century as Peter was talking. And Almondians believe that the church and its spread of the good news that work is kingdom work. It is advancing the kingdom. It is advancing Christ's God is using us here and now to win victories for his kingdom here and now. And there will be an ultimate victory that we all share in forevermore. So I mentioned there are some big heavyweight proponents in this camp as well. Uh even if you've never heard of it before. I'm sure you've heard of some of these people. Augustine, you've probably heard of. There's a city in Florida named after him. We usually Americanize it and call it August Saint Augustine, uh Augustine, but It's Augustine is the is the way it probably historically had been pronounced most of the time. Anyway, Augustine Hermann Babink, uh uh Gerhardis Voss, Louis Burkhoff, uh Anthony Hokema I don't know if these names mean anything to you, but in theological circles, these are huge names. Cornelius Venema, uh Kim Riddlebarger, lots of folks. uh in in this camp. So those are the outlined notes of Of uh post-millennialism, pre-millennialism, and all the dispensational uh and historical arms of that, and amillillennialism I'm sure it's clear as mud. But as I was talking to her, maybe parts of it res, oh yeah, I think I believe in that. Or I think I've heard my pastor teach on that Yeah, okay, now I kind of know where he might be coming from. So if you go to a church and you hear a pastor and he's talking about the rapture. You know, there's gonna be the secret rapture and and they're talking about the the tribulation. Uh that's a dispensational pastor. So you go to a church that emphasizes one of the variants of dispensationalism. If you go to a church and you seem to hear a pastor talk about the already not yet tension with the Bible pretty frequently or emphasizes the fact that Jesus is reigning right now, probably a non-millennial view. If you've got somebody that's preaching uh um consistently and teaching consistently about the church triumphant, the church winning the day. America's gonna turn back its heart to God and is going to win the day. America's gonna become a Christian quote unquote Christian nation again and pro provide an example for the rest of the world and then Europe's gonna have a revival and they're gonna become part of Christendom again and the whole world is gonna be predominantly Christian even the People's Republic of China and Russia and and and uh Iran and all these really hard to reach places of the gospel, they will be evangelized, they will come to belief and it's gonna be a great glorious we're gonna have a Star Trek future. You won't need money. And you're oh everybody's pursuing peace and working together. And uh if that's the kind of mindset then you go to a church that has a um you kind of more Post millennial view. I don't know if that's helpful. So I've talked a long time. I feel like I've talked fast, but I feel like I had a lot of ground to cover. We've been trying to build some discussion into this. Is there any comments or discussion about the comments there. Alright. Any comments or discussion in the room? We had a question about the Jerusalem part because didn't Didn't we just move the wasn't there something that Trump did about with Jerusalem? Yeah. I don't want to mix up my hit on facts, but I we Yeah, so the the the the present day nation state of Israel has forever uh considered Jerusalem But uh for political reasons uh the Western democracies are allies of Israel uh in deference to the sense of nature of those who are not fans of Israel getting their land back for a nation have been reticent to accept that Jerusalem is the nation's capital. And for almost my entire life, I think I remember presidents promising that we were going to move our embassy to Jerusalem as a symbol that we're e we're affirming that Jerusalem is their capital. And Barack Obama promised it, George W. Bush promised it, Bill Clinton promised it, I think George H. W. Bush promised it. I'm almost positive uh that Reagan promised it. My recollection of of history and our presidents gets quite a bit dimmer after that. 'Cause I was much younger. But I'm pretty I know that the last three presidents before our current president all promised it for sure. I'm positive about that. Uh and Donald Trump promised it too. And when I say they promised it when they were campaigning, they promised promised it. But then when they were president they didn't actually do it. Donald Trump made it part of his perfunctory promises like everybody else except for him. I guess it wasn't perfunctory because he actually did it. He moved the American embassy weren't going to stand for it. Now I will say a lot of Christians who aren't dispensational were opposed to that view, that move, because the Palestinians uh you could argue are oppressed by the Israel government. And a lot of Palestinians are Muslims, but a lot of Palestinians are Christians. So you have a lot of Christians Christians in Palestine who are having a rough go of it because of decisions made by the Israel government. And so people in the church were saying, no, anything that's gonna make Israel Israel stronger and therefore make things tougher on our Christian brothers and sisters in Palestine is a bad idea. We shouldn't move the embassy. That was their argument. The dispensationalists like, well yeah, we gotta move the embassy because we want Jesus to come back and he can't come back until the embassy is uh is there and we recognize that Jerusalem is the capital which will then create momentum to re build the temple and that all the the events of the last days that the dispensationalists are expecting can play out. And so dispensationalists by the way are more prone to like read theology off of the head headlines of our newspapers and the lead stories on the cable newscast. They're they're looking to understand Bible prophecy from what they see in the news. And that's a pretty distinctly uh uh dispensational premillennial kind of kind of view. Um and there whenever Jesus is gonna come, and and uh dispensational said we don't really know when Christ is gonna come, but again They're looking at it as part of his coming is the halfway coming where he raptures his church. That secret rapture could come at any moment. Although it it seems like it it wouldn't come before certain things happen. So yeah, so they'll get my sense of it is an awful lot of dispensationalists. Not all of them, but a lot of them in common in common language among dispensationalists, a lot of them will give lip service to, yeah, Jesus could come right now, but not really, because this, this, this, and this have to have to happen first. That's one of the reasons. I have a variety of reasons why I'm an unmillennialist. One of them is the emphasis on Christ being King now. I believe that the Jesus we worship is Lord, Savior, and King now But he can't be king if there's no kingdom. So the fact that our millennialism emphasizes the fact that the kingdom already exists now, that's real attractive to me. The other thing is because the millennials already Already kinda happened. There's this this recurring cycle throughout history of all of the the signs of last time. You talk about the the the earthquakes and the famines and the wars and the rumors. of wars. That's been true forever. There's just cycles of it. Now the you could argue maybe that the cycles are ramping up a little bit. That's I think that's possible, plausible. Maybe probable. I'm not sure where I stand on that. I know a lot of all millennials would say it's probable. Okay, whatever. But anywhere within those cycles, Christ could return, and I don't expect a partial return. That's one of my problems with the dispensational pre-trib rapture idea. Is I don't I'm not persuaded from what I read in the text that there's a Twofold coming of Christ at a second coming. I think that he comes unannounced, he comes in full glory and power, and it's a shock to the world, and it is unambiguous, and every Everybody knows. There's no secret about it. And that's I I tend towards a millillennial view for that. And the other thing I find attractive about omillennialism Jesus, a postmillennial view, unless we think things are so good right now that Jesus has come back in the postmillennial, Jesus can't come back until things are great, right? Until we have an extended golden age era So whatever is true about Jesus' coming, he's not coming today. And the dispensational view, there's so many things that still have to play out. Uh the the sacrifice have to happen uh at the ju at the rebuilt Jewish temple, for example. There is no rebuilt Jewish temple. So, you know, the so Again, dispensationalist Jesus isn't fully coming back. Whatever is true about Jesus is fully coming back. He ain't fully coming back today. The omillennial view leaves open the possibility that before I finish my next sentence Jesus will come back. And I feel like that squares with the w the watchfulness that Christ puts on it upon his people to expect because he's going to come like a thief in the night. Which means He's nothing sneak in the back window. It means he comes unexpectedly. No one expects the thief to come at night. If they were expecting him, the thief wouldn't go to steal anything. So those are some of the reasons So anyway, yeah, moving the uh the embassy to Jerusalem was a big deal politically and it was a big deal in the American Christian Church for the dispensation. That makes sense. Well one comment I would like to make is my concern is for the church. being so divided over something like this because our view of how Jesus is going to come back, when Jesus is going to come back, did not Save us. So we can all have that wrong. All of those views, every single one of them could be wrong, and we could still end up being in heaven with Jesus. And so that's what I wanna say. Like don't be no like if any of this is upsetting to you, let it go. And these are not salvation issues which are playing exactly and and they're not necessarily Very defi divisive. I will say that they people like to get divisive. I will say this. If if your pastor is post mill, pre-mill, ah mil, and you are one of the ones he's not You can still worship at his church. And he would not, speaking as a pastor myself, I'm a millennial, but I know for a fact that I have pastored people who are dispensational Okay. I think they're wrong over time. I'm gonna probably have some influence on their thinking being challenged and they Maybe they're gonna change. I'm not gonna make it the forefront part of my mind and thinking. My my my goal as a pastor isn't to convert convert someone to Amelina. My goal as a pastor is to be useful to God in convicting the heart of both believers and unbelievers, and the conviction of the heart for unbelievers is a conviction And a conviction unto the heart of a believer is a conviction unto obedience and increased sanctification. So that's the goal of a pastor. But Course, I've got a view that is influenced heavily by an all-millennial framework, and so that's going to come out in my teaching and preaching. But we could we could worship together, we could part of the same church. Now I will say can Can be it's possible, uh, but difficult for people to serve in leadership at the same church together. Uh they could serve in leadership on what are called parachurch organizations parameeting with, so uh operations that work alongside and with the church uh to feed the poor, to take care of uh battered women. to help people who struggle with addiction. We can work on those things together and be leadership on the same boards and and and work shoulder to shoulder. But being in leadership uh on a board of elders, for example, in the same same church responsible for teaching and shepherding the same group of people and having very different views of the end times, it's not impossible, but it would be difficult. And so there are some churches that say it's too difficult to even want to dare go down that path. We are a dispensational church, and if you don't agree with that, you can't be an elder, you can't be a pastor with within our church, within our denomination. Or I'm not I didn't mean to pick on dispensationalists. We're omillennial and if you don't agree with that you can't be a pastor or an elder here. Or may they might even take it further. You can't teach a Sunday school class or a Bible study or you know, you can't you can be a you can be a participant but you can't be a leader. You can't be somebody who's influenced in thinking because we don't want you to infect the waters and cause discord. I'm fine with it. I'm fine actually to be honest. There's there's some division and divide on other issues like C should should you and can you baptize an infant or do you have to baptize somebody who's old enough to make a credible profession of faith themselves There's a division in the Bible uh in the body of Christ over that issue. I can coexist. I've got a position on that, but I think there are compelling arguments from scripture for both. I think one is more compelling than the other, but you know what? I can serve alongside even in leadership with somebody who disagrees with me on that. But if somebody believes that Jesus did not actually live live as a human being who literally existed in history and didn't actually die on the cross and didn't actually rise from the dead and didn't actually ascend back into heaven and didn't actually send the Holy Spirit into the hearts of believers, and God didn't actually create everything that is, and God doesn't actually have a plan that guarantees victory for those that are trusting in Him and His plan. his provision, um if those things are disagreed about, now you're a Christian cult. Now it's not trying to it's not the church in disunity, it's the church distinct from the non-church. If you deny the person and work and sufficiency of Christ, you are not a Christian. You can profess to be a Christian all you want. God, according to his Bible, according to His Word, recorded in the scriptures. scriptures, well he does not look at you as a faithful, believing Christian. And so I need, we need to have his view on those matters. Were you gonna say something? No, I was just gonna do you have a view? Or do you even really Yeah. Is it no, I have not really explored. I've heard some of these. I haven't heard on millennial. But I probably tend to honestly agree with that one. And I don't know if it's just because I've just heard like if you had said all of those Right. And then I understood I would agree with you about the kingdom being now because that makes sense. But I could probably listen to somebody That believes in another one. Sure. Present an argument and then get confused. Right. Right, right, right. It's hard to know, but but the way that it was presented at least That makes the most sense to me. Yeah, but uh some of the the things I've shared and we're gonna wrap up 'cause we're getting a little bit long here, but some of the things uh why I've tended toward and now count myself among the a millennial view is because of positive reasons, right? This text seems to indicate this sort of view which is represented by all millennialism. But also I I gotta say, you know, some of my view is uh influenced by negative reasons. You know, I I can't get myself to a place where I can agree with the pre-tribu dispensational view which emphasizes the fact that Christians are going to be spared suffering. Yeah. We're promised suffering and we're told In fact, we're told that it's kind of a good thing. Peter in the New Testament, he says that Christians have the privilege of sharing in the suffering of Christ. So why would God from my point of view, why would God deprive his children of a privilege of sharing in Christ? And by sharing Christ, I mean we get to understand Christ better. You know, you go through hard time with somebody, you know that person better. You know, sometimes friendships are forged through really tough, tough times Uh some people who are enemies become really close friends because they shared a really hard time together. You go through a foxhole with somebody in a war, you might have not liked them in boot camp, but by the end of the war, y you're giving your life for them, right? So I I don't think God would would deny us that quote unquote privilege. Uh I think it's important for us to try to remind ourselves to think of it that way. And I mean Paul didn't experience suffering. Why didn't God rapture him? I just I have a heart so there's It's so anyway, so I have a lot of reasons for why I believe, but again, the dispensationals have a lot of reasons too. Um so and this is gonna sound really pejorative. other views. From my point of view, it feels like the all millennial view or in some cases certain aspects of the post millennial view uh more naturally can be formulated reading out of the text. If all you're trying to do is read scripture and grapple only with scripture and try to to understand the words within their own context for what they are. I think amillennialism and postmillennialism uh are most easily constructed from the text. I think the dispensational views they can fit within the text, but I think they work best and I would argue they almost work exclusively when you take your dispensational grid, your idea of these dispensationals, and you import them into or on top of and over the text and choose to come to the text with your dispensational grid I think if you attempt to come to the text with a blank slate, I don't think you end up with dispensationalism, is my view. So now all the dispensationalists hate me. But that's my view. Yeah, no, I thought that was another one. The female one probably was the one that I was actually gonna say, I was trying to remember, that was the hardest for me to like buy into especially when you have so many separate like takes on it, it would seem like that would be fractures in there. That might be a sign of a red flag issues with it. Could be. Yeah. Well anyway, we're we're like ten minutes longer than I wanted to be, so we're gonna wrap up a prayer and then I'll pause the video. Laura thank you for this time together. we asked that um you know your word when you were on the cross you said that we would you your prayer was that we would be one. So I pray that as people watch this that your spirit would cause us to be one, that there wouldn't be division, certainly not over something like this. We ask that you would be glorified, that your name would prevail. We thank you for your your sacrifice. We thank you for dying for us. We thank you for saving us from ourselves. We thank you for saving us from the enemy. We ask that you would protect us throughout all these hard times that we're going through and we know that you will get glory from it. We ask that we might just see a glimpse of your glory, that we might have that privilege. In your mighty mean that we might Well thank you for uh viewing and I'm sure you had some comments and participating. I'll get back to those later. And uh I last week on last week's video in the comment section I posted a couple of links. They had to do with this week's topic. So if you're interested in reading some more, watching some other videos and stuff, go to last week's Facebook Live and click on those links. God bless.