Welcome live streamers to the uh weekly gathering of the Household of Faith in Christ. If you do not have a home church, uh I can't encourage you strongly enough to find one. Uh we should not neglect the gathering of the saints. And we've had a lot of excuses recently to do so. A lot of churches shut down, a lot of churches have gone woke, a lot of churches are just broken in a variety of ways that are unrecognizable to biblical faithfulness. So don't go to those churches. Well find a good Bible-believing, Bible-teaching, Christ-exalting, God-honoring church and plug-in, not just that you can grow. Um but so that you can bring the gifts that God has given you into that fellowship. Your failure to attend a church is your failure to serve the body of Christ. And there's something sinful about that. So you need to end that and find a church. And if you're within driving distance of Frederick and you'd like to check this church out as a possible fit for you uh contact me all my contact information is on our website at household of faith in christ dot com. Household of faith in Christ dot com where you can find uh sermons and um and blogs and and links to trusted resources and uh all sorts of uh stuff that will hopefully be an aid and help to you So most of the people in this room know what happened here last week and a lot of our streaming people know what happened last week at a special event, but once a quarter we try to do something a little bit outside of our box And so our second quarter event was to have John Harris, most notable for his uh uh uh YouTube channel uh Conversations That Matter, but also he's had a couple of successful books, he's produced a couple of uh well-regarded documentaries. And he specializes in deep dives on the woke movement, the social justice movement, the critical race theory stuff that's going on. And we were blessed immensely by what he had to share last week and we had a good fellowship that followed that. And I think everybody here would would acknowledge that it was really good to be with a bunch of a couple of dozen really like-minded uh people who we didn't we don't feel so alone anymore, right? Like, hey, there are other people who kind of think a little bit like us, which is meaning they're thinking like the Bible. So However, to gather a group of a couple of dozen, we had people coming in from like an hour to an hour and a half away. So it's pretty sparse around here. As good as last week's thing was, look, where did I leave my notes? Did I put them down in there? I'm gonna I'm gonna want to grab my notes. Run. As as good as what we did last week was, um There was an aspect of it that I wish we had more time or had an opportunity to to to go deeper in a particular direction. And so it was my wife's idea that we actually piggyback what we did last week as a smaller gathering of the household of faith in Christ this week. As I was mentioning to some of the people here before we got started on the stream, Last week, John Harris did a really, really nice job of helping us understand what the counterfeit gospel or one of the major versions of the counterfeit gospel uh looks like um in today's day and age. And so we're pretty well equipped on knowing there's a problem But you know, there's that old cliche about the how they train bank tellers who recognize fake money. You know, they don't spend hours and hours and hours in training learning how to recognize all the various ways that the counterfeiters get it wrong They spend time in training learning how to recognize what an authentic US currency bill looks like. And they get so familiar with the authentic $100 bill that when they see a fake hundred dollar bill, they recognize it instinctively. So that's what we want to be. We want to be so good at knowing what the true gospel of Jesus Christ is that when somebody comes at us with something that's not authentic will immediately just immediately instinctively know that's just not right. So people uh who have been coming for a while know that we uh we teach uh how to proclaim and share the gospel with those who haven't heard it before in a five-fold manner. Who can uh volunteer what those five folds are Each one has a name. One word for each one of the five. Creation, fall, redemption, reconciliation, glorification. Yeah. Yeah, well it's interesting that uh my our the ones that we've been using have been creation, fall, redemption, restoration, glorification. But the restoration one does tend to trip us up, uh trips up a little bit on occasion and it it just tripped and it's tripped somebody else up in the past. And I want to talk about that a little bit when we get get there later, about whether that's the right word to use. But uh I want to get derailed by that right now. So what we're gonna do, everybody has their Bible, get 'em ready. I'll leave the room again. You want to turn to Colossians the first chapter, chapter one of Colossians. It's one of the epistles of Paul, so that would be in the New Testament For those who aren't used to figuring out where to find stuff, so you're going to go kind of sort of near the the back of your your Bible. So before we get into reading any of this, I just want to have it ready because we're going to jump into it in a minute. But before we get into all of that, um the the first one is creation. What's that? So, creation, fall, redemption, restoration, glorification. First one's creation. Let's talk about what we know. about from the from a biblical point of view about creation. The the goodness, the blessedness, the the the the truth of the matter, the fact of the matter. What are things that we know about creation? And I know you're all tempted to jump in at once, but please. What we know about creation? Yeah. Uh God created everything. Okay, so we have a a creator, God, and he created everything. In seven days In a technically in six. Yes. When he created it in six days, the cycle that he spoke of was seven days. And that there was an order. Order to it all specifically. That he created everything after its kind. That he not only created, but he sustains. So it's not a perpetual motion motion machine. It's a he's actively sustaining creation. He created man after his own image. He created the male and female. He spoke. The word He in the beginning God. The Word was with God in the beginning of creation. No, these are so so these are all good things. And if we were to continu continue this, I think I would like for us to try to continue Think of it almost like a brainstorming session, right? Sometimes uh things uh uh come to you right away and then after somebody else says something it'll spark another thought and we can get on another run. So there's there's actually there's more that can be said about creation, uh the goodness of creation. Let's talk about that. Let's talk about what's good about creation. Well he created everything in perfection. There was no error in what he did. Nothing needed to evolve. The only thing that he said wasn't it was that man was alone so and that wasn't that man was imperfect that he that got it messed up but he was like mm no you need And then he solved even that right? Yep. Immediately We don't have like we don't walk out outside and just get burned by the plants because they're acidic or something like that. Yeah, even after. Or we don't have nauseous gas Just kill us so we we're uh it's actually a habitable world, so th that in itself is good. Which the more you learn about outer spaces, why did he create there then Talk about this a creator God created in six days on the seventh day, rested. Why did he create No, desire to. You do it 'cause you want to. Yeah, he desired to, he wanted to, and his his ultimate desire in his creation is that his creation would do what? Yeah. Being relationship with and who are you? So those are s those are some of the big there we could probably do this for an hour if we really, really wanted to, but those are some of the big issues. So now In light of what we know about and some of us weren't here last week, but you live in the the world. So you're exposed to a lot of the stuff. So I'll I'll couch it. Rather than couching in terms of in light of what we heard last week In light of what we see around us in the world, the kinds of things that the world would tell us, the secular humanists, the the the uh false teachers even within the the church Um what have you. What are some of the things that they might say about the creation that don't exactly square up with the other thing? That creation was spontaneous and expens So they wouldn't even like the word creation, right? They wouldn't I mean if they th if they they if there was a creation it was a naturalistic creation But rather than a personal creator, God creation. Science, right? Perpetual multiverse. I have to call it the science. As opposed to science. I believe in science. I'm not s not a big fan of the science. Right, right. Same page. Uh they also believe that we exist for creation. Not creation exists for us. So we don't believe that mankind has dominion over creation. So creation itself is almost like a god. Yeah, it's elevated above us for sure. So if not viewed as a deity, it's at least viewed as In a hierarchy. Go ahead. Romans one lays it out pretty pretty clear about the creation and all that and how man worships creature rather than the creator. That's why the natives are cursed to this tale when it gets a little deeper. Yeah. Yeah we talked about then we have a creation and a creator and he created it for his glory and he had a reason to desi he desire to create That's something I uh I should have maybe amplified a little bit because you're exactly right. He created because he desired to create. He didn't desire because he needed to create That's another lie you'll hear from people. God was lonely and he created us for relationships because he was so lonely he needed to have a relationship. God needs nothing. So uh there's that element of the lie out there. So he has a purpose, uh a a personal purpose, and yet the liars they make it completely impersonal, naturalistic. Okay. So now in light of all of that, let's turn in our Bibles to uh Colossians chapter 1, and I need somebody who wants to read verses 15, 16, and 17 That's yeah, that's okay. Yeah. Alrighty. Uh one of Versus fifteen. Which translation is that out of curiosity? The NKJV. Okay. You got the same one. Yeah. Okay. All right. Um he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible. the throne or dominions or principalities or powers. All things were created through him and for him. Now the King James says by him. And he is before all things, and in him all things can he is the head of the body, the church. get those first those three verses. No, that's okay. So we can see how some of the things we talked about are right here First of all, this affirms there is a creation and that it's personal. And that Christ, obviously, is is is uh involved in uh the cre the sun is involved in the creation. And to to Ray's point about he doesn't just create sustains, we see that here too, right? He's he's sustaining what's going on. He's holding all the things together. And it's not just the initial creation, but all the things you see happening in the world, God's in charge of all of that too, the powers, the thrones, the rules. There's nothing that's happening that God isn't in charge of. Um So the second uh uh fold in our fivefold sharing of the gospel is the fall. So what do we know from the Bible about the fall? No, didn't happen long. No, sure. Didn't take long to mess up. Didn't take it long to mess up, did it? Okay, it's very next chapter, right? Creation is described in chapters one and two. I mean they had to have had enough accomplished that they named n enough animals, but the serpent was distinct, so but other than that we don't Yeah, it doesn't technically give us an actual time frame, but it seems that nothing of note took place in between other than maybe fulfilling what Ray said, let's you know what's the name Wait, doesn't it say when Adam and Eve had children their age and the genealogies? Yeah. Yeah, yeah, they didn't have kids till after the fall because she had to have you know the No I'm just wondering whether that narrows down the She didn't even have one kid without the paint, man. Well so it would narrow it down in that sense is that we know that the fall happened for the kids, and if we know what age we're under the kids, we know the fall happened within that time space. But I don't know if that narrows it down enough for most of our satisfaction. And considering initially since death and aging wasn't a thing we can't be like, oh well, she was probably this age when she had some because at that point that's That wouldn't have been uh a good factor. Okay. Yeah, when Adam lived one hundred and thirty years, he became the father of a son And his own likeness and that is Seth, which is independent of Cain and Abel. So inside of 129 years, because there is a nine-month just period in there too. So inside of 129 years we have the fall. At the outside. I I would suggest it might be before that, but Yeah. Anyway. Well so well, I mean factoids and those sorts of things are good, but uh conceptually what do we know to be true about the fall? Uh Satan came to Who and then she wrote Adam into it. And then they found out They were neat. Um they spiritually died. Yep. That's when death came into the whole entire world. And they died spiritually. But not physically for a while, but uh Satan and his angels fell first. That fall help happens first. We know technically Adam wasn't deceived by Technically. That's what it was. He Eve was deceived and then Adam followed her, but he wasn't deceived. Well he's defiant, which is in some ways to do that. Knowingly. Yeah. Let's talk about the fall uh a little more broadly outside of the the Genesis narrative. Let's bring it into the twenty first century and talk about the fall. I didn't know we had that long. I don't want us to share a litany of these are all the ways in which I'm falling. No, I meant like the world around me. No, we're dealing with the fall. Even personally. What are the effects of the fall? Why are bad things happening in the world? Uh why do people why are people so evil with regards to like genocidal acts and stuff. I mean all that traces itself to the fall. Um like pain and child bearing, um any kind of chronic illness. Cancer is a fun one that everybody knows about. Imagine you're talking to somebody that hasn't grown up in a Christianized co context and they're hearing us talk about the fall and they're like What is that? What would you what would you tell them? How would you explain to them in non-Christian ease what the fall is? People people typically still understand the concept of sin. Even if they don't understand it in a religious context, they still understand sin is bad. Um Um clarify is the fall has to do with sin. Right, so it's it's when people started sinning and everything hit the fan. Like when sin entered the world. Yeah. Rebellion. Yeah. Okay, so so sin is rebellion. So we've got this idea that you know individuals and the the in the creation uh narrative in Genesis. And if I know everything Adam and Eve personally sin that has an effect on all of the representatives of the rest of humanity. So all of humanity I just she's fine I don't want her to knock into that at all. Um all right, so now let's transition. Let's talk about what the uh the non-bible believing people in the world. how they would explain what Anthony mentioned, how there's all these problems, the problem of quote unquote evil in the world, uh and uh all the pain and suffering and challenges that we face. Why do these bad things happen? How wha how does the world explain Why all these bad things are happening. Typically karma. Karma. Alright, so if they're like Buddhist or something or Hindu. There is no reason. Everything's just horrible and hopeful Or some sort of you get what you deserve karma, maybe your ancestors messed up, maybe you messed up. Um for two. You get what you deserve. Well yes, that's there there is actually some truth to what the uh like the the world's way, which is the Dallas World Lucifer in the fall, but he'll trust and contort the word because he knows But like what you're saying is is like a kernel of truth in it. Right. We have like in the Bible we read what we sow, and then like with the the the Buddhist and other religions Right. Oh, you know, you're it's karma or you're gonna be able to do it. But the world will say, Oh, it's because you weren't a good enough mom that XYZ is now happening. Or, you know, it it it's your fault or For or or if if someone gets some horrible illness, you know, cancer, heart attack or you know, something incurable, you know people be like, well, you probably just didn't do enough good in in your life. It it's they might they probably wouldn't see that stuff face, of course. But the the thinking is either it's well, I'm just gonna keep these in cancer 'cause it's one that people know typically didn't do anything other than like smoking. But you know, oh, you got cancer, either it's because the world's hopeless because it Who knows why we exist, it's just terrible. Or, you know, you're getting what you deserve because you must have been a bad case. I just heard people say it's just that we're just humans. Yeah, i i it it is what it is. The world is not the world's exactly. It's just kind of what what is that saying? Not a doll eating dog But survival of the fittest. It's just the way it is. And that taps into the you know that uh survival of Edison taps into the naturalistic ideas of creation and uh I don't think we really talk about evolution, but that will be something about creation that happened through evolution as well, not just that Big Bang, but then evolution following the Big Bang. You guys are probably good at answering this. What's uh you know the concern about the enemies within the church? What are the enemies within the church? How do they talk about so sin causes all these problems? All of our problems are because of sin. That's what the Bible will tell us. We have all these evils in the world because well we have a sin problem. So we like you're a sinner. Well, I I I I don't want I don't want to change my language on that by the way. You struggle with sin. I struggle with sin. You struggle with sin. We all struggle with sin and because we're struggling with sin then we have all these problems in the world. Uh but the enemies within the church, the social justice warrior types, they would say what is the cause? They redefined me over there. Yeah, they would say it's because of your it's because of your race and it's they would blame some sort of oppressive and you're just you're just who you are because of you know how you were born and and you can't change it and you're white. You haven't you have more money than other people do. You you were born into a I mean, even so much as you have parents that are still there that were married when they had you and are still married. Therefore you're the oppressor and people from single parent households are oppressed by you because you had it better than that. Like I even like they go that far. Okay. Uh what I might have to do with they it's more like they might not even deny such certain elements of like original Sin and Fall. context but it more has to do with they add to it, not necessarily they take away. So they add to it and what they're adding to it is generally their emphasis. So kind of like uh well they'll attribute this prosperity to sin, which is not still anything in the slightest, because if you're if you're wise and you follow the proverbs, then you would have more to read behind for your kids who would then be positioned in a better starting point then generally the cycle is that they they blow it in their in their uh generations So like a good generation is supposed to um develop itself well, be well off, prosper, and then pass that off pass that torch on. So but They generally attribute that to originals. They call that the sin is because one group of people is better off than the other than another, then that that is due to a And what how would the what would they blame for the perpetuation of these ills? Uh structures. Yeah, that's what I was that's what I was thinking you might bring up first. Yeah, the the structural the systemic Stuff. Prejudice typically the what whatever they're what whatever you're pointing at, race, wealth, um societal norms, whatever the is in the system. So we're seeing a we're seeing something that's uh uh uh consistency and the differences. So in creation we've got a personal creator The naturalistic, you know, anti-biblical view is there's it's an impersonal creation. Um now we've got personal sin, personal responsibility for that sin. But now we've got this institutionalized power structure, philosophical, non personal uh thing that's to blame. It's not because you've sinned. It's not because you've sinned. It's not because I've sinned. It's because the thing has sinned. This this amorphous kind of power oppressor thing. Um and and and it it's not s it's so it's not really personal. It becomes increasingly impersonal. So I think that's an interesting thing to to see that there's a consistency there. take any personal accountability for anything. If it's the system, you know, if it's you know, if it wasn't human sinning, if it you know, if it was the world just being not good to begin with or now if it's, you know, an oppressive system they don't people who are who are spreading that kind of information or believe in it, they then don't have to take any kind of personal accountability or responsibility. I i it's not because I'm sinning. You know, it it it's the world's just not fair. Right. Yeah, I I do bad things not because I'm a sinner, I do bad things because I'm a victim. Right exactly, exactly. Well I I'm not Yeah, i i i i it's it's a victim mindset in his yeah, woe is me and anything that I do wrong. I mean yeah, I it was wrong. I Sorry about that, but it really wasn't my fault. Well don't they actually change it to where if you are the benefiter or the oppressor that you are the one in sin. versus if you're the victim of the you have the original sin if you're the victim um based on your victim status you are the one in the people have directly defended people have directly defended things like arson and um and assault saying oh well they had to do that because their lives weren't as good as the person they were attacking. What? Okay. Like my parents are were better off than me for most of my life, so I just have been attacking them. No All right, so uh who wants to read Colossians one verses twenty one, twenty-two, and twenty three? I can do that. Okay. The version is ESV by the way, so it's probably pretty different than what? Um just twenty one to twenty three? Yep. And you who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing So the fall it brings an alienation from God. We didn't really touch on that specifically. Uh we're in rebellion. We are enemies. Of God. That would be his biblical idea of what's going on. And uh And we can see that, you know, b death, which was talked about, uh uh is part of the equation when there's sin. None of that is what the world ends up talking about. So the there's no you can't be an enemy of a God that doesn't exist in their mind. Or if they're part of the woke church, uh they they misapply that you're an enemy of some minority group You're you're an enemy of a different class or a different you know nation group of people or disadvantaged what the what the world might might define as disadvantaged even because they might not even be disadvantaged. Um you know, there's an argument that we made about on the feminist question, are the women really as disadvantaged as uh the m they are there are more women in the country than there are men and yet they're a minority because they're disadvantaged. Well, they're different, but are they disadvantaged? Maybe, maybe not. Maybe once are they still? You know, someone it also depends on the context because like in some areas women have an advantage. Women get significantly easier sentences, lighter sentences than men for the same crimes and that that tells me compare or any racial disparity is negligible compared to the gender disparity. Totally opposite of the laws and statutes of God. Which is supposed to mean you're not to favor anybody. Yeah, that's supposed to show any partiality. Alright, so number three, so creation fall and then redemption. We should have a lot probably that wants to f just doubt out of us on uh out of us on this one, but uh what does the Bible say about redemption? Oh that is I I framed it that way, nobody wants to talk. Uh isn't redeemed. Oh you mean the Bible in general? Yes. Yeah, okay, yeah. Uh to be redeemed is to be bought not on your own accord but by someone else. Oh yeah. Yeah, that is the technical thing. Like a transaction. Yeah. And you're you're redeeming something else, like especially like a sort of thing. Like you know in the context of a slave, a slave cannot redeem themselves. They have to be redeemed by some someone else. That that's like the word. Like it otherwise you're just buying your own freedom, which you know, that wouldn't be redeemed. I don't think the word redeemed. Then you kind of like work your way out of it. Which is definitely not how salvation works, but yeah, so in in that that price, the redemption was something, like you mentioned, we couldn't pay. Um we can't live a perfect life. We cannot live up to we can't even live up to our own good standards, let alone a perfect God. That's impossible. Um So his son came to live a perfect life as a human and then be killed in our place. So there's a payment. Why is there a uh a a payment that needs to be made? Because And and and the fall brings um let me see if any will volunteer. hear the word. Well bring it brings us in debt, right? We have we have sin and so we have a debt. So well it's like if you if you were to have a pretty white you know, pillow or something like that and then you just spill something on it. You can't just be like, Whoa, it it it it's all good It it's clean now. You can't just it it's not going to become clean just because something has to happen to it. Something has to cleanse it. Or that pillow is not going to become the original perfect color that it was. So we have uh so far this we've colour we've got a a creator who has made everything including us humans and he made us humans in his image and to Angela's point male and female he made them. Uh and we are image bearers and because of that we're incredibly valuable. Right? There's something amazing and wonderful and important and valuable about each and every human being All of that is true, and yet it's also true that each and every one of us is guilty before God. And outside of Christ, all of us are enemies of God, and we are sinners, and therefore we are in debt. And it's a debt we can't really afford to pay, so we have a Redeemer who has paid that debt for us. Let's talk a little bit about that. We're talking about redemption, and I don't think we've mentioned the name Jesus yet. Let's talk about uh let's talk about the Redeemer. What do we know about the Redeemer? God's son. So God Himself is uh is the rescuer, is the redeemer. Right. I s I think that's a really important point. So God's the creator, God's the redeemer. What does the false gospel say? We can talk generally about the world and also inside of the church, what passes for biblical teaching that is not. What is the What are the ways in which you see you've got this problem? You don't live a perfect life, you got this problem. And in some cases your problem might be the color of your skin or the system, you know the the system you're a part of or That you can tr that you contribute to or that you're benefiting from even if you're not contributing to it. All these problems you have. So here Angel helped me try. So what is what what does the world of the false gospel say is the solution? Be better. Be better, work harder? Oh yeah. Well false false gospel would probably manipulate what the I guess the turning work of Christ was. Um either to expand the uh tent, so to speak, or dilute. So so talk about expanding. So Christ died for everyone's sins, so to speak. Um basically everyone gets to heaven because of it. Or even his work wasn't even about what was on the cross, it was about you know whether certain teach certain teachings they're not going to go through all the harsher teachings of Christ. Um other I guess servitude type like they'll try to maybe emphasize the servant leadership aspect of Christ ministry, but not his uh uh ultimate purpose on the cross aspect so they'll do everything you know the judgment's left out. Yeah the judgment, the So it it the anything not pleasant and fluffy. So, you know, the idea that oh well as long as you accept Christ it it It's okay if you don't really believe in everything he taught and said. You know, and like t technically salvation is when you accept Christ. Yes. But if you're rejecting what he said and did, then you're not really accepting him anything Anyway. So you know, you can't just be like, oh well, anyone who likes Jesus can go to heaven. That's not how it's easy greasy Yeah, it it's the it's the fluffy pretty love. Just to add on to that, there's there's people who accuse like very so liberal hoffly churches would accuse us of worshiping the Bible. Even though the Bible clearly They say that the Word, the Scriptures, is a manifestation. Or Christ is the manifestation of the Scriptures. In the beginning was the Word. So yeah, yeah, the Bible stuff capacity operates as you know, in in the Trinitarian view, somewhat operates as the voice of Jesus. perpetuated throughout creation. Very common for us to hear people add the word social in front of everything. So who wants to talk about the way they've heard that word get stapled onto the front of otherwise biblical ideas and and terms and words? Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Social justice as opposed to just justice. Social norms, yeah. So everything we judge what's the thing. We shouldn't necessarily base our life off of it. But judging what's right and wrong based upon the social norms as opposed to the authoritative word of God. We're all in this together. That's the false gospel. Like social unity. So ecumenical unity. It's the false church emerging with the great heart of the well. Yeah, everything is it's common, yeah. It's it's right in front of it, it's here. Mm-hmm. Anything goes, man, as long as I I believe that's it. The enemy is Like and you see what we were saying, like with Satan like knowing how to twist stuff. You know, if it's like, Oh, the only enemy is hate. Like, yeah, hate's not good. We're not supposed to hate our neighbors, we're supposed to love our neighbors, but we are supposed to hate the same Mm-hmm. So the idea that, oh, the only real enemy we have is hatred, that's not true. You're not supposed to love everything just because it exists. That's not how this is supposed to be Even God doesn't love everything. No, God loves everyone. Every God loves every thing. What's that? Esau whom I've hated. The six things the Lord hates Yeah. There there's an entire sermon probably that needs to be preached on how to uh uh understand all of those different things but clearly uh God isn't just this you know squishy little furball you know he he's a righteous holy God who comes in judgment and yeah that part gets gets lost. Back to the social thing though. It even gets attached to the word gospel. We've all heard I think social gospel. What do you what what have you heard people mean by that when they talk about the social gospel their meaning what? Well a lot of it has to do with perfecting this world Um in general, like our redemptive Jesus' redemptive work was for this world, not necessarily so it's in some ways it's very materialistic. Um like social gospel was originally like nineteen twenties. It was we gotta improve the world. Um so you have a lot of what we think of as Christian organizations that eventually went secular, like Red Cross, uh Uh the Rockefellers back that too back in the day. They're big gunners on that thing. Yeah, the temperance movement is part of that. Yes. Right. So the idea is we have to improve this world. Um It's it's in a way like so much error in a way that's correct because You improve the world when you bring the gospel into it as people's hearts are changed by that. But they they make they don't make the they they they tend to make the gospel be only about making people like more comfortable and more happy. There's nothing wrong with trying to be right more happy but but that's not the goal. That's not the goal, right. It's it's the the the the the purpose of the gospel is so that people will be saved from this world. They make the gospel they they they kind of use the gospel as a as as a tool to or they misuse the gospel as a tool to um to try to make to try to make everybody in the world happy and you you do whatever you want. like, oh well, I don't want communism or anything. But you know it's you know, Christians should definitely be making sure everybody's happy. Right. Even if it if they don't necessarily think you need They still think everyone you should be making everyone happy. And in And happy in their their mind, happy is what people wanna do. Right It has nothing to do with holiness, it has nothing to do with righteousness. You know, love is giving people what they want. Especially with the all these different genders and sexes now, the sexuality there that you know, everyone's trying to identify and the parent, even Christian parents parents are often now like, well, I sh as long as my kid's happy. Well, first of all, they ain't really happy. Second of all, that's not that that's not supposed to be the the No, th that's not even what you're supposed to measure it with. or two ago. All I thought when you said that what I thought of was when people are dying in a hospital and the nurses or whatever say, look, we're gonna make you comfortable Before someone dies. Spiritual hoxes. Yeah. But but spiritually, you know, yeah, you're trying to make people comfortable before they die spiritually. rather than, you know, hey, we're born again and we're gonna embrace discomfort because we know the final comfort's coming later. Yeah, I think that's a good way to put it. and flow into some other things. So we we we're barring against some things that uh might more rightly belong in the next section. But before we transition into that, let's uh Get somebody who's willing to to read. Well w one thing is it's more workspace. Yeah, and that's exactly the kind of thing I want to talk about in the next section. But let's uh let's see what Colossians chapter one has to tell us about redemption. Somebody uh read a a broken up section. So read verses thirteen or fourteen and then also eighteen to twenty. We'll do it. Um 13 and 14. For he rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sin. And eighteen. He is also head of the body, the church, and he is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead. so that he himself will come to have first place in everything. For it was the Father's good pleasure for all the fullness to dwell in him. And through him to reconcile all things to himself, having made peace through the blood of his cross, through him I say, were the things on earth or things in heaven. So there we can see that so far Colossians chapter 1 is doing a good job covering creation, fall, redemption. And we can see it's it's the bloodshed on the cross that uh that that does the reconciling. Um and Christ is the head of his church and there's a born again I think Ray somebody mentioned I think it was Ray mentioned being born again. Um so Now we're born because of the fall, we're born in in sin, in a sinful condition, but born again, uh we have new life in Christ. And so that's the redemption piece. And because the the the world and even the social gospel people don't focus as much on what Christ is doing, the person and work of Jesus Christ. uh both his active and passive obedience is called his perfect life lived and his perfect sacrifice offered and his victory over even death and resurrection gets minimized because of all the social concerns Um and we focus on things that sound good and feel good, but they're indistinguishable from any other sort of social group that aims to do good in the world. That's the problem. If you if if you're focusing on all those other things which are transitioning into now with the restoration, um and maybe I'll start with it, I was going to end with uh this portion by asking this quote, but I'll leave with it so it'll help frame. what we're meaning here. So by restoration, what I'm meaning and what we're meaning when we're sharing this with somebody is Um is not that we get busy about restoring things. All of this is about what God does. God creates God redeems, God restores, God glorifies. It's all about what God does. And People on the social justice side, they use restoration and that idea a little bit differently and it's about we've got to go feed the hungry and and and take care of the widows and orphans, which we should do, but that's a fruit of the gospel. That's not the gospel. Right. The gospel isn't anything we do. The gospel is what God does. The fruit of the gospel is what we do. And so I'm hesitant to give up the word restoration because I don't want to surrender a good word just because the left misuses it. However, I also don't want to be foolhardy and cause a lot of confusion that doesn't need to be. So I'm wondering um Dina's not here, but she mentioned that she thought the word transformation might be good Uh I I'm I'm I'm concerned there could be a con some confusion about the ultimate transformation that has uh happens at glorification, so I'm not positive about that. kind of a biblical context. Um a good biblical concept would be strengthening. But I don't know if that's a good word or not. Uh I thought about maybe indwelling because what's happening is God sends his spirit to dwell inside and then you know the benefits of having the spirit. So anyway keep Keep that in mind as we're having a conversation. At the end if you have a word that you feel like, Yeah, that's a really good word that might be better than restoration not saying we're automatically gonna Well the thing that I'm trying to you see there's a there's there's a theological fine line I'm trying to to walk because You could make the argument that once you're converted, you're regenerate. Right? You're a believer in Jesus Christ, you're among the regenerate, I would argue. And yet you're still being sanctified. Amen. You're still growing, you're still progressing in your walk. And so there's still an aspect of of our life as as we're being restored into the fullness of who God made us to be. More closely mirroring Christ. What's that? The rebirth. Yeah, I a and and that's not wrong, but again I feel like that's too focused on the the the moment of justification. Right. So what happens theologically speaking, right? When b when someone is born again, they're a believer, they are once and for all justified and they are at that moment sanctified, but they're sanctified in a sense of the sanctification process begins And then on goes. And so I'm concerned about words that would make would would would lose the ongoing part. So this is this is in the wrestle. And why it's such a hard time for those who are new to this discussion Uh this fourth fold in the gospel is kind of my thing. So I didn't borrow, beg or steal this from anybody else. This is I just I I found in my practice of sharing the gospel with people that There was a hole in the game. And particularly talking to somebody who uh is a little more antagonistic, like somebody who's Muslim, for example, who'll be antagonistic to the the Bible believing gospel And then I say, so you just believe in Jesus and that's it and you can just sin however you want and you can say until you're blue in the face. Well no Paul says, you know, you don't sin all the more so the grace may abound all the more. You you know and well but you just said if you bel And so I feel like it's important to have in our arsenal this that we can preemptively answer the question by going there immediately. So they can't say, oh, so what do you do after you believe? You just believe us here to be glorified? No, we believe, and then out of obedience and gratitude, there's fruit in that. But not just us, out of our obedience and gratitude. See, that's the thing I want to capture here God is doing. So when it comes to restoring, so now we've framed it, I'll I've done enough explanation explanation. With that in mind, God is restoring. What does the Bible tell us about God's activity in restoring us as his people? w will continue it until the day of Christ Jesus. So that that's like a that's a scripture that talks about the ongoing work of God in us. Now of course we have to cooperate with that. And I I think Right. He w he doesn't force us to grow in him and to spiritually mature in him him but as long as we are cooperating with him and cooperation does not mean that we make every decision perfectly either because we are imperfect and the fact that we're imperfect means that we will not make every decision right or well. But we will ha we're still simple, but we have a disposition towards growing in God and you know, we we maintain that humble heart, that repentant attitude, and as we do that, he who began a good work in us will continue it until the day of Christ. And talk about the the the the began. So what is it that God's doing as he begins? Well I mean he's I think he's making us right can check on that. I think he's um making us um Well I know that I I so I'll I'll use a personal example. I know that as I continue to to s have my devotional time with the Lord, that's my cooperation with the sanctification process. I carve out time to be with him every day. the word. And I know that as I do that and I continue praying, um, I and I I'm getting closer to God, but at the same time I'm I'm more sin conscious. Um I'm in other words, I'm more conscious about my need for God and how far Sh how far short I fall. So one of the things God does in that example is God convicts the heart. Um so part of the the work he's doing in me is to show him how d desperately I need him. You know, and and it it it it it's humbling and it's um because before the one of the greatest exceptions we have is that we're basically good When at exactly. When what we are is we're basically sinful and um we need God to do any good. Um that's part of Think in terms of Pentecost. What what's happening what is God doing there? Sending the spirit to the church. So God sends the spirit, sends the paraclete, the comforter, right? To do what? To fill us. Right. So we to equip us to go so we can go as a church to go. It's a great part of the Great Commission as well going back to the gospel gospels as well. Uh deliver the Catholic, you know, the church is We call this um is to go. We can't just sit in our seats, or we'll die in our seats along the old passage to say that's true. We have to go and preach the gospel. This is the Great Commission in one of the first Mark sixteen seventeen was Jesus, if you believe in mind, then you shall expel demons. Oh, we can't do that. Well that's for today. Preach the gospel, lay hands on the sick. But a lot like like Philippians 2 twelve says, walk out your salvation with fear and trembling. Off out your own salvation. So you have to do our part too. It's not that we're it's a work salvation, but we just can't sit back and say, Oh yeah, we're already saved and that's what the the the Western world here. The easy great like door no Oh yeah, you're motivational. No, you're good. Reading your Bible, you're just living the way you want to live Oh you're attending church regularly. Oh you're giving church membership. Yeah, and that's not that's not even biblical. And something else of the holy that God does with his Holy Spirit he illumines our mind. Like there's a renewing of our mind that takes place. And a and he and he illumines his word so that we can understand it uh and access. So all these things are things that God and this is the case with all of them, right? So God creates and our response is to acknowledge him as creator. We fall, God responds to rescue us from that fall, and we trust in his rescuer Uh God is uh is d doing things that restore and then we respond uh accordingly. So the it all of these things involve a response, but the gospel uh The gospel isn't primarily about, I would argue actually, that the gospel isn't about our response at all. The gospel is about the action and activity of God. And then the fruit of that gospel is the the response. So that's that's an important distinction. So with that, the world, particularly the false teachers, the false gospel proclaimers, um Restoration comes how I mean th uh I guess since it's more materialistic it's about the good works. Because again they if they already discount the whole sin and fallen nature or they replace the fallen nature with fallen systems and poverty or so to speak is the I guess the fall itself is just poverty and bad things happening, not necessarily in ourselves. Um it then comes down to fixing those problems and perfecting this world is the end game. Yeah, and what are some of the major things that they highlight in fixing this world? Uh welfare Uh giving like giving to the poor is the ultimate end game of the gospel. And that's w that's originally what social gospel was. Super taxing the rich Yeah. Correcting uh uh correcting maybe if you were there, I'm using their language. Uh eliminating any form of disparity. No, horizont horizontal reconciliation is generally how they also will word it. We're supposed to reconcile our differences of Like, you know. Like within the church and with you know, but that doesn't mean that you're so that your goal is to be A OK with all of all And God has provided a structure even for that, you know, with Matthew eighteen. So you know He's provided the the means and the avenues for doing that, and when we try to do it outside of His revealed word you know, we get ourselves in all sorts of trouble. And this is where it's most insidious. And this is why the word restoration can sometimes cause some confusion because it's such a focus of the false teachers. It's about restoring the world, the problems in the world. And when they define things in those terms and they attach to it the label social gospel Then they get away with, if we're not careful and discerning, they get away with making everything a quote-unquote gospel issue. Feeding the poor is a gospel issue. No, it's not. It's not. Because restoration is supposed to be restoring our relationship. It's a fruit of the gospel issue, but it's not a gospel issue because the gospel is what God does. Kind of so we uh um uh eliminating any sort of disparities. That's a gospel issue. Well says says who? So that's those are picking someone off the night. So there's uh that's where they're sneaky, because we want to feed the poor and take care of the widows and orphans And if somebody is being uh discriminated against, we want we we want to end that for sure. We don't want any of that. So it all sounds and feels good. And they say, and it's in the Bible Right, take care of the widows and orphans and help people, right? Take care of those who have less than you do, that sort of thing. It's all in there. And so if we confuse all that is the Bible with the gospel We we really get screwed up. So we have to understand all of the Bible points to Jesus Christ. And His payment his perfect life lived and his payment for our sin, that is the gospel. His payment of our sin though is against what It's our breaking the law. So this book here contains the gospel and the law. And when we take the law and call it a gospel issue, no, no, no. It's the platform for helping us to recognize why we need the gospel, but it is not, in fact, the gospel. So that's where we get this is where the rubber's meeting the road right now in today's or I would say back in like the eighties and nineties the rubber was meeting the road on the evolution creation uh kind of a thing. That's more on the back burner and now it's more about this other other stuff. So they've already gotten everyone to believe that. But yeah, they they've already won that battle in the culture war, right? There's there's this many ways to God. You know, it's everybody's a child of God and Jesus said very clearly in John fourteen six, I am the way, the truth and the life all that comes to the Black Blah Bible. But today it's all about well what feels like it's gonna work best for you. It's an I I I B and they mean and when they say spiritual they don't mean like your connection with God, they mean that whatever I mean it's I anything good. I think what you're saying is actually more aspirational than what we might actually have have currently because you know we don't have p people alive today don't really believe that there is an an eternal system of judgment, that there's even a life out after death by the way that they live. Right. You know, uh you look at the founding fathers generation, all of 'em, whether they were heretics or believers, they all had a belief in judgment after death. They all had a some belief in that. So yeah, we don't have that. So I don't even think we have the universalism. Around today. It's just uh nihilistic atheism functionally. It's a mess. That's just Yeah, it I mean, uh I'm not ancient, but I've been around for a few decades, you know. And uh in my lifetime it's it's never been as fractured The the the number of the uh of the heresies that have traction right now. There's always been variations of heresies that and the heresies never really die out, they rise and and diminish in ascendancy and whatever. But right now there are a lot of heresies that have a lot of traction all at the same time and it's hard to figure out where to aim But you're putting out a fire over here, meanwhile the house is burned down over there, and it's really a challenge, and it's because we have what we mean the church. Generally speaking, God's people have lost sight of what the gospel is, what the Bible really says the gospel is, and we've we've allowed ourselves to be too easily deceived. And somebody says some really nice words in some really nice ways and it sounds persuasive to me. Like that makes sense to me, yeah, that's a good thing. And and man, you end up Uh it's it's like uh it's like at a pool hall. Uh early on, you know, the the the the pool shark uh makes you feel really good about how you're doing and by the time you realize you've been screwed over by the pool shark, you've been screwed over by the pool shark. Like it's too late And that's what's happening right now. We got a bunch of pool sharks and they're making they're leading us down this this primrose path. And by the time most people have recognized, oh I I'm I'm in trouble here, uh game over, sorry Gotcha. Yeah, that's where we are right now. Let's um in the interest of time, let's go to uh Colossians uh nine ver uh one verses nine through twelve. Who hasn't read yet? Anybody want to read nine through twelve? Okay. This is again in the restoration category. This is out of the NASDAQ ninety five. Uh for this reason also, since the day we heard of it, we have not ceased to pray for you and to ask you that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so that you will walk in the manner worthy of the Lord, to please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work, and in Increasing in the knowledge of God, strengthened with all his with all power, according to his glorious might, for the attaining of all steadfastness and pain. Joyously giving thanks to the qu thanks to the Father who has qualified us to share in the light of the inheritance of the saints. Do you see that? Right? Asking God to move, God add, God to fill you with knowledge of his will. uh to give you wisdom and understanding. God's doing that. And then and because of that you will bear fruit in every good work. Because of what God has done, you will respond to the fruit of that good news of the work of God. is is that uh that you will grow. And that God is strengthening you with all power, according to his glorious might So that you will endure. So God is the mover, and God being the mover is the good news. And then our response to that good news is these good works. And if we get that inside out or we forget that that dynamics at play, we have a false gospel or what uh in many of our English translations, Paul, the way it's uh translated is Paul calls it another gospel. Um another gospel is no gospel at all. So we want to stay focused. The last one, glorification. Um I don't want us to go forever, but we got a little bit of time before we hit 7. 30 anyway. Glorification. What do we know about The end game, the end of it all. What is what what's the good news of gl as it relates to glorification? No, there's a stuff. There's a second coming. But the new spiritual body and everything. I mean, perfectly like him when glorification is Completed. So free of original sin. So you know in the beginning prior in Adam and Eve were capable of sinning but didn't have the desire to sin. And have an internal desire to sin. But they were capable. But they didn't have a predisposition for it. Well in the glorification we will be removed of the desire to sin. And in I think also the capability as well. So So it's actually even better. It's a better position than when Adam and Eve were created. Right, yeah, I that's an important clarification. I think that sometimes we we've Following this idea that oh things will be made back to the way they were at the beginning. Well, yes, but better. Right. I mean if the textbook definition of a happy ending is when the character starts off or ends better than they started off, we would actually get the happy ending. Yeah. Or humanity in general. So our goal, our any our our tell us, if you want to use a fancy word for those that are uh that like fancy words, I think we got a couple of those in the room. The end game, the goal here is that we're going to live forever with God, right? In glor in glory, with a you know a renewed heaven and renewed earth. Uh and he he will be our king forever. And to Bray's point we will be perfected for all time. Angela touched on that too. We will not be able to sin anymore. All of that is the is is not only the goal, but it's a goal that we know will be achieved because it's already been achieved. Uh we're just we're just waiting for the game to play itself out. D-Day has already, you know, happened. We're just waiting for the the the the the final battles to play themselves out, but it's a done deal. Compare that with the end goal, the the dream of for the future from those who don't believe in that. What are they hoping for? What are the what are those leftist Marxist folks shooting for You mean Utopia? Yeah. On Earth. Utopia on Earth, right, right. In fact they're trying to make that happen. Yeah, humans can make that happen. Right. Well in some ways they don't want it to happen So to speak, because they don't have an end game. It's just you know the revolution is continuous. The war yeah, the fossils is the goal, the war is not meant to be one, it's meant to be continuous kind of thing. Oh. So you're saying they are, you know, the dog chasing the car. They wouldn't know what to do with it if they had it. Oh, the tail. War on poverty perpetuates the poverty. Um war on drugs and you know. And why does it fail? It fails because, again, glorification is an act of God Right? God brings about the glorification. He gives us renewed bodies and all of that. Like God is the actor there. And so interestingly, you know Yeah, th they they use the word utopia, and so that's that's the right thing to do, but we're aiming at utopia too. The difference is we'll achieve it. They don't. Why? Because God achieves it for his people uh through utopia. But for the people trying to do it in their own strength, they discover there is no Shangri-La. You just can't get there. And in the effort, to your point, Anthony, they just keep making things worse and worse You know, oh this person has more money than that person. Well solve that. And and you know, like um in the news this week, big story in the news is about uh uh college loans. College loans being uh forgiven. And some people, even on the quote unquote right, uh have been making well, you know, the the social contract is broken and these young students were were uh We're manipulated and deceived into signing loans they didn't understand and that's not right and so we need to make that right. You know what? There's something actually there's probably a little bit true about that. I'm sure they were deceived and and overmarketed, if you will, uh buying into a lie and the necessity of going to school. All that's true. But uh at some level, let's just say that it's true at every level Would God's word tell us that the solution is to, I'm going to steal from Ray to pay off Anthony's student loans because Anthony got deceived by somebody at one point? So Yeah, that's gonna hurt Ray and his family. The world's solution is to make things right by doing things that are wrong. Yeah, Robin Hood Robin Hood justice, yeah. And that's why you perpetuate the problem, yeah. Then you create inflation which hurts everybody. Yeah, well don't get me started on that. That's uh they they finally they have finally Taken action. It's been there for the longest time. They've known it, but they've never been so bold. They've finally figured out the perfect taxation scheme. We are being taxed to death right now by the printing of money. Because they're printing so much money, the prices are going through the roof. Those are taxes. But this isn't a political discussion, this is a theological discussion. But that's the point is they're chasing utopia and we'll fund our utopia by just printing money. And even if we wanted to give them the benefit of the doubt and say that their motives are pure, and some of them maybe do have pure motives and they would be the useful idiots. Uh and those who don't have pure motives are just evil. And um and they're but those of them pure motives are trying to do the right thing, but they're doing it in a way that is Not at at best we could say it's not wise and at worst we would have to say it's evil. I mean and uh and they're even trying to solve a problem that is fundamentally unsolvable by people because they're trying to eliminate poverty, but Jesus said you will always have the poor among you. And there's different reasons why we will always have the poor among you. But Christ himself flat out said, You will always have the poor among you. And so that's not a problem that human beings can solve, all we can do is alleviate it, but we can't solve it. And I had that I had uh a conversation where that exactly came up with a friend of mine who's uh associate of mine who's a uh I don't know if he would call himself a Marxist but all of his ideology lines up with m you know, neo Marxist ideas. Uh and I said to him, you know, the well he's gonna have the poor among us. He said, Why? And it's it's in well first of all, because we live in a broken world, but he doesn't see it that way. He would he would d describe himself as agnostic, but he basically is is a function he's a functioning atheist. So he doesn't have the worldview that he can so he's like, of course he can a achieve utopia and we won't have the poor anymore. The problem is though, that Um one there is there there really is bad things that happen. People are stealing from other people, making other people poor. But the other thing is all relative. So if everybody had at least a million dollars. But there was somebody else that a billion dollars, well then the people with a million dollars would be the poor. Because it's all relative. It's all by comparison. Right. So there's always going to be a discrepancy of purchasing power, and those who have less purchasing power will be, by definition, the poor amongst us. So there's always going to be In fact that it's not necessarily all money either. Yeah, the best you can do is outsource it. ideal type system. But even if you have a a a really good system which overall uh I mean with all the imperfections of this country, we have capitalism and it's a good system. The bottom line is you're going to have people making decisions that are bad that contribute to their own poverty. Maybe they're gambling it away, maybe they're doing drugs, maybe they're They're lazy. Lazy. And so there's nothing you can uh i in in a in in a society that's free when people have the freedom to make choices Some people are gonna make bad choices and that alone is going to guarantee there's there's gonna be some poverty. Right. But some never will. Right. And but and indeed bailing them out again and again isn't helping them and it's not helping anybody else. One of the leading, arguably probably the leading indicator for future poverty, at least in this country, I'm not sure about the rest of the world, but in this country is fatherlessness. Yep. Kids that wake uh that are raised in homes that do not have a father, uh I forget the exact percentage, but it's something like they have an eighty percent likelihood of Eighty percent more likely to live a life of poverty compared to somebody who had a father in the home. Yeah. And so the solution is to make sure all the kids have fathers. Well what are you going to do? Force uh with a gun to the head somebody to be a good father? So well that's not that's Well exactly. Well functionally that's that doesn't work in today's society and culture. And so you end up with what happened also this I think was this week, where uh Joe Biden said all of the children are our children. So they want to make the government the daddy. And that's already, by the way, been done. But but that doesn't mean that's the thing. Right. It's proven to not work and and we And we don't need it to have been proven wrong because we know from God's Word that there's a structure of how things are supposed to play out in society and it's completely blur blurring? uh eradicating the lines of demarcation between the responsibilities between the individual, the family, the government, the church. We all have our lanes to stay in. And if you're gonna give the government the families responsibility, that is not gonna work. It's not the design. Well it's teaching kids about they're trying to teach kids about different sexualities in school now too. It's not just critical race theory. Um but that's how I'm really hard to teach kindergarteners, people kids as young as kindergarten about being gay. Or they're trying to be transgender. They're trying to teach kindergarten. They're telling them they may not be this gender they were born in. have different body parts. Why? Because they're more worried about the fact that you can make zero traditional. For example, she's currently begging me for zero So I'm gonna We can continue the conversation in a second, but j just to put a button on this, and then we can talk as long as we want, I guess. But Uh in also in Colossians in chapter one, I'm gonna read I guess I'll read this time. Uh verses twenty-six through twenty-nine Uh God's Word says. And by the way, all of this, I I say this pretty much every week. It's easier, more natural to have it flow in a sermon, but I'll say it now. We've been reading the Word of God this evening, despite the various English translations. God's word, it's breathed of God, is inspired of God, therefore it is inerrant, it is infallible, and it is fully sufficient. as a rule and guide for faith and life practice. And so those in the room and those who might be on the stream, those with ears to hear, let them hear. So for picking up with verse 26 and reading through to the end of the chapter. Picking up kind of in the middle of the thought here, but it's uh well the middle of a sentence, but it's the beginning of a thought, I think. The mystery that's been kept hidden for ages and generations is now disclosed to the saints. To them God has chosen to make known among the Gentiles the glorious riches of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. We proclaim him admonishing and teaching everyone with all wisdom, so that we may present everyone perfect in Christ. To this end I labor, struggling with all his energy which so powerfully works in me. So again, the the the effort of proclaiming the good news, making disciples is energy and power that comes from God working in him. The perfection that comes with glorification is in Christ And Christ is the hope of glory. And that's what the non-Christians, non-biblical view, that's what they're missing. They're hoping for utopia too. They're hoping for glory, but they're hoping for it outside of Christ. When God's word is telling us that it's in Christ that we have our hope of glory. And so if we can keep these things straight as believers, we're going to have a better have a better shot at navigating the slings and arrows of our discussions with people. They're going to get us off so we can stay focused on Well it's a gospel issue. The church is supposed to do this and the church is supposed to do that. Well what the church is and isn't supposed to do might be true, what they're saying, possibly. But we can't deviate and it and I want to say this. Uh some people in the room have heard me say this, but others haven't. It's not just the leftist problem. It's a problem on the right as well. So think in terms of all the things we talked about, feeding the poor and providing homes for the homeless and getting rid of these disparities Uh we have these uh community organizers and these activist organizations that rise up to try to take care of that. And there are a lot of quote unquote churches that have fallen prayed the idea that the church should become an activist organization to do that. social quote unquote gospel stuff, which isn't the gospel at all as we've been talking about. But that happens on the right too, and the most the most predominant version of that is the abortion issue I'm not saying we shouldn't fight against abortion. I I would count myself actually as uh I I've I've shifted dramatically in the last few years from from the pro-life position to the abolitionist position Yeah, uh this incrementalism stuff. We don't have time for that anymore. Never did. Uh we gotta wake up and and smell the coffee and we just gotta figure out a way to end it now, kind of thing. But that's not that's something that Christians should do as a fruit of the gospel. But that's not the mission of the church. The church's mission isn't to end abortion. The mission of the church is to go and make disciples, preaching the good news to all the nations, baptizing in the name of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. That's the mission of the church. And that fruit in Abortion. And that right. And then the fruit of that is that abortion will end. So we've got to win hearts, renew minds. Convert people to trust in Jesus Christ and abortion goes away. If we stop doing that because we're distracted, or we minimize our efforts to do that, because we're trying to end abortion, or we're trying to feed the poor, or we're trying to provide housing for the homeless or all these good things, we're off mission. And when I say we, I mean the church, the organizational church, the institutional church, the leadership of the church. Individual Christians should be And I would argue will be involved in those things because Christians are obedient to the Word of God and will demonstrate the fruit of the gospel. And so Christians will be generous poor, will be active in fighting against the murder of children. You know, we will do those things as Christians and the church should equip and support and encourage Christians in that effort. But the primary mission of the church isn't those things. And there are people maybe listening to this online, maybe not so much in the room, who are offended, like, what The church's mission isn't to end abortion? No, no more than it's the church's mission to end homelessness. And so I wanted to end my part of what I wanted to make sure I said today so that we who might not think like those on the left, theological left and political left, to understand how offensive it can sound to them. We say, no, the church's mission isn't to end poverty. What do you mean? It's a gospel issue. So that same visceral reaction we might have to ending baby murder is the same kind of visceral action they might have. And so we can have some grace with our brothers and sisters in Christ and help them to walk through, let's divine our terms. What is the gospel? The gospel is good news. And it's good news because God does it. That's what makes it good, because we can't do it. Even if we want to e ev i even if we do want to end poverty, but we can't do it. But God can. You know, we actually can end abortion. Right. Or at least that very measure criminalizes it. We could criminalize it, yeah. We yeah. You can't really like that's something we can't achieve. Therefore it cannot be the gospel because God does the gospel. I mean abortion is a form of murder, and this side of glory we are not going to end murder. We should punish it, right? We should, you know, we sh uh we should criminalize we uh uh murder for sure. But we're not gonna end it. People are still gonna criminals are still gonna do things that are against the law. But yeah, so we should have a godly response to murderers. So that we can uh accomplish. So but to your point, I wanted to get to your point about what You're saying the gospel. I want to I wanna apply that to Christ specifically. So Christ came to earth. God came to earth born as a human being being. He was God. Why didn't he just end murder? Why didn't he just end theft? He didn't. He came and he made disciples And that's our model. And he did heal people, but he didn't heal everybody. And he didn't heal everybody. And he and and and he did it as a way to reach them. to give them the gospel. So um the gospel is the foundation to uh I mean Christ himself, and it just came to me in a fresh way as you were talking, Christ himself models exactly what you you what you just said. He c he was he was and is God. He could have I don't know what he would have done, but he could have just said, okay, I'm here now and As long as I'm you know as long as I'm here on this earth, there will not be one more murder. There will not be one more theft because I'm walking the earth. And he didn't do that. But he came and he found twelve disciples and he made disciples Yeah. That's what the second coming says to do. The second coming will do it, but but he came here to make disciples And as as he did so, they spread the gospel and things began to be alleviated. And that's one of the dangerous slogans that sometimes will pass right through us as um How many times have you heard Jesus came to change the world? And the church we should be obedient to Christ and what he did and we should go about the business of changing the Jesus did not come to change the world. Jesus came to save the world and to ultimately renew the world transform us in glory into a perfect world. And in that sense, he will change the world in that regard. But in the here and now he came to rescue the world, not to change it. Now Christians should go about the business of being positive change. It should be salt and light. But we we've got to keep our our our mission focused clear. And yes, it's a great I hadn't thought about it in those terms before. But yeah, Jesus could have ended all of these problems and yet he didn't. Well that wouldn't have saved people anyway No. All of these things, yes, we we should be helping people. Jesus cares greatly about people and their suffering. But it will change their hearts. But it won't change their hearts and that's what he came to say. It just because we end i if we were to manage to end all of these um symptoms of sin It does not get rid of the fact that that that we're not saved, that sin has made us dead spiritually. Yeah. Well this is a good discussion. We've but uh we typically aim to have the sermon and discussion uh go an hour-ish, usually goes more like 70 minutes ish. On occasion, if this if the conversation is really fruitful and a lot of people are participating, uh we'll we'll go like an hour and a half. Once we get to like an hour and a half. uh as far as the live stream is concerned. I try to wrap up the live stream and keep those to no longer than an hour and a half ish. So we're gonna wrap up the live stream here in just a second. We can continue the conversation amongst ourselves as long as anybody wants to hang out and have that. But for the purposes of the of the stream and for the uh uh for the benefit of all who are gathered in order to kind of put a button on things Um anybody feel like they would be comfortable and feeling led to have a closing word of prayer on the the more formal part of what we've been doing? I'll do I'll do it. Okay. Father, we thank you for this time together. We thank you for this fruitful discussion. As we have come together, Lord, uh guided by the Holy Spirit. We thank you that iron has sharpened iron. And we just pray, Father, that all who would benefit from listening into this this discussion that you would guide them to this discussion. And we just pray that every piece of truth, every bit of truth, all understanding that has been released today, that you would just write that in our hearts. And and and in our understanding and just help us to walk it out every day and service to you help us to stick to what the true gospel is and and not be led astray by a gospel that um as Paul would say is another gospel. So we thank you, Father, and we ask these things in the precious name of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior. Amen. Amen. Well, if you've been sticking with us this long, we appreciate it. Uh we'll be back next week starting around six o'clock with the live stream on Saturday. And we'll be getting back into our Revelation series, if I remember correctly. It's been a few weeks, but I think we're picking up in Revelation chapter 9. Until then, God bless.