And we're all like welcome to the uh Wyestrian portion of our weekly gathering here at the House of the Faith in Christ Um if you want to get your Bibles ready, we're gonna be in Rev I'm gonna start going back here, I guess. We're gonna be in Revelation chapter nine today. So you're gonna Definitely be there. Revelation chapter 9. We're also going to be looking at uh, if you want to read along, there's going to be a passage that's read during the sermon from Isaiah. chapter fourteen. So if you want to bookmark that, now might be a good time, Isaiah fourteen. And also in Romans uh chapter eight. So Isaiah fourteen and Romans eight would be supplementary texts that if you want to jump into. You're in you're encouraged. Isaiah 14. Specifically verses 12 and 4 through 14 and Romans 8 will be 18 to 25. But the primary text for tonight is Revelation chapter 9. I will be focusing primarily on the first two verses. The message tonight is titled Star Fallen to the Bottomless Pit. So When I was in high school, believe it or not, I was a bit of an athlete. I wasn't great, but I was reasonably decent. I was typically good enough to make the team. I was often good enough to start, but I was not a star, not even close to being a star. So my personal highlight reel is rather short But one of the greatest of these highlights happened while I was playing right field for the high school baseball team. There was a runner on first base, there were two outs. Batter hit a line drive straight down the right field line and I ran as fast as I could to meet that ball and without breaking stride I scooped up the ball with a minute of my left hand and I transferred the ball over to my right hand without even breaking stride in one uninterrupted motion I reared back and I fired that ball with all my might. I actually left my feet Fell to the ground and my momentum carried me forward and it felt amazing. I have rarely felt more coordinated in my entire life But there was a problem. As I was letting the ball fly from my hand, I couldn't see anything. It was a late afternoon baseball game and the sun was setting directly behind third base. So when I looked to third base from the right field line, I saw nothing but blinding light. And as I felt the ball leave my hand, I remember thinking Oh no. I just threw the ball into left field. And I was embarrassed. For just a second, because suddenly I heard loud cheers and my team shouting congratulations to me! Turns out the ball flew in a directly, perfectly straight line on one hop right to third base. Third baseman caught the ball directly above the bad. Put his mit straight down, the runner slid right into the bag. Right into the tad for the out. Third out, inning over. I was momentarily a hero. And not to build the moment up any more than I already have, but at the end of the season, you know they have sometimes those end of the season awards, banquets, and things like that During the awards banquets, one of the coaches, he was recounting some of the things that happened during the season, and he shared the story of that perfect throw from right field. It was legitimately, truly, one of the signature plays of the entire year, and I did it. And I didn't even see it. One of the best memories of my athletic career, and I only know about it what others have told me. about it. Now I have pieced together a mental image in my brain, so I feel as though I can almost see it as others saw it, but I'm trusting the reports of others. I'm trusting those who did see it. And their descriptions of what they saw. And this strikes me as very much like what we have here with the book of Revelation. We admittedly can't see everything clearly. We are blinded by the magnificent mystery of the vision of Christ. The vision that he gave the Apostle John. But the vision, it is one of glory, whether we can see it or not. And it is not some glory for some teenage ball player. This is the glory of the one with a voice like a trumpet. This is the glory of the one who is in control of history. The one who is worthy of all praise is the Lamb of God who came once to defeat death. And is coming again to defeat all remaining enemies of the Creator With this reminder, here's Revelation chapter nine, verses one and two. And the fifth angel blew his trumpet. And I saw a star fallen from heaven to earth, and he was given the key to the shaft of the bottomless pit. He opened the shaft of the bottomless pit, and from the shaft rose smoke like the smoke of a great furnace. And the sun and the air were darkened with the smoke from the shaft. These two verses, along with what we read earlier before we started the stream, we read the entirety of chapter 10 of the book of Exodus, and I mentioned we're going to be In a couple other portions of the Bible today as well, in Isaiah and Romans, this is God's word. Breathe of God. It is inspired, inerrant, infallible as such. It is fully sufficient as the rule and guide for our faith and life practice. Those with ears to hear let them hear. I think it's going to be good for us to work through the images phrase by phrase here and see what the symbolism means. So again, verse 1, it reads, And the fifth angel blew his trumpet. And I saw a star falling from heaven to earth, and he was given the key to the shaft of the bottomless pit. Now we have spent quite a bit of time already in previous weeks for those who have been participating in this series on Revelation, discussing how the angels are messengers. And they're bringing the Word of God. Word of God sounding like a trumpet blast. A blast that sets things right in judgment. while preserving the eternal security of those who bear Christ's name. In chapter 8, there was mention of a star falling like a torch. Polluting the drinking water, might remember that. Some have wondered if that falling star in chapter 8 is Satan. And given the context, you might remember when we were studying that portion of this book, I said, Yeah, I don't think so. I don't think that's Satan in chapter eight. However, here in chapter nine. I'm not so sure. Now there are some, they say that this must be Satan here in chapter nine, verse one. And they, these same people, they tend to make the same connection with Isaiah chapter 14. So if you bookmark that and you want to turn there quickly, you can read along in Isaiah 14, verses 12, 13, and 14. Where God's Word says, How you are fallen from heaven, O day star, son of dawn! How you are cut down to the ground, you who laid the nations low. You said in your heart, I will ascend to heaven above the stars of God. I will set my throne on high. I will sit on the mount of assembly in the far reaches of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will make myself like the Most High. Now whether You believe this is Satan or not, from the context, it's clear it's a bad dude. The Isaiah passage, by the way, if you look at the full context, it's addressing the king of Babylon. A ruler over the things on earth who is violently opposed to God, violently opposed to God's people. And you know what? The same thing can be said of Satan. Violently opposed to God and God's people, the great red dragon, the ancient serpent, the deceiver and accuser of Revelation chapter 12. Now, given that the cycles of judgment in Revelation are applicable in varying degrees to all of church and world history, there are layers. to interpreting the intention of our author here. And I am persuaded. Chapter 9, verse 1. It introduces the devil into the prophetic message of the visions. In Jewish tradition, it often depicts fallen angels as fallen stars. It's an idea that's captured in Judges chapter 5, verse 20, also in the New Testament, in Luke chapter 10, verse 18. So I am persuaded. However, I'm also persuaded that there's an additional application of this imagery. Now, I've brought up the Greek a number of times in this series, and I don't want to keep, you know. Feeling like, uh, here he is, bringing up the Greek again during this revelation series. But sometimes it's really important to make sure that we're really getting things right. And so sometimes it really is beneficial to make sure you go to the original language and just make sure. Now when I shared the first half of verse 1 from the English Standard Version, that's what I was reading this evening I read aloud these words. I saw a star fallen from heaven to earth. Now if you happen to have a King James Version in your hands, it says, I saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth. Did you notice the difference? One says fallen, as in in the past. One says fall as in the present The King James, it's not alone in how it handles this passage. A number of our English Bibles, they use a present tense idea here, indicating that John is watching the star fall in real time within his vision. In other words, it leaves open the possibility, as we interpret this passage, of seeing this fall as something that had not yet happened until John saw it. That would be a way to think about the passage translated that way. Now the King James is not alone in translating it that way, and neither is the ESV in translating it the way that it does. And there's a difference here because honestly the Greek, it's a tiny bit tricky in this verse. And so I'm not meaning to say that the King James or others who agree with the King James are wrong. That's not the point. But I do think that the majority of our English translations, which in this case would include the ESV, I think that they get this verse, this translation of this verse closest to being best. Saw a star fall. That's maybe okay. But a star fallen, a star that had Fallen. That's better than okay. I I think that's correct. Now why does this matter? Because If Chon's vision describes someone who had already fallen in the past, That means that this fallen star has been making mischief long before the end times. And this mischief it often includes leaders, like the king of Babylon who I mentioned a few minutes ago. And this idea resonates even more strongly when we take into account the passages like Numbers 24, verse 17, where it says, of a leader. A star shall come out of Jacob. And so there's this idea of a star representing a worldly leader. Worldly leadership is an application of the image. But so too are angelic hosts Like the morning stars of Job chapter 38 verse 7. Even the angels of the seven churches that are introduced to us earlier in the book of Revelation. So what I'm getting at here is that The symbolism at the beginning of chapter 9, it leaves room for and is even pointing to the idea that Satan is doing bad things and satanic influence It's doing bad things through people in high position, such as emperors, false teachers. Now, should mention there is a minority view that what we have here in view in this passage here is a good angel. who is sent to earth to execute judgment. And I can see why this minority view exists. In that the judgment it falls upon the wicked. Judging the wicked, that is something good that a good angel might do. You know, and the concept of a good angel here, well, that definitely would keep the mind focused front and center on the fact that God is in control and God is the one sending the judgment. So that's good. However, let's not forget that God often, throughout Scripture, He accomplishes His ends through means. And you know, sometimes these means they involve removing his hand of restraint, his restraint upon evil. And thereby allowing the evil to run free, to run over the things and people that are enemies of truth, enemies of righteousness, enemies of love. And so what we have here is a is a is a bad angel. It's a bad angel doing bad things, but The bad things are done to accomplish God's defeat of all that's bad. It's like cosmic jiu-jitsu, you know? Using the efforts of the opponent against itself. The evil cannibalizing itself, the evil eating its own young Now, to be sure that we're clear on some of this, because there can be some confusion in parts of Revelation, the language in this verse, it's not merely about the concept of evil. It's not some yin-yang philosophy here with evil understood as a force. You can see if you read the passage, no, that's not what's going on here. What we have here is the start of Revelation 9. This is a fallen star that's personified. Christians do battle with an actual enemy combatant. Not just a force. A personality. And this combatant is, what does it say, given the key to the shaft of the bottomless pit. And maybe this could be better translated as the pit of the abyss. And some of our Bibles might even say that. Now, incidentally, if you had to guess, how many times do you think that John mention mentions the abyss in the book of Revelation? If you had to guess, what number comes up over and over in the book of Revelation? Seven. Three right here in chapter nine. Twice in chapter twenty, once each in chapters eleven and seventeen. John, he certainly does love the numeric symbolism of presenting things in sets of seven throughout the book of Revelation, especially when he's drawing some sort of a special attention to something. And with with John's vision of the fifth trumpet, I do think he is drawing special attention to this here. And the picture of the devil and his influence And he has been given the keys to the shaft of the bottomless pit. And as we're about to turn now to verse two, I want us to keep in mind what we now know to be true from verse 1, the devil was given. The keys. He is allowed this authority. He has no authority of his own. In all circumstances, our Lord Christ is King So let's not give the devil any more than he is due. Now verse 2. He opened the shaft of the bottomless pit, and from the shaft rose smoke like the smoke of a great furnace And the sun and the air were darkened with the smoke from the shaft. So the fallen star, he lets loose the powers of hell. And it darkens the sun, so light is dimmed, right? True knowledge is diminished. And what's described here is an interesting contrast to what we've seen happening in heaven in earlier messages as we've been working our way through Revelation. Remember the smoke in heaven? It mingles with, it even represents the prayers of the saints. Remember that? That's a good thing. That smoke's a good thing. The smoke, the truth-affirming prayers of the godly. It's incense. It's a pleasing aroma. It's a sweet aroma before the Lord. Well, the smoke here, chapter 9, this smoke of truth-denying lies from the shaft of the abyss, it's pollution. It's a blinding irritant. It carries the stench of deception, destruction. Visually there's another connection with these two different images. The smoke of the incense. That conjures up the idea of of white smoke that's traveling ever upward, no end in sight to the heights that it travels. And conversely, the smoke from the shaft that comes from great depths. The translation of the Greek here could just as easily be a deep hole. Large pit, a tunnel, a well. It's a sort of hell. It's the place that even demons were afraid to go. Remember they were concerned Jesus would cast them there back in Luke chapter eight. Now there can be sometimes a tad bit of confusion with these sorts of concepts due to some of the way different Lesser English translations will handle things or how different things get taught over the years. So just to clarify, what we see here at the beginning of chapter 9, this is not the lake of fire. There is a different Greek word for that. And it is not merely a reference to the grave, the abode of the dead, because John in Revelation he uses a different Greek word for that too, which is Most often transliterated in our English Bibles is Hades. Now, what John has in view in these verses is the place of the demonic. The unrighteous. So unlike in Romans chapter 10, which Paul there he also uses the word abyss. But he and he's using it with the idea of the world of the dead. He's using it with the conjure of the idea of the grave. John's using the same word, but a little differently. John is emphasizing the deep. The region below the depth, the hole that has no bottom. So in other words, symbolically, this he's showing us a picture of the opposite of the heavenly realm. By the way, for those who would like to make note of such things, the word abyss appears in just three books in the New Testament. It appears in Luke, which I mentioned, in Romans, which I mentioned, and of course in Revelation. And it's a place of confinement, of darkness, of moral evil. Moral evil is a pit. It imprisons, right? It blinds. It binds. Sin is slavery. Sin is it's midnight. It's darkness. Even the ancient Greek philosopher Socrates, or as Ted from Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, preferred to refer to him as Socrates Even he understood, even this non-Christian, non-Jew for that matter, he understood the trap of bad behavior, the trap of immoral choices. Socrates, or Socrates if you prefer. He is said to have uttered these words, no man is a free man who has a vice for his master. He's not a Christian. He wasn't Jewish. He was a pagan. And he understood this truth because it's a universal truth. We all know It's a universal problem. Slavery to sin, it's a universal problem, and the gospel message is the only solution. Here are the words of the Apostle Paul in Romans chapter 8. So again, if you bookmarked it, this is your chance to read along. I'm gonna pick up Romans 8 in verse 18 and read through to verse 25. And as I read these, and as you hear God's word I really want us to take this to heart. Really try to take to heart what's being said in this paragraph. Again, it's Romans 8, verses 18 to 25. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it. In hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know That the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves. Who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly, as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved Now hope that is seen is not hope for who hopes for what he sees. But if we hope for what we do not see We wait for it. With patience. You know, life can be really hard. I'm not telling you anything profound there. But you know, God does give us many blessings. Let's not lose sight of that. And this includes material blessings in many ways, many cases. But you know, he also gives us the blessing of his word. The blessing of his son, who is also the word. And the blessing of the messengers of the gospel proclaiming the good news of his word. And then finally, the blessing of the punishment of evil, which is directed by his word. His word tells us. His word tells us all. There are no excuses for not listening. And as God preserves and spiritually protects his children, he releases the evil to consume and defeat the evil. There's an incredible double-edged irony to serving Satan If you think about it, those in rebellion against the Father are blinded and tortured. By the blasphemous angel of the abyss. Meaning that tragically the devil's own loyal subjects are cruelly attacked by his demonic hordes. And we'll begin to see all that described in the coming verses of this chapter, which we'll start looking at next week, God willing. And no one should let down their guard, believing that this is only true of the very end of time. And so it's not really any risk to us ourselves. Yeah, the trumpets through the second cycle of multiple cycles in these visions that depict from various angles our Maker's total rule. Total dominion over all of history. That includes yesterday, today, and tomorrow. There are multiple fulfillments of this prophetic vision over time And so some want to focus on the past and say, yeah, it applies in this particular way to the Roman Empire. And I say, yes, as people then were giving themselves over to idolatry, the worship of idols, and suffering torment for it. Others want to focus more on the future, what's to come, right before Christ's advent. That's what we're going to focus on. And to that I say yes, as wickedness appears to intensify. And the people pay the price for it. What about now? In our lives? What about now? Again, yes, as the entire church age is addressed in this vision. And those with eyes to see, we we notice the smoke rising from the abyss, making life miserable. In so many ways. Even particularly of late, it seems to some of us. Your wickedness is self-defeating. It always has been, it always will be, and it is now Satanic powers from the abyss, they work to torment saints, that is true. Many believers are under spiritual attack. But in the end, the thrust of these satanic powers, their attack, the thrust of it, it crushes the stubbornly evil human souls. Crushism. These devilish adversaries, they have affected history We read about it in our history books. A notable example of Islam's conquest of huge areas of geography in and around the Mediterranean region. To say nothing of the mission drift of the church in Rome, the mainline Protestant denominations, the Eastern Orthodox tradition. Even now, in these so-called conservative Protestant groups, who are increasingly populated by heretics It's not merely happenings in the natural, it's also happenings in the supernatural. Our world, our culture. plagued by evil spirits, and our response must be to suit up for spiritual war We might not fully see all of that perfectly clearly right now. But we will see. Like the man who washed in the pool of Soloam. Remember after he listened to Jesus, he went and he washed, and what happened? We're told that he came home seeing. That's in the Gospel of John, chapter 9, verse 7. We too, if we're following Christ, we too will come home seeing in the end. And in John chapter four, verse twenty-five. The Samaritan woman said, I know that Messiah is coming, and when he comes, he will explain everything to us. You know, right now If the sun is in your eyes and you're worried that uh the world has thrown the ball into left field Instead of bringing about the final out. If you're s nervous that maybe somehow personally you could maybe screw things up for Jesus Just trust us, he's got it under control. He knows what he's doing, he's got it under control. Even when you can't see how it's happening. God has the ball going exactly the where it needs to be. And he has described it for you already in the book of Revelation. But you know what? He will explain it to you again when you're with him in glory, if you should want him to. For now, if you're trusting in Jesus Christ for your salvation, he is the Lord of your life. You are worshiping him. If you are his And know that you are marked safe. And know that you should be going out of your way. To tell others of their need to be marked safe as well. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you have a glorious plan that we can only partially comprehend and understand, but we can understand it well enough by the illumination of your spirit to apply it to our lives. And we pray that by the motivation you provide through your spirit, that we would apply this to our lives, that we would share this good news and these warning passages with a lost. world that is so in danger and doesn't even know it. And we thank you for the encouragement we can draw from this Azure people, knowing that we are marked safe That you love us and you're dealing with the evil around us? That no evil goes unpunished. Even our own evil does not go unpunished. And we just praise you, Lord, that our evil has been punished. In your son, who has made sin for us Father, we ask you would bless our conversation, that we would grow during this time of worship and study. And that we would earnestly go about the business of seeking to glorify your name. Within your church for sure, but even out in the world. All these things we lift up to you in the name of our glorious Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. So I'm wondering there's there was an a a note of application in the message, but it wasn't heavy on application. So I was thinking it might be good for us to maybe If any if we could try to begin to have the first part of our conversation about this, focusing it is possible. If you've got other thoughts, that's fine. But Thoughts about how this could be applied in your life in a practical way as you live out your your life in the world, your life in your relationships, your life With Christ. Well one way 'cause this is I'm in a another I'm in a Bible study with some friends um and we're doing kind of focus on acceptance and gratitude and one of the things that was the prime focus of this past week was choosing to have gratitude when you never thought that you'd have to have it in a certain certain situation. And one of the things that I've said was living here. I never thought I would have to choose to be grateful and look for things to be grateful about living in this area that we're in, but it's gone so off the deep end with um Idolatry. Idolatry and and yeah, and just evil influence and just, you know, everywhere you turn and um and I think that's one thing that Revelation is doing We are so easily caught up in the spiraling downward, oh no, persecution of of the Saints, oh no, um everything's gonna get worse before it gets better, that we lose sight of choosing to see Christ in the midst of this because he is still on the throne. He's already one. So I'm preaching to myself when I say all this because I can easily become wearied. Right? For praying for the saints, for praying for revival, for praying for godly people to be raised up, to be in leadership positions. to be in government, to be in in spheres of influence, it can become so exhausting that I focus on that instead of focusing on, wait, let me step back Let me zoom out and let me see heaven and go, okay, that's right. This is all to be expected. Not that you give up, but it just helps you you from me from being coming so wearied and so uh I was in a kind of a pattern of being negative and and just oh what's the point? You know it it's just gonna be like this and I it's helpful to see that yeah okay the abyss is real and it's gloom and it's it's awful but it's the contrast to what we know to be true which is our destination which is the heavenlies, and we are seated with the heavenlies. So I don't know, that was kind of a long-winded sorry. That's how it spoke to me. Anybody else have thoughts? Along those lines or different lines too? My thoughts are along it. Okay. Do you have something over there? Yeah, I do. Ladies in the back? Oh, okay. She's trying to hold still. I know which is so I just would like to begin by reading Revelation. eight verse one it says when the lamb broke the seventh seal there was silence in heaven for about an hour Half an hour, excuse me. There was silence in heaven for about half an hour. And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them. So the way it looks to me is that the lambs breaking the seventh field Is the release of the trumpet judgment. I'm going to read it in the amplified. It says, When he, the Lamb, broke open the seventh seal There was silence for about half an hour in heaven. Then I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and to them were given seven trumpets. And then when you go to nine, it talks about the fifth trumpet. So the nine is a continuation of the trumpets that were introduced in Revelation 8. So the way this reads to me is that it was the Lamb that released the judgment of the trumpets. Whoever the identity of that angel is. Spoken of in 9-1, it sounds like it was it's the Lord Jesus who released the trumpet judgments. He did it by the breaking of the seventh seal It it just that's how it reads to me. It reads to me like the the the key m a key message of the book of Revelation is the Lamb punishing punishing a world much like ours today, but even worse in some ways. hours today, just a world of just obstinate, impenetent, vile, vicious sinners. And he's just You know, it's kinda like it reads to me like he's just unleashing his wrath on this world and just to the point where he's letting the pit of hell be opened up on this world and And you know, letting all this all this uh evil from the bowels of hell come upon this world and just punish a world that just will not stop sinning, will not acknowledge him as Messiah, just wants to keep doing its wickedness and its evil. And that's how it reads to me But this is God doing it and he's the angel. I I mean again that I to me the angels that's a different debate, the identity of the angel, but it sounds to me like it's the Lord who's who who who did this. And so I'm I'm not sure if I'm dis seeing that there's a disagreement. Oh unless there is a disagreement. Agreement either. Oh the angel the star had already fallen, but there's an angel with the trumpet opening up the scench for Skinky Pit. Okay. Yes. Yeah the C yeah. So it's the yeah, it's it's the it's the it's it's the Lord, right, who's he's he's bringing ju he he's he's me He's meeting this wickedness with his justice. And Yeah, for me the Yeah, we all Okay, okay. I I'm sorry, I I guess I I was a fascinating moment to open up the bottomless pit, let the air out, and that air will pollute the earth. I left that rotting for too long. When you know it makes you wonder what exactly does that look like and is this a cyclical or is you know once it's open you don't just close it and smell those back in that bottle. Right. Right. Uh you know, even a stinky diaper that she had to deal with this earlier today. That stunt stuck around a little bit longer. Yeah, that that so I'm kind of confused because you you make a very make an argument that revelation is very cyclical So w how would this cycle come and go? It opens and shuts and it maybe the smell dissipates. Yeah, I think it's I I I I think that um the structure that John is Is is purposefully and it's not just in Revelation, by the way. If you read the epistle, like John First John, oh my gosh. Like he is repetitive on top of repetitive. Like you try to it's it's a really we uh A couple years ago we were preaching through First John. It's a really difficult thing to try to structure how to lay out your sermons because it's so repetitive. It's like If I can appreciate the exact same thing like five times, it's not that long of a letter. He's so repetitive. But he's doing it on purpose. So there's a lot of uh there's a lot of repetition and overlap, but it's not the And so while he's repeating himself, he's repeating himself with some notable differences, and so there's a gathering momentum. So what we see with the seals is there's devastation, but it's more partial. It's like a fourth of things get wiped out And then when the trumpets come, it's a it's a heartier devastation, but it's not ultimate final devastation. That comes with the bowl judgments or the sensor judgments, depending on what what translation you want to go with there, um that is ultimate. And so I think the repetition and the the way to connect with um our theology, the way to connect with the narrative within Revelation, the way to connect with history, is to try to connect with uh with it thematically. Uh not so much chronologically. I think that we can get ourselves into some ruts and make some mistakes if we try to be too woodenly chronological. Um sometimes I think there could be a logical progression which is different than chronological progression. I think that there's some of that in the Book of Revolution. And I think there are some things you can make an argument that it it probably is chronological, but I don't think we want to get married to the idea that everything must be sequential in time because that's not really it doesn't l it doesn't lend itself. You have to you almost have to force it to do that. And I'd rather let it breathe and do its own thing and figure out what is it saying on its own rather than me try to force it into my understanding. of the passage of time. And so this is just the uh the uh the fifth trumpet. So as bad as this is There's a sixth one coming. And you're not wrong by the way, the the seventh trumpet or the seventh seal is It's not as simple I would argue that uh I I uh it's been a while since we've been in Revelation, but if you remember, uh I was making the point, I think I did, made the point that with the opening of the s of the of the seventh seal that does bring along the trumpets, but it's not merely that the seven trumpets that this that the seventh seal is merely the seven trumpets. It's it's at least that, but it's more than that. And the same thing we're gonna see happen with the with the uh seventh trumpet. The seventh trumpet is gonna bring along the seven bowl judgments And they're within it, but it's not merely a one-to-one correlation. It's it's at least that, but it's more than that as well. And there's the interlude that we had right before, because you brought us back to chapter eight, so there's the interlude, the silence in heaven. There's gonna be an interlude after the trumpets as well. And that's why I mean I unless somebody wants to just completely It's a pattern. It's not necessarily that it's like wow there there was all wasn't there already an interlude? Did John forget? Like is it a second interlude? I think it's the same interlude from a different point of view, a different perspective on history, a different perspective on how things fit together. Um and I'm wondering because I uh in the message today I was uh making the point that you know this is evil released upon evil and you and maybe that was for you like no this is this is Jesus' judgment. So I might not have done an artful job. Right. I don't know if I did an artful enough job of of of making it clear that absolutely the lamb's in control. Yeah. Absolutely. But the lamb works through means. And in this case, his mean is to release evil upon itself. So because god one of God's great graces that we as a culture do not take enough uh Uh we should get on our knees in in gratitude that God sustains life on this planet by restraining evil. If he just withdrew his hand completely, this world would end in utter disaster and death in about four seconds Because we're just I mean seriously, if God wasn't restraining them, there'd be a nuclear launch of every nuke in the world before I finish my next sentence God's restraining that from happening. But part of the curse, part of the judgment, is he's like, okay, I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm I'm gonna let you guys do what you want to do. And the evil, they can't ultimately harm God's people, but they're so angry, so vicious, so vile that they they've got to attack something, someone, so they attack themselves. That's what's that's that's it feels like could it be more horrifying than that? And the answer sadly is yes, and we're gonna get there. And and the pattern is like what we read in Exodus, right, where it just got increasingly worse for fake. Right. Increasingly worse, increasingly worse, increasingly worse. And that I that's an application today that I see happening. That, you know, I'm so like back in September two thousand and one. Right. Nine eleven with the nine eleven happened. I mean things were bad then, but back then we didn't envision seeing what we're seeing today. True. And and and what's happening some people did. And what's happening is we're being literally invaded And the other thing that I don't I think I've alluded, hinted at, touched on, I don't know if I've really made it a main point. But one of the things I think it it's good for us to be careful of is to not I mean we should look at ultra history. megahistory. But I think there's an application, not just now, I emphasize that point today, this is for now today. I didn't really emphasize in the message, not just now today, but now for each individual. Like it applies for every individual throughout all of history. And so what's the Yeah, we would say, boy, it's never been as bad as it is now. Well from uh an American's perspective, yeah, this is the worst m you know, we're living in the worst season in American history. But try to tell the people in the killing fields in Cambodia that things are worse now than they were then, back in the nineteen seventies. Things were worse. So from their perspective, there's an application to all of this evil being released and all of that then too. And if we get too atomistic and too linear We lose all of those applications and that's part of the message. And it's part of the wake-up call. That's why don't let me forget somebody uh we want to make sure we practice the uh five-fold sharing of the gospel Okay. Today, because that's what we need to warn people, this is real, and so you need to hear the good news. And so that's what we've got to get better at Better at knowing it, more comfortable sharing it, so that when those opportunities present themselves, it's just a natural thing for us to share. Too often I've I'll speak for myself over the years, I've let too many opportunities go by because it's like, well the moment is not exactly right and I'm not exactly sure how I'm going to start the conversation or I'm not sure if I can do that. And so you talk yourselves out of it. I've talked myself out of it too many times And I don't want to do that anymore. And I'm like, if I'm doing it, I can't be the I'm not that unique. I can't be the only one who's let opportunity after opportunity pass. And why is it so important? Because what we were just reading and talking about today. There are people that they need to be warned. This isn't like some mythological, you know, uh Marvel movie or something. This is this is this is real. Anyway, get off my sofa so stop preaching. Um I'm gonna say something that it might be a little off topic, I don't know. But you were talking about how God is restraining evil. Well I've heard some teaching saying that it's the church is the restrainer. and that the church will be raptured. And chur and then after that. So I don't know if that have you You know, have you ever heard of that? Well, uh um I'm not sure if uh if I know exactly specifically precisely what you're talking about, but I do know So as I respond, if I'm not responding to the exact point you're making, then let me know and I'll recalibrate. But on the face of it, I just want to say The church is beautiful. I love the church. It's valuable, it's important, it has work to do, it has a mission. It's called to. I don't want to diminish the bride of Christ even a little bit. But to take the church and rise it in ascendancy to the role that God has in history is really troublesome to me. The church is not the restrainer. Now, God is the restrainer and the church is salt and light for the proclamation of the gospel and to provide uh wisdom and insight and valuable uh Knowledge about how the world works and is and all those sorts of things. But God is the only one capable of restraining that evil. I mean, we're a church, there's only ten of us in this room, but if all ten of us ganged up together and wanted to go restrain somebody from doing evil, would we be successful? But would it be worth the maybe only long enough until we got tired and fell asleep and then they would do the evil anyway. Like we can't ultimately restrain that evil. Okay, well what about the right But now the tr now take with the rapture for a second, 'cause the the idea there is that when all the Christians are gone, everything you know, pardon the turnphrase here, but everything goes to hell in a handbasket. Right Even for those that would hold to that view, it's not as evil as it could be. I'm not exaggerating. If if God were to withdraw his sustaining hand It would be lights out almost instantly. So those that want to hold to a rapture view still have to hold to some idea that God is allowing time for more people to Convert and because so God is the restrainer. That's the part I wanted to make sure I emphasize that I'm just trying to I'm just I've heard all different teachings. That's what mine is with my background is is the rapture. And that once the rapture You know, but people will be saved after. If if that happens, people I mean there's still gonna be people that are gonna be saved afterwards. Well yeah, that was if it want to look at that way. Yeah, we're getting yeah. We're getting off. I mean No no we're not getting off. It is related, but uh we spent an entire like hour and a half long discussion once about a year, year and a half ago, where all I did was walk through the different end times views and explain what they are. And that would be the uh uh Um you know, the dispensational m uh I'm gonna guess you said you're background. I'm gonna guess you were probably pre-tribulation. Yeah, but I'm not sure if I believe that So that teaching is very prominent in in America and it needs to be understood so I explain what that is, but there's also the Almeling, the postmill. And seriously, I was rushed to try to cover as much ground as I did in like an hour and a half and it still wasn't enough. So maybe the conversation we can continue after we wrap up our live stream. We can keep talking about it. But it's it's at least another hour. So right one thing maybe this will be helpful because Angela and I have had these conversations too Yes, I and Chloe would echo this too. Maybe he didn't say you you probably didn't say this to answer Pat's question. Um maybe this will be helpful. The the Lord, yes, is in control of everything. And he will use the church to do things like he has used the enemy to turn and bring judgment. So God does use all things. I think the thing that Tori wanted to emphasize is it's ultimately the Lord and so He gets the glory. He gets you know, we don't want to minimize um his power in order to magnify the church, as beautiful as the church is. So I think that's Just the point that he was trying to make. Not that the church and the bride of Christ is not being used, but the ultimate focus needs needs to be on and the glory. Is that helpful for me. And that particular emphasis is is uh is Again, I'm oversimplifying, so if I'm offending somebody watching the stream, but that would be the kind of the prevailing overarching understanding of the Roman Catholic Church And so if God is sus is is restraining evil well the church is restraining evil too because the church has such an important prominent role. That would be an important part of their theological view, which is one of the pushbacks that that a lot of Protestants are have is like no no you're intermingling the importance of the church with God too much. You're surrounding too much of God's glory. So I don't know if that's part of what your back we don't know each other very well, so I don't know if that's part of your background too, so I'm just throwing that out there. But No, well I was no my the background basically was pre-trib and uh you know, we need to be get ready to to be Lord, we well we need to be ready, regardless if it's whatever happens, whether we die or whatever, and you just need to be ready. But it was uh I don't know, th that's just one of the church I mean, I believe that the church was really good in a lot of other teachings, but this was but I b you know, I I went along with it because I mean I didn't know any other Mm-hmm. You know, I don't know if you ever heard you heard it left behind books and stuff like that. Yeah. And but then when I go back now and I think that that's just it That's just doesn't mean that's the one. Well I will this like this because you're you're kind of new on the rabbit hole. Okay, well, I think that's a good question. So you get a sense of what's going on. what we're all about at Household of Faith in Christ, it might be important for you to know that in this, you know, in this room, in this fellowship, there are people that would count themselves, well they might not use the labels, but I I'll label them for them. They would count themselves as Arminian, others will count themselves as Calvinist. Some would count themselves as dispensational, some would count themselves as non-millennial. There might even be a postmillennial in the room. I don't know. So those are not essentials and those aren't the kinds of things that we're going to divide over. Right. It's one of the reasons why I like having the discussion, because it allows us to have some of those things out and and get to a place where we can grow and we can sharpen each other and we can And if we have to for a moment agree to disagree, and we can, for those that are watching the stream later, we can model how that can be done. There are there are essentials for the faith that, you know, if you don't agree with those, then you're not going to be in fellowship with this church for very long because you're going to You know the the Bible is God's Word, it is inerrant. You know, Jesus is God, the Holy Spirit is God. You know. Yeah, there's no way to salvation but through uh Christ. I think the brothers and sisters in Christ we can have some disagreement Mm-hmm. Uh I have my my views and my positions and I'm persuaded that I'm right because if I wasn't I'd hold a different view. But but I but I've had my views shift over the years on something Like you just indicated maybe you had to shift on end times use. I I I think we should always That's not what saves us. Yeah. I think we should always be willing to to learn and we should want to be right. So if one person is dispens dispensational or another person is post millennial They're not both right. So they should try to hash it out and either they're both wrong or one of them's right. But you know they should try to hash that out because we want to it's not enough to just say, oh well who cares? I'm not there either. I want us to hash it out and try to figure out what is right and then come to a place where we can agree on that, but in the meantime do it in the spirit of of community that's recognizing that Christ's bride has oneness. There's unity in Christ. Is your retro kind of thing to discussion on in here or should we wrap up the screen that we're going to do? Okay. Well I just to put it uh bell another bell on that is like, you know, the reason why discussing eschatology is important is because Our eschatological views have a lot more influence than we think on our views on other things like missions or what the church's role in politics should be for example. It it does leak in there. Yeah it can. I would say it because it my my view on that is it does it in a rather subversive way. Yeah it does it's subtle, but It doesn't need to, but it ends up practically being the case. Yeah, so it's so it's just it's interesting. So you might as well kinda like know it and be acknowledged knowledgeable of it and probably embrace it to some degree. But what I was going to say was how does a post-millennialist exactly respond to a lot of this cyclical judgment because they kind of believe that the world to be getting progressively better as the church establishes Christ's kingdom is my understanding of postmillennialism. How do they, you know, how do they reconcile that view with this That's a good question, because I know somebody that feels that same way that things are going to get better. And they're reading Revelation and they're reading it from the back from the front to the back. I mean from the back to the back to the front. Yeah. From the back to the front. And it's like, Huh? Huh? See you all the better. Backwards But then but then but then w how did they still figure out uh what you know like uh this other part, you know, with the pit I I don't know. I really don't understand. I think if we had a a really articulate post millennial here they might make the argument that things are getting better by these means, these judgments, because the judgments are dealing with the evil. and crushing it along the way. So uh because the lamb is defeating his enemies that things are getting better. I think that they might look at I'm not post millennial. Well they maybe say then that um I think that might be a way they would Well I was just gonna say the idea that these awful things that are happening like won't affect them. Like, oh yeah, it's getting better because all the bad stuff over there is I mean I guess I I mean I realize that w you know the church is you know to quote Barack Obama will be on the right side of history. That was always his phrase, right side of history. Yeah. And that and then there's a post that's kind of the post-montal view is that you know Christ wins and so if you want to be on the right side of history, you're gonna be on Christ's side because ultimately that's what's gonna win out in the end. And it's true. The question is how does it play out in human history? Um very, very optimistic Uh Yeah, aside from amenities, I don't think we can really argue that human life is really quality of life has improved that much. comes after the millennium. And we're in the millennium. So that there's this millennium and where the world will be depending on which see this is what make makes these questions really difficult. It's really hard on the dispensational side because there's like a hundred different different ways well that's an exaggeration probably but there's a lot of different ways to look at dispensationalism. But even the post mill guys, some of them are t uh would would talk about it's it's it's a mostly Christianized world or it's a majority Christianized world. Others are like, no no, it's it's a Christianized world. So there's different levels of what's good enough to count as So if most of the world were Christian, living by Christian values, they would count that as good enough to be the millennium. And after a thousand and then they also disagree about whether the thousand years is a literal three hundred Or it's electricity. Or if it's a symbolic number, or you know, there's so there's disagreements there. Um I'm I'm I am not persuaded that post millennialism is correct and so I don't hold the view and I'm probably not the best spokesperson for their view, but I'm doing the best I can Yeah, I figured you could do better at trying to keep something other than I could. All right. Who wants to uh Pat's relatively new, so who wants to uh help Pat know what our five folds are in sharing the gospel Before we wrap up the stream. Kind of upset that everybody's looking at me. Well I got you did a really good job last time you did it. Who wants to start by just saying what the five are? I mean I could do that. Yeah then. Um creation, fall, redemption, restoration, and glorification. So creation? Fall, fall. Redemption restoration. And glorification. Okay. And the idea here is that you could p in theory, and we've been finding in practice, someone can pick any one of those five and can cycle uh any uh called it the circle. You can cycle through the circle, go around the circle and uh starting with any of the five and you can share a full presentation of what the gospel is, and being able to start at any one of the five becomes important because in my experience, every conversation I have with somebody offers an entry point on one of the five. And so they'll say something, or something I'll say something. Something will come up in the conversation. It's like, you know what? There's a real in here beginning with glorification. There's a real in here beginning with the fall. Whatever. Starting there and cycling through. And after like two a minute and a half you've shared the gospel. And if we get good at that, we can do it all the time. It's kinda like it's You familiar with Business Network International, B and I groups? And they're big on having your elevator speech. You should be able to explain what you do for a living. This is what I do and kind of thing. You'd be able to do that in like thirty or sixty seconds. This is kind of the gospel presentation version of that. Think about it, not to diminish it by diminish what we do here. But uh I don't know if if uh Annie wants to continue and actually do a sharing or if she feels like no I did my part somebody else can do. Um See we're we're we've been working on this and uh everybody feels a bit of pressure. But the point of us doing this and making everybody a little bit uncomfortable is that over time I have the most stage fright. Which is why they like picking on me. But the pressure has really rescinded greatly in recent months and people are getting better and better at being comfortable and that's that's where we want to be. So and and I don't want to put extra pressure by saying this, but I gotta say the last time you took your turn was arguably maybe if not the best, one of the top two or three sharings of the gospel we as a group have had. Good job, isn't it? Yay. Is this still recording? Yes. Yeah. Oh okay. Take a bow. Take a bow. I'm sitting in it. I mean, are you are you gonna like assign me one to start or should I just start from Oh you can pick this time. Sometimes we we make them start somewhere, but we And there's a couple that I'm really bad at starving from. Notice I didn't. Um, I mean I guess I can do it. Um I'll just start from one of the ones that is easier for me uh because um it tends to come up more just in the circle of people than that I know the the people I interact with, maybe it's more my generation, I'm not sure, but uh uh this kind of like hopelessness like, you know, what is my purpose on earth? It's we're we're just, you know, molecules and chemicals all floating around and, you know, what what's the purpose? And you know the simple answer is that your purpose in life is to glorify God. That that's that's why we're here. Um and that is both our mission now And what we'll get to after everything is said and done. And the reason for all of this is because the God created everything to begin with. created it all, the earth, all the animals, and especially us humans to glorify him, who created us to be in relationship with him. And then we mess it all up by inviting sin into the world and pretty much well every single thing that you see wrong with the world now can it can trace its roots directly back to sin because before before sin everything was perfect. And sin ruins everything from intentional evils to just things falling apart, which is why God then had to send his son, Jesus Christ, to To take all of those sins, to live a to live a perfect life which none of us can do, to take all of that sin, to die for us, to pay that price, because we can never pay that. Which then allows us, if we accept that gift of salvation, we can't earn it, but if we accept it from him, it allows us to go into a restored relationship with him. We'll we'll still be imperfect, we will always be imperfect here on earth, but we can have a restored relationship with him and begin to live our life doing our best to follow him and in the end we're right back to you know again the the reason that we were here in the first place. So which surely w the the end of it won't come until you know the revelation stuff that we're talking about, but uh that is the end goal. All right. Well thank you for sharing it. I appreciate that. I know it's I know it's hard, I know it's on the spot when I used to make my living in in uh advertising sales. One of the things people hated the most was role playing. You know. in the sales meeting is you need to, all right, I'm the client. General manager of the sales manager says, alright, I'm the client. Pitch. Let's let's practice. And it's way harder. Dude, even in high school I was stage crew, not like it it was way harder to do the roleplay than it was to actually be out in the world. So if we can get comfortable increasingly comfortable doing in this kind of a setting, we're going to be so good at it out in the natural, you know, so Anyway. Um Ray, would you mind c closing us with a word of prayer for the stream? Sure. Dear Lord, we thank you for this day and we thank you for a productive and fruitful, I dare to say. Uh just diving into your word and in message and in discussion. And we just uh just praise you for your protection for this church, we praise you for uh just the growth of this church and we praise you for Oh yeah. Lift up each other as we go through the uh we lift up the concerns of each other as we go through this current week with whatever struggles we're gonna face this week and we Know that you are near and we are still know that you are God. In Jesus' name we give thanks, Amen. Amen. Well, if you'd like to uh access some trusted resources, we've got a lot of stuff, our own resources and a lot of stuff that's vetted on our website, so visit us online if you would, if you're interested. Household of Faithinchrist. com. That's Household of FaithInChrist. com. Till next Saturday around six o'clock. God bless.