Welcome streaming. We've got people you've watching us on different platforms now, so I'm not going to just automatically say welcome Facebook because it's And ultimately we might leave actually I'm gonna go over here. Might end up leaving Facebook at some point in the not too distant future, but we're not quite there yet Anyway, welcome to Household of Faith in Christ and our uh regular weekly gathering on Saturdays. Welcome to the live streaming portion. I've mentioned this before, mentioned it on occasion. Uh if you don't have a a a good celebrity And you live within driving distance of Frederick, I would encourage you to consider reaching out to us and seeing if we could be a good fit for you. You can learn more about us on our website at household of faith in Christ. com. That's Household of Faithinchrist. com. We are going to be continuing in our look at the book of Revelation today. So you want to have your Bibles ready. You're going to want to be open to Revelation chapter 9. We'll be covering the first six chap uh verses of uh of chapter nine, but uh heavier emphasis on verses three through six. Um we're also going to be uh looking at a part of Luke Chapter ten and eleven, if you want to bookmark that for later, if you want to read along with that portion when we get there. And also in Job chapter 3, we're going to read a small portion from that in the Sermon 2. So again If you want to read along with that, you're welcome to. Tonight's message is titled, A Plight Worse Serious stuff. Uh rather weighty, profound message tonight, and I'm uh eager to share it with you. Dr. David Thomas is a preacher from all the way back in the eighteen hundreds. And here's what he had to say. Orientals dread an advent of locusts as one of the most terrible visitations. Grass, trees, plants of all description fall before them. The locusts sketched in Revelation 9 are of an order the most terrible. A modern writer describes the locusts here as malicious as scorpions, ruling as kings. Intelligent as men, wily as women, bold and fierce as lions, resistless as those clad in iron armor. These awful forces that go forth among men to inflict torture and ruin. They pick just now to pipe up. So these awful forces that go forth among men to inflict torture and ruin were, so to speak. Bred in the depths of that moral pit and became servants of that bottomless pit. So with that, we have for us set the stage for an exposition. of Revelation chapter 9 verses 1 through 6. And I'm going to read those and I would encourage you to have your Bibles open and read along. Reading from the ESV today. And the fifth angel blew his trumpet, and I saw a star fallen from heaven to earth, and he was given the key to the shaft of the bottomless pit. He opened the shaft of the bottomless pit, and from the shaft rose smoke, like the smoke of a great furnace, and the sun and the air were darkened with the smoke from the shaft. Then from the smoke came locusts on the earth And they were given power, like the power of scorpions of the earth. They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any green plant or any tree, but only those people who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads. They were allowed to torment them for five months but not kill them. And their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it stings someone. And in those days, people will seek death and will not find it. They will long to die, but death will flee from them. This is the word of God. Is God breathed? The word we typically use for that is inspired. might be better taught and thought of as expired, but it's the inspired word of God breathed out therefore since as God's word it is Without error, it is infallible and is a fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and life practice. This is also true of the other passages from God's Word which we've already read. before we started the stream and the passage we will be reading before the conclusion of tonight. So those who have ears to hear, let them hear. The imagery in these verses here in chapter 9, especially the early verses, they're clearly derivative of what we read together last week when we read Exodus chapter 10. Those who were here might remember we read that together. It's a passage about the Egyptian plagues. And it is derivative as well of this week's Old Testament reading that we read together just minutes ago when we read Joel chapter 1. Plus, it's derivative of Joel chapter 2, which we read aloud together about a month or so ago. The book of Joel, it opens with a plague of locusts. And in Joel, it is an actual physical swarming of locusts, foreshadowing even more devastation from an army commissioned by God, if they, the Israelites in Joel's time, fail to heed the call to repentance. And that's what's going on here in Revelation chapter nine. Only different. Unlike an earth-bound invasion of swarming insects or hordes of soldiers. militarily sweeping through the countryside. What's going on here with the apocalyptic imagery in Revelation chapter 9 is spiritual. In terms of horticulture, an entire crop could be devastated by an epic locust swarm. Tremendous damage done. with long-lasting effects. But the swarm itself would last typically only a few days. But these here, these supernatural locusts in Revelation chapter 9 They torment those who dwell on the earth not for a few days, but for five months. Five months. That's the entire duration of a locust's life cycle Generally speaking, locusts are normally out and about for five months from April or May, about this time of the year, up until September. That's a long time. And yet, it's also kind of a short time. I mean consider the permanent timeline that we will have presented to us with these seven bold judgments to come later in Revelation. with permanence, not just five months. So five months it is a severe length of time, and we should feel that severity. However, it it still leaves time for repentance in this life. I mean it's five months, it's not a full year, after all. There could be a clue in the five month duration of the plague, since it is the natural lifespan of the locust. I wonder is this a hint that it It's pointing us to the natural lifespan of humans. Is that also maybe in view here? Those who have the seal of spiritual protection from God They're not harmed. And any who might repent because of the spiritual correction that they're receiving here, well then their torment, it will last only as long as their sojourn on earth. Five months, if you will, compared to everlasting life. It will not carry over into the next life, the reborn life. Now with all of this said as kind of a preamble, I'm hoping that we now at least have kind of a vague sense of the big picture of what it is that is happening here in this passage with the sounding of the fifth trumpet, the first of the three woes. Remember, woe, woe, woe. And this is the first of those. So if we have the big picture kind of in view now, let's begin to slow down and just go a couple of verses at a time. And look at image by image. Make sure we're understanding this the way the author, John, would expect us to. Last week we dealt with the first two verses of this chapter in quite a bit of detail. We covered the symbolism of the angel and his trumpet. We talked about the star falling from heaven to earth, and the key he was given to the bottomless pit, and the smoke made things dark. So with all that kind of already covered last week, that brings us up to verses 3 and 4. So let's turn there and look again, verses 3 and 4. Then from the smoke came locusts on the earth, and they were given power like the power of scorpions of the earth. They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any green plant or any tree, but only those people who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads. We read in Proverbs 30 verse 27 that locusts have no king. But this time it's kind of different. They have a sort of king, a fallen star who's been given a key to set the locusts free. So they could advance together in ranks. There's another phrase taken from that same verse, Proverbs chapter 30, verse 27. So if locusts have no king, but here they kind of do have a king, right away we can notice these aren't your garden variety locusts. These are spiritual locusts. The very next verse it makes it clear that these locusts, they do not harm vegetation. I mean what odd locusts these would be here if they were material universe types of locusts. These aren't physical kinds of locusts. These are big spiritual bugs. And they're wreaking havoc. And not on agricultural matters, but on spiritual matters. And they have power, like the power of scorpions. Well, what sort of power do scorpions have? Well, they have stingers in their tail. Fingers, by the way, that aren't typically fatal to humans, but they are extraordinarily painful, so I'm told. This kind of imagery here in Revelation 9, it would have really resonated with the original audience reading and listening to this book back in the first century. I mean scorpions, they were very plentiful in their wilderness. So we're serpents, by the way. And in saying this, we might be reminded of Luke chapter 10. Verses 17 through 20, I mentioned we'd be turning to Luke 10. So if you bookmark that and you want to turn there quickly, now's your time to do that. And we'll be jumping to Luke 11 right after that as well. But Luke chapter ten, verses seventeen and through twenty say The seventy two returned with joy and said, Lord, even the demons submit to us in your name and he replied I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. I have given you authority to trample on snakes and scorpions, and to overcome all the power of the enemy. Nothing will harm you. However, do not rejoice that the Spirit submits to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven. In the very next chapter in the book of Luke, Scorpions are mentioned again, picking up with verse 11. Which of you fathers, if your son asks for a fish, will give him a snake instead, or if he asks for an egg, we'll give him a scorpion? If you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more? Will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? What good news we have here. Nothing will harm you, we're told. The people with the seal of God on their foreheads. Are protected. The evil spirits, they submit at the name of Jesus Christ. And by that I mean the power of the name of Christ. And as cool as that is, even better than this, the chosen of God have their names written in heaven. They will not taste the sting of spiritual death. with the locust imagery, and not just because of its impact on farming politically The locust imagery carried some weight. Emperor Augustus. He was devoted to the Greco-Roman god Apollo. He even built a temple to Apollo in Rome. Well Apollo was symbolized by a mouse, if you can believe it, and a lizard, and also a locust. So the locust, it was a spiritual and a political symbol of its day. And the counterfeit gods. The counterfeit gods they torment the non-Christians with spiritual turmoil. And we can try to relate. to the torment. You know, given what the spirit of the age today, the the Church of the Woke, has been doing the last few years. We can try to relate with the torment, the pain, even with our own personal medical issues, you know, horrible pain requiring hospitalization. Perhaps during our discussion time, my wife will share with us her experience last year. The pain of debilitating nausea while you're pregnant. I think there's someone else here who might know a thing or two about that. Or the uh The pain of spiritual attacks. And the the pain of betrayal. Betrayal by friends and family. The pain of extreme financial pressures. We can all try to relate with great pain. And there is great pain in this world, but whatever we have experienced What it is that's described here in these verses, for the enemies of God, it is far, far worse. Than any pain we've experienced or could imagine, perhaps. Some commentators they connect the smoke of infidelity and heresy. the infidelity and the heresy, the the swarming hordes of locusts. Some commentators want to connect all that to the Gothic rule of portions of the Roman Empire way back when. There are others who want to say it's about the Muslim conquests that happened hundreds of years after John the Apostle lived. Or they point to other big moments in Western history, in church history. Now those who like to pick just one of these happenings one of these historical events and then say, ah see that's the application of this text. Those are pick just one application. They they they tend to lose me. But those who say that some are all of historical happenings They are anticipated by the book of Revelation. Now, these people, they hold my attention, at least for a little while. Because everything that happens in the world, every single thing, it should bring us back to God's word. And God's word, it has an application to all happenings in the world. And so it's at this point, when I think about these things, that my understanding gets strengthened that the revelation is cycling through time repetitively, cyclically, but not necessarily chronologically. The message of Revelation it is presented sequentially. Things are coming at us in sequence, but it's a literary sequence. Not necessarily a historical sequence. And I've mentioned that a few times. I think it's really instructive and helpful for how to navigate through the book of Revelation. But in doing so, I've created a bit of a rabbit trail. So let's get us back into the text. Here are uh verses five and six of Revelation chapter nine. They were allowed to torment them for five months, but not to kill them. And the torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it stings someone. She okay? Yes. And in those days people will seek death and will not find it. They will long to die, but death will flee from them. Again, those who are thusly attacked spiritually are those without the seal of God upon them. Those with the seal, those who are followers of the Christ, as we've been talking about in previous sections of the book, are safe. Now some of us we might recall from few weeks back there were there's a portion of the Christian church That believes that the army of 144,000 that's uh mentioned in Revelation chapter 7, there are some that believe that that's the precise number of Jewish converts who will then act as evangelists in the years that immediately precede Christ's return. Remember we talked about that extensively in one of our discussions. Well, most of the Christians who hold to that view They then see a connection between the 144,000 in chapter 7 and the converts of the 144,000 evangelists. They see a connection between them and the sealed people here in chapter 9. My read of Revelation is that while the seal of protection certainly does apply to any and all converted Jews. And to all who trust in Christ as a result of any and all evangelistic efforts. The protection from spiritual harm It extends to all followers of Christ through all of history. Now not too many weeks ago, my wife Dina mentioned to me verse six. The idea of people seeking death but not dying was an idea that captured her attention. I'm not sure if she remembers bringing that up or not. Well what does this detail in the vision mean? Well one thing that I believe we can note about this is that seeking death It goes against nature. People fight for their lives generally. I understand suicides sadly happen. But they they're rare, praise God. And they clearly go against the natural order of things. So I wonder If we can see an element of this in our society today on a psychological and a mental health level. People are seeking the death of themselves. The death of who God made them to be. The death of who their family has always known them to be. I'm not talking necessarily about a death where the heart stops beating. I'm talking about a death where the heart gets bruised. The heart gets confused. I know a young lady. She changed her first name from the one that her parents gave her. When she was given at birth. She changed it to the name of a video game character She sought the death of her old self, in a sense. But she's still alive. She's living her life under the identity of a superhero name. And this does bother her parents a bit, but you know, they've they've adjusted and they now call her by this new name. And so It's as if the old version of their daughter is dead. But not really. I know another young lady, she changed her name too. But not because of a fantasy involving a video game avatar. No, she she changed her name because of a fantasy that she is not really a woman. She decided somewhere along the line that the old her is dead. And now she lives as a new her, who goes by a new name, and she calls herself a him, or possibly a they them. And so it is as if this old version of who she is has died. But not really. There's so many people, particularly young people it seems to me, today, who are tormented in heart and mind. Whether it's gender confusion or Seeking escape through drugs and the related overdoses, or cutting themselves, or seeking to eat themselves into oblivion. Or just name the self-injurious behavior. There are millions. millions who are seeking different kinds of death. But the death that they seek, it flees from them. This all reminds me of people who are crying out to the mountains to fall on them back in Revelation chapter 6. Remember that passage? But they found no relief. There was no escape. They will not get any relief in their attempts at death. But they will get the kind of death that comes from God in judgment if they don't repent. So one of the real central points I want to if if if we remember only a couple of things tonight, this is one I really want us to remember. Sin Is to be more dreaded than death. And it's important to note Christ delivers from both. He delivers from sin and he delivers from spiritual death. It's not just the unbelieving who can learn a thing or two from a warning passage like this in the Bible. Believers in Jesus can learn, or at least be reminded. We don't find rest and relief by physically dying either. Our rescue from trouble, it comes not from dying, it comes from the Lord, from our Savior. As we die to self and live for Christ. The truth of this, it hits us over the head in so many passages of Scripture. Some of them that came to my mind would include Jeremiah 8, Luke 23, Job 7. And this powerful set of verses from Job chapter 3. So if you bookmark that, you can turn there now. I'm going to read Job 3, picking up with verse 20 through to verse 26. Why is light given to him who is in misery? And life to the bitter in soul, who long for death, but it comes not, and dig for it more than for hidden treasures, who rejoice exceedingly, and are glad when they find the grave. Why is light given to a man whose way is hidden, whom God has hedged in? For my sighing comes instead of my bread, and my groanings are poured out like water, for the thing that I fear comes upon me, and what I dread befalls me. I am not at ease, nor am I quiet. I have no rest but trouble. comes. Do you sometimes Find yourself longing for death All Christians should feel the pull of heaven, the longing for eternity with Christ in glory. But as the Apostle Paul wrote in his letter to the Philippians, to live is Christ. And to die is gain. There is much that we gain when we go to be with Him forever. But in this life We have things to do. To live is Christ. And we are to be busy bringing glory to his name, busy bringing his name to others, telling them of their need to repent. They need to trust Jesus. We have to be busy in obedience, obedience unto death, following the example of our Messiah. And in the end, we will live as many days as God grants us. Not a day more. Not a day less. Somewhat common to have discussions about people dying on their own timetable. We see stories about you know, loved ones who hung on to life till their family could get to the hospital to see them just one last time. Or stories of loved ones who who died right after the family left their bedside at the hospital because we say they they didn't want to make their family watch them die. Or we overhear people say to someone who's in great pain on their deathbed, it's okay. It's okay. You don't have to fight anymore. You don't have to stay anymore. It's okay if you want to go be with God now. Or more negatively, we think about people who, as we might put it, prematurely end their life by jumping off a bridge or slashing their wrists or swallowing a bottle of pills. You know, there are some who've been very influenced, overly influenced, by the movie industry, and they fear that Satan somehow is going to uh kill them before it's their time to go. These sorts of things are it's a delicate thing to discuss. Because you know God He does work through means He's never caught off guard. Nothing ever happens which is out of his control. And yet mysteriously he does allow a freedom of agency among those who bear his image. And therefore, I believe that a mother might somehow be able to hang on. To the very end just a little bit longer. Just long enough to see her kids, her grandkids, one last time. Not always, but sometimes I think it might be possible. I believe a broken-hearted husband might somehow hasten his departure to heaven following the death of his wife for 60 years, having lost the will to live. Not always. But sometimes maybe. I believe the devil can be involved in orchestrating things in such a way as to help bring about the earth the earthly death of an individual. Like with Jesus of Nazareth, for example. But even in these cases, God is sovereign. And the individual in question. Even the devil is unwittingly helping God to bring about his plan, his ultimate good for God's glory and for the benefit of the Lord's chosen people We read from Job chapter 3 a few minutes ago. Well, let's not forget what's said in Job chapter 1 and Job chapter 2. Satan, whose name means the adversary, was allowed to oppose Job, but he wasn't allowed to kill Job. And the disaster that he brought upon Job could only take place at the permission of God. And where is it that Job finds his relief? Does this man of God find his relief coming in death? Does he follow the advice of his wife? Just curse God and die. End. Get your relief that way. End the suffering. No, his relief, it comes in earthly restoration. And for us, brothers and sisters in Christ, we have our restoration. Now, on earth. Now there are continuing troubles, no doubt about that. I mean we live in a very broken world. But there's a sense in which we are already restored, just not yet fully in the way that we will be upon Christ's return. So in the meantime, God does allow demons to strike in certain circumstances. Even those who follow after Christ can't be tempted by Satan, as was Jesus. We can also suffer physically at the hands of demons, as did Jesus. And while someone indwelt by the Holy Spirit cannot be indwelt by. A devil cannot be possessed by evil spirits, cannot be controlled by them. We must be mindful to put on the full armor of God because we can be, and we are attacked in the present spiritual war. You can call it oppression, some other word that you like, you can call it whatever you want. God allows his people to be sifted like wheat. And though the accuser prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour, Jesus prayed for us That our faith may not fail. And sometimes, you know, the enemy, he shakes us so violently, doesn't he? That we might momentarily fall into sin. But God, through his grace, he uses even this to refine our character, to strengthen our faith Jesus never promised to remove us from tests and trials In fact, the truth is we have been promised plight and suffering. And this experience makes us more like Christ. Through whatever life and the world and the demonic throw at you, always remember. The Son of God interceded before the Father for us, and he sent his Spirit to comfort us. Satan, the destroyer, tells you otherwise. But the Diablos is a slanderous liar. He's crafty. He's tricky. He masquerades as an angel of light, but he is an angel of darkness. Do not be deceived. Don't be deceived by him directly. Don't be deceived by those who claim to represent him even Well, they're angels of darkness claiming to be representing the true light of the world. Don't be deceived. Life this side of our of our King's Second Coming, it is hard for everyone. But I cannot emphasize this enough. The sheep who belong to the good shepherd are kept safe by the Lamb of God. Spiritually, we are fine. And we will continue to be fine. But as we see from the horrifying imagery of the vision in Revelation chapter 9, things are not spiritually fine for the wolves. Even if those wolves are wearing sheep's clothing. Perhaps even especially if those wolves are wearing sheep's clothing. So Christians, today is a good day to praise the Lord. And today's a good day to repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. Those who reject citizenship in his kingdom, those who arrogantly are persecuting and mocking and unfriending and rejecting those who do belong to this heavenly kingdom, they will get theirs in the end. And in many ways, many of them are already getting theirs, even now to a certain degree. But it's gonna get a whole lot worse. Because you see, your sin against God must be punished It is either punishment inflicted upon Jesus on your behalf, or it is punishment inflicted upon you directly. Which is it going to be for you? Father, you are a good, good God who takes such good care of those who belong to you. We praise you and thank you that You are our provider and our sustainer, that you illuminate our minds and change our hearts so that we can embrace who it is that you are, that you've called us unto yourself and you've changed us. So we are not at risk. We we bear the seal of your protection and we thank you so heartily for that. And we praise you and thank you that evil is dealt with in no uncertain terms. That those who reject you, that fight against your people, that are enemies of the truth. Those that seek their own version and kind of death, that they have to face the truth. And ultimately, you deal with them as only you can. We thank you that we can know that the reality is understandable, that there is such a thing as truth. And you work all things out in the end, and you're working all things out even in the moment now for your glory. And for the good of those that you call your children. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So the latter third we've probably noticed I shifted from The main point in the passage, which is talking about the uh the devastation that faces those that need to repent. But I did it because I've run into so many Christians in my block who misunderstand and they read passages like this and they're afraid. They're afraid that the passage is talking to them. So I wanted to really emphasize in case there's anybody who feels like these warning passages are warnings to them if they're a believer. And I just want to provide a real strong sense of assurance that if you are a believer, a follower of Jesus Christ, you are protected. You're safe And these warning passages should motivate us to go and tell others about the risk that they're in. Not because we shared that risk, we've been rescued from it. So we're beggars who know where the food is and we should be motivated to tell people where the food is so they don't have to face those sorts of circumstances. So I wanted to emphasize that this sort of horror is not for the believer to worry about on their own behalf. But maybe we should be concerned about it for somebody else's behalf. But I wanted to emphasize that. So I'm going to start there with the discussion. Does anybody struggle? At least on occasion with that idea that man, I I I hope I don't face the wrath of God. These passages in Revelation are pretty darn scary. I I hope I don't have to face that. Anybody ever wrestle with that I'm more wrestle with I hope that when things ramp up even more that I don't dis Deny my faith and deny my allegiance to to God, that God would take me out before that even was the thing. Like don't even put me in that position 'cause I'm weak. And I know that just means my ultimate dependence on the power of the Holy Spirit within me and that He will cause me to be successful So I guess I'm just acknowledging the fact that, yeah, okay, that's the only way that's gonna happen. Because if it were up to me, I'm I'm yeah. I'm a wimp. No doubt. I would deny Christ. I'm not not even gonna lie. Anybody else? As much as I love Christ, I would deny him if something was that, you know, whatever. Whatever it is, you know, that is um you know, could be a family member or you know, me physical pain or physical pain to someone I love, being able to you know, being forced to watch it or something. Yeah, it would only be because the Holy Spirit When does anybody else have similar feelings ever? Um and in addition uh to sharing that, what are some things if somebody, you know A friend came to you and shared sentiments similar to that, how would you minister to them based on your understanding of you know what we've learned from Revelation chapter nine? I might start with a don't sell yourself short angle. Um the trials build up into bigger trials, so I mean if you're passing the small trials, then So then they might eventually build into a larger trial. So you're saying it's not like everything's going to come down at once? Oh, similar to strength and conditioning. Yeah. You so you'll you'll have time to continually say, Hey God, I need your help. You know, it's uh Peter denied Christ uh roughly three years into his ministry, three years three and a half years into his ministry, he would later serve what twenty plus years and die on a cross upside down. So there is a sense that even though he failed in that one instance, he still went on to do greater things and ultimately would uh share the same Messing up doesn't necessarily mean that you've entirely even though you denied Christ He didn't that wasn't the end for him. Someone consider it the Holy Spirit angle. Yeah, I I don't you know, Jesus was present So The Holy Spirit permits a believer to deny Christ. Yeah, gun to the head type of situation. No, like in a passing sort of way. 'Cause I I kinda have like the mentality of like I'm not able to do that. 'Cause then it would be like he's denying himself Is that from that scripture? Well, I don't know if it was from that scripture, but it was just like an innate I can't do that. I you know Physically can't. What's the that? Like deny. Like And I mean that in a reverse sense, not like in the you know how it can kind of be like Well I that's but you know yes like not stepping up, you know, could be also considered denying him by not defending him. But I think you're talking about um every time we choose to sin against him we're denying him. Right. Right. So there's that and that may be kind of your game And so the the comment you shared was like well if push came to shove I I think I'd lose my eternal security. I think I would be lost. I wouldn't be saved. Um I have things about that I w I personally would want to say, but I want to give s somebody else a chance to address that. I think before I say anything. I think that would be pretty hard to do if you firmly are saved. Um because Um wrestling. Um just because To lose your salvation or to I mean, the only sin that can't be forgiven i is to blaspheme the Holy Spirit, correct? What would it take for you to come to that point? I I mean, especially especially if you're in the habit of turning to God when you're afraid of something or the something horrible. happening. And because if you were to just fall down and say, I have no idea what's going on. Everything that I see is terrible. Literally everyone's dying in a heap around me. God, what are you doing? Are you even here? That's not denying him, nor is it blaspheming the Holy Spirit. You're questioning, you're doubting, but you're not blaspheming So in to blaspheme something, wouldn't you have to understand it? Well blasphemy. Blasphemy, I mean, it's generally argued you can't no one who is saved ever commits uh blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. The other thing I was thinking right on that is it's if you um attribute to Satan that which is God. And you have to do that, you have to actually understand Christ. I don't know if you have to do that. Well, I don't know if there's like an ignorance as an excuse compared to Because they're attributing to Satan that which God did. They're not even rejecting that the miracles were performed, they're rejecting the source of Okay, but they also but they knew they were supposed to know who God was. So no. Um stop talking. If you don't know who got in And you attribute what he's done to somebody else. Like, yeah, that's not good. Um But for someone who does know who Christ is, who is already saved, I I feel like to lose that salvation you would have to into blasphemy the Holy Spirit, you would have to go out of your way to uh to say horrible things about about the Holy Spirit and about God. Um I I don't think that that's necessarily as easy to accidentally do as some Some people are afraid. Um, 'cause again, even blaming God for horrible things that happened is not considered Yeah, and unforbidden. Right. We do it all the time. Like, dude God, how could you let this happen? How could you um crying out to God is And here's what we're supposed to do. Exactly. Exactly. And and he is uh he he he can take a little heat. He's he's gone. Right. Um so I feel like it would take quite a bit to look for salvation to have. So m the scenario in my head when there was a movie th and I can't even watch it. A friend of mine recommended me watch this movie called Silence. That was the one? Is that what it's called? Yeah. And part of the movie, they have these um priests. pastors, priests, whatever. And they're told that if they reject Jesus that everyone else will live. All they have to do is reject Jesus and and denounce their faith. Mm-hmm. And a lot of them were like, no, but some of them did for the greater good of the people. Right. And so I'm like, don't ever put me in that position, Lord, because I don't know what I can see both sides of that. Right. I I mean I I could so and that's I could see myself If you if you take the people that I love, if they you know, hold a gun to their head and say, Christ or your baby. Right, exactly. That's and I'm like, Lord, just take me before that happens. Like I would um God knows my heart. But I guess what I have to I I guess my question then is like, but didn't Peter do that? Like Anthony mentioned. I guess like ease like I I'm I'm not going to try to uh excuse anybody who's denying Christ. That's um I'm not not sure. But Is that but that breaks my heart. Oh no, absolutely. Right. I I think forcing you to verbally say something bad. Right, but it's not a good thing. But have you accessed exactly this Yeah, and that's if the pastors who decided to do that, mm-hmm. They were saying it's because we know that that's not what's in our heart. Right. I would I'd have to think a lot more on whether or not I uh a little I don't know. Lost my power. I'm gonna I'm gonna jump in here because I got a s a series of things on my mind. I'm gonna lose half of them if I don't chime in here a little bit. I think it's really helpful for us to keep in mind where we orient our perspective. So, and this isn't meant uh I'm trying to think of a different way to say it so it doesn't come across as feeling like a rebuke, because I don't want it to come across as a rebuke. It's a it's an instructive opportunity. But when somebody says that um Um Yeah. I as a believer would deny Christ if put under enough pressure. It sounds really humble, and there's an element about that where it is humble, right? Like I'm I'm too weak, I would I would faint under the heat. I couldn't I couldn't withstand the pressure in the moment. Sounds humble. But if we look at it from not our human perspective, but look at it from the God perspective. It's not really humble. It's kind of arrogant. Because who does the saving? God does the saving. Who puts the seal of protection on the people? God does. Who gives those who are the elect, the chosen, the called-out ones, to the Son? The Father does. Who says he won't lose any that the Father has given him? The Son does. So from a God perspective, he's doing all the work. And for us to say, well yeah, but it won't work for me No, I guess that's my point is I'm not saying that. I'm saying that's how I know that it's it happens because And that's the other thing uh taking backing on that idea and the movie you mentioned, uh which we didn't actually watch, I just watched the trailer, right? That was enough for me. But that movie and that idea and then I'll also Peter I think the Peter story is really instructive for us because yes, he does he does in that moment he denies Christ three times in relatively short order. But we know from scripture Peter's among those who is elect Or he's saved. God orchestrates things and knows things that he knew Peter was going to deny him. He told him. But he also knew that Peter was saved. He didn't oh he or he things are orchestrated from God's perspective. Peter's not gonna deny Christ as he's dying in that like that's just Yeah, God's got more control than that. I think we want to we can we've talked about this a couple of times in our discussions about the idea of losing your salvation. And it's a big divide, particularly in the American church. Um the Western, you know, church, I think. Uh that's the context I can frame. I don't know what it's like around the rest of the But there's a divide between you know those who gain their salvation because of a decision that they make, a choice that they make. And so they can change their mind, they can make a different decision and then lose what they had And then there's the other perspective, which is God's one who does the choosing. And he doesn't change his mind. And so if you're his, you're his. And I think that's the point we should take from Revelation 9. There's all this mischief and mayhem. It's like an All-State commercial, right? On steroids happening here. Yeah, all this horrible stuff is happening. And why is it happening? Because God He restrain he he he removes his hand of restraining evil, gives the gives the key to unlock all the evil from the bottomless pit. And all these people who are enemies of God, enemies of truth, enemies of all is good and right, they're set loose. And they're inflicting all this horrible damage on people who aren't Trusting God. But those that are trusting God are those that have been sealed by God and they are spiritually saved. Doesn't mean that we don't have to live in an environment where there's all this swirling Problems. So if you if you live in a neighborhood where every other person in the neighborhood's insane, you're going to have to deal with the insanity that surrounds you. But you won't lose your sanity So my wish. So people are all I mean in that in that analogy. So there's all this spiritual darkness swirling around you. It doesn't mean that you're going to become spiritually dark because you're much saved. You have protection And that's a huge point. Because remember, John's writing this, it's an encouraging letter to those that are reading. He wants to encourage those who are the church while at the same time. It's an evangelistic tool to warn those that need to repent. So that's why I wanted to really emphasize the idea that the world is crazy, it can make us feel a little bit nuts sometimes. But if we're truly gods, we are safe. He loses not one. And so you might feel like, not not you, one might feel like, man, when the bullets really start flying, I might I might deny Christ. No, you won't. Which is what Ray was saying. In that moment, it's not possible. The Holy Spirit will give you the words to say so that you don't deny him. Right. Right. You will be empowered supernaturally even because God's not gonna lose one of his children. He that doesn't do it. So in this, so you're saying it's all spiritual as opposed to to where what appears to be a physical component. If you are in what ways does this seem physical to you? Well the fact that Um the scorpions have power and they're told not to hurt screen. Right, there's pain. Like anything anything that repr like the food source is not gonna to be hurt is how I read that. Anything green that can that's on a tree. Right. So But these are but look that's what locusts do They devour crops, typically. Right. So they're not devouring crops. So they don't do what locusts do. That's like a big clue right there that these I don't think are regular locusts. And then the broader context of everything that's been going on in Revelation with all the symbolism and different things meaning different things, I mean locusts do not have scorpion tails with stingers on them. So right? Right. But I guess that's my point. That's the physical pain because we do know that the sting of a s we don't From what I understand it's like miserably bad pain. Exactly. And it's a physical pain. It's not just an emotional distraughtness, it's an actual physical pain. I think that spiritual blindness and darkness and evil can manifest itself with physical pain. People can be you know, people who are uh they're spiritually lost can do some really bad things to themselves or to others that causes physical pain. But keep in mind these are these are uh this is an angel who's given you know some sort of an angel given a key metaphorical I would argue, because it's opening the bottomless pit where all these hordes of demonic kinds of things come out that are described as as locusts, this thing like so it's all very spiritual kind of language there So you so are you are you talking about those who think that there will actually be physical locusts that rise up out of the earth and because there are people that hold that view. No, I don't think that that is, but I s but I I don't think I don't think it's a mere spiritual thing. I think there's a physical something that's gonna go on that will um uh There's one scripture that talks they will be called oaks of righteousness. Um that would you be able to tell who belongs to God and who is it Like there will be an actual physical thing that happens almost that shows God's people from The the lost. Almost like a I mean this is not exactly but like a writhing, a physical writhing that we I think I know what you what your Otherwise it's not as o it needs to be obvious enough that people would want to repent. You know? People don't want to repent. We are rebels. We have no intention of wanting to seek God and repentance. That's not in our not in our makeup in our fallen state. So that there's nobody's gonna want to. We're gonna shake our fists all the way to hell and continue to shake our fist in hell if we're not saved. There's no no desire to repent. No, but do you double down actually? But do you understand the physical that I'm seeing In the case yeah, so that's what I was about to say. I I think that it's fair to say that the physical is part of it, maybe. Uh you know the physical would be at uh would be at least that, but more. Because pain isn't just physical pain, right? There's emotional pain, mental pain. What other kinds of pain is there? So one of the things that so I thought one of the things they have pulled up here is that um is uh like some cross references like other other passages, you know, that um could be related Um you know, like what we went over well at this point I think it was a while ago, but um in chapter six about how, you know, like how expensive just a little bit of grainy And because I mean I I I had always kind of I don't want to say that I had always seen revelation as purely physical because I I haven't, but I've always gotten the impression that it's still at least partially physical. Right. Um and looking at some of the you know, just the verses about, you know, famines and and stuff like that. Um I'm giving the impression by the way that it's merely spiritual with no physical component, then maybe I've overplayed the hand because that's not the point I'm trying to make. But I mean like like right now, um I'm not trying to say that, oh I believe right now is end times because that's probab maybe a different discussion, but you need to stop. You need to stop. Um but I mean it's like right now there's like a big formula shortage. Right. You know, for so like That's a serious thing for both the babies who can't get their food and the mothers who can't feed their children. Sure. You know, um And that's a kind of it's a very obvious physical manifestation of pain. Right. Um and you know, if that's the kind of stuff that Right. Like that is both a spiritual and a physical example of that. And I agree a hundred percent that that is true. What and what's happening is because of all the spiritual evil there is a physical pain that comes along with it. Right. Right. All the spiritual evil is causing the pain. Revelation is caused in general because we fell down and So all of that is is very true, but I will say that the main point I was trying to emphasize, again maybe I overemphasized it, but what's of ultimate importance Is the spiritual aspect. Well that's the part that you leave an eye on. Like we're all focused on oh I don't have enough formula for my baby, which is horrible. But because we're so focused on that we're not focusing on you know our spiritual health and well being or the spiritual health and well being of those we know and we're not witnessing well. You know, we talk to our friends and neighbors about gas prices and lack of formula and how expensive it is to buy lumber these days and we never and those are horrible things and they're negatively impacting our everybody's lives in the now But we're not talking about all the negative things that are impacting people for the forever. Right. You know, we we can and should be better and I think that uh collectively we're doing a little bit better at that. I had a discussion at it was actually with my aunt And the original topic was like abortion and stuff like that. And her viewpoint she's one of the few people I know that almost just does not take a viewpoint, which is interesting. But um one of the things that she said, you know, to kind of paraphrase it, was that She's like, well that's not really you know, she's like that's kind of, you know, more of an overarching thing that's you know That's for other people to decide, not me. That's not really an immediate issue. You know, if you want to talk about an immediate issue, we should be talking about formal stuff And the I it was kind of like what you're talking about, the idea that we should put off talking about this Evil. Is this person you're talking to a uh a believer? Oh no no no no believe a really good inn for sharing the gospel and that's uh and maybe you went there already and you just didn't share that part of the story yet, but When she says, you know, who it's it's not immediate it's it's not for me to decide, it's for somebody else to decide. Right there, you couldn't be more right. It absolutely is for somebody else to decide, and that's somebody else is God The one who made everything, who created these babies, who can solve these supply chain issues with the formula. I mean he's so magnificent and wonderful And he and you could pivot right into Yeah. He made these babies in his image. You could share the go but she you know, in that conversation there was an in. I had somebody here doing some work at the house this week and we were talking for a little bit and uh This is just small talk stuff saying, so, you know, you live around here, you know, married, you f are your kids close by, you get to see your grandkids very often, that sort of thing. And in the process of him answering those he was telling me all these horrible things that the poor guy, I mean, his family has had so much Tragedy in the last like eighteen months. It's unbelievable how much tragedy. And so it gave me an opportunity to talk about the tragedy aspect was my in. Right. And it I talked about man there's there's I mean this is how I said it, but the gist of what I was saying was the only solution to that kind of tragedy, you know, the rescue from that kind of tragedy is found in Jesus Christ. And then he talked about how he's a Christian, so what church you go to, he doesn't go to church So that led to a different conversation. Right. But people are giving us ins all the time. And we should talk about formula. We should talk about the abortion question for sure. We should. But it it just reminded me of that this this what you were talking about, this tendency to To you know, focus on immediate physical problems that we might see. And again, not that you should ignore them. I'm not saying that they serving is a minor detail. Um but it it's almost like a human instinct to procrastinate Babies are starving because of the fall. Exactly. So there's your in on any any of our inn to talk to these things. It was interesting because she She was just like she was like and I don't think that um that f the the pointing blame or finding the or or she's like I don't think that arguing about the cause and who's to blame for the formula shortage is helpful. I'm like, whoa, whoa, whoa, how do you even fix the problem if you don't know what you're doing? And as we heard the cliche that diagnoses the 80% of the cure. I was like, no, no, no, if we don't know what causes, how do you propose we fix it? Like that that goes with the with like if you don't know what's and I don't I don't remember exactly what I thought about wrong if you don't know what's right and what's wrong You can't just push it off. Some she specifically mentioned like legislation and officials making rules that get to determine like whether or not abortion goes on and stuff like that. And I was like Um I was like you you can't just push off deciding what's right and wrong to some vague other person. Um and and she's uh I I I've had having conversations with this particular aunt is very interesting. Um this p this one was on Facebook. Um I'm not she was Missouri. I can't I don't talk face to face with her but once every several years. Um but um I know that multiple times it she's definitely not unaware of the gospel and and stuff like that. I've um talked to her about a couple things in the past. I know that it's my mom's sister, I know that my mom has my mom's other sister and their mom is a very faithful Christian as well, my grandma so. But um it is i it's a very interesting take that she seems to have this like she wants to condemn evil, but she doesn't want to call it out. Oh yeah, bad things are bad. But I'm not really gonna say why they're bad or what's bad or what caused something bad to happen happen or or anything like that. It's just almost weird. I I don't even know how to describe it. She she she's an interesting character But calm. There's an element of postmodernism in her thinking. She can't know anything for sure. She can't figure anything out with certainty. Who's to say? I'm not the one to say. Somebody else can have to say who's that somebody else who I don't know. We can't really know these things. There's there's an element of postmodernism in her thinking. And and that is a challenging person to talk to. But they can be talked to I talked to them all the time, trust me, they It's challenging but it can be done. Yeah, and the the idea that yeah the idea that even a physical problem that she was trying to talk about, the formula shortage, she didn't want to point fingers. And I'm not saying that the blame game is the way way to go. But the fact that she didn't even want to point to a she didn't even she it's not like she was like trying to avoid pointing to people. She didn't want to point to Like you know I I I don't know. It this idea that she didn't want to step on anybody's toes. Which is weird No no no we can continue talking about it. I'm gonna put a button on the stream part, but it Anybody who might be listening to the stream has heard us talking about the gospel and sharing the gospel and that sort of thing. Um but it could be somebody's first time, so I'm gonna walk us Through that a little bit. We teach uh here at Household of Faith in Christ a five-fold sharing of the gospel, creation, fall, redemption, restoration, glorification. And so I'm going to try to model that now real briefly with what we were talking about. So you're talking to a friend, a family member, and they're bringing up all the supply. chain issues and lack of formula and we gas is so expensive and we might not have food to eat next year, all these sorts of things they're worried about. And but they don't want to point fingers and blame anybody. And so it's kind of that dynamic. And we could meet that person where they are in that conversation. So this is why we teach it in a five-fold manner, because you're looking for an entry point in one of the five. And once you have your entry point, you don't have to go in order with the five, but it's proven for me to be easiest to just cycle through the five. Find your entry point. And if you start with number four, then go to five, back to one, two, three. But whatever. So in this case she's talking about and so there's a couple of different ways you could do it uh in that context. One of the ways we could do that is to say, you know what, you're right and I don't even disagree with you, what was it, your aunt? Mm-hmm. I don't even agree it disagree with you, Auntie. You know, because uh You know, some of these things are so complex to try to say exactly who specifically is to blame, but I can tell you this, I know that generally speaking, we have all these problems because of sin in the world. Things aren't as good and efficient and wonderful and perfect as they would be if there wasn't all this sin in the world. And there's sin because We're fallen. I mean the Bible teaches us Adam and Eve sinned. We all are are share the sin of Adam. Uh and there's nothing we can do about it in our own strength. We keep trying to, and yet we keep having problems with feeding our babies the formula So what's the solution? There's only one solution. That solution is Jesus Christ who writes everything, pays the price for all the wrongness, all the brokenness at the cross. And then those who he calls to himself, who are made righteous by what he does on the cross, are indwelt by his Spirit and given the ability to think more clearly, to think more rightly. to think more positively and and ho and and with more holiness and we grow and we progress and become more and more like Christ and as we become more and more like Christ our world becomes more and more um fulfilled and less broken until one day Christ returns and we join him forever in glory and things are returned to the way that they were intended from the very beginning because God didn't He doesn't want us to be mired down in all this lostness and brokenness. He wants us to enjoy him forever, to glorify him forever, and to share his glory with his people. And so he will restore things even better than we could imagine to the way he intended from the be very beginning. So that's why I'm so thankful that we have a creator and that he has orchestrated things in such a way that I know who he is And you know, I appreciate you allowing me to share with you that little sililoquy for the last two minutes about the gospel. And I hope that one day you'll have more questions we can talk about it even further. Do you have any now? And in two minutes I just cycle if you were paying attention, but I cycled through all five in order. I started with the fall, went to the cross, went to the process of restoration, sanctification. Pointed to glorification, the eternal hope, and then swung back to the fact that we have a creator, uh, which then is number one leading it back into two. So If we get good at this, I'm telling you, I've been testing myself. When I enter into a conversation with somebody, I've been testing myself to see if what I've been saying is true. And I don't know what the length of time is. Sometimes a couple minutes isn't enough, right? You have to actually get a bit of a conversation, make some small talk. But in my experience so far, inside of sometimes five minutes, almost always inside of ten At the longest, probably 15 minutes, if I can get somebody to talk to me for 15 minutes about anything, I'm going to find an opportunity somewhere in that window of time to pick up on one of the five and share the gospel. So far it's been without fail for me. So I would encourage you watching, share the gospel. Revelation it's it's spiritual in meaning, but it's real. We don't want to hyperspiritualize and say, oh, it's all just some sort of allegory or metaphor that doesn't really mean anything. There's a just a lesson, but it's not real. It's real. And the the pain, whether it's physical, emotional, mental, whatever, it's real. And we need to be warning people, our neighbors. If we love our neighbor, we're gonna warn them. So I encourage you to do so. If you want to learn more about what we're all about, again I mentioned at the beginning, but I'll mention it now, go to our website, household of faith in Christ dot com. Thanks for watching. God bless