Well, welcome streaming to the Household of Faith in Christ and our regular Saturday live stream. We're a little bit late. We always try to start right around six o'clock. We're a little bit after six o'clock today. So you've been patiently waiting for us. Thank you for your patience. If you're watching this later, thank you for that. If you'd like to watch this or any of the other messages we've had uh in recent weeks and months, so they're all available uh online. Available through uh the easiest way is to connect to our website. It's uh household of faith in Christ. com. That's household of faithinchrist. com. So today we're gonna be in Revelation chapter 9 So you want to have your Bibles open and ready to go there? Actually I'm going to start a little wander over. Okay. So you want to be in Revelation 9. We'll be looking specifically at verses 7 through 12 today And we'll have a couple of uh paragraphs, if you will, from uh other parts of the Bible that we'll be reading during the sermon. If you'd like to read along with those, you're encouraged to do so. If you want to bookmark those now, Ezekiel 28, 12 through 19, and John chapter 8, verses 42 to 47 are those passages, again, if you want to read along later. But you definitely, I think, will want to have your Bibles ready to look at Revelation chapter 9. Verses 7 through 12. And for those that are interested, I'm using the ESV today. And tonight's message I've titled Spiritual Locusts of Abad. So it was uh less than a decade after the conclusion of World War II, and it was just as the Korean War was heat heating up that There was this news report from the Associated Press published on Wednesday, December 27, 1950. The headline it reads The locust swarms in the Middle East and slug line is Tehran. The story begins Huge swarms of crop-destroying desert locusts are invading southern Iran from Baluchistan, Pakistan, and the Arabian Peninsula. Flying in groups so thick, they sometimes blot out the sun for hours. The locusts are part of the great winter migration that is threatening many of the Middle Eastern countries The Iranian Ministry of Agriculture has dispatched eighty-four experts to the infested area in the south to lead the fight against the insect onslaught. Forty million rials, that's four hundred and thirty-nine thousand pounds sterling, has been set aside to buy poisons and hire workers for extermination projects. Little can be done to combat the locusts while they are migrating. So far, little damage has been done to crops because most of the grain has been harvested. Iranian officials say most of the damage will come next spring when the red and yellow locusts hatch from millions of eggs and attack young budding crops. In some years, damage has been so great that local famines have developed. Officials are now spotting places where eggs are laid, then poison will be spread in the areas to kill the young locusts as they hatch. and begin eating. In previous years, locusts have spread all through Iran, with the exception of the Caspian area. The high Elbor's mountain range has kept the locusts from the fertile area around the inland sea Three Iranian representatives attended a recent conference at New Delhi, or Delhi, called to map international an international campaign against the pests. Another conference to discuss methods of keeping the locusts from spreading northward opened on December 2nd in Tehran with representatives from Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, and Turkey. This happened within the lifetime of many who might hear my voice today. It was only about 70 or so years ago. And there were modern ways of dealing with such things available to the experts. But the science had no real answer. In the end, reports say that during this 1950s locust plague, the grasshopper-like insects descended in swarms so thick that they not only blotted out the sun, But they stripped all of the vegetation bare from an area spanning hundreds of thousands of square miles. It's absolutely devastating. And there were regular locusts doing this. Can you imagine the horror Of spiritual locusts. Revelation chapter nine, verses seven through twelve, it reads. In appearance the locusts were like horses prepared for battle. On their heads were looked like crowns of gold. Their faces were like human faces, their hair like women's hair, and their teeth like lions' teeth. They had breastplates like breastplates of iron, and the noise of their wings was like the noise of many chariots with horses rushing into battle. They have tails and stings like scorpions, and their power to hurt people for five months is in their tails. They have as king over them the angel of the bottomless pit. His name in Hebrew is Abadin, and in Greek he is called Apollyon. The first woe has passed. Behold, two woes are still to come. You just said under the reading of God's Word, inspired, inerrant, infallible, fully sufficient as a rule and guide for faith and life practice. Those with ears to hear let them hear. Did you notice how many times John uses the word like? in the description of his vision here. So far in this chapter, John had already used the word like three times in verses one through six. And now here in these six verses he writes the word like another eight times. I haven't heard the word like used so many times since my daughter invited her high school girlfriends over for a slumber party back in the day. Clearly, John here is grasping at ways that are best for explaining to us what it is he saw. And clearly we we can't get carried away here insisting on woodenly literal applications of this imagery. The plain reading of the text, it makes it clear that something importantly symbolic is being said in this paragraph. And it calls to mind a terrorizing power that will compare only to what we will end up seeing when we get there in Revelation chapter 13 with the description of the infamous beast of Revelation. So let's again read the first sentence of today's passage. It's a sentence that covers the first three verses. Verses seven through nine. crowns of gold. Their faces were like human faces, their hair like women's hair, their teeth like lions' teeth. They had breastplates like breastplates of iron, and the noise of their wings was like the noise of many chariots with horses rushing into battle. Well, you immediately see here a return to the imagery about horses and battle, as we did back in chapter 6 with the four horsemen of the apocalypse introduced to us there. In this case, though, it's a vision not of actual horses, but rather of locusts who are like horses And on their heads rest something like golden crowns. In other words, they appear to be gold. So they appear to have victory. But any authority that they might have, it's not truly authentic. It's counterfeit authority. Over the years, some interpreters they have equated these crowns on the heads to helmets atop the heads of soldiers during war, or turbans atop the heads of Muslims. As we've discussed before, trying to make these sorts of connections, it can often strike us as interesting, sometimes even a little fun. But let's not miss the point. These creaturely representations of spiritual demons, they have no actual authority of their own. Omnipotence, that's an attribute of God. Only our triune Lord has full authority. He is in control, even when it might not seem like it to us. Our Savior and King has it covered. We're next told that these spiritual locusts have faces like Humans. Now many commentators say that this points to the intelligence and the rationality of the human mind. And maybe so, but again, note that they don't in fact have the faces of humans. They have faces like human faces. It's merely the show of these human characteristics. As with the authority, there is something that's counterfeit about these beings. And the same with the allurements. There's something that's kind of attractive about these little devils. There's seeming beauty here in the locks of feminine hair. The women's hair is let down, and this could make you let your guard down. But as with so many women in the world, too many women in the world, the expectation of tenderness is replaced by the reality of cruelty. And I'm not picking on the fairer sex and making that point. Lots of men, they seem nice on the outside too, at first. Only prove themselves to be absolute royal jerks. But I'm following the description of the vision in the text here, and there's quite a bit that's packed in here. For one, there's there's a sort of biological accuracy. To the imagery, locusts are said by some to have little bristles on them. I think but might be meant here as a reference to their antenna. Jeremiah 51, verse 27, for example, speaks of bringing up horses like bristling locusts. Something else that our author might have had in his mind is the dreaded Parthian warriors. They've come up a few times already as our study of the book of Revelation because the Parthians, they were a fierce competitor to Rome back in the day. And the Parthians had long hair. Something else that potentially lends itself to a practical application for us is the idea of abusing sexual relations. I mean, how many of us are familiar with stories, whether they're real stories or stories from Hollywood, movies, TV shows, whatever, about cougars on the prowl or a femme fatale breaking up a marriage, or long-haired, long-legged seductresses who work the street, introducing all kinds of relational devastation and sexually transmitted disease in their wake. Or what about political candidates who sleep their way to the top? Or darn near the top anyway. Beware the rose. There's often a cruel hidden thorn. That could very well be something that's packed in the meaning of these images. After all, they have teeth. Like lion teeth. They are fierce. God, he is still in control, he's still in charge, but These little buggers They are powerful. They're an imposing army. Again, this is calling to mind the imposing imagery of Jeremiah chapter fifty-one, which I quoted briefly just a second ago. And they are depicted as wearing armor like breastplates of iron. So they can put up quite the defense against earthly powers. Their body plates. It would be shining in the sun if they hadn't darkened the sun like smoke from a volcanic type pit, which we talked about when covering the first six verses of this chapter. As a short aside on that point, uh there were the ancients, back in ancient times, the people would often try to chase away the physical locust swarms of making these enormous, huge fires And some speculate that this could be part of what suggested to John that smoke imagery in the earlier part of this chapter. And speaking of the ancients, folks from long ago, way back then, they It would have been uh a rather costly endeavor, when you think about it, for them to uh outfit an entire horde with such impressive protection. I mean this is A serious army. A serious enemy with a big defense budget, you know And because of this, throughout church history, Christians they have looked to identify serious enemies of the church and to assign them a role in Revelation chapter 9. And there is no shortage of infidels from which to choose, as it turns out. Some they they focus on the Roman wars in Judea. Others, they highlight the Gothic invasions of the Roman Empire. This has come up a couple of times in our study of Revelation. Of course, many they point to Islam. And today we even turned to calling out enemies within the church, which was also the case during the Reformation. And at the great church councils, there have always been heretics and pagans and blasphemers and false teachers And I dare say there always will be such enemies, enemies of what is good and right and true, until our beloved Lord, the Lamb of God, returns as conquering King. The end of this paragraph, the opening sentence of the end of it, the end of verse 9, it presents us with a description not only of what John saw, but also what John heard. The noise of their wings was like the noise of many chariots, with horses rushing into battle, these instruments of judgment They make a lot of noise in the world. There's lots of sound and fury But unlike with Macbeth, there where sound and fury signify nothing, here in the book of Revelation, it signifies play. The devastation that's signified here, believe it or not, it is the beginning of the death throes of Satan. Who falls from heaven like lightning, as it says in Luke chapter 10, which we read briefly last week. And they bring with them mental and spiritual and as we highlighted in our discussion last week, physical ferociousness And almost mind-bogglingly, the rebellious, in spite of all this, remain obstinate. The guilty remain impenitent. They refuse to have their attention arrested. And this fact it would be shocking, wouldn't it? If not for our understanding of the stone-cold hardness and the spiritual deadness of the human heart, unless and until it's then replaced by God with a new heart of flesh And the next couple of verses they contain shorter sentences, so instead of us having three verses for just one sentence, we're going to have two verses now for three sentences. We're going to handle them as sort of a bundle. And the first thing that jumps out in verse 10 at the beginning of this bundle is that suddenly the locusts are like scorpions. They have stings in their tails. Well remember that at their head they had teeth like a lion. So these horrifying critters, they are destructive at both ends. They do damage coming and going. They arrive ripping through the enemies of God and the enemies of his people, and they leave devastation in their wake. Do you remember the Christian martyrs? Revelation chapter six verse ten. They cried out with a loud voice, O sovereign Lord, holy and true, how long before you will judge Well we're beginning to get our answer here, aren't we? It's wily martyrs will say in Revelation 16, verse 7, Yes, Lord God the Almighty, true and just are your judgments. Indeed, the judgments are true. And even in Revelation 9 here, we see that the judgments they come from a patient God. The scorpion-like stings of the spiritual locust, they don't bring about the very end of the stubborn sinners. No, rather than killing the depraved They hurt the people. For, as we talked about last week, what is a kind of a relatively short amount of time, as long as it is, five painful months. And the ones doing this hurt, they have as their king a messenger named Destroyer. We're given two names in verse 11. First, we're given the Hebrew name, Hebrew, that's the language of the Old Testament, and then we are given the Greek name, Greek, the language of the New Testament. The name Abadon in Hebrew, it means destruction. The name of Pollyon in Greek it means destroyer. So what we have going on here is that the one who brings destruction, the one who is ruining things, the one who is a destroyer is personified. As I mentioned last week, we are engaged in a spiritual battle with actual personal enemies of God and of God's people. Now yes, sometimes, as in every day, I guess, we do battle within ourselves against our own flesh. And yes, sometimes we battle against the influence of a fallen world. But also sometimes we need to recognize we war directly with the demonic. In verse 11, with the name Apollyon, we might be seeing a bit of a wordplay. John, he might be making an ironic allusion to Nero or Domitian. These are two Roman emper emperors from the first century. They both saw themselves as imitators of the Greek god Apollo. Apollo, Apollion. Now, whether we want to see this as applying to a first century emperor of old or the 21st century emperors of new, there are powerful bad guys in the world. And they bring all categories of destruction to those who are pinned under their thumbs. You know, the first things that might come to our mind these days, many minds anyway, might include pandemic disease. War with the specter of world war, global inflation, cultural rot, cultural decay. However, there is something that's worse even than all of that. Spiritual torment Spiritual blindness, spiritual stubbornness, that's worse because those spiritual ills bring about all the other things I just mentioned. And the spiritual enemies, the enemies of blessing and light and life and growth, the enemies of all these good things, they appear to be winning the day in so many ways to us, don't they? But in the course of events, we know that they lose. But what's more than this, and I want you to hear this, they are actually losing. Right now. As God works together for good all things for those who love him, having been called according to his purpose. Might look to us like they're winning, but they're actually losing right now. And this everlasting truth, it was true for the Horrible, ungodly leaders who ruled even prior to the days of the new covenant. Here's a small portion of something that's written from the old covenant in the old covenant about the king of Tyre, if you look at it in context. It's in Ezekiel chapter 28, verses 12 through 19, I think. This is one of the passages I mentioned earlier, so if you want to read along, you can, and you bookmark it, you can flip there quickly. Thus says the Lord God, you were the signet of perfection, full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty You were in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was your covering. Sardius, topaz, and diamond, beryl, onyx, and jasper, sapphire, emerald, and carbuncle. And crafted in gold were your settings and your engravings. On the day that you were created they were prepared. You were anointed, guardian cherub. I placed you. You were on the holy mountain of God, in the midst of the stones of fire you walked. You were blameless in your ways from the day you were created. Till unrighteousness is found in you. In the abundance of your trade, you are filled with violence in your midst, and you sinned. So I cast you as a profane thing from the mountain of God, and I destroyed you, O guardian cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire. Your heart was proud because of your beauty. You corrupted your wisdom for the sake of your splendor. I cast you to the ground. I exposed you before kings to feast their eyes on you. By the multitude of your iniquities and the unrighteousness of your trade, you profaned your sanctuary, so I brought fire out from your midst. It consumed you. And I turned you to ashes on the earth in the sight of all who saw you. All who know you among the peoples are appalled at you. You have come to a dreadful end and shall be no more. Forever. The leader was beautiful, and then made ugly And it's primarily spiritual that we're talking about here, remember. It's not merely political. And so there is a warning in these words. I believe to the ministers of God's Word. Yes, to the civil ministers as well, but to the ecclesiastical ministers too. Each are duly warned. And failure to heed the warning, it means that they shall, what did it say, come to a dreadful end and shall be no more forever. Even if they now look impressive. Even if they look like this old Arab description of a locust. in head like the horse, in breast like the lion, and feet like the camel, and body like the serpent, in tail like the scorpion, and antenna like a virgin's hair, even if they look as impressive as this They're not immune from the need to heed God's warning. With all the focus on the serpentine leaders bringing God's judgment here in this passage, who are the ones who are on the receiving end of the great woe? Regular folks. People who look like us People much like you and me. Does anyone think they're off the hook because, well, I'm not a king? We're not prime ministers. None of us are president. You hear my voice, you think, I'm not a pastor. Yeah, well, you also have minds prone to being filled with violence. You too have sinned. You have behaved as a profane thing Your heart contains pride. Your sense of your own beauty has corrupted your wisdom. Your iniquities are multitude. Your unrighteousness is often in full view, in plain sight, even for the most religious among us. It was the religious to whom Jesus said in John's Gospel account. In chapter 8, which I again I mentioned that earlier, so if you bookmark it, you want to turn there quickly, you can. I'm picking up with verse 42 in John chapter 8. If God were your father, you would love me. For I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent me. Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. You are of your father, the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in a truth because there is no truth in him When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. But because I tell the truth, you do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God. Fellow brothers and sisters in Christ, true followers of Jesus We need to take courage from the fact, knowing that we do now hear the words of God. And so you as a follower, a faithful follower of Jesus, you have assurance of spiritual rescue In our personal time of prayer, in our time devoted to personal study of the teaching of His Word, let's be mindful that there is a great contrast There's the contrast between the horrific enemies who are used by God to inflict judgment. In contrast with the great physician, Jesus Christ the Savior, who is worthy and true. So brothers and sisters, keep this in mind. But for my neighbors who are not of God, well I uh I suggest you pay some mind too, because As it's written in Revelation chapter 9, verse 12, the first woe has passed. Behold, two woes are still to come. You think things are bad. Just wait. So I recommend you repent. The kingdom of God is at hand. Father we Praise you that you have perfectly orchestrated history in such a way that your plan comes to full fruition. That those of you have called to yourself have nothing to fear and everything to glorify your name over. We know that even those who intend things for evil, that you use that, intend it for the good of those who are yours We have confidence that by trusting in Jesus Christ and his blood of the cross, that we are saved, and we have confidence that all the wrongs done by the unrepentant of this world of that evil is judged Ultimately and forever. We thank you for opening our hearts and minds to understand and receive this truth that You are love and you are justice. You are merciful, but you are righteous. You are a holy God. Who empowers your people by your Holy Spirit to live out lives of obedience, knowing that as we do so we increase the assurance that we can have of our salvation. As our obedience increases our confidence in you, help us, Lord, to be increasingly obedient to your word. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. So I have been self-consciously, not just because the text takes us there, but also understanding the kinds of things I hear from people that are You know, part of what we do here and part of the the dialogue I have. How many people are Uh on occasion at least, struggling with assurance. In some cases struggling with assurance about their salvation, but also struggling about their ability to to to be able to handle all of the spiritual warfare that's coming at us. And so I'm I'm trying to make sure that we understand that those of us who are children of God. This is not terrorizing terrorizing stuff that we're reading in Revelation. For those who are outside God's family, this is terrorizing stuff. I wish they would take it more to heart and realize how terrorizing it is. It's kind of interesting, it's inverted. Those who should find it terrorizing don't, and those who should find it just gloriously beautiful sometimes have a tendency to read it and be terrorized, like, oh my gosh, this is horrible This is part of the good news. So um I guess one does anybody feel like they would disagree with that assessment? If so, we can hash that out. Uh And and assuming there's at least a couple who might agree with that assessment, how has that impacted your life as you live it out? The confidence that you marked safe, a confidence that the evil is judged, that God's got a plan. Yeah, it makes it a lot easier to not hate Not just in the sense when you know you know I I I know a lot of people who have so much anger and hatred. Um often in a sense reasonable because horrible things have happened to them or they've seen horrible things happen to them loved ones or or whatever, but it eats them up. And you know, if we have the knowledge, you know, vengeance is mine says the Lord, then the knowledge in the faith that things are gonna be taken care of. I'm gonna be okay And if there's anything that needs to be dealt with, it'll be dealt with. I can I can focus on you know, trying trying to glorify God, spread the truth, and spread his love. And I I don't necessarily need to worry about you know, uh about the scales, so to speak. Anyone else want to jump in, maybe expand upon that or build upon that, because I've got some thoughts, but I don't want to I don't want to And I kinda think it's um it's a reminder that before there's this ultimate good, which would be the second coming of Christ, you still get the ultimate evil, which is of course the all the woes and the beasts and so forth and revelation. So you're gonna have like the final evil before the final return of good. So I guess it's it's some kind of comfort and I guess it just kinda I mean, I guess as Christians we have to just know that we're along with the ride, but the ultimate promise comes in the end. So you no matter how bad it gets 'Cause again it's even though I mean we're still told that you know it won't be ple these won't be pleasant times for us as well, even though we're marked saved. I mean Jason does say woe to those who would be like you know child in childbearing and nursing. So there are a lot of circumstances that even if you're saved it won't necessarily be pleasant, but there is still final fulfillment. There's this final promise uh yet to be reaped. I just had an image popping in my head and I at least at least one person here that I know will appreciate because it's it's not a specific movie, but it's a movie type idea. Imagine uh a m movie scene. There might be a movie like this out there, but I'm not referencing a particular movie. Yeah, everybody's hunky dory living their life, everything's fine, you know, there's birds chirping in the background or whatever, and all of a sudden it's like just the fires of hell are unleashed And there's bombs being dropped and bullets are flying and it's it's scary and it's disruptive and everybody is at least from a human perspective, is in jeopardy and the adrenaline's flowing and they're they're afraid, they're scared. They're like, I could die But then the scene's over, and the only ones who got shot were the bad guys, and the good guys stuff standing there like Oh I I'm okay. I think that's kinda like for us. So the turbulence that's going on, it's real and it is disruptive and it's scary. And it can it can throw us off balance and cause all these doubts and fears and problems for the world. The analogy falls apart a little bit. But the general idea is that when the bullets are done flying Enemy has been completely destroyed, and those who aren't the enemy, those who are the children of God, are completely safe. Um so yeah, I don't wanna I I'm emphasizing the spiritual in in a lot of these messages because I think that's primarily what is being emphasized in Revelation. But we know from other parts of the Bible there's a physical component too. And actually there's some of that in Revelation. There are martyrs in Revelation. You know, we're gonna be getting to some additional martyrdom kind of storylines in Revelation as we continue forward. So really a physical component, but ultimately what do we most care about care about? Yeah, so we should uh not be hating people. I'm not saying I hate people, by the way. So it's easier not to hate people, but here's an important point on that. If we believe the judgment is true And that this horror truly is horrifying. Then we want to go to somebody who's in jeopardy and out of love warn them, even if the world says, Well, you're a hater for saying so. You know, all the things that it's very popular today is culture, the LGBTQ, IA plus spectrum of uh of issues. And and if somebody who's got a biblical worldview points out any of those as being a problem and putting somebody in spiritual jeopardy You're hating them. And that's not what you're meaning. Oh no, no, no. I meant you can do you can show you can try to spread the word without needing to to worry about anything that that's being done to you. Not not necessarily you shouldn't try to make yourself safe, but like, you know, um just all this bitterness that I see in so many people because they think that Stop talk stop you need to solve. Um they think that It it there's almost like this, um they hold grudges and they're like, Well, I don't know if I can move on with my life until I make this right and make this even and um and they're torturing themselves. And that's not productive for anyone and it's it it's not our place. Okay then please take a Alright, well hold Parkers off. Try to hang on to it when you come back we can finish sharing. Anybody else have something that they want us to uh other than Nadia who wants to chime in? One of the things I I you know, there's a balance we have to maintain. And I think everybody in this room kinda gets it because we've been sharing our thoughts for a long time. I think we're all kind of on the same page. But just as a reminder, or we have people that watch on the stream. uh as well that we don't even know who they are a lot of them. Uh so I think it might be important for them to to understand this doesn't mean that we can't exhibit like a a righteous indignation and have an anger and and and hate the things that are happening in this world that uh Putting people in spiritual peril. Um if somebody is deceiving or working to deceive God's people, that should be called out in no uncertain terms. And if it hurts somebody's feelings, oh well, yeah. We can't so um I mean Jesus speaks out against particularly those the religious ones because they're in a position to spiritually deceive. So he's gone after that big time. But for those that are spiritually deceived themselves and and they're not in a position to spiritually deceive others so readily I think we should have the other uh attitude of Christ w which is, you know, he sees their horrible state of condition and he weeps. We should be broken over the brokenness that we see in people's lives. lives. And those that are using their brokenness as a tool to try to deceive the church, well then yeah, we need to go after them with a fervency So anyway that's the the note of balance I wanted to throw in. But you did you park your thoughts? Yeah, I mean I don't remember exactly where I was at word wise, but um basically just that oh I can base everybody now Um that I I think that it's yeah, I mean it is it's a fulfillment of everything that we were told was coming. you know, saved will be saved and those who insisted on living in evil and refusing to be cleansed will be punished. And while obviously humans have the duty to um what's the word? Um To take care of. There's a natural word for it, I'm failing to find it. To take care of our world while we're in it, you know, to to try to work. Thank you. Yes. Yeah. So we're not we're you know, just like he's murdering people, God will take care of it after afterwards. You know, like we're not supposed to just like let evil actions go. You know, we're supposed to try to keep order as best as we can. But it's not our job to get revenge. Vengeance is the Lord, not ours. And revelation to me seems like a fulfillment of that promise. And in this portion of Revelation, this we're not even talking about like eternal judgment here. Oh yeah, we're not even there. God doing everything he can He's throwing everything including the kitchen sink to try to get people's attention and like hey so at the end we c no one is gonna be able to say well if only he had warned me better If only you would, you know, not let me down the primrose path and let me step on a few tacks along the way to realize the error of my way so I'd feel some pain. He's like, Yeah? I I think it breaks over the head And and you continue to be stubborn but you know what, that's all of so somebody who hearing this might not be a Christian Sounds kind of self righteous, like we're about we're in the same p place. We're in the exact same boat. We just woke up to it a bit earlier. Absent the move of the Holy Spirit. If if God doesn't save us, that's us too Oh yeah. So the car alarm. It's not entirely new. It's it's her um it's her last ditch. I'm really trying to get your attention to let me up. I told her that as soon as she's ready to be quiet, she can come back So isn't that like a car on her? Oh yeah, you compress it actually. Times her out real quick. Yeah, I can imagine. Tires me out real quick too. Oh really? Uh There's a reason why young people are parents. Old people are grandparents. Do you think deaf people have an easier time with this? Yeah, I wonder. You just can't hear their child screeching All right, how about uh folks that have any chance to contribute anything yet? Anything you're hoping to contribute? 'Cause I was wondering at looking at that like similar to Apollo. Yeah, I I I think it is a play on word, but it also does Or the Greek word meaning of Apollo, whatever that means. Yeah, it does it it it almost begs the question. Like it's almost like so on the nose it must be an allusion to to the the emperors of the day. So uh well I mean if the Greek is a polyon in I mean Apollo was literally a Greek god. And so I think he might have actually been one of the gods of war. No, he was the son. He was a son? Yeah. Archery, I think. No. No, but they have they they they each were very, very few of the Greek gods. Yeah. Yeah, so in in the case. Uh Mars is Mars was a god of war. In Roman. Yeah, he's Roman, not Greek. Athens was the Greek Cataphorn, I think. Hermes, yeah. Some funny about it. No, because Athens is Athena and Athens was the war god. Okay. And they they all they love to combine things like war and wisdom. No, I don't think that it would pro it would prove out to be a perfect per se, but I think it's it's interesting thing I'll bring it up because there's uh it's still small, but there's a burgeoning movement of people that are arguing that the entire Bible, the Old and New Testaments, were originally written in Hebrew and they reject the idea that the New Testament is written in Greek. There's I'm not, this isn't hyp hyperbolic. There's literally zero historical record to support that view So it's not true, but it it's it's gate gaining a little bit of steam and they would have to have some sort of if I were talking about they had to say, well, why does John go out of his way in Revelation to give us a Hebrew word and a Greek word? if none of the Bible was written in Greek. Like why is he going out of his way to do that? It it doesn't prove their position wrong, but it's yet one more question they would have to answer. The biggest question is Alright, I'm open minded. Where's the textual evidence? Show me in history where there's like some fragments or something. Human would have been a dead language at that point. So anyway. Abadon also sounds Like it could be on the nose, but I don't know. Abaddon? Abaddon. Abaddon. It sounded me more like a hand. Abaddon. Abaddon. Like one Absolutely. No, there's a n there's other names that sound similar to that, but obviously. Hard to find a reference. Oh tough Yeah. Anyway, we've had I I took us on a little bit of a diversion with my comments off with that so Angela I know had a thought and I I think Anthony might have too, I don't know. So Hm? All right. So I I just had a question. Um so when you were describing when you were reading Revelation um, the verses and you were reading the description of the locus. Um, were you were you asking or were you saying that the description is really symbolic and they don't I didn't really understand totally what your point was. Are you saying that the because they say that that that their appearance was like this, was like that, was like that. Are you saying that's purely um Symbolic and not literal. Or metaphor. Like it was simile. Like is similar to, but not No, no, I I guess my question is, are you are are are do you believe these creatures described in the Bible, do you believe that they will look like that? Or do you believe that they they They are just purely symbolic. Yeah, I think that um m my read and take on on this and other passages like this really is these uh asbest elements of these sorts of locusts, if you will, they're already out and about and have been. for years, which is why people will make a connection and say, Oh, this is talking about the Gothic invasion of the Roman Empire or talking about the Muslim and the Crus the Muslim and Islam and the Crusades or they're making connections say, see that's what this is talking about and that's in the past. And I don't disagree. I think that's an application. You weren't here last week. One of the points I made last week is I'm open to any and all of those applications. What gets me to jump off of somebody's uh train is when they wanna make a strong argument that that's the only like it this is the gothic invasion of the Roman Empire. Period full stop. There's that's what Sound's talking about. It's like Well I think that's part of what John's talking about, but I think it applies in so many other ways. I don't expect I mean I I guess time will tell and I could be pretty long, but I don't expect that we'll there will actually be creatures that emerge from the center of the earth or something that look like this. Partly because if you were to try to piece together a creature that looks like this, it would be rather hard to do. So I'm not I'm not expecting something like that. Uh I I I think that we I think what we should be uh as the church, I think we should be looking for those that look like this spiritually So who are those that are inauthentic image bearers of God? You know, people that are not they they they're image bearers because we're all created in God's image, but they're not acting like it at all. They're fraudulent image bearers I think we should be looking for people in particular in leadership roles that are uh that would fit that aspect as an example. Are you uh are you anticipating like a that physical Uh little beasts like this. I'm trying to reconcile and I'm not disagreeing that that please spiritually people can be can be like these creatures. These evil creatures. But what I'm trying to reconcile is so In the book of Revelation, we have John, and he's having this vision. And this is part of his vision. Okay. Well, earlier The prophet Ezekiel had a vision, except his was totally positive when he went to heaven And he saw a creature that had uh says he saw a creature that had uh The face of a man on one side, the face of a lion, the face of a bull, and the face of an east And the creature had um feet like calf moves And it had wings and under its wings were human hands. Now this sounds like a free creature. Nothing nothing that you ever like come up across um walking down the street. But uh it it seems like he's talking about something that he literally saw. And I'm not saying that that creature also wouldn't necessarily represent something on the earth. Yeah. But but it seems like he's talking about a literal creature that actually looks like that. Yeah, I think I understand what you're saying. So I don't I'm not sure if this is gonna Hopefully it'll at least clarify how I'm approaching it, whether it'll clarify things the way you're thinking about things or not, that I don't know. But I think that when it says had the face of, then that's describing in more exacting terms what the vision in fact looked like. But the vision in fact looking like that I still think has a symbolic meaning behind it. So you know I I think it's our job as expositors of scripture to try to figure out okay what does it mean by the ox? What does it mean by the eagle? Like there's there's some sort of symbolic referent there. It's not just saying there was this really weird thing Okay, turn the page. What's the next weird thing I should read about? I think that there's a there's a uh there's a packed in meeting meaning that should that we need to unpack. Even more overt though in John. Um So I guess what I'm saying, in both cases I would say that there is a vision of an actual something that they're seeing And there's a description of an actual something that they're seeing, but what it is they're actually seeing has a some sort of a symbolic application that we should figure out. With John, he makes it even more overt because he uses assimiles Right? He says like. So he doesn't say that they have human faces, they have something like human faces. That they're not horses, they're like horses. So he's he's going out of his way to say I'm not describing for you precisely what my vision was. I'm giving you some idea of what it was. I think he's doing it not because he wasn't sure what he saw. Maybe that's what your question is. No, no, no. I think he's driving all the point that it's it hey, take this symbolically. I'm giving you all these similes. This should be that's that's what I think is happening there. Okay Yeah, it it's I tend to be a a literal, very literal, um in my approach to scripture, even though I gr recognize And um I don't I just I I I don't know why God couldn't create something that looked like that Literally, but for the purpose of being a symbol. No, no, yes, we could. Yeah, yes. Yes, we could. Because there's something that's going to be unleashed Unleashed it now in the book of Revelation specifically, there's something that's going to be unleashed on the earth that's going to uh her earth is going to be very hellish um at some point. I mean much more so than now. And um I w when like i in in the book of Revelation specifically when it says that these things have the the tale of scorpions. And that's and that's that's the the thing about them that will torment men. It seems it my literal read of that is they will be terrorized by a monstrous d demonic thing. And maybe it's because I've had it's I don't know if it's I've had And I don't think that we have to be like you know uh some sort of weird split or divide over this, but I will say that those have practical considerations. So one, I'm firmly convinced that we should try to figure out what the understanding of the original audience would have been and also what the application for the original audience would have been. So we should try to figure that out. And they didn't have these locust like creatures in the first century, at least not that we have in recorded history. So they wouldn't be able to apply that sort of a translation into their experience. Right, but we don't have that either We don't have the we we don't nobody has this. Right and that's where and that's where that actually was the point. I think that's where the practical application is. You don't say, Oh, I don't need to worry about that yet. Right. I think that we do have this. No, I y no, I I agree with you that's I agree with you saying I I agree with what you're saying. I agree that In in in a spiritual sense, people are acting out acting out this. Right. And I and you know what I think in a spiritual sense people always have Exactly, exactly. I agree a hundred percent. I think that's actually one of the undergirding truths for the book of Revelation Because particularly in American church context, uh the typical American church context um You wouldn't be given the opportunity to ask the kind of questions you're asking me because they're going to be providing a narrative teaching on revelation that is more in line with uh what's behind the questions that you're asking. So I understand I'm a little bit countercultural here, but the uh I think a big part of what John is saying is this is true for the human condition. It's particularly true for the church. for the church age from the time of the you know from the ascension to the to the uh uh to the return. You know, this is describing all of that and so it applies to us now And so I do get a little bit uh this is the pastoral concern. This doesn't mean me as a pastoral concern. I mean pastoral in the sense that we should all care about the well-being of others. So we all have a pastoral concern whether we're pastors or not The pastoral concern is it can be very easy. I'm not saying it's appropriate or right that they do it, but it it it can be very easy for somebody to slip into uh oh well I don't have to worry about that um because I don't see any locusts or scorpion tails flying around so I'll I'll believe it when I see it. I'm gonna continue to live my life the way I am. I think there's a stronger application and say, Oh, but you do see it. Let me show you how you see it. Wow, so this is happening yes, it's happening now. And one of the things this again is a practical application thing And you might disagree on this too, and so could this might be something that either for now or for a future dialogue we would get into. But I'm persuaded that Scripture intends for us to understand that Jesus could come back at any instant. But before I finish the next thought in my brain, he could come back. But if I have to wait for a litical creature like this to show up on the scene before he can come back. So oh I don't have to worry the second coming can't happen yet. I haven't seen the locusts with scorpions tails So it gives the I'm not saying that's an appropriate application, but I know, trust me, and you probably do too, a lot of professing Christians, or maybe actual Christians, uh just pejorative the way that came out. Um the reason I say that is because the There are a lot of professing Christians that know a lot of this uh Revelation Ease, this this biblical sounding lingo that they throw around, and they don't understand the first thing the word they don't know the first thing about the gospel They can tell you an awful lot about the images of Revelation though. But they don't know anything about Jesus. And so like, are you even a Christian or are you just some sort of imagery expert uh in revelation? And we should probably be energy experts, but not merely imagery experts. So I didn't mean that to sound the way it did. But I know so many people. I just had a conversation with somebody last week. Uh a pastor. Who when I said kind of in passing like I just did, you know, Jesus could return before I finish this next sentence, he says, no, he can't. I said, what? No, he's not going to be coming for at least another three and a half, maybe seven years As if God's on our timetable. And I was like, what? He's like, yeah, Book of Revelation. I was like No. That That can't, in my opinion, that can't see our application of revelation. And so then I try to apply Like some sort of uh what in my mind feel like consistent big hermeneutics, big big word, interpretive. Big interpretive principles And be and do it consistently. And I and and I agree, um that's There are things in the Bible that absolutely should be taken just at absolute face value. There's no reason to take them other than at face value. But and this is where I think we've had some dialogue, particularly in a case where the genre is such that it is, and then inside of that genre we've got 11 similes in like five sentences. I feel like it's on overdrive. The author is trying to say, look There's a bunch of symbolism because think about the context. Maybe this will be helpful. Whether it's a persuasive or not. I'm you know I it's not I'm not trying to persuade. I'm trying to to share and teach my understanding of what It's saying and then you know the Holy Spirit will persuade somebody that I'm right or wrong. And if I'm wrong then I'll be persuaded over time that I've been I've been looking at this wrong. But think about the context of the moment It's the first century. The church is now at a stage in their development where they're on the run. You know, the the the period of persecution has begun. This isn't the first 20 or 30 years after the cross where the church is kind of for the most part ignored by the powers of be because, oh, it's just a Jewish sect. Now they realize, wait, this isn't just a Jewish sect, this is something different. And so they're getting attacked from their Jewish friends, and they're being persecuted horribly. believe by the emperors from the the the state powers that exist and they're on the run and John is writing from from uh an island in exile and so Think about in our context today, I don't know if you've had to do this, but I know a lot of people have done on social media the the tyrants and they persecute and they cancel everybody. So they're learning how to speak and code on social media You know, they they misspell words on purpose or they or they they obliquely reference something for those in the know, I know what you mean. when you say that. Well that's today's apocalyptic language, if you will. Like we know the code. We know what's going on. We we know that the president's name isn't really spelled that way literally, but we know it's a reference to him. I think that's part of what's going on in Revelation. John's saying, look, I I'm not going to say exactly everything precisely like it's a letter from Paul I'm going to use apocalyptic imagery to say things in code. And back then they would have understood the code because apocalyptic literature, it wasn't exactly like Western's fifty or sixty years ago in this country where everybody was reading like pop pulp fiction westerns and stuff. It it's not quite as popular as that, but there was a lot of pop apocalyptic literature that was very popular for several hundred years And Revelation was written in the middle of that. So that audience would have known what he was doing. What's that? So let's say a question I didn't hear it, so ask me again. I'm I'm describing I'm describing a certain child. And I said, she has hair like black and she has skin like porcelain. And her sky her eyes are like the sky I'm speaking in similes, but I've just described a literal child. She really looks like that. So could it possibly be That they were describing something that literally looks like that that exists. I think I don't know if this will help us to get to a point where you can say, okay, we can agree to meet there, at least for now I would go so far as to say that yes, this what's describing these visions literally exist within the vision. So I'm not saying John's making this up. I'm saying John actually is recording what he saw. But what he saw isn't what Necessarily the rest of us will see play out in history. Right, but it could. But it could but it but I I I guess a and this is the kind of thing that, you know, you know Right. Yeah. Because it's not a salvation thing. It's not a salvation issue. But um it it could be that they actually do exist because maybe maybe the point uh maybe John was using similes so that we could accurately picture what what they look like. Yeah, I I hear what you're saying, but the biggest challenge both trust me, since we've had these dialogues, it's really forced me to be more earnest about thinking that I was already thinking about it, but more earnestly think about it And I'm trying to get to a place where me and us, you know, as a church and the body more broadly, that we're just consistent in our witness. Yeah. And you know, there's other parts of the same book by the same author, you know, within the same combination of visions that talks about, you know, who we know to be the man god the God man, Jesus, and says that he turned and he looked and he saw a lamb as though he had been slain. But we know that when we get to heaven, we're not going to see a white fluffy You uh you know, standing over there in the corner, you know what I mean? Like we so like we know that that's clearly symbolic. And so within the same book if a and uh Now, you're agreeing with me, and I'm glad that I think everybody would probably agree with me. So then if I'm going to try to explain the revelation to a non-believer Particularly those who are antagonistic to it, like a Muslim who thinks that our scriptures are horribly corrupted and inconsistent and full of contradictions and they're a mess and you can't trust them at all. And I'm going to try to apply a consistent approach and and try to show them how, no, no, no, my worldview and my approach to scripture, it's it's rock solid. If they were to call me out and say, well then how come you believe that over here it's not actually a lamb, but over here it's actually a locust, why did you make those dissert this those decisions? And to be honest, and again, I I You know I love you, so I don't think you're gonna you're gonna you're gonna think I mean this in the best way possible, so you're not gonna think I'm on the attack because I'm not intending to be at all. But that level of what feels like an inconsistency uh it undercuts our argument in other places that are important for people to trust that we're teaching the Bible in a way that So if somebody says, how come you're not taking that literally? As you know you've heard me say this, I do take it literally. If you look at the root words, it's literature. We should understand literature literally literally, literarily And in this case when there's all the simile and all the we know the genre's apocalyptic, we should read it as such. Like we you know, we sing songs, those are poems and stuff, right? And so some of the songs might might use flowery language, but we don't take that in a a stilted wooden way. We know that it's representative. I think I'm just trying to be consistent. And if I ever get caught being uh inconsistent, you know, I want people to say, Well wait a minute, that doesn't seem to match up with how you approach this over here and I want to be called out for it because I want to be corrected. Because I n I I I feel compelled to be consistent. There's a famous apologist actually in in Christian American Christian circles who one of his favorite phrases is, uh inconsistency is surely a sign of a failed argument. And there's a lot of truth hacked in that little phrase. So that's what I'm trying. I'm just trying to if if I if I almost have to take some of the symbols symbolically Like there's no way around it. Like there's some parts of revelation you have to take them symbolically. What reason do I have for taking other parts that also seem to be pretty clearly symbolically as something other than symbolically. So that's what I'm trying to wrestle with. And then the pastoral concerns laid layered in on that. I want Ray and Annie and you and Anthony and My wife and me, I want us all to apply this truth to our lives now. We need to have eyes to see now. And I get so concerned, particularly in the American Church. And it's begun to have tentacles into other parts of the world. It's not as uniquely American as it once was, but it's still predominantly an American issue We're so focused on looking for the boogeyman behind the bush that we're not realizing we're surrounded by boogeyman. We just can't see them because we're blinded, because we're waiting for These little what we call literal incarnations, I don't and I don't like that term because of the way I define literal, these uh hyperliteral or these I'd like to use the word wooden, but sometimes people think that that's being pejorative. So I don't know what a what a word that would be acceptable to those that are meaning something different by literal than I mean. um these exacting, right? These exacting representations. And I'm like, we we we don't have license It could be that exact thing here. I think that what the Bible teaches is literally true. That's the point I want to emphasize. It's literally true But what is the truth that is being put forward? And is it that there's going to be these these creatures, these beings that are going to enter into our physical universe? Or is the literal truth that there is this spiritual war that is actually taking place not someday? But now and yesterday and the day before, it's been going on. And I think that's a big part of the structure. There's like this spiral cycle. in the book of Revelation where things are are are they repetitive but they're not entirely exact repetitive. But there's these themes and these there's these references to what came earlier. You and we're gonna see more and more as we press forward. There are gonna be aspects where I'm preaching, I'm feeling like man, I feel like I'm preaching the exact same thing. Because this was three chapters ago, and here it is again. But it's coming at it from a different angle. I I think that's that's how John is wanting us And I know there's there's disagreement. There's there's definitely debate within the church about how to approach this. And so and I'm glad that given the structure of how we do things where there's you know, there's a teaching and then there's discussion it gives us a chance to dialogue about these things in different church contexts, you know, uh the way things are structured, there's not an easy opportunity to do that. Most pastors, you know They're shaking hands on the way out the door and oh thank you, appreciate your p your message today, Pastor, and that's it. That's as much conversation about the message as as happens, except for the the people that you know do have some concerns that they'll shoot an email on Monday morning. Well and even if the people go up and talk to them, there's only so many people that can talk to one person on a single day. So my concern is that tradition's a good thing. I like tradition. I'm a trish I'm a traditional guy. It's part of what we fight for in our culture. We fight for good traditional things. But tradition can have a flip side where we believe and do things merely for the sake of tradition. And I think that a lot of our uh approaches to understanding things like the more difficult passages in Revelation aren't rooted as much in the text as they're rooted in the tradition. And so, well, you know, my pastor that I had for 20 years, he taught this way, so that's my understanding, and so that's the way it must be. And so much of that tradition is is resting on a particular edition of the Bible that was very popular a little over a hundred years ago and remained popular up until a little less than a hundred years ago, the Schofield Reference Bible, and that's becomes such an important part of the American church tradition that that's the only way anybody knows to approach these things. anymore. And I again I know I'm pushing back against that. I mean I'm in America, I am clearly a minority view. In church history and even in contemporary church existence worldwide, I'm not the minority view actually. Um I'm either the majority view or I am a in within a significant plurality view. But if you're going to look at just American. Yeah well just the the approach to uh well yeah well more or less the idea of taking the imagery in revelation as uh uh very specifically exacting and literal, that is very influenced by what is the prevailing end times view in the American church, which is uh premillennial dispensation. That is the predominant view in America. And so that colors a lot of our discourse. But those who are post-millennial, those that are amillennial, those that are historic premillennialists They approach revelation much more like how I'm approaching it than the dispensational, particularly the pre-mill dispensationalists. do. So and the pre-mill dispensational view uh is relatively new in church history. It's only been around for I don't know, 150 years or something like that. And it's uh for the longest time it was only a North American thing. Now as we sent missionaries around the world it's it's so anyway. But that doesn't mean it's wrong. They might have gotten an insight that was that you know, and and they could make a case that hey the church fathers are teaching IL think there's a strong case they may, but maybe they could. And that's not my point. And so my point isn't to argue from uh my case from authority. Like, oh the majority position is so therefore I'm right. No. In fact, the majority position of the world is that Jesus isn't God, so yeah Yeah. So I'm not that's not about that. I'm just trying to instructive moment for us to work through these things, maybe in a different way than we have before. I guess I'll say that for anybody who's watching, anybody who's in this room particularly, at the very least, you know, as you're reading and preparing for the lessons, you know, when we when we uh enter into uh Revelation chapter 10 and you're reading that in preparation. Read it the way you always have and you've always and and freshen up on what you've always understood, but then also try to say, okay If I were trying to approach this the way that Pastor Troy is doing it, how might he understand it and does it make any sense to me? And and and if not, then you can come prepared to poke holes in specific things having already pre considered and not having to think of uh objections or concerns on the fly. You know, give yourself a week or two to think about something, you might come up with you know uh uh completely different kinds of questions than you would have otherwise. So that's all I'm just asking that you know we would try to consider this The hermeneutical principles, one, every time we open our Bible, I don't care what part of the Bible it is, the first thing we got to do Because of Luke 24 and John 5, the first thing we got to do is understand, okay, where's Jesus? Everything in the Bible is about Jesus. He tells us so. I'm reading this. How does it help me know Jesus better? How is it informing you about Jesus, about the person of Jesus, the work of Jesus, the mission of Jesus You know, Jesus is people. How is this helping me know more about Jesus and what he's done in history for his people? We've got to start there. And if we haven't figured if we haven't figured out how it connects to Jesus We haven't figured it out. That was the problem that the first century Jews had. And Jesus was like, they're your scriptures and you don't recognize what's going on here? I'm on every page. If you would have b if you would believe Moses, you'd believe me. But because they couldn't see Jesus from Moses, they weren't believing they weren't seeing so we need to not make that mistake. The other thing is we've got to understand that no single word ever, no word, has any meaning at all outside of a context. I think about back in the 80s, it was very popular to say that things that were really, really nido-keen, you know, really wonderful, nice, good things, that they were bad. Ooh, that's bad. Well, bad literally means the opposite. But in context we know that what's meant. So any word means nothing outside of context. So you've got to always put it in context. And part of that is historical context, as much as we can know about the author, the authorial context uh the the canon context with within the Bible itself. Uh we've we've got to do that and let the text speak for itself. And we all come with I w trust me, uh I've c I've worked harder on preparing the messages for revelation than I've ever worked for any other kinds of messages have had to prepare because there's so much disagreement, there's so much debate and s actually church splits even that would happen. over something like this. And so I'm trying to be as fair as I can to all perspectives. Because I come at it with my my view, but I'm channeling, okay, those who disagree with me, how do they apply it? And does it work? And when it works, because a lot of times it works. as well, which is why there's a system for it. I'll try to incorporate that. There's other times like, I'm trying to make it work. I don't see how it works. The only way it works is just like get a sledgehammer and just jam it in there. And I think, I'm not gonna do that. So when I gotta jam it, I usually won't even mention it If it fits rather naturally, oh you know, that's not the way I would have approached it, but it kind of works, so I'm going to mention it. There's a couple of times if I feel like it's got a lot of weight within our culture, particularly our American church culture, and a lot of people are buying into something I don't think is is right. I might mention that, like Okay, if you talk to ten of your Christian friends, nine and a half of them are gonna say this and I'm telling you right now they're wrong, I might mention that. If it's so overwhelmingly obvious everybody's talking about it. But otherwise I'm just trying to share what I think I'm always trying to share what I think the truth of the matter is Sometimes I can't tell for sure a hundred percent what the specific application truth of the matter is. And so like you know what? There's like a bunch of guys, they one guy thinks it's this, another guy thinks it's that, another guy thinks it's this, and you know what? All three could be right, even though they're different. I can see how all three could be right. I'll try to mention all three. And then let people figure it out. Anyway. I did a lot of talking there, did I apologize. But I I feel like we we've been kind of running along that same road for a while. I think it's good for us to hash that out and try to come to an understanding and Um and model for a watching world how this can be done, you know, without people uh running off in a huff and Well but you're not even a believer, you know, and that sort of stuff. Did you have something you can I mean one thing I know from like church history they didn't even know what revelation meant when it was even written, so which is why a lot of the early canon list would kinda like set remote Revelation aside, because it's not that they disputed the authoral authority of John. They pretty much didn't even know what to do with it. And of course people were weird about Revelation Yeah, I don't disagree, although I I c I I word of caution, uh I think you might have overstated the case. Uh I think they were in the same boat we're in today I don't know that I would want to go so far as to say, well they didn't even know what it meant. Well I'm saying they they have the same questions we asked. Yeah, they had the same challenges because of the highly I I don't want to use the word symbol. What's the different word from symbol? But it's highly symbolic. It's overloaded with it's like layers of symbols. It's symbols within symbols within symbols. Like that's what makes it and so if you're not and Um representations? There was there was a pro yeah, different representation yeah, that's that's a word that we could throw into the mix so we can change up our language a little bit. Just to be as um, and you know and things didn't get any get any any better for necessarily when uh when Augustine gets on the scene because uh as wonderful as Augustine was, and I I'm uh I would consider myself in many ways uh Augustinian in my view on on things. But Augustine, you know, uh his approach particularly to things like this, I mean he is hyper allegorical. And he would just make things up. You know? And w and so there was a mix of that going on too where everything was allegory. And it made sense, like they were preaching the gospel, but they were they were abusing the text in order to preach the gospel. And so that that added even more confusion. So I that's I think part of what you're saying. But I don't want to leave the impression that, well nobody's ever known what revelation means, so let's throw our hands up. Because I do think There's been a stream of understanding of revelation throughout church history. There's been a stream But there's been a lot of waves all around that stream, th all this confusion. Like even today. I don't think they could have ever predicted what it would actually Come at. And I think part of what makes the confusion is everybody wants to well and I think it's a good thing, uh in a sense. Everybody wants to apply it to their situation. So John's original readers are like, oh, he's talking about Nero, or he's talking about Domitian, or he's talking about right. So they're applying it to their context. And you know what? I think they're right. And then several hundred years later, oh, this is talking about the fall of the Roman Empire and the Parthians and the Yeah, I th I think they're right. And then now we're like, oh, it's you know, uh you know, uh Elon Musk is is the Antichrist and they're trying we're trying to apply it to to now like, well I don't think Elon Musk is the Antichrist, but to try to apply it to our context I think is the right instinct, because I think that's what's intended. I just think that we end up misapplying it to our historical context. I I I think what also makes what also what makes it challenging is that I I think revolution Revelation is a book that is understood better as time elapses. Like for instance, Augustine, I I haven't read it, but he probably had a pretty good allegory For the mark of the beast. But now we we have an idea of how that mark is probably going to look. It's it's it's not allegorical at all. Now we live in a technological age where you can literally mark people in their forest They would have they would probably resort to allegory. Well Mark is an allegory if you go back to Ezekiel, he would mark those he would would save and that would be the remnant spared from uh Babylon. But but I was just using that as an example of how our progression in society is helping us to better I I think it's not that not that we use society to interpret the Bible That's not my point at all. My point is our technological progression, I think, is actually helping us to understand how what may have been allegorized rather than allegorized whatever the name term is, back in in in in in in bygone centuries, now we understand that's really not allegory at all. That that could actually happen. We have the technology now to make that happen. What did it mean back then when when when the that every eye will see Jesus. Well back then people probably had the I I don't know what they had to imagine to try to make that work mentally, but today we live in an age where we can see things halfway across the world because of the internet. I mean so there's definitely different ways they can apply it over time. Something I w I wanna just because we've used the word probably a dozen times now allegory, and it can uh be used pejoratively Allegory is not our enemy here. No. There are parts of the Bible that are intended to be read as allegory, right, as allegorical. The problem is being hyper-allegorical Right. And that's when you're taking something that really wasn't intended to mean something and you're making it mean something that the author didn't intend never intended. And that's when we get ourselves into trouble. Um that you probably have heard of it is hyper spiritualizing. Right. But you're hyper spiritualizing the text Yeah, so there are texts revelation that should be spiritualized. But we don't want to make the mistake of hyper spiritualizing it. Uh and there's other parts of the Bible, particularly like uh in in the Old Testament or you know uh different teachings from Jesus or didactic teachings from Paul, where we uh we can run the risk on the other end where typically if people are making mistakes in their preaching and teaching it's on one of the two things they're hyper spiritualizing or they're hyper-moralizing. There are moral lessons in the Bible, for sure, but to turn everything into merely a more what moral lesson And to forget the spiritual aspect or forget the cultural applicational aspects or whatever. Uh so we don't want to be hyper of anything. But we want to put all of it to good use. Well of this is just a great example of an Noetic effect, right? Yeah, noetic effect of the fall. Who can tell me what that is? Do you guys know? Noetic effect. I I first have to know what that word means. It's actually a very good attempt to get at a root word, but it's not it's not a play on Uh you're talking about forgetting things. It's a play on the uh word that we that uh is the root for Gnostic. So gnosis. So the root there would be gnosis. So noetic has to do with our our knowledge or understanding our mind. So the Gnostic false view of the gospel is you have a secret knowledge. So it's called So the noetic effects is uh we have a diminished intellectual uh capacity. So we might be forgetful. We might misspell a word. We might you know make a mistake. We you know the error is human. Well why? Not in the original condition it wasn't. And not in the glorified state it won't. But now yeah, we make mistakes all the time because we live in a fallen mind. That's why we need, that's why we're told in Romans, we need a renewal of the mind. Because our mind has been damaged and so the noetic effects of the fall is the theological phrase that's used for that. So we talked about that long time ago. Yeah, good memory. It talks about that when we talk about the chosen. Is that when we talk Yeah, right. Yeah, and that's a good example because Jesus He's the perfect man. He's God and the perfect man. So Jesus, he, for example He knew that Judas was going to betray him. There's two ways we could think about that. Actually, I was just listening to something this week that was making this point. Jesus is God, and so he might have known that Judas was going to betray him because well he's God. He he knows certain things, right? He didn't veil his knowledge completely across the board, maybe. He he he allows himself to be God and see those things. But the other thing that I don't think we think about very often, he's the perfect man. Not suffering from the noetic effects of the fall. So his level of discernment and insight and knowledge about people and human nature and stuff. He had a read on on Judas like that. Right. He could see it crystal clear because his mind wasn't clouded by the fall. Like Judas is probably like Did he just call me out? No, he couldn't just call he couldn't possibly Who would you do? How would you know? How could you know? Yeah, like what? Maybe Judith was just so Eagle. He just felt like well if I just be quiet, maybe. Well just scared or arrogant, scared scared. And in front of others. So you just have this I'm gonna play this off before they beat the crap out of me. Like to include in the stream as much as possible the the uh the the way a a system if you will systematized way of sharing the gospel. So I'm just gonna run through it really quick for those that are still on the stream. Hopefully you'll benefit from this. Um I've become increasingly persuaded over time that a really helpful uh memory device for figuring out how to enter into a dialogue that allows you to share the gospel with someone is to remember that there are Five primary aspects to the good news. It starts with creation. We're made in God's image. But of course the creation then gets marred by the fall of man. But that all gets corrected at the cross. And then in response to that, those who are saved live out a life of increasing sanctification until the day that Christ returns. So that would be in a thumbnail what is the gospel in like 10, 15 seconds. So what were the elements, the five? Creation, fall, redemption. Restoration, glorification. If you can remember those five words and how what they all mean, I I promise you, if you enter into a 10-minute maybe fifteen minute conversation with anybody, you'll find an opportunity to connect to one of those five and it gives you a natural in to explaining what the truth of the gospel is in a way that won't feel contrived or forced or manipulative. It'll just come up in conversation. So anyway, creation, fall, redemption, restoration, glorification. If you remember those five words and then come to understand what they all mean, you're going to be a much better evangelist and witness for Christ. So till next week around 6 o'clock. Thanks for watching Gut Us.