Welcome to the live stream portion of our weekly gathering of the Household Faith Household of Faith in Christ. You can join us online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. We're just talking about that. Catch up on our Revelation series. We're going to be in that today, Revelation chapter 9. So you'll want to get your Bibles ready. We'll be looking specifically at verses 13 through 21 today in Revelation 9. And if you're one who likes to read along, I always encourage that. I'll be reading a short section from Isaiah chapter 8. So if you want to put a bookmark there, you can read along when we get there. Specifically it'll be Isaiah chapter 8, verses 6 through 8. And if you're doing study at home, if you're watching or listening to this stream, we read before we started the stream from 2 Peter chapter 2, also 2 Peter chapter 3. uh the book of Jude and Job chapter 39. So if you want to read those portions of your Bible and see how they connect to some of the themes and images and ideas that are in the book of Revelation, I would uh invite you to do that as well. Before um I get into the sermon, last week during our discussion uh the idea of the noetic effects of the fall came up and uh kudos to the person who remembered that. Uh and off the cuff, I I might have overplayed the hand and overstated the case, so I wanted to check myself. So the root word for noetic is noesis, and I said that the root word for noetic was the same as the root word for Gnostic. But the root word for Gnostic is gnosis. So you can see Gnoesis and Gnosis. Very close, but they're spelled differently, they're pronounced differently, and they have a slightly different but very similar semantic range. So noesis has to do with the intellect, like your brain power, your IQ maybe, that kind of idea. Gnosis has to do with your knowledge, how much information you have packed into that IQ. So they're very related, but they aren't exactly the same root word Uh at least that's my understanding that I look more closely at it, so I I I I might have given the impression that they had the exact same root word and I d I don't think that that's accurate. So I just wanted to clarify the record for what it's worth. But as you can tell they're very close. uh in in meaning and pronunciation and all that sort of stuff. But um into the sermon today. So we'll be looking at Revelation 9 and like I said we're going to read from Isaiah and all those other passages that I mentioned. I say this every week, but in today's context, the culture, I I I I feel feel like led that I I need to say this every week. When we're reading from the scripture, from our Bible, we are reading something that is infallible. It is without error. Why? Because it's inspired by God. It's breathed out by God. It's God's word and God doesn't make mistakes. So we, even in the church, the broader church, have lost sight of this truth to our own detriment and our own witness, unfortunately. And because It's God's word. It is fully sufficient as the rule and the guide for our faith, for our life practice. You know, it's it's it it's you know it's a cliche. This is my Bible. Right? Like you give somebody an operations manual at work and uh they'll say this is this is your Bible for the job. You know, there's a read this is our our Bible for living our life, for understanding the truth of our faith, of who we are, who we were made to be, who God is. And so Just I I want to emphasize that. And so when you're opening that Bible, or right now, as you're hearing God's word preached, my prayer is that those with ears to hear would hear. So, today's text again, Revelation chapter 9, verses 13 through 21. And as we process what to do with this passage, I want to begin by telling a story. When I was a boy, I had a special dog. I had lots of dogs in my life, in my youth, ranging in size from, believe it or not, a 180-pound Great Dane. to a silly little thing that weighed less than 10 pounds, uh, looked bit like one of those exotic Chinese crested breed dogs, if you know what those are. But anyway, among the Dachshunds and poodles and German shepherds and terriers and months of all various shapes and sizes and colors, there was one dog that stood out as the dog of my childhood. He was a big, strong, mixed breed, half black labrador, half German shepherd. Weighed 120 pounds and was easily the most athletic dog I ever owned. He had the body and the head shape of a lab, and he had the the black and light tan color markings of a shepherd. He was just stunningly beautiful. And I loved watching him run. And I loved hanging out with him. And I loved playing with him. And most of all, I loved that he was my dog. I still have vivid memories of him chasing butterflies out in the open field. There's a field not too far from our house, and I take him out there and he would chase those things seemed like forever. And and he would run as fast as he could and he would leap into the air and then he would do a pirouette in mid flight and he would contort and twist and and then he would snap tight his powerful jaws and you know what? Awful lot of time he would actually have captured One of those fluttering little moth-like playmates. As much as someone could love a dog, I loved that dog. So when he died, I think I miss that dog. I didn't truly recover from my grief over his death for weeks, months. Possibly years. Did I mention that I loved this dog? When he's at eight years old, which isn't young, but it's not old for a dog, he developed liver cancer. And the vet came to the house and it was time to put him to sleep. And I said, Goodbye to my dear friend, cradling his head one last time. Telling him through my tears that he was gonna be okay. As he closed his eyes and breathed his last, laying quietly on my bed It was just a few days or m possibly it could have been a couple of weeks before that last day I had with him, before we knew really how horribly sick that he was That I did something that I have regretted ever since the moment I did it I was in my room, I was on my bed, I was doing my homework for school, I was deep in my thoughts, I was feeling some stress and pressure from the schoolwork, and that's when my dime pop Came over to me and uh he interrupted my work and I think he might have drooled on my papers or something like that, the exact specific detail that particular moment is now lost to my memory, but not what happened next. So due to frustration, uh immaturity, weakness of character. I too forcefully swung my left arm to show him away. And I accidentally struck him in the left eye with my elbow. As I said with some venom in my voice, leave me alone, king That was his name, King. And I immediately felt terrible for what I had done. And he didn't whine or whimper, he didn't rush away. Looking back, uh he didn't really have the energy for any of those things, I don't think. So he just dropped his head and looked kind of for you know forlorn, confused. Stood weakly, meekly at the side of my bed. And I I jumped off my bed and I threw my arms around his once hulking shoulders because by this point he'd begun to lose some weight. And I told them over and over again how sorry I was and how I wished I could take it back. I like to imagine that he forgave me. But I couldn't undo what I had done. So I had a very hard time forgiving myself. Well as I said, it wasn't too many days after that that we knew that something was horribly wrong with King's health and his cancer. It was very aggressive it turned out And so he faded really fast. And so instead of all of my happy memories of playing with them and seeing him run and and jump I have two lasting final memories of my time with King. The time I hit him in the eye when he came to me for comfort. And the time I did try to comfort him when he died, wondering if he could even hear what I was saying. Lots of regret. Almost all of us probably have regrets. We lashed out in anger when a soft gesture of comfort is actually what was needed. Can you bring me a tissue by the way, then? We say something out of frustration because we are sinful, selfish people. I think our concerns are what's most important. We dismiss the needs of others. We fail to be kind, gentle, and self-controlled. Thank you. Failures to be time, gentle, and self-control, these are all failures of exhibiting the fruit of the spirit. And so we must own our failures and repent and do better at exhibiting patience and goodness and love. This is true, right? And not only with the pets in our lives, but also obviously the people in our lives, particularly those who are nearest and dearest to us. And who is more near and dear to a follower of Jesus than Christ Himself? And yet we aren't consistently overflowing with peace and joy and faithfulness when it comes to Him. Are we? We know we have to do better. He's our king for crying out loud. It's interesting to me that the name of my dog was King. In fact my dog's name was King is a perfect coincidence for making the point that I'm making. I loved my dog King. And yet I took him for granted. I treated him poorly. And we love our eternal king, and so often we take him for granted and treat him poorly. You know, most often a big application for a sermon that comes at or near the end, but in this case we've let off with one. If we have the Holy Spirit, then we should bear some fruit of the Spirit, isn't that right? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Where is this in our walk? And how does this idea fit with the description of destruction that we read in Revelation chapter 9? The description of the second great woe doesn't sound peaceful. Or kind? Or gentle? Does the Lamb of God not exemplify the fruit of the Spirit? Let's explore the meaning of all this a couple of verses at a time. So if you haven't already, might not open your Bibles to Revelation chapter 9. Well verses thirteen and fourteen say, Then the sixth angel blew his trumpet, and I heard a voice. from the four horns of the golden altar before God, saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, Release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates. The four horns of the golden altar are said by some to symbolize the four gospels speaking with one voice. I'm not so sure about the veracity of such a connection, to be honest, but it is true the four gospels do speak with one voice, the voice of God, telling us about the earthly ministry of our Savior. There are a couple of other ideas though about this symbolism I find to be more likely the intent of our author The number four, you might remember, it's the number of universality. It represents uh the things of the world, the things of creation. already seen John use the number four in precisely this way a number of times in the first eight chapters of the book of Revelation. And so the point here in chapter nine is that the power of the four angels, it is universal in extent. And the horns of the altar, these would that would normally be a place for mercy. But now it's a place of vengeance. Universal vengeance. As the sixth angel with the sixth trumpet releases the kraken. Four angels who have been bound at the Euphrates are set loose. Now recall the Euphrates River It was a boundary of the Jewish kingdom. We know this from a number of verses in Scripture, including Genesis fifteen, verse eighteen, where it says, On that day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, To your offspring I give this land. from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates. And for an ancient Israelite, they would come to see and think about the Euphrates as the natural source of their enemies. Like Babylonia, Assyria, for example. Here's an example of what I'm talking about in Isaiah chapter 8. I had referenced this earlier, so if you did bookmark it, you can turn there now. Isaiah 8, verses 6, 7, and 8. Because this people have refused the waters of Shaloah and uh that flow gently, and rejoice over Rezin and the son of Romalia, therefore, behold The Lord is bringing up against them the waters of the river, that is the Euphrates, mighty and many, the king of Assyria and all his glory. And it will rise over all its channels, it will go over all its banks, and it will sweep on into Judah, and it will overflow and pass on, reaching even to the neck And its outspread wings will fill the breadth of your land. Oh Emmanuel So we can see the Israelites they're seeing their enemies from the other side of the river and they're they're viewing it in the sense of the enemies are coming from the river. And it wasn't unique to to the Jews, for the Israelites, even in the days of the Roman Empire. This sort of symbolism was highly relevant because the Euphrates, it was the eastern edge of Rome's domain. And on the other side of the river for them were the Parthian. The Parthians, they've come up a number of times in our study of Revelation so far, haven't they? 'Cause they were a big military threat to Rome. So what I want us to see here is that the the natural source of this ancient world's punishment as they were coming to see and think about these things, it was the great river Euphrates. And so that's the image, that's the symbolism here in this chapter. Well what do we understand now in our contemporary context as our natural source of punishment today? Sin. We're punished for our sin. Sin that causes us to hit a poor weak dog in the eye. To discipline our child out of anger, to argumentatively enter into fights with our husband, our wife, To allow secular matters to cause us to spend time in the world rather than time in worship. Our sin needs to be dealt with. And it will be dealt with. Either at the cross of Christ or at the judgment of Christ. Question we need to ask is which will it be? The time of God's restraint is drawing to a close We can see this in the escalation of the judgments that are described in this portion of John's vision. So we're going to turn back now to the text, Revelation 9, verses 15 through 17. So the four angels who had been prepared for the hour, the day, the month, and the year were released to kill a third of mankind. The number of the mounted troops was twice ten thousand times ten thousand. I heard their number. And this is how I saw the horses in my vision and those who rode them. They wore breastplates, the color of fire, and of sapphire, and of sulphur. And the heads of the horses were like lions' heads. And fire and smoke and sulfur came out of their mouths. The four angels, they're released to bring devastating damage. Now remember, we've talked about the meaning of angels. Angels, they're messengers And in this case, I dare say their message of destruction is brought about by a message of lies. We've already said a couple of things about the Euphrates today. Well, what else do we know about the river? Its surrounding region. Well, we know that it was the name of one of the four rivers flowing through the Garden of Eden. Garden of Eden, the spot of the first sin, spurred on by lies It's also the area that has spawned so many of the world's lying religions, pagan religions, going all the way back in time, starting with Babel and their infamous tower. Directs from outside the way of God. They have made life miserable for God's people over the years. There's no denying this. And now we see these same threats of the enemies turned upon the enemies of God's people. It would seem the turnabout is fair play, maybe. This leads us to another way of understanding the uh the one voice of verse thirteen. This one voice that comes from the altar. And we were introduced earlier to the image of the Christian martyrs positioned under the altar, asking. When is God going to make things right? God, when are you going to make things right? And even those of us who are still alive on earth right now, we ask this question, don't we? It's often part of our daily prayers. Our voice and the voice of the uh dearly departed brothers and sisters in Christ? We speak together with one voice. on this, asking when is God going to make things right. And some might remember I made I made a comment a number of weeks ago. It was almost an aside at the time, so it might not have stuck. But the comment had to do with the possibility of the seven trumpet angels here in this part of Revelation being related to the seven angels who were introduced to us with the seven churches. Who got the seven letters? They each had an angel, so there were seven angels there. That's back in chapters two and three of Revelation. If we make such a connection, and I don't want to say that we must, or even that we necessarily should, but we can, and so if we do make such a connection, there's something kind of cool that we can see. The people that are calling out for righteous judgment, the sixth trumpet angel in response, ends up really bringing the heat to answer the prayers. The sixth trumpet angel does. Let me ask, who remembers who was the sixth church to receive a letter, Revelation chapter 3? It's the church in Philadelphia. Remember what they were told? Good things. And they were told the hour of trial would come upon the whole earth. As a test. But it is a test, a trial, during which Christ's bride will be kept spiritually safe. So God is under control. Even of the forces of judgment, especially over the forces of judgment, maybe. And so his ultimate plan of salvation, it is in no jeopardy, zero jeopardy of being overturned. Now another thing that's interesting, by the way, is that the pagans the pagans they put their trust in military might. And uh they used military might to bring affliction against truth. And now these same people of the world, they are overwhelmed in a milit military-style judgment. So once again, maybe we can say the turnabout is fair play. And it's the kind of thing that we've seen happen throughout history. I mean, what is there that's new under the sun after all? So fans of history know the military tables they got turned on ancient Babylon and on Greece and Rome. More recently, Germany's Third Reich. Even more recent than that, without even a shot being fired, the old Soviet Union lost in a military-style judgment as they could not keep up any Cold War defense spending. Their attempts to f find victory through military style victory ended up impoverishing them, destroying them. And we see here something interesting because they were trying to have this great glorious military, but they were outspent by the great glorious military of the United States of America. Well the military might is represented in Revelation chapter nine. It is impressive. Now some English translations they say that the number of troops is two million. Perhaps one of you has a Bible in your lap right now where the translation says that there were two million But it's really twice ten thousands times ten thousands. It's two hundred thousands, thousands. Twenty thousands times ten thousands. Another way some might put it, be more simply, just two myriads of myriads. And you're probably noticing I keep stating the numbers in plural form. Myriads of myriads. Thousands of thousands. Because that's the way it is in the Greek. It's plurals. of plurals. It's an immensely insane number. It's incalculable, really. And so to make clear that he has not lost his mind. John adds as if to say, yeah, that number sounds crazy. I know, I get it. But I heard of them telling you, that's what I heard And it's the same type of number usage we find in Daniel chapter 7 and in the book of Jude, by the way. And moving ahead to uh verses eighteen and nineteen. Revelation next says, By these three plagues, a third of mankind was killed. by the fire and smoke and sulfur coming out of their mouths. For the power of the horses is in their mouths. And in their tails. For their tails are like serpents with heads, and by means of them they wound. Well, earlier in this chapter, you might remember previous sermons, we uh we saw frightening locusts, and there are echoes of that imagery here. But the locusts, you might recall, they were not allowed to kill. These horses, they do kill. Make a lot. Not everyone, but a major portion. And allow me to remind us all: every single person killed Deserved to die. And what's more, every single person not killed deserved to die. And so even with the arrival of the mounted troops, we still see God's patience on display And you know just real quickly we should go back to verse seventeen just for a quick moment because many of our English translations they actually provide far more colorful words than does the ESV, the English Standard Version, which is what I'm using today. Some of the Bibles you might have in your hands, they would have uh words possibly like red Hyacinth, Jascent, Blue, Yellow, so forth. Anybody have Bibles with those kinds of colorful verbiage included? And I didn't use any of those words in the ESV. And so if you're somebody that uses parallel Bibles, you're comparing translations, this could throw you and be like, why do they have such different ways? The translators are not in disagreement about the meaning of the text. So I want to set aside any fears people might have there. The translator is simply grappling differently with how to best convey the vivid Greek Language in this passage into understandable English. So don't scratch your head too long over this Now the colors, now we brought them up, hyacinth, jasynth, they are dark bluish purple in color. Dark bluish purple. It conjures up the idea of smoke. And the red and the yellow, they that points to fire, sulfur. These are things associated with being war-torn. And associated with two things that directly follow in verse 18, with the mention of fire and smoke. And sulfur coming from the destroyers, from their mouths. Remember how I said they bring lies From their mouths. All this fire and brimstone stuff, it points to the punishment of the wicked. Wicked liars, ironically, punished By things that are rooted in lies. Again, perhaps it's fair to say the turnabout is fair play. Now in response to this, realizing their sin against God and neighbor, all of the wicked on the planet, they turn from their evil ways and everyone lives happily ever after. That's what happens next, I think. Let's let's see if I remember correctly. Verses twenty and twenty-one. The rest of mankind who were not killed by these plagues did not repent of the works of their hands, nor give up Worshipping demons and idols of gold and silver and bronze and stone and wood which can not see or hear or walk, nor did they repent of their murders, or their sorceries, or their sexual immorality, or their thefts. Oh, so they do not repent. That's unfortunate. The text mentioning uh the refusal to repent, it it it provides a a number of things, and one of those important things is it helps to prepare us for what's to come. It helps us to better understand the necessity of the final judgment. People are judged for refusing to turn to Jesus for their sins against God. Instead they're worshiping demons. Worshiping demons, how do they do that? Maybe by instructing little kids about sodomy and being binary. Encouraging Transvestites. They're worshiping idols of gold. Like Boolean and Bitcoin, maybe. And silver, like the innards of our handheld computer devices. And bronze like our Hollywood statuettes. And stone, like a girl's best friend And wood. Like our houses where we keep all our stuff. People are judged also for their sin against neighbor. Murder. Hmm. Like chopping up little babies for profit or convenience or both And sexual immorality, as with the LGBTQIA plus narcissistic death cult Theft like the fascist aims of the Great Reset. They're plans for redistribution of wealth, which involves stealing from some people so that they can take what they've stolen and control people by giving it to other people. Of course, keeping a very large percentage for themselves in the process. They mentioned sorceries. Like Experimental biological jobs, for instance. The Greek word for sorceries is also the root word for our English word, pharmacy. So even back in John's day, they had a big pharma. Pushing drugs used by mediums. Back then they would have been used for incantations and seances, things like that. The word in this particular case is pharmacon. It means witchcraft, magic, use of spells. And its sister word is pharmacia. You maybe heard that one before in the context of black magic. Spiritism, the occult, even psychics, horoscopes, things like that Just as with ancient Egypt, despite the horrific plagues, the people hardened their hearts. And this is because they are anti-Christ. They are against Christ. What's the number of holiness? It's used over and over by John in the book of Revelation. It's actually maybe the most important number. It's part of the structure within the book. We've talked about it a number of times. The number of holiness is the number seven. Well, what's the number for non-holiness? Falling short of holiness, anti-holiness. Number six. This plays an important part in the meaning of the number six fix six, by the way. Or did you note, as we were reading, there are six things listed in verses 20 and 21. The unrepentants continue to cling to the works of their hands, refusing to give up. Let's count them. The worship of demons, that's one. Worshipping idols made of material things, that's two. They're murders, that's three. They're sorceries, that's four. Their sexual immorality, that's five. They're thefts. Is your heart need of softening? Are you worshiping any of the things of Antichrist? Why don't people repent? Yeah. Yeah, sometimes I think it's because there are people that think, well, the fact that I haven't yet been destroyed by God, that shows that I guess I mean I'm doing okay. I must not need to repent. God hasn't struck me with lightning, so I must be good. This is to ignore the warning shots that are whizzing past one's head, refusing to duck for cover Now, some have simply been turned over to the hardness of their heart, and so they have no capacity for repentance at this point. Some they just have no eyes to see, no ears to hear. Like the comedian Heather MacDonald. Remember that story? She mocked Jesus in the middle of her stand-up routine and then almost instantly collapsed to the floor, falling like a ton of bricks, cracking her skull, fracturing her skull. It could have killed her On the stage. This happened back in February of this year. Now she posted a video later from the hospital while she was in recovery and she blamed the incident on having gotten dizzy. And almost anybody who knew about the story and saw that explanation, I mean many people in the world, they knew that didn't make any sense. Even those not rooted in the Bible, and that didn't make any sense. And so they questioned it, but they still didn't see the the real truth, the spiritual truth of that moment And so they wanted to blame it on merely some sort of an adverse reaction to an MRNA jab. Which could be part of it. Yeah. Or maybe they wanted to blame it on some other medical condition that Father McDonald had that we don't know about. Or just hey, it's just one of those weird, unexplainable freak accidents, you know. This ignores the spiritual aspect. She mocked Jesus and then collapsed. Let's get back to the question I asked at the start, or near the start anyway. Where is the love, joy, peace, patience Kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control from a Messiah And all this apocalyptic stuff. Would you know how to answer that if somebody questioned you? We need to understand the fruit of the Spirit is in all of this apocalyptic stuff For love of his people, the good shepherd chases down the wolves For the joy of his people. He sends his angels to crush the hellish deceit that pours from the mouths of liars. To bring peace once and for all, the wrath of God will eliminate the deceivers. With unfaddenable patience, the Creator has allowed time for repentance. With unfathomable kindness, he releases evil upon itself to demonstrate the need we each have for our all-sufficient Maker It is because of his goodness that the King of Kings cannot abide unchecked wickedness. Because of his faithfulness, the Redeemer keeps his promise to avenge the martyrs. Because of his gentleness and his self-control, our sovereign Lord does things in his perfect timing meeting out his judgment in a series of proportional responses, always orchestrating all that happens within his unchanging plan, never caught off guard by anything the enemy ever tries to do. Now back to another thought I introduced earlier. Have you treated this suffering servant wickedly? Have you knocked a poor sick dog in the eye with your elbow? Have you been mean to your neighbor, co-worker, parents, even your spouse? Have you disciplined your children without any evidence of the fruit of the Spirit? There is time, mercifully, for all of us to begin to make amends. There is time, by God's grace, for you to repent. And if you do, if you trust the Son of God, if you work out your faith, progressing in your sanctification, then you will join in the hear of this, the celebration that comes with the third woe. At the seven bull judgments, when they're poured out. Beginning in Revelation chapter 11. The sounding of the sixth trumpets is a preview of all that. The trauma of satanic influence that's going to bring violence and death and despair. We know that's true, don't we? We're living it in many ways We can see it even now in our own culture. And we can and should use these warnings to alert the people we know. And do so knowing that as loyal Christians, if you're a loyal Christian, then you are on the right side of the fight. You're on the right side of history. Because you're on God's side. So learn to be content in all circumstances, keeping your eyes fixed upon the reason for your blessed hope Father, we thank you that we are able to come together, study your word, learn more about ourselves and you. Pray that you would bless our discussion, that people would glean the truths they needed to hear today amidst the uh the uh charming, delightful chaos of young voices. We praise you for your plan to make a people for yourself, to call them to yourself, and for us to build and grow our families. And increasing sanctification and obedience to your commands. We ask that you would unclutter our minds, soften our hearts, to have a real heart-to-heart. Real world kind of conversation. Applying the truth of your word. And to not just have this be some sort of a self-edification sort of process, although self-edification and edification of others is good, but that we would then use what we're equipped with here today to go out and boldly proclaim this good news to so many who need to hear it. We lift all these things up to you, dotted by your Holy Spirit, in the name of our glorious Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Alright, so let me jump over here. Message probably went a little on the long side because I Was trying to slow down my pace a little bit to try to sneak in some phrases here and there when people would be a little bit less likely to be distracted by some of the ambient noise. And I know a few people had to step out here and there, so there were a couple of people who I think might have heard the entire message, but not everybody in this room heard the entire message. I don't think so. Um that could be w give rise to some confusion. Are there any gaps that you feel like you miss? You're like, I'm not s there's something I feel like I might have missed We want clarification and uh in addition to or in lieu of that if you don't have something like that. Um Did the story about doing something that you have great regret about resonate? And could you connect with regrets you have in your life? You don't have to share specifics. I mean if somebody wants to, you can can but um but sharing the that feeling of regret and how you processed through that how you dealt with that how you overcome being crippled by regret. So two questions. One, is there any need for some clarification? And two, question about regret. Well, I think regret is more troubling What it happens now that I'm saved because it means it's a result of an egregious thing. You're tr it's more troubling to you. Correct. You're you have a heightened sense of regret because you're like you know better. Yeah. So So that's more grievous to me than when I didn't know any better. You feel like that's a good thing or a bad thing? Well I think it's a good thing because I have a tender heart. If I didn't acknowledge it then it would I would my heart would be hardened. So no, I'm thankful for it. I I just don't like it that that I'm that it happens at all, but I know because I'm a sinner it's going to happen Yeah, and it's no fun feeling regret, right? And we beat ourselves up and we have to realize that the thing over which we feel regret in Christ, the guilt that's causing us that shame, because that's what regret is, right? Strong profound sense of regret is a deep sense of shame. That's all taken care of at the cross with Christ. And so we can get over it. The world doesn't have the cross And so they don't get over it so easily. And so as a coping mechanism, the world doesn't want to own any regret or sense of shame And we see that increasingly as God is judging the culture. I mean I've heard people literally say, What's with people today? They have no shame. You know? They have no sense of regret. Well 'cause they don't have a soft heart. It's it's it's not even I think it's two, three, four, five, ten steps worse. They celebrate it as if it's you know. Well and they act as if shame is something that no one should ever have to feel. Yeah, because they're like, oh, if you disagree with something you're shaming it. Right. And it's like, first of all, maybe I am, maybe I'm not, but even if I was, maybe the idea that you should feel Shame is well this whole idea of self-love, what what God intends, right, for that to be 'Cause you are to love yourself in the sense that you're created in his image. Right, but what the world says is narcissism. What's all about you. And you should look and fucking know what's wrong with you. Exactly. And so there's this perversion of truth. Like the idea that if you're unhealthily overweight Right. You should just love your b well you shouldn't hate your body, no. It doesn't mean you're not beautiful and still made in God's image, but that's not a healthy place for your body to be just from a medical standpoint. Right Uh just to tag along on that, we we turn shame into a desire to affirm g receive affirmation. Yeah. That's what you see from our society. People have shame. Yeah. They don't like their you know, you know, the fat pride movement being a good example of like something that maybe they feel inward shame. They need overt affirmation. And they demand it and you see that with a bunch of sins in our society. They're looking for a savior. They want some sort of redemption from their shame. And they're looking at from it from a bunch of fallen broken vessels just like themselves. The the validation that they look for. And it's inconsistent to look at some people that will validate them and then a bunch of other people that won't. So it's not a trustworthy place to turn. Well, and if they would just know the truth that their validation is one hundred percent in Christ. Right. But they can't hear that. Well that I mean you can't apart from the Holy Spirit Anyway, but we don't want to receive that. Eastern culture, me like Middle Eastern culture I guess is what I mean, uh has a b well I guess Eastern in general. a a big emphasis on shame, more so than like a Western culture with more of an emphasis on guilt. But to be honest, and I had opportunity to think about this and actually dialogue about it with some pastors recently. And I think it's the I think the Western culture has it right because the Western culture um exists in the way that it does is crumbling around us, but in its heyday exists in the way that it does because it's a it's a Christianized kind of a culture. And there is guilt. And there is a price to be paid to redeem and pay off your guilt and those sorts of things. And so from our guilt we should feel shame. culture emphasizes the shame regardless of guilt. Like uh you can just feel ashamed because of your station in life. You can feel ashamed because of your family name. Well you could be ashamed because someone did something wrong to you. Right. You could be completely innocent and or even have been doing your absolute best to do what was right and if someone does something So I think it's important for us to understand uh my understanding of what the Bible is getting at with the shame thing is we should feel ashamed when we're guilty. We should feel ashamed of our sin, our Our our sin against God is is is basically it's that's us treating our Savior wickedly. Right? We're discounting what he's done for us and who he is by sinning. You know, we're we're s I mean we're sinning against other people, but ultimately, as King David says, right, we're sinning against God primarily. So so we should feel shame so we have a conscience that helps us to feel shame. And when people don't feel shame, it's because They don't feel guilty. And in today's culture where nobody's guilty, there's no such thing as sin. Who are you to say that's wrong? I think it's great. Everybody has their standard. They're not consistent So yeah, we're we're we're we're entering a time when we might be post-regret in our culture. Like people just refuse to acknowledge any sense of regret. Since we're Paul like Paul, I forget which episode it is. It's uh today we drink eat eat Right around the Greek. uh days, but I mean it's kinda simple to c classify. It's just this very hyper near sighted um behavior. Again they're just living for I mean literally living for the moment. So that's kind of where it is. So they don't care about the shame, regret, or anything because they just view every moment as the moment. Yeah, and that's and I it's a great connection actually with another thought that's beginning to percolate and this is kind of clarifying a little bit for me. They are living in the moment, but they're living in the moment before their death. Like that's the context, right? Let's celebrate like crazy now because tomorrow we die. So it's the moment right before death. So it's it's a it's a death-oriented mindset. We're gonna die Might as well do what I want. Well doesn't that ties into what I mentioned in the sermon talking about the LGBTQ uh IA plus I refer to them as the um as the death goals The narcissistic death cults. Because they are death cults. Right? We're gonna die, so let's just have sex with whoever we want. We're gonna die, so let's you know mutilate my body and be something I wasn't made to be I'm gonna die, so let's change my identity and and and and be some imaginary thing I've thought up in my head before I die. Like they the and and they're not just anticipating their death, but a lot of these things end up leading to their death Your suicide suicide rates are higher, uh your mortality rates are higher. Regardless of anybody's validation or acceptance By the way. Because a lot of people will try to say, oh well it's because we oppress them. Oh, it's because we don't give them the validation and the acceptance they need, so they're so upset and depressed because nobody We will accept them for who they are. But it's careful. Because you can't get away from having been made in God's image and self-loathing when they violate what they're made to do. I'm sure that if you go out of your way to be cruel to them, not truthful but cruel. That's my point. Well that's not appropriate which is completely different. But in a society like ours where it's not illegal, you know I'm saying this is a little bit off topic, but on topic of the message. I don't know that I had this a piphany, if you will, revelation of my own. I don't know if it's at all funny. You know, solid. So I'm just talking it out loud. So the number of perfections Falling short of that is six, we know that that's the march of the beast, unholiness. And it just dawned on me that six six six is because it's like super super super unbully. Well that what trust that's yeah I didn't say that specifically but yeah I was talking about how it ties directly into the meaning of the but it's three times which we know when it when scripture repeats it three times it's like it's like so it's a f it's a full complete embodiment of people. Sorry, I just asked everyone to do that. I might end up alluding to this again in a sermon, so I don't want to steal my own thunder. I'm not sure if I will or wrong off time. Oh, yeah. We're called We're called into Christ And then we participate and share in Christ forever in glorification. And so we're co-heirs. All the Christ has, we have, and there's no more sour suffering, whatever. Because we are Encapsulated by the comfort and the warmth and the embrace of God. So think about it as just this warm, eternal, amazing hug where you're you're in a positive sense, you're cocooned, you're you're you're you're You're totally safe and and y you you have the freedom to be vulnerable because there's no risk in any of that because God's protecting you. Hell is God uh removal of his hand of protection completely. So we talk about people being evil and broken in the world and all that and all these sins have but nobody's, even Hitler You know? Even Stalin. Like nobody's as evil as they could possibly be. But hell is everybody in hell is as evil as they could possibly be all at once. Like you can't I can't even imagine what that would be like, right? Oh my gosh. And he's he he's turning them over to what they want. So they're in rebellion, shaking their fists. Dude, I think without it being a unpleasant environment, I just wouldn't want to re Yeah. Mark Twain line of hell for the company but heading for the climate. is uh not exactly uh true to form. Just yeah. But I think everyone it's well, you hear of people People, not everyone. A common thing when you hear of the six six six is trying to figure out what person it's assigned to and This that and and so for me, I miss the whole it's this embodiment of Perfectly easy. Yeah. I just you missed I missed that all because I was like, huh, I wonder if it's this. At risk of stealing a little thunder. I think that there's something That's right about making connections with the a s specific kind of application and meeting for 666. Uh I'm not going to get into all that now. That's a whole it'll probably be a centerpiece of the message when we when we get there However, we do want to be careful to your point of missing what's the big idea, the big meaning. Okay, we figured out that it it might mean this, it might mean that, but what's the what's the application of all of that. What's what's the embodiment of it? And we get so focused on like the leaves and the tree we miss the forest. And so yeah that's that's an important thing because there is a forest to be seen. That's been an emphasis actually on this series so far, right? Angel and I were talking about this yesterday a little bit. Trying to figure out what do the words on the page mean? And there is this forest. of truth that we are to come to grips with. And that's the that's the main idea that we should be appropri we should be looking at this as one of those uh what what's that kind of impressionist art where they do a bunch of dots? Oh, no, it no. Mosaic. No, are you the um the um the dots and like your first impressions like if I showed you No no no I'm talking about like there's some paintings. Uh from a distance you can see oh that's that's uh that's a bunch of people in the field playing croquet. But the mosaic would be similar too I guess. But there's no paintings. If you get the closer you get, the less clearer the picture becomes And if you get right up on top of it, all you see is a bunch of colorful dots. Like it has no meaning. And I think we run into that problem with the Book of Revelation sometimes. We're still focused on the dots and and we're we're not oriented to the picture. We've got to step back. What's the big overarching message that John wants us to get? And so I'm reminded of that with your comment about you know applying the the number of the beast to be careful, honey. Hey that might flip over how so So nobody wants to uh be vulnerable and share a hint at uh times when they've wrestled with overcoming feelings of regret, acknowledging their own brokenness and fallenness and need for the No, I think after you're saved, it it is you almost have more regret because you're saved. Mm-hmm. So there's kind of a it's like you I mean even if even Even after you're saved you don't necessarily realize how fallen you are, uh how inclined to evil you are. I mean Paul writing Romans uh where I know not uh or where I I want to sin, where he's literally talking about how he wants to sin every desire in him wants to do wrong, and if not for the grace of Christ. Um so there's kind of that inst like he's acknowledging his instinct is entirely sinful apart from trust. And I don't think an unbeliever comprehends that or Or even a a baby Christian would comprehend that. Not in the same way. Yeah, not in the same way. I mean again we are all image bearers and God does have, I think, a common grace uh as well for people, so I think that people can have a sense of it but not in the same way I agree with that for sure. Uh another question about how you alluded to the fire and brimstone and smoke being like war war torn torn. Is that also not a reference to Sodom and Gomorrah being destroyed in judgment and they're yeah, it's not like the whole world was destroyed, but those two cities were destroyed. And just alluding to like you had us read J Right. Yeah, absolutely. And I um one of the reasons that I didn't specifically mention uh Saddam and Or Gomorrah today is I'm pretty sure I mentioned it last week. So I was trying to make because we're still in the same chapter. You know, and there's some overlap of imagery and overlap of uh themes and ideas. So there's certain things I I I uh you know, I'm I'm throwing out there trying to vary so I'm not preaching the exact same thing or the exact same way all the time, but absolutely that that is meant to be. So it's it's it's um The judgment theme is exactly right, so we want to make that connection so we can see that this is imagery about judgment that comes from God. But the war torn thing is the judgment that comes from God is God removing his hand of protection and releasing evil upon itself and so it's it's it's a worldly kind of it's not fire from heaven per se in this case. It's fired from heaven via the means of evil people doing bad things in the world. I think that that's the point that the When we're talking about these armies and these these military style creatures and their armaments and that sort of thing, I think that's the I think that John is pointing to He's beginning to get us to understand when he's talking about the first two cycles of judgments, he's preparing us for what's going to come with the next cycle. These are preliminary introductions to these symbols and ideas about the beast in the military apparatus. And And the evil tyrannical governments and all those sorts of things are part of what's going on in the book of Revelation. And he's I I don't want to minimize that he's preparing us for that. He's telling us about that, but he's doing it in such a way that he's additionally preparing us for even height more heightened imagery later. So we'll more clearly make those connections. later. I think that's what he's doing. But yeah, clearly it's a judgment uh from God So we gotta keep that in mind. You know, a lot people don't want to hear that. You know, whether it's a tsunami or a hurricane or some sort of horrific you know In in the context of what's going on in the news these days, and you know, this is kind of a hot topic third rail this because it's so fresh and raw, but you know, we we don't shy away from from things as believers at horrible shooting in Texas. I mean that's horrible. It's devastating. Families will This generation, the next generation, those family they will not recover from this emotionally. So I don't want to not diminishing it And yet that's an example of God having a culture and a society and a people under judgment. Where was God in all of that? You know where God was? God was saying, You guys want to be completely insane? You know what? Maybe I'm gonna let you see what that insanity leads to and looks like and in the process maybe I'll call some of my people home. I mean i it is our society as a whole thinks I mean those uh not just think they they say they're proud to say we don't need a God We us humans can fix things. We can lead ourselves. We don't need God. Whether he's imaginary or not, I don't want him. Um and I I I just They say that but they don't live it because it's an unlivable you can't live so they end up making themselves done. No but but then I I feel like when that happens Hold on. God says, okay, here's a taste of what it's like without me. Are you really sure this is what you want? Because then and and everybody is quick to say, well, where was this person? Where was that person in this house You know, if this would this have happened if if the boy's mom had just raised him properly or if people had treated him better in school or whatever, and I'm sure that all of that played part In anyone who turns that evil in the end, I'm sure that they have their own trauma too. But We're really seeing so many aspects of what's wrong in the American society right now. in that one story. So as we're beginning to learn more details, here's a here's a kid, well a young man, 18 years old. Apparently he grew up without a father in the house. Yep. Well we all know, anybody's paying any attention, how d devastating that is, statistically speaking, on a culture. Oh yeah. And apparently his mother is a drug addict Oh I didn't know that was the whole drug culture thing and we see what plight that brings into our culture. Apparently he went to live with his grandparents. Oh well he killed his grandmother. So this is a broken family And then he shot and tried but did he kill her if I I heard that she was in the hospital. I don't know if she's survived. I think he sh I don't know. I don't know. So talk about dysfunction in the home and what that looks like in our culture. And then on top of that, people want to People and you know, I'm gonna try to be uh equal opportunity offender for half a moment, but let me finish the thought before you get too on my case. The gun culture that wants to celebrate guns and how our our salvation is guns Somebody misused that salvation to murder a couple of dozen people, basically. So the God isn't our salvation, only God is our savior. That's not to say that guns the right to bear a gun isn't uh isn't legitimate and right and necessary. Well it's a tool. It's a tool. It is what you make. So it's a necessary tool, but it's not our self it's not the means of our salvation. And too many people that would be on a particular political spectrum, they celebrate a gun culture rather than a biblical culture. Christ culture and that's not the answer. And then people on the other side, so now I'm going to offend the left, they want to put all their hope in their God, which if it's not themselves, that Their secondary or primary God is the government. And the government shows up and does what they want by the way. Fully armed, equipped to handle a situation like this, and apparently stood around for at least a half hour, maybe an hour. Before they entered the building to do anything. Meanwhile, little girls and boys are being shot to death. Apparently shot so badly they were mutilated like they were having a hard time identifying some of the bodies. They were shot so much While the armed police forces outside like, I don't know, should we go in? I don't know. That's the government. That's your hope for salvation. I don't know the I don't know the gender of the second teacher that died but at least one of the teachers was a woman who died protecting her students. Like I don't know, but a society where that a so that leaves it's trained men that are sworn to protect outside of a building while a woman dies to protect I just that was a good thing. own child. The police tackled him and wouldn't let him. Oh, how dare we as it turns out by the way, uh a he had at least one, he might have had two, I don't know, but uh he lost at least one child. But this one never gonna support anyone. But apparently there was a mom who was able to get past the police and get into the building and she did rescue Hirch. I think she rescued them both. But again, there's an example of, okay, at least one dad went in, but the hero in that story is the mom, and good for her. Hallelujah, praise the Lord It was a border patrol agent. We need more moms like that. But where are the dads? I believe the border patrol agent was a dad of Could you imagine if all the dads showed up and they're like the police aren't doing anything? They can't tackle them all. Where is dad stepping up and doing what dads are supposed to do? They're supposed to protect their family. And so that's a problem in our culture. There's so many and then there was a story is a false story apparently, but there also was a rumors that the shooter was a trans. And I don't think that's true. It doesn't seem like it's true. But we can even see how that issue ends up getting shoved into this story as well. Like this story is emblematic of so many issues in our culture right now, the brokenness and lostness of it. Perhaps part of the Reason for the police. I'm just throwing this out as a possibility, I don't know. But perhaps part of the reason why they responded the way that they did is because the police community also is under heavy attack. Um you know, such that they I think they're scared to do anything that's somebody Yeah, I'm sure there are some exclamations like that. They end up bringing Hollowman because they learned that lesson from Parkland. Right. You're referencing more like the Ferguson effect, which has to do with maybe going into neighborhoods on more unsavory places. I don't I wouldn't even call it an elementary school. under duress a you know an unsavory situation. I mean that's kinda it's almost a violation of basic instinct. Well, I think that's a good idea. If if those officers or whoever are parents, they're more or less violating their I mean a basic instinct to respond. It could have just been I would have just been plain negligence, but I just the possibility b I I think police because even though that that that community is is w that this incident was specific to a certain community and a certain context, but the police community in general, I think, feel under siege And um I I I I that could and this might be a hot take and And uh I reserve the right to add some nuance later to lessen the heat on this take. But if we think about it, little kids, who's primarily responsible for protecting those kids and seeing them to adulthood? The parents. The parents. The government's role isn't primarily to protect those kids. And so that's why the government's not maybe that good at it. It's not their lane. The parents are asking the government to do something that's ultimately a parent's ultimate responsibility. Um That's true, however, the police are trying to protect the public public and that includes obviously children. I I would be surprised if the current anti police environment had nothing to do with that very inadequate response. I my educated guess is I'm Not in the not on not being there with the other. response. Because you know, you have a bunch of people that will support them no matter what they do and not hold them accountable like we already went through this with the Parkland shooting where the cop just stood outside the police didn't go in. Well I yeah, they so we already have this mentality It's true so I'm I position it as you know the left is trusting in the government as the savior, but the right tends to trust in the police departments as the savior. And I that this is the double new one I want to add. So the government's role is to punish the evildoers, right? So they should be rushing in there and shooting That young man dead if they have to to end the carnage. So that is a role for the government. So but m my point is there's so much broken, there's not a biblical undergirding to how we function as a society anymore. But this sort of stuff it's it's it's we're getting closer and closer to Mad Max. Yeah. Yeah. I it uh it may be a little bit of everything that we say contributed to this. Just a little bit of I do think I do think police officers are probably paranoid though. They're probably paranoid. They pr you know, because when when their response is adequate It almost seems it doesn't matter what they do. Absolutely. If you love them, you're gonna love if people love them you're gonna love them anyway. If people hate them they're gonna hate them anyway. So it's I don't know how that factors into this situation. 'Cause if a border if an off duty border patrol agent went in there and did the job, he's regarded as a hero Yeah, yes and no though, because uh wasn't that long ago there was uh somebody went into the church and the and the gunmen didn't pull off what we wanted to because there was a guy packing uh Taiwanese No, no, that was too recent. No, this is like a year or two ago, whatever. I I know. And there was a guy in the church who saw him, pulled out his gun, and shot the guy before he could kill anybody. And he was initially A hero, but then the government and the media want to do an investigation and like was it appropriate and all of a sudden he's under the gun. Uh bad choice of words there. All of a sudden he's feeling the weight of the pressure of Now he's something maybe a villain. He ended up being declared innocent and cleared of any wrongdoing stuff first. But he but he yeah. So it's it's yeah, it's not I mean I mean no one should have a hero complex going into that situation. I'm gonna be the hero, but it is a duty. If I remember correctly, he said all I want to do all you want to do is come back to family building. Yeah. I opened up my romantic down there. I I would say it does. 'Cause I mean we're talking we're not talking like oh another something in the ghetto. No. We're talking about an active school training. Well they have active cheating training, right? Active shooting training, like isn't this a thing? They do but There there are times when they have behaved appropriately and they still come out being th they they they get persecuted. No, this is true. And I think so we have um in a small group that we used to be a part of um at our old church um one of the couples that was a part of it, the husband, is a police officer. Officer and to the best of my knowledge is a very good one and he cares a lot about protecting people. That's why he got into it. Um but it's not easy on him or his family And I can't help but think that this entire culture, our society, the environment that we're in, is making it to where the good police officers are they're they're becoming fewer and far between because it's almost dangerous for them to do what whether it's from the public who hates them or um or the government or the government knowledge Or um or even their fellow officers who are corrupt, because there's absolutely corrupt one and they're not gonna like it if you try to be the goody two shoes. meaning do what's right and make them look bad. So I mean it i it's let's say that it I don't know how to real quick I'm just gonna uh I'm gonna wrap up the stream. We've we've drifted into a uh current events discussion which is good but I don't know if we need to stream it necessarily. Uh we've been going for probably an hour, an hour and a half on the stream now, so I'm gonna uh wrap this up. Uh thanks so much for watching. We'll start next week. Usually we start around sixty. We didn't get started almost six thirty I think today. Anyway, uh you can check us out online, Householderfaithinchrist. com till next week, God bless.