And it looks like we're rolling. Welcome to the live stream portion of the House of the Faith in Christ weekly gathering. We're in our Revelation series. If you want to get your Bibles ready and have them open to Revelation chapter 10, we'll be beginning to look there in a minute with a message that's titled Another Mighty Angel is Here. If you don't have a house, a home church, a church you call home, and you're within driving distance of Frederick, reach out to me. And maybe we're a good fit for you. Or if you're not within driving distance and you need help finding a good Bible believing, gospel proclaiming church, uh reach asked me and I'll say I can help you find one that's closer to where you live. Um I want to start with a little bit of a preamble to set this up. We're 20-ish messages probably into our look at the book of Revelation. And a lot of them have probably uh felt like a hybrid, at least they do to me. It's a kind of a hybrid between what you might expect in a traditional sermon and what you might expect in like an academic lecture. And that's going to be really the case today. I think you're going to really feel that hybrid today. So I'm just preparing you. There's going to be a bit of an excursus in the message today where I'm going to um go away from the specific text for a minute to talk about a broader point and there's a there's a reason for that. We are under We're under attack on so many fronts as a church right now, and one of those fronts is uh going right to the root of the issue and trying to undercut uh the Christians' confidence in the scriptures themselves. And so uh I'm going to spend a little bit of time in the message today addressing that kind of a question. So uh there's something that happens in chapter 10 that gives me an excuse to to bring that up and and go on that uh so We've uh already had our some praise and singing, uh worship time together, some fellowship time, some prayer, that sort of thing. So we're gonna get into our message. And if you're interested, um You don't have to read along, but there's a very short passage from Daniel I'll be reading during the sermon too. So if you want to bookmark that, you are welcome and encouraged to have that at the ready. It's Daniel chapter 10, verses 5 and 6. uh will be read during the sermon. So oh I need my little uh what do you call this? Yeah my little tray, my little uh the official sermon tray. The sermon tray, yeah. That's the as the official that's the official word of course. So anyway, so we're uh we're heading into uh chapter ten of the book of Revelation, and as we do so we're going to absorb some fresh new combinations of symbolism. Uh but at the same time we might feel like we're covering some familiar ground. Remember the end of chapter six? We had uh just completed a reading about the six seals and their related judgments, and so we turned the page. to chapter 7 and we expected to find the seventh seal judgments described for us there, but what did we get instead? We got an interlude. There was a pause in the flow of the action as the imagery shifted to two scenes. of God's people. You might recall that I was making the case at these two scenes. We see there Christ's Church militant and Christ's Church triumphant. Well now we have completed our lengthy look at Revelation chapters eight and nine, which detail for us trumpet judgments one through six. So as when we turn the page from seal six Expecting to see seal 7. We again turn the page, this time from trumpet six, expecting to find trumpet seven. But once more, we run into an interlude. Another pause in the flow of the action with the imagery once more shifting to two scenes for God's people. In this case, the two scenes they begin in chapter 10, they carry over into chapter 11, and we're going to be talking about these scenes over the next handful of weeks. Today, particularly we're zooming in on Revelation chapter 10, verses 1 through 3. I saw still another mighty angel coming down from heaven, clothed with a cloud, and a rainbow was on his head. His face was like the sun, his feet like pillars of fire. He had a little book open in his hand, and he set his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the land, and cried with a loud voice as when a lion roars. When he cried out, seven thunders uttered their voices. You've just heard the reading of God's inspired, inerrant, infallible word? It is fully sufficient as the rule and guide for our faith and life practice. So those with ears to hear left them here. For those who are studying ahead, and hopefully that's everyone, uh you've probably noticed during your reading that there is a third interlude that awaits the reader when we get to Revelation chapter 16, but it's likely to be uh a few months I would imagine before we get there in our sermon series. So for now we're just going to maintain our focus on chapter ten. And we begin, as is often our habit in this series, by sifting through the images pretty much in sequence, working to understand the symbolism as the author, John, intends. And the first thing that hits us here is yet another image of an angel, and we're practically compelled to try to figure out who he is. Now, some, often influenced by the Greek fathers of the church, they would say that this mighty angel is Gabriel, because Gabriel's name literally means mighty one of God Some who are often influenced by the Latin fathers of the church, they would say that this is Christ Himself. And some, looking back to Revelation chapter 5, they say it's the exact same angel that was asking who was worthy to open the seven seals. But here in chapter 10, we we see here that it's another angel, so I don't think that third option is really on the table for us. I think it's it's it's fair to say that John isn't equating the two angels from chapters 5 and 10. But okay then, what is John saying here? And does he really even give us enough to know for sure who the angel is? Let's examine. Verse 1 of the chapter makes it clear that this isn't any old ordinary angel. It's a mighty angel. And he's arriving directly from heaven. The way he's described, it's rather reminiscent of Daniel chapter 10, verses 5 through 6, which say, I lifted my eyes and looked, and behold a certain man clothed in linen, whose waist was girded with the gold of Uphaz, his body was like barrel, his face like the appearance of lightning, his eyes like torches of fire, his arms and feet like burnished bronze in colour And the sound of his words like the voice of a multitude. So clearly there's some sort of a parallel between Daniel and Revelation, but they're not exact parallels. And the controversy that surrounds how to best interpret and understand Daniel's apocalyptic imagery For us today, I think it's likely uh going to uh add confusion to our study rather than bring any additional clarity. So for now, let's just keep our eyes focused on Revelation 10. Well Daniel will come up again in the study on Revelation, trust me. When we see the mighty angel clothed with a cloud in verse 1. It immediately in my mind begs the question, is this God's glory cloud? And it begs the question to me anyway for lots of reasons. One of those reasons is, as you might remember, from your Bible reading or from old Sunday school lessons and classes you sat in, there was a brow bright cloud that enveloped Jesus as well as Moses and Elijah at the transfiguration in Matthew chapter 17 And also in the Old Testament there are loads of examples of God's presence represented with a cloud of glory. There was the pillar of cloud that led the Israelites through the wilderness after they uh left Egypt and before they entered the promised land. And God spoke to Moses through a cloud at Mount Sinai and also at the tabernacle. God's cloud of glory fills the temple. Plus, John uses the word cloud seven times in Revelation. Always with supernatural purpose. And we see clouds act as heavenly vehicles of transport multiple times In fact, it is the vehicle of transport that is described in Acts chapter 1 for Christ's ascension. And it is also true for Christ's return in each of the three synoptic gospels. And yet another point scored for this line of argumentation, if this is not the Son of God, pictured in verse one of chapter ten Then this is the one and only instance of a biblical figure being clothed with a cloud in all scripture who is not God. However, those on Team Gabriel, they will quickly point out that this cloud in Revelation chapter ten, it cannot be assumed to be a transport vehicle, and God does not in a precise sense, speak to John from the cloud, and the passive participle in the sentence. This would seem to indicate that the angel was clothed with the cloud by someone else. in heaven before descending into the vision. In other words, the glory cloud isn't necessarily his. Maybe it belongs to someone else who dressed the angel with it. Okay, well what about the rainbow? It's on the angel's head. The team supporting the position that this angel is the angel of the Lord, as in the Son of God himself. They highlight that there's a rainbow around God's throne. That's in Revelation chapter 4. And one the rainbow famously is the sign of God's covenant of grace with humanity. So obviously this is a picture of Christ. Right Well, not so fast, says Team Gabriel. As we have mentioned before in our study of the book of Revelation, there are a couple of different words that get translated into English as rainbow In the original biblical text and the word that John employs in this passage is the word iris Now, those who are familiar with Greek mythology, which actually would have been a reasonably high likelihood for John's original audience living back during the first century They would maybe know, likely know, that about this messenger of the gods who bore this name, the goddess of the rainbow, named Iris. Conjure up the idea of a supernatural messenger carrying a divine message. And it could be John had this particular thought in mind as he wrote. Because after all, he is the only person in the entire Bible to use the word iris for rainbow And by entire Bible, I mean the entire New Testament and the entire Septuagint, the ancient Greek translation of the Old Testament. Everyone else, everyone who's not named John, they prefer to use the word toxin for rainbow. These are all interesting ideas, says Team Jesus, but what about the angel's face looking like the sun? Revelation chapter 1 told us when speaking about the Son of God that his countenance was like the sun shining in its strength. And Matthew tells us at the Transfiguration that the face of Jesus shone like the sun. And the very famous erotic blessing which we find recorded for us and preserved for us in Numbers chapter 6. speaks of God's face shining upon you. I mean what more evidence does one need? This is most definitely Jesus in Revelation chapter 10 verse 1. Case closed. What say you, Team Gabriel? Well, it's a good thing Team Jesus said case closed and not the prosecution rests or the defense rest because the argument doesn't end there. There are multiple uh angels associated with light and glory and sun throughout the pages of our Bible, you know, like in Luke chapter 9 and in Acts 12 and Revelation 19, for example Now granted, these aren't precisely the same as having one's face shine like the sun, but what about Moses? And for his face, it shone so radiantly radiantly that they had to put a veil over his face when he was speaking to his fellow Israelites. And plus, when Jesus is said to have a face shining like the sun In other parts of the Bible, it's his entire person, including his clothing, that are said to be glowing brightly as well. Not merely his face, but everything associated with him. This is something that's missing from the description that we hear in Revelation chapter 10. So far, it kind of feels like maybe these two sides could debate this to a draw. Perhaps his feet like pillars of fire could break the tie. Well, this one could actually prove to be tough for both sides to make their case because there is no such description like this of anyone anywhere else in Scripture It is said there is something that's kind of similar in Revelation chapter 1, where it said of the Son of Man, his feet were like bronze glowing in a furnace. And of course, there is the very noteworthy pillar of fire introduced to us in Exodus chapters 13 and 14. But as with most of Revelation and also with the parallel passage in Daniel 10 that we read earlier, there is So much debate about the meaning of the symbolism, much, much, much debate. However, there is generally agreement that in these particular passages at least, these particular passages contain at least some literary application that is representative of the things that are described, not meant here to be exacting depictions of the things described. And so when we read of John seeing pillars of fire, Perhaps this is simply meant to convey to us the image of resolve to execute the day of the Lord and to symbolize that the power of God tramples and burns up sin. Now, whether it's Christ or an angel, like Gabriel, the cloud is most definitely a sign of divine presence And the rainbow as a sign of the Lord's covenant of peace. A reminder that even in judgment our Savior protects his people. And a face shining like the sun. Well, that's a sign of God's holiness. And we can keep on doing this right on down the line. For instance, let's look now specifically at verses 2 and 3. The book that's mentioned here in verse 2 Well, that's a word from the Word. And we're going to have a lot more to say about this book or this scroll Depending on your English translation, it might say book, it might say scroll. We have a lot more to say about that in a few minutes. So we'll jump ahead to the uh setting foot on both land and sea. This demonstrates the Creator's rulership over the entire world, the whole earth, all of creation belongs to him. A voice like a roaring lion? That points to the strength and power of our heavenly king, right? He's the lion of Judah. He speaks with the authority of God. And the seven thunders, that suggests the sevenfold voice of Yahweh thundering over the waters, the Psalm 29. And roaring like thunder in Amos chapter 1. With the number 7, specifically drawing attention to the presence of the Holy Spirit and the perfect completeness of the message Although there are those who want to make the case for the seven thunders predicting papal authority and the seven crusades. Seems like a stretch to me, but there are a number of people who believe that, so I mention it. After all of this, we're still left to wonder, is this mighty angel God himself? Or is it a heavenly messenger, perhaps an archangel like Gabriel? Or is it something else entirely? The truth is, as is always the case with these sort of things, we know only that which God reveals. And it appears that God has left open primarily two legitimate ways for interpreting the language here. And both of those ways bring us the exact same application. So is this representation talking about Christ directly? Could be. After all, with the mighty angel comes the accoutrements of the very glory of God and of his throne realm. Is this representation talking about a messenger of Christ and therefore talking about Christ indirectly? Could be, after all, the word that we translate into English as another in the Greek means one of the same kind. Therefore, we would have justification for placing this another mighty angel into the same class as the angels that came before it in Revelation chapters 5 and 8. So in other words, the class of created beings. If created, then it is by definition not the Son of God. Whichever side you might want to take up, the point is the same If it is Christ, then it is God. And if it is an angel, like Gabriel Then it is a messenger coming wrapped in power and authority that is from God. So we need to listen. Pay attention. Respond accordingly. Like these words from Hosea chapter 11, verse 10. They will follow the Lord. He will roar like a lion. And when he roars, his children will come, trembling from the west. So what I'm telling you now is that all of the conjecture that we've explored during this sermon thus far, it is it's not ultimately what's important. Of utmost importance is for us to recognize that no matter how we slice it, the message of this chapter is a commissioning. To proclaim God's message. That's what the theme of this chapter is. And this commissioning is performed by God. So whether it's the Messiah in the guise of a mighty angel or it's a created angel, designated by the Lord to be his ambassador, the one who commissions John, and by extension us Is Jesus Christ the Lord? John is tasked with prophesying woe to an unrepentant world This is like what happened with Sodom and Gomorrah. You might think about the fire and the smoke and the brimstone. As touched on in a previous couple of chapters in Revelation. We mentioned this two or three weeks ago in the sermon and actually came up last week during our discussion. It's also like what we read about happening with the Old Testament prophet Ezekiel, which we're going to address more fully next week. For this week. For most of the remaining duration of this sermon, we're going to focus on an obvious aspect of why Bible students quickly recognize that there must be some sort of a connection between Ezekiel and Revelation. And that is the prominence of a scroll or a book. At the start of verse 2, we read he had a little book opened in his hand. Now the number of sermons and lectures and books and articles and videos and television segments and things like that that have addressed the meaning of this little book, they're immense. So the final thing we're going to talk about today, before we get into the conclusion of the sermon, is this little book. What is it? What have I been doing with the other images in this apocalyptic masterpiece that is the book of Revelation? I'm going to try to make mention of the most common views that are held by expousers of the Bible, and one of these views holds that this little book It contains the words that are found in the book of Revelation, from the start of chapter 12 through to the final chapter of Revelation, Revelation chapter 22 up to and including verse 5. And people think this because, well, there is a major shift in the presentation of the visions within this book, beginning with chapter 12. And depending on how one would outline the book of Revelation, the first verse of chapter 12, that could very well be a definitive demarcation point that might control the remainder of the message. And so an interesting theory to say that that's the little book. Another view holds that this new image of a scroll speaks of the Apostle John being empowered to continue to prophesy, as pointing to what's written in the final verse of this chapter, chapter 10. And some building upon this idea, they then make the case for this little scroll, being John's Gospel account, which really makes a lot of sense for those who believe that the gospel might have been written after Revelation was written. Now yet another view holds that this little book, it's not just John's Gospel account, it's the entire New Testament, with the scroll that was revealed back in Revelation chapter 5 being the entire Old Testament. And this new scroll, it's open because it lays open what the old scroll had concealed But this view is at odds with those who say that the Old Scroll contains both the Old and the New Testament, with the Old Testament written on the outside of the scroll, the New Testament written on the inside of the scroll, so they say, because you might remember the scroll has text written on both sides in division. Now there are those who suggest that the little book or the little scroll that's talked of is talking about something in history. It's talking about the Reformation. The idea there is that the book being open is meant to illustrate that the Bible is being opened to the people once more in church history. Still others, they ignore all these lines of reasoning altogether. They say these two scrolls are yeah, they're different from one another, but they they contain the exact same message. And then there are some commentators they go out of their way to say whatever this little book is. It cannot be the original scroll that had seven seals because that scroll was Sealed. And this scroll is wide open. However, other commentators they respond by saying, well, that's precisely the point. The scroll was originally sealed, but now the once secret plans of providence have been shown to us. And so We have the revealed teaching of God's will and the disclosure of His grace laid open for us now that the seven seals have been removed. Well, with variety being the spice of life. And you can see there's a lot of variety here, and I hope you do think that variety is the spice of life because there are also a number of variations among the ancient manuscripts. those that we have available to us today, there are slight differences among the manuscript discoveries. And this has led to some minor translational disagreements among the dozens of English Bibles that we have on the market today. Probably have too many English Bible translations on the market today. But this is why you're going to find a few of the English translations because of these minor textual variants that they do not include the word little or small. In verse 2. However, these are extreme outliers. There's just basically a couple So that's like 95 plus percent of the English Bible translations do have the word little or small in verse 2 But a level of agreement is not quite so hardy when we get to verse 8. Now we didn't read that today. We'll be getting to that next week, but in this context, I'm going to bring it up now. Because somewhere between one-fourth and one-third of our English Bible translations do not have the words little or small. In verse 8. And this would include some of the more popular editions of our English Bibles, the ESV, the NASB, the NIV. But still, this means that close to 30% of the English translations do have little or small in verse 8. And honestly, I think that the words little or small should be in verse two, and I think that little or small should not be in verse eight. And w one of my guesses that there might be only as many Bibles that have little or small written in verse eight as there are, because, well That's what the King James has. And there are a lot of English translators who are motivated to try to side with the King James as often as they possibly can justify. So what's that issue here? Are the Greek words Biblion for book and Bibliodaria for a diminutive book. And also Bibleridian, another word for diminutive book or scroll. And there's even a Biblerion in the mix. And you can see these all sound very similar. They're spelled very closely. to to one another. And in ancient days, these words they were beginning to take on an interchangeable meaning. It's much like today, some people would call a very small literary work a booklet. But somebody else is still just going to call it a book, no matter how small it is. Some would call a very large, heavy literary work a tome. Others would still just call it a book, regardless of its enormity, because small, medium, large, these are all relative terms anyway. So this could be part of why some of the textual evidence is just a tiny bit discordant on this particular question. But here's the thing. The happy news is it doesn't have any impact at all on the application of the text. And while these sorts of scholarly preferences, they can sometimes cause some discomfort for some people. I want to assure you that we can and should be glad about all of this. It helps us to defend, believe it or not, the trustworthiness of the Bible that we read today. How so? Well, sometimes mistakes happen, right? Sometimes a person making a handwritten copy of a Bible passage, they might get tired, they might mishear something, they might slightly alter the spelling of a word, something like that could happen. Well, the way the church has handled these things throughout its history is that slight alteration, it is forever preserved within the scope of the textual record. This is true for the Old and the New Testaments. There is no effort ever to hide these things, to run from these things. Everything is right out in the open for anyone to see. Everyone can see it if they just want to take the time to do so. And so this means we can compare the various manuscript streams over time. We can trace the transmission. We can wrestle openly over which one is correct over these small variant readings. And so this raw, brute, transparent honesty, it increases our confidence that what we read today is God's word to us. And making this point, I should add that this is unique to the Bible. There are thousands of ancient manuscripts of the Bible. Thousands, exponentially more than for any other documents of the ancient world. It's not even in the remote ballpark close. For instance, some might wonder, well, how does this compare, let's say, with like the Quran, which is the second most widely read religious book in the world? Well, Islam They have a history of hunting down and destroying copies of their text that they didn't like or that they thought possibly might contain an error. And that might sound good at first, but what if they destroyed the wrong copies There's nothing left for us to compare and see if that is in fact what happened, that they they kept the right ones. And despite their purposeful effort to memory hole all their variants, there actually still are a few variations of the Quran out there. But there's nothing like what we have with the mountain of Christian Bible ancient manuscript evidence. And this is greatly to the advantage of the Bible. And it's greatly to the disadvantage of the Quran. And I mention all of this because this is something that might come up. Particularly in today's pluralistic antagonistic world, you're interacting with somebody who's a Muslim or some other critic of the Bible's trustworthiness. And they might point out some of these variants and try to get you off your game, make you make you doubt that you have God's word. I want you to know, not only are there answers to the objections, But in answering the objections, we actually build a stronger case than we would have even thought was likely possible Having our faith and our canon challenge, it allows us to exercise muscles we didn't even know we had. And this strengthens our faith. Now, as for what this means for our understanding of Revelation chapter 10, the big takeaway is simple. All the differences of opinion among God's people on some of these complex textual concerns, they end up Not amounting to a hill of beans. In the end, we all agree, God is giving his message to us. He's following his own ordained communication flowchart as he does so. The Father gives the message to the Son, who sends his messengers, the angels, to John. He bears witness to the message by writing it down, and then he sends it to the church, and then now we, the church, we share this message with others, empowered by the Holy Spirit. We've been talking an awful lot lately as a congregation about the uh fivefold method of Thinking about sharing the gospel, right? Creation, fall, redemption, restoration, glorification. Well, here in Revelation, we have a five-link chain of transmission. The Father to the Son, to the messengers, to the church, to the world. All superintended by the Spirit. So big picture, the overarching view of this message in Revelation chapter ten is what? I'll recall the start of today's sermon. I reminded us of the first interlude in Revelation chapter 7. Which pictures for us two scenes, which again I've been advocating we should see as the church militant and the church triumphant Well, with the second interlude, extending from the start of Revelation chapter ten through the first two-thirds of chapter eleven, we have pictured for us two scenes, once again. The church commissioned, and the church on mission. And we're going to dive into the details of the commissioning of the church next week. And then the missioning of the church in the following weeks after that. For now, let's just uh focus on setting our hearts aright so that we respond rightly. to the message of warning that comes from God. Because as we know, there are those who grumble angrily against him. Actually, there's a school of thought that interprets the seven thunders of verse 3 as the defiant responses of the people on earth. God thunders and they grumble back. They don't like hearing the voice of God thunderously war their warnings to them. I don't think that that particular interpretation saying that the rumbles are are the grumbles of the people, I don't think that's that's not how I see it. I don't think that's correct. But you know what, as an application I think it's ex it's accidentally spot on. The Lamb of God, he ultimately protects his flock only. And for those uh who are attempting to enter their version of paradise the through some other sheep gate, they are in Uh I think the ancient Greek word here, they are in what's called deep doo-doo. And they stir up trouble. And the worldly powers, they stir up trouble. Trouble for themselves and trouble for us have to navigate their mess. And the powers of the nations, they bring agitation to themselves and even to us. Those of us who are working hard to keep our eyes focused and fixed upon Jesus through the storm. And you know, this might be part of actually what's in view with the mighty angel standing upon the land and the sea. Our conquering king, he makes the powers of this earth. his footstool. He's not deterred in the least by the chaos of the turbulent seas, the turbulent oceans. We're spending a lot of time examining all the details of the symbolism, all that sort of stuff. Let's not get lost in the details. The triune God subdues all enemies. And he protects his children. And his children are commissioned to represent his kingdom. And God willing, we're going to cover the specifics about that commissioning next week. But don't wait until next week to be doing what you already know he has called you to do. As we are told in Amos chapter 3, the lion has roared. Who will not fear? Father, you're so great and glorious and grand. Your majesty is really beyond the extent of our imagination. Forgive us for not acknowledging this truth more readily, more frequently. We ask you to help us, your people, to be on mission, to have a reverent awe, a reverential fear, knowing that you have spoken, you have roared your word to us. It is a word of mercy and grace to those who belong to you, and it is a frightening warning to those who reject you. We ask that you would keep us faithful to the mission you've tasked us with, that we would depend on the power, strength, insight, and wisdom we get from you through your Holy Spirit. resting on the full sufficiency of Jesus Christ at the cross as we do all that you call us to to bring glory to your name and the advance of your kingdom. It's in the name of our King, our Savior, our Lord, Jesus Christ that we pray. Amen. I think today I wanted to start with the excursus, the uh the little section like two thirds in where I drifted away from the text and talked about what are called uh textual criticism concerns, uh higher critical kinds of concern I'm curious. I travel in compared to the average American Christian, I travel in rare circles. I do a faith debate radio show, the pastor of a church, I'm interacting with With people who, you know, I'm almost purposely entering into the fray with people that I know aren't going to really see things my way. I'm wondering Have you run in too much of that? Have you had people atheists or Muslims or secularists who want to tell you that your Bible is full of nonsense because it has all these mistakes and things like that? Oh yeah, and it um a particular friend who uh sadly enough her her her family's Christian, she was raised Christian and has decided that it's all hogwash because she doesn't like that it's says it gays her. But anyways. Um she's gonna think it has textual error. She doesn't know what to do. That's why she turned away from it in the first place. That was her first reason for not liking it. But now she says it's all hogwash. and one of her big things well it's two thousand years old. Why in the world would you think that it's and of course she doesn't want to listen to any kind of um reasoning for why I would think that it's still accurate after two thousand thousand years. But um that is one of the things that uh her and another ironically. So what are some of the things you attempted to try to say to her in response to something? But she's like what, twenty-five years old, something like that probably? Yeah, she is she's So I would snarky and say, Well you're twenty-five years old, why should I listen to anything you have to say? Are you sure that you were born then You sure do you remember this? I mean there's there's an expiration date on this truth stuff and I think you you're it it's gotta be like what five seconds, right? And you're twenty-five years old. Your attention span length, that's what it is. Um No. Uh the point I have another friend who's also gay who says the same thing. Uh favorite term is uh uh big sky daddy. Two thousand six online a yeah. Yeah well he's he still loves it. Big sky daddy. Also raised Christian But um So he's acknowledging that he has somebody in the big sky who should be his daddy. No. No No, he says that that's what we worship is a big sky daddy and it's stupid Um but there um at least he's artful at his argumentation. He he does try he's uh he's a very interesting character. He um he he does try to force his humor into a hum He's he's he's very antagonistic, but he is also he he's almost equal opportunity antagonistic. Um almost. But uh no their their arguments tend to be along the lines of it is two thousand years old, why Why do you think it's still accurately translated? Um the friend of mine who I first mentioned, um, she was like, you know, well who even can read the Hebrew anyway? The answer to that is actually some people can. But the ones who can't, like, I can pull the dictionary. But is some of the things that you know. So do you just kind of listen to their arguments or do you try to No, so I'll I'll say something like uh the most recent one was the um who can read the Hebrew any So how can you really know that the English translation that you're reading i is what it originally said anyway? Don't remember my word-for-word response, but it was basically along the lines of there are scholars who can. read it and for those of us who can't there are a ton of resources for you know translation and read reading, you know, and e even, you know, cross-referencing and and stuff like that, and she completely ignored it because she was on a rant and didn't want to um she didn't even acknowledge that I had responded to her question. She went on with a a new a new rant, but which is typically um the response I get when that comes up and if I say anything I was like, Well actually, you know, even though it's two thousand years old people It was taken incredibly good care of. We have a ton of original texts, very old texts, you know, uh the scribes who transcribed it throughout the ages were incredibly careful letter by letter, not even word by word, letter by letter. Typically, once I make those kinds of comments, they don't know enough history to say that is or is not true. They typically go right to well it's stupid anyway. Right. So that's interesting. And that's one of them, the arguing from ignorance. And because I don't know anything, I assume nobody else knows anything either, because I would know if it was no Is the next type the one that just says miracles can't happen? Doesn't matter if it claims it happened. Doesn't matter if he can prove that it was written. in the first century. I would kind of give them too much credit. No, but that that's their default. It's because it's a supernatural event that's being raised. Yeah I would kind of lump that into that first group which is kind of the nothing's knowable group. Miracles aren't knowable, they're not provable, they're not scientifically demonstratable. So I the other group that I run into are we're running into more of them it seems to me, which is actually part of the motivation for me inserting this into the uh Mm into this particular message. We live in an era of specialty specialtists. Specialist specialty combination I knew what you mean. But all these specialists, we've got people that are hyper-specialists. So uh a really good example that many of us might be familiar with would be Jehovah's Witnesses. Uh they don't know how to read Greek. You know Ancient Coin Greek uh Coin Greek. But they're but they're going to make a Greek argument questioning that uh that Jesus is God versus Jesus is a God. And they can make that argument and nobody in this room probably reads fluent ancient Greek either. And so you're probably like, well, I don't really know enough to say you're wrong, but they don't know either. So if they're banking on the fact that they normally don't know. They only know that one thing. But if you said, oh, well, you read Greek, well here, let's open the book of let's open Matthew. in Greek. Read that for me. They couldn't do it. But they know the they know specific arguments really well. We see this on the uh kind of what they've been trans On the LGBTQ, you know, uh IA plus front. Uh people know a lot of there are a half a dozen verses that they know inside and out from a perverted perspective. From an out of context. Out of out of context, but they know how to make arguments about those six parti particular passages or verses that talk about uh homosexuality. Yep. And most of us don't specialize on that front all the time, so they they only know what they know about that. They don't know that they're wrong or why But they sound persuasive because they've got it down. It's a it's it's a shtick. It's a it's a sales pitch. They know their pitch. They're such hyper specialists And so those are the two extremes. People that they they know an awful lot about this much stuff, and it can be very intimidating to deal with them. because I feel like I know more than the average person in Frederick County about the Bible and the ancient language. and stuff. But I'm a pastor, so I'm more of a generalist. And so when somebody comes in with this hyper-specific specialty where they know everything, the textual transmission, the history that the various controversies about one verse in the Bible. I don't know all that off the off the cuff. You don't want you you don't even necessarily know if they're lying or something. I'm not to have this argument with you because I don't know any Oh yeah, that's the same thing. You ignore the male prostitutes that are all throughout the Old Testament. It's like well they weren't Women don't need to pay prostitutes. Actually I will say the strongest argument I saw in favor of that was them just entirely disregarding what the Bible says and saying after the fulfillment. Okay. Wait, the yes. The gay community is? I'm the fulfillment of the text? No, that air is your word. I think the context was like the gay the gay, married, person. was saying that he fulfills the text. He's able to fulfill a text. How? Did how how do you fulfill like that? How do you fulfill something that was called Um for it. How how do you that's why they call it price because they'll probably just say it was referring to uh a religious practice of some sort or maybe Like Christ is a fulfillment of the law. It's So what are they a fulfillment of? Well I mean they're I mean they're pretty much argument. that the marriage a marriage between any two people is the same. Is providing the same loving I that's pretty mu that was pretty much the D Card I mean I I've heard the argument of being Spencer Claven, okay. I mean I've heard the argument. They're not making biblical arguments really at that point, right? because he's basically saying he is the spiritual. And that's part of the game they play. So some will try to argue. Some will try to argue with you on spiritual And they're gonna they're gonna take advantage of of you not knowing that stuff and they you don't I know he must know the Baal better than me. He must be right. There are others that they run into you and they feel like, oh, this person actually maybe knows the Bible, they're gonna try to not make it a biblical argument. So they're gonna they're gonna try to uh Ixnay the the bidlay. That's what the one friend, the big the big sky daddy friend. He W typically if I respond to anything I usually don't respond to him because it's he just posts a rant almost every day anyway. But if I respond thank you. Um I big heads in the way on the way. Um if if I respond to him, he typically um he'll he'll have like a little bit of a discussion. Usually it's stuff that he thinks he knows and but doesn't really, but usually after a very short period of time he'll try to steer it more philosophical. than than biblical. Um because what he will put out on his social media is he'll be like, Christians believe this, the Bible says this. And I'm just like, buddy, it literally doesn't. Like it might literally say the exact opposite. years ago and she said something she's like well and the Bible said this and I said hold up I'm gonna ask because I want to be sure but where did you hear that from? I think I know And she's like, oh, my brother was like, Yeah, I know. That's wrong. She kinda looks at me and I was just like, it doesn't say that. It says the opposite. And it was she's uh she told me, she's like, Well the Bible says to hate gays and I said, Oh no it does not. No. Um it says to hate the sin, like any other sin But it says two. Yeah, yeah. And I was able to have that conversation with the same thing. from a s certain perspective, you're actually right. It does say that, but doesn't say only that or merely that. You're misapplying that one very narrow truth in a way that's unfair. was saying, you know, she was saying that we should the the Bible says we should hate gay people like again, in the context that, you know, we shouldn't hate any other sinners, just gay people. And And um that was the again that was the context of the conversation. It would take much too long to to go into here. But you know, I thought, hold up I was like, I'm not sure where exactly your brother's trying to say that came from from the Bible, but it's incorrect no matter which area you try to take it from. If you're talking about the fact that all people of that that that homosexuality is a sin and therefore not of God, yeah, all humans then are sinful and fallen short, okay? All bad. If you're talking about the sin itself, no, we're s w we're supposed to be able to love the people. And hate the sense. So one of the problems we have with some of these is you know language begins to uh to drift a little bit in how words are applied and what they mean. Right. And Our understanding of the word hate uh has grown to be too narrow, and our understanding of the word love has grown to be too unbit. You know, Jesus says, you know, I he will know that we love him when we obey his commands. And so love is really about being in accord with God's law. That's how we love, right? We live a life that's in accord with God's law. A life of obedience is a life of love. And so the only question is that okay, how do how am I to be obedient? But now we've made it about you know squishy, like emo highly emotive. There's an element of emotion. I'm not trying to dismiss that Completely, but in our culture it's like, oh if you hurt somebody's feelings you hate them. No, sometimes hurting the person's feelings is the most loving thing you could do because they need to have the Their feelings for to wake up. They need to hear the show. Oh, I love it when you run in traffic. Oh no. No, not unless you love dead children. Financials like these days, you know. We get taken advantage of by the culture, by the news media, by our governing authorities, because we do not know our rights, we don't know the constitution. We don't know the laws, we don't know, and you're studying law. And I I can only imagine that you've had your eyes, your own eyes woke on like I never realized that was the law. Uh right? And so it's the same with the Bible. Like w if we you know we're legally illiterate. And the church has grown to be increasingly biblically illiterate, and the enemy will take advantage of that illiteracy like crazy. So we've got to become more literate. We've got to spend time in the Word, we've got to spend asking the Postal questions. It's all of it. And that's where the the church Not the true church, but the church has fallen short. They're not re w I mean, they're just not. They're not putting on any of that, the helmet of salvation. They're not they're not walking in righteousness. The shield of faith. They're not really operating out of faith. They're not using the sword of the spirit. They're not using the word of God. None of that. I mean You know. Oh it's a belt of truth. It can go on and on with all of 'em. Every single element is Christ. Exactly. Right? He renews our mind. That's the helmet, right? Belt of truth. Christ is the truth. The sword is the word. Christ is the word. Like every element so when he's saying to put on the full armor of God, what we're really being told is put on Christ. And if you've rightly put on Christ, you're living a life of obedience. That's what it means to put on Christ. So that's a post thing like one of the things that I wrote was, you know, the weapons are the the word of God. That is the most powerful weapon. And then our faith is the shield, which isn't a weapon functionally. It's like what are the weapons? Faith and then the word Yeah, everything else is just for t making sure that we're able to use those two weapons. And if we're not um sometimes it can feel like what we do, we don't see immediate results you know, in our microwave culture, like we're like, man, there's no instant gratification here. And people sometimes will go to their deathbeds and thinking my life didn't really make much of a difference. But think about it this way, I was heard somebody talking about this and I thought it was rather profound. Uh talking about the the the cultural demise of uh of of America where we were uh Never as obedient to the Bible as we should have been, but we uh we at least had a healthy regard that that was an ideal that should be pursued. We might not have lived that life as a culture, but at least we knew that that was the standard for the most part. And then this guy is making the argument that you know everything that happened in the 60s actually happened because of what happened in the 40s. And I'm thinking academia, you know, media, those sorts of things. And that was purely behavioral, cultural stuff. And the argument that he was making was that all these good old boys on the farms, you know, Bible-believing, church-going, you know, conservative, Christian. traditional values like that was what they were raised with. They're 18, 19, 20, they get sent off to the war in Europe and they're facing death. And it's ugly. And so that begins to shake their faith a little bit. Uh and so they're not trusting as much what they thought they knew. And then on top of that, they're like, I'm going out to battle tomorrow, I'll probably get my head blown off. I might as well go hook up with a hooker before I go die and get a little sexual pleasure before I die And apparently prostitution was like off the chain in Europe during World War Two. And so all these boys come home well boys, they go they leave as these Christian boys, they come home as these defiled men. And they've seen these horrible atrocities and they're carrying this guilt from having had sex when they knew they weren't supposed to. And so She wasn't happy about that. So so they come home and they won't talk about what they did and they're carrying this guilt and this whatever and then They don't raise their kids that way in the world because they have all the guilt. And then that A new operation with that. And then Um I don't know who made the observation. I know who relayed the observation. The person relaying the observation was James White. And he was talking about a conversation he had with somebody that can't remember who the conversation conversation it was. But anyway, all these people come home from the war defiled and dejected and and doubting God and they they get married, have kids and their kids come of age in the sixties And those kids grew up without God because their dads were so disillusioned. And I never made that connection. I was like, you know what? Can't prove it. I didn't do more study on it, but that feels like it makes a lot of sense to me. So those guys if they had lived a faithful life and come back home and raise their kids as Christians, the sixties doesn't happen the way that it does And the sixty doesn't happen the way that it does. We don't have this nonsense going on in the world today. I mean I think it I think there's multiple angles I because I don't think that's the only explanation because you'll probably have people that were you know that had the heat it more hedonistic route kind of like what you described, then you'll have the people that went through the other extreme where they saw evil so they were more faithful. But I mean really the fifties was the greatest time of American prosperity as far as the growth of the middle class and the rising of The American economy says more I mean I compare it more to because we prospered we went into the Yeah, it no it's more it's way more complicated. Yeah, we have to go back and kinda like kinda like the uh back in Joshua to judges. They w they settled the land and they were prosperous and they were Yeah, I yeah, I I don't mean to give the impression I think that that explains it all. Because I would go back to the liberalism in the academy and how that changed everything was being hearing from the from the pulpit. uh being preached was was not a gospel truth. I mean there's dozens of uh variables. So I can't Yeah. Yeah, particularly think about fool's gold. But think about these guys that come back disillusioned, there's no meaning in life, but they get married and they Start raising a family. And then because there's this big boom in population, the economy takes off, right? There's more need for goods when there's more mouth to feed and so the economy starts really uh jumping and America's uh ascendancy on the world stage uh helps to contribute to all of that and we have stability in the White House and all these things happen. So now these guys are disillusioned and turn their back on God. they reap the benefits that society has to offer. So it just reinforces their lack of need for God, an acknowledgement of, I'm good. That's one of the biggest problems we have in this area. Right? Frederick County is a very hard county to reach with the gospel because so many people have you know, they're dual income uh houses and everybody's making a hundred and twenty thousand dollars apiece. There's a lot of quarter million dollar household incomes in Frederick County. You try to talk to them about their need and they're like, What need? I got seventeen cell phones and uh How many ever educated white women that likes what Biden's doing Yeah, exactly. It's hard to reach people that don't have a sense of need. Anyway, that was a bit of a excursus on the excursus. Um You have any thoughts or questions over there? Hm. No? I was like, yeah. We basically covered it all. Yeah, it covered it all. Well, it covered what I was gonna say. Oh really? She always needs to come around. Do you think anybody else have anything else they wanted to the uh King James uses the Like different manuscripts and like the now the same. Um well I know. Like I know with variants. There's only like the big three that actually matter in terms of like John Eight. Um I forget what the third one is. But I mean none of them deal with heavy theological doctrine. No doctrine is adjusted by any of the major It's just, you know, did what is the you know, this story in John with the woman? Um the ending of March And the thing is we can grapple with that honestly as Christians and we can look. We can actually go back and look at these ancient manuscripts that we that we had. or something or if you're a a scholar who can get special access, you can actually see the actual manuscripts in person. They exist. They're not like some They actually exist. And because of all the archaeological days that have been done over the last century, there's so much more uh almost an embellishment of riches in a lot of ways. And we can see so people would have doubts like, how do we know it really said that? And then we find some ancient manuscript that predates anything that we had access to before and it says exactly the same thing. thing. It's like, wow. It just reinforces that we have every reason to have the confidence. And we have that confidence because we're allowing we allow ourselves to live with some of those small little mistakes. And we know they're small little mistakes because if you've got, I don't know, 300 copies of a particular verse, and one of them says Little book and one of them says book. Or one of them says little book and all the rest say book. It's like odds are the one Out of the two hundred and fifty that says this is probably wrong. We can say that with a pretty stupid. Isn't that a good idea? Like the example I use, when you're talking about uh uh Biblion and Bibli Bibliarian and all that they all mean book. They're just variations of of the way of of a specific kind of a book size is a book. Is it yeah. Is it the same scroll making a new appearance and the fact that it's got a different descriptor attached to it? makes it seem like it it seems like John's making a point this is a different book. And I agree, I think it is a different book. Uh I don't think it's the same scroll coming back a second time, but I think that The message is similar. So I think that part. So one of those throws the word for one of those throw um it was the one that didn't have the word little um at least in my thing that like has you know information on like the original language and stuff like that it's either the same or very closely related to the word that is used for like a divorce document. Which didn't come up with the with is the word that said that had little book. or little scroll. I have no idea how it's connected. It was just interesting that it's apparently like one of them seems to be related to a divorce document in the language and one of them doesn't. Hmm. No idea that it's even relevant if we should say. taken into consideration as I'm interpreting, but you gotta be careful hanging your hat on a on a disputed word like that. Um yeah, a lot of these challenges we have, um It comes from the the the the King James tradition really leads to a lot of these challenges and this is where a lot of the infighting happens in the churches. There are a lot of you know King James only advocates out there. It's the only English Bible that you can trust kind of thing. And well that's really s shaky ice to be trying to skate on because there are provable translation problems in parts of the King James uh provable. And uh That's why it's good to be familiar. and makes it easier to recall when you're in the same Bible a lot. But when you're doing deep study and and trying to compare particularly difficult passages that you're like, hmm, this is a little confusing, it's really good to get in the habit. habit of grabbing you know two or three other English Bibles and see how they're translating it. All right. Um wanna put you on the spot too hard, but can you do them in order this time? The gospel uh five points that we focus on? We got all five last time. Can you can you do them in order? No. Oh you're right No, you didn't I didn't hear you. What did you think for the creator? Creator? We have okay. In left the two I'm not gonna correct you if I think he does. Oh my gosh. Nadia, please calm down, sweet. You're getting so close I can almost it's another R I think. Yeah, so um Creator is fine, but the the word I usually uh that we've been using is creation. But uh there is a creation. But cre uh so creation fall. And I think you said you say resurrection Yeah. But it's redemption. Now the resurrection is connected with the whole idea of the redemption, so it's not wrong per se, but it's It's a s it's an aspect that it's a subset of the bigger umbrella idea. So what happens from in the life of a Christian So uh think of it in historical terms. The first thing that happens is God speaks everything is, right? He speaks everything into existence. That's creation. And everything's wonderful and part of his creation is people. But then people they mar, they screw up the w the creation with the fall of the sin, right? And so that gets made right with Jesus at the cross through uh well not just at the cross, but in his in his obedient life, his obedience unto death at the cross and then his resurrection And then he's just heaven. So that's the that's redemption. And then uh between that and the glorification, there's some sort of process that's happening. Does that help you remember what that fourth screw might be? It's it's still R, right? Yes. Yeah, so it's restoration. Restoration, yeah. I couldn't hear it, I'm sorry. Yeah. I said fall. Okay. Pardon me. Because it's Ray's favorite. Yes. So I'm gonna take three minutes before we wrap up the stream and then we'll head in the other room, but I want to just take a few minutes and and and amplify of what it is. The first one is creation. I don't want to just remember the words I want us to be able to know what these umbrella things are really good. So creation means first of all there is a creator. So you're absolutely right to focus on a creator But if you creator who has made everything and he's made everything intelligently, there's this whole argument about intelligent design maybe you've heard, and he made everything good Right, and there's a purpose to his creation. He created for his own glory. And so all these things and and it's because we're created in his image and created for his glory, that's that is what gives You, me, everyone, it gives us purpose, it gives us importance, it gives us value. Um and in today's day and age, it's so important. People are questioning if they have value and and if their life even means anything, which is so much of what I think behind people like my life doesn't mean anything, but it will if I have my breasts removed Or it will if I go on hormone therapy and and and become a woman. Or it will if I take these drugs. Or if you know, all of these things we're chasing because we want to have some meaning in our life. And sometimes that meaning is sadly as simple as, well, I want happiness. And when I get plastered drunk, I feel happy for a couple hours. And so that's that's the meaning meaning in my life. Wow. Like what a diminished view of what it means to be a human being. And so when we focus on the creation and the And that we have a creator who is magnificent beyond our imagination, and that he made us in his image. And he made us in his image. Because he desires for us to have a relationship with him. And because of that, we have value. We have value because he says so, because he sees it. This is valuable. That's a paradigm shift for so many people. That's a message so many need to hear. And so when we're saying, oh, creation, fall, redemption, restoration, glorification, uh, I'm going to focus on each one in turn. over the coming weeks, but I want us to really understand that we have uh a creator who knows all things. He is perfectly righteous. He is perfectly holy. He is perfectly loving. And if if we begin to think that we've got him perfectly figured out, we're we're misleading ourselves. We haven't even begun. His magnificent Is beyond the fullness of human com comprehension, really. And we understand that that's who made us, and that's who loves us and desires for us to have a purposeful life. That's a game changer. I think a lot of people will benefit just from hearing that. That would be a game changer. Without them hearing the fullness of the gospel, just that truth would change lives, I think. Wayne, would you mind closing us with a word of things? Dear Lord, we thank you for this gathering and fellowship that we were able to have this day and we pray that Uh we continue growing in your word until we meet again as a church. In Jesus' name we give thanks and we pray these things. Amen. Amen. Well thank you for watching the stream if you're uh watching it or listening to it. And I got some stats I'm going to share with you guys about that in a minute. It was kind of interesting when I saw it. Uh we'll try to start again next week around uh six-ish o'clock. Uh until then, God bless.