Welcome to the live stream portion of our weekly gathering of the Household Hold of Faith in Christ. My apologies for those that are watchers of this live that we got a late start by, I don't know, probably a good half hour or so Well we had an uh unscheduled team building exercise today and so uh well we're we're all in good shape now. You're going to want to have your Bibles probably open to Revelation chapter 10. We're going to be focusing primarily on Revelation 10, verse 11. But we'll be looking broadly at themes throughout the whole chapter. And the most extensive passage that we're going to read is in 2 Peter. So if you want to have that bookmark, we'll be getting to that relatively quickly in the sermon, early in the sermon. 2 Peter chapter 2, specifically verses 4 through 9. So if you want to read along, I would encourage you to do so. You want to be ready for that. And I also want to say for those who are watching the stream, whether live or later, if you do not have a good local home church that you belong to, I would encourage you to find one. If you live within driving distance of Frederick, maybe we could be that church. You can contact me. Find all my information for contacting online at our website, household of faith in Christ. com. Um and if you don't live, you know, within driving distance of Frederick, well, you know, I'll do what I can to try to help you find a church that's closer to your home. I've had some people reach out to me from other states actually and I've done what I could to try to match them up with good Bible believing gospel proclaiming you know Christ exalting churches. It's uh tough fledding to be honest out there, but there are some that exist. So um anyway, mention all that, let me have a little bit of a wet of my whistle before we get started in the sermon. So I opened the message last week by quoting from Yates, you might remember. I'm going to add another quote today. This one's not from Yesha. This one's from um Dennis E. Johnson, a book that he wrote called Triumph of the Lamb. Johnson writes When evil is everywhere and the world is ripe for judgment, can God protect his own? When economies crash, when civil order falters and the social fabric frays, when restraint and respect give way to rude aggression and random violence. When greed and animal appetite reign supreme, when consensus and community decompose into culture wars This question weighs on the hearts of God's people. Can God keep Jesus' little flock safe as they stand, it seems, defenseless in the crossfire? On the one hand, Christian believers will be targeted for attack by people who hate our king, his purity, and even his mercy. On the other, God calls us to stay involved in the broader community, even as it rushes Pell-Mell toward its rendezvous with God's wrath Even if our enemy's persecution does not destroy us, might we not be cut down by friendly fire? As our champion launches his counter-strike in our defense, I know for a fact that there are people hearing my voice today. that have this question. As God executes his judgment, does he, can he keep his people safe? And we get a very good answer to these kinds of questions in 2 Peter in chapter 2, verses 4 through 9. Where it says, If God did not spare the angels who sinned, but cast them down to hell and delivered them into chains of darkness to be reserved for judgment, and did not spare the ancient world. But saved Noah, one of eight people, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood on the world of the ungodly. And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them to destruction, making them an example to those who afterward would live ungodly, and delivered righteous lot. Who was oppressed by the filthy conduct of the wicked, for that righteous man dwelling among them tormented his righteous soul from day to day by seeing and hearing their lawless deeds. Then the Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of temptations and to reserve the unjust under punishment for the day of judgment. God knows how to do this, to protect his people while executing his judgment. And we're going to want to keep this in mind as we particularly as we process what we are going to read in the opening section of Revelation chapter 11. as each of us will begin to prepare for next week's sermon and discussion about the two witnesses who are killed and resurrected However, before we get too deeply into all of that, I have some things, some thoughts I want to share and clarify about Chapter 10, which we spent the last couple of weeks in. There are thoughts in this chapter, chapter 10, about time, and there are thoughts about mystery, and there are thoughts about who needs to hear the truth of the gospel. A group which includes kings. And all of this has relevance for and with chapter eleven. Because the start of chapter 11, it introduces the second scene of a two-part interlude. It was a few months ago when we were discussing and learning about the first interlude in Revelation. Subscribe for us in chapter 7. And the focus there was on the protection of Christ's church during suffering. And now in this second interlude, beginning to be described here in chapter 10, the focus has been on protection of Christ's church in her mission. It's the mission that is stated in the final verse of the tenth chapter. So if you have that bookmark, you can turn there now. Chapter 10, verse 11. And he said to me, You must prophesy again about many peoples, nations, tongues, and kings. As I've mentioned a number of times in the past, I like to preach from a wide variety of English translations of the Bible that we have available to us today to help to guard us from idolizing any particular group of translators. And you hear me pretty much every week mention that the Bible is infallible. It is inerrant because it is the inspired word of God. And by this we mean that the scripture is God breathed. And so our canon is fully sufficient as the rule and guide for the Christian faith and for the life practice of those with ears to hear. And when we say such things, we're talking about the original writings in the Hebrew and the Greek. And the Aramaic. You need anything, Bubba? Sunday, birth fee, poppy, I poppy, maybe out. Yeah, we can talk about that later, okay, Bubba? Okay. Okay. Now the original writings and the original languages, you know, these are what we call the autographs of the text. The first editions, these autographs, they've actually been lost to us over time. But we have so many preserved copies of the Bible, the ancient manuscripts from so many different streams of transmission that are able to be cross-referenced with thousands of citations from dozens of countries over hundreds of years. And because of this, we have been able to reassemble the passages And the books of the Bible with confidence that we still today know what the initial handwritten parchments said. And yet The translating teams for the different editions of our English Bibles, they still have a few differences here and there They disagree sometimes about the best way to put these ancient words into contemporary English. And we can see that here in verse 11 of chapter 10. And we can see just how inconsequential almost all of these kinds of differences really are. And this is one of the reasons actually that I chose the New King James as the English translation that I've been using for all of our time these last few weeks in chapter 10 of Revelation. The New King James, it's reliant on the same tradition, as you might imagine, as the original King James Version. So, as with the KJV, the new KGV It starts verse 11 with the words, and he said. Other Bibles that you might read. Such as the New American Standard Bible, for instance, they open the verse with the words, and they said So in one case, it seems that just one of the angels is speaking, and in the other case, it seems that all, or at least many of the angels, are speaking. But does this ultimately matter? Whether it's one or multiple angels, he or they are speaking as ambassadors of God. And that is the point. Ultimately, this is God's message to John and to us. You know, there are some people here in this room who might even note that there are some English translations, such as the English Standard Version, they've sidestepped this particular question altogether. They translate it. Instead of saying he said or they said, it simply says, I was told. So they're not indicating one way or the other if John was told by a singular angel or plural angels. I've talked about translational issues in that recently because well I've got my motivations and I'm going to share those with you now. Practically, what does this mean for us? Well, practically what this means is that our very best option, as students of the Bible, would be to learn to read and comprehend the original ancient languages of the Bible. But not marry very many of us have done so, nor do we have the time and resources to pull that off effectively So maybe another good way to go would be to become proficient in using uh some of the translational tools that are available within some really truly excellent computer programs. But This option can be expensive and it can be rather time-consuming to learn how to use the tools, and so that might not seem all that realistic to a lot of us either. So at the very least, I strongly encourage us to become familiar with multiple English translations. Now personally I do like having one version of the Bible that I use recurringly in my kind of my everyday light reading, if you will. But when it comes to study for digesting the book as was a major theme in last week's sermon, when we're doing that, I think it's good for us to have multiple versions. And they sell Bibles like this actually in in bookstores where they have multiple versions all in the same book. They're called parallel Bibles, and as we discussed last week during our discussion My wife Dina, she's been reading from a parallel Bible recently. And you know, I can't even tell you I've lost count how many times in recent weeks and months that she has gone out of her way to point out to me how she has gained so many helpful insights by reading parallel passages in slightly different translations of the Bible. Now, if you want to get a decent grasp on what the uh some the majority of some of the old ancient manuscripts have to say, well then you know the King James and its six sister translations is actually a pretty good place to go. If you want to get a decent grasp of what the the the the newer, the newest archaeological finds uh have revealed to us, uncovered for us, like you know, the Dead Sea Scrolls, for instance. How that affects our understanding of what the original autograph said. Well then the NASB, the uh ESC, these would be good places to go. You want a simple uh way to try to get your head around the implied meaning of a verse? To uh Possibly have more relatable context for the way that we tend to read things today. Well then the NIV or even some of the online versions of the Bible could be good places to go. And not as a primary Bible, but as a secondary resource or even a tertiary resource. You might even want to reference something like the New Living Bible or The Message or uh the Amplified. Now these aren't uh Direct translations per se. The first two, the living and the message, these are paraphrases, kind of overly simplifying what the text says. And then the amplified, that last one, that's really kind of an inverse paraphrase where it's an expansion of the original text. They add a whole bunch of extra words to amplify the meaning. So I mention all of this, one, as a study aid. But also, I mention all this because in your walk with Christ, you will If you haven't already, you likely will encounter stark evidence that we now live in a pluralistic society. And there are many in this culture who will have just enough knowledge in just the right kind of specialty areas. to be dangerous to you if you're not careful. Do you have any friends or acquaintances who are Muslim, for example? I mentioned this actually last week or the week before, too. Well, if you do, then you shouldn't be surprised if they might attempt to undercut your confidence in the Bible because Their faith tradition has taught them in such a way that they regularly confuse the translation of texts with the tenacity of the text. Now those are technical terms and we can talk about that later if you want, but they've they have this understanding that you can't trust the Bibles that we read today because of what they've been misinformed about how all of that works. How about any friends or acquaintances who are LDS, Mormons, or Jehovah's Witnesses? Or really any number of similar non-Christian cults. Do you know any people like that? Belong to those traditions? If so, have they told you that the Bible you read is wrong or incomplete But the one they have is right. Now you have to understand these are people who generally have no idea. What the Hebrew and Greek texts say, they simply parrot what their tradition teaches them out of ignorance. They don't know Greek grammar. They don't know all the details about biblical canonization. We don't want to speak be speaking out of ignorance either, so we want to learn as much about these things ourselves So they can't hit us with that same accusation. And you know what? Of late, something has really begun to enter my field of vision. Maybe you run into it too. It's called the Hebrew Roots Movement. Has anybody heard about that yet? It's been around for a while, but it seems to me like it's picked up quite a bit of steam more recently. And many in this movement, they make wild affirmations about both the Old and New Testaments. And I say uh many people make outlandish claims like this because the Hebrew Roots movement, it is like crazy diverse But even the saner people who are within this movement, it's become my opinion that they are on a path to deceit and they don't even know it. So we've got to be careful out there. As you possibly run into these types of people. I think we we uh I want you to know that Some of what they say will be true. Some of it will be true. But as I've been fond to say over the years, so often the most dangerous lie is the lie that appears to be closest to the truth We must beware. And just know that if people like this should challenge your confidence in the Word of God, Maybe unwittingly, maybe on purpose, they could possibly just be using different language to today say what the serpent said. In Genesis chapter three. Did God really say Yes, God did really say. And if you're challenged in a way that you've never experienced before, and in the moment you don't really know exactly how to best respond. Well, I can assure you there are rock solid answers to their objections. And so you can go do your homework. And then you can go back. You can reapproach them with the gospel truth. Our faith, our Bibles, they are on solid ground. And my aim here simply has been to bolster your assurance of this fact. Because this fact is under assault. Now, back to Revelation chapter 10. When we read verse 11 and we see the list of peoples, nations, tongues, and kings, we likely have other similar biblical phrases come to our mind. I imagine that almost right away. Some of us had called to mind Revelation 5, verse 9, where John wrote about every tribe and tongue and people and nation. They're very similar, aren't they? Almost exactly the same. Each phrase that mentions people and nation and tongue However, one says tribe, which is simply a different way to say people, nation, and tongue, and the other says kings. And it's been suggested by some that what we're seeing here is a slight transition in emphasis by John. And I tend to agree. Because we're about to be introduced to the infamous beast of revelation in the upcoming pages of this book And then after that also the harlot of Babylon. And these are symbols of tyrannical earthly powers, symbols of tyrannical earthly kings. And it's noteworthy that in chapter 5, where it thinks of tribes, when it lists the various people groups, What's it speaking about there? It's speaking of the redeemed multitude. But note in chapter 10, where it speaks of kings, when it's listening to these various people groups, it's speaking of the unrepentant. Who really direly need to hear the truth of the gospel message. And the fact that the kings are left off of the first list, but they're featured on the second list, this might be a way By turn of phrase, to help us, the reader, understand that the reprobate, tyrannical powers, they're in a separate category from the redeemed multitude. Multitude who, ironically, receive crowns. We get the crown of life. Now, if they repent, then these kings they would not be participants in the beastly tyranny. But we know from the testimony of God's Word itself, not all tyrants repent. And this is part of the bittersweetness of our task as believers. We emphasized the bitterness and the sweetness last week, didn't we? We speak the sweet truth, the gloriously sweet and true Word of God. But not all will receive it. And many who are in positions of power, they uh they react dramatically against it. And this is bitter reality. Gloriously bitter and true. Now, while there's a sort of rhetorical shift employed by John Here in chapter 10, the commission he receives is essentially the same commission that he received at the start of all these visions. He's commissioned by Christ in chapter 1. And then he's recommissioned here, reminded by the angels here. It's a recasting of that first commission. And we are to understand that this message, it must be proclaimed to all groups in the world. And it is proclaimed First to the churches, of course. Remember the letters to the churches and all that sort of thing. And then it's proclaimed by the churches to the nations and to their kings. Even the horribly evil kings. As members of God's one true church, we share in the commissioning that John receives. His commission is our commission. And let's be honest. We don't always do this very well. Or very willingly. Do we? Because while we know that it is sweet, sweet news, we also know that it is bitter, bitter news. In the first portion of the book of Revelation, the focus is very much on sharing these sweet yet bitter news with the church. who profess to belong to Christ. And that's hard enough, isn't it? It's it's hard enough sharing the truth with those who already should know the truth. I mean, who wants to be labeled as divisive? How uncomfortable it can be to confront a brother or sister in Christ with their sin. If so many what-ifs enter our thinking when we contemplate these things, then what if they're mad at me? What if they hold it against me? What if they turn it around and they point to my sin? What if they call me a hypocrite? What if, what if, what if? And this is in regard to situations in the church. Now, consider the second portion of the book of Revelation where the focus is very much on sharing the bitter good news with the whole human race. Are you kidding me? You could already through the objections begin to populate our mind. What are you, a hater? Who are you to judge? Who died made you king? What gives you the right to say anything to me about repentance? The condition of my soul. We've got to be clear in response We're not kidding at all. This is deadly. Serious. It is why the love of the Lamb of God, who hates sin, has announced the call to repentance. People like me and you we're not the eternal judge. But the word is judge. And we're simply pointing others to the word. An as for who died, Jesus of Nazareth died. He rose again from the dead, demonstrating that he alone is the one true King. So what gives the bride of Christ the right to say anything? The King of Kings has commissioned everyone in his church to share his hard love with everyone. Because everyone needs to repent. Without turning and trusting in the goodness of the Messiah, everyone's eternal soul is in peril. And we must announce this. In ways that others might sometimes receive as confrontational. Does such a uh confrontation sour your stomach, feel bitter in your stomach? I promise you I've been there. I have. But the sweetness of obedience, it is so worth it You know, getting out of bed for some, it's the hardest thing they do all day. I don't say that flippantly or as a joke or anything. Seriously, there are people that They're in a place in life where the hardest thing they do all day is to get out of bed. But so often once they actually can get up on their feet and begin to serve God's glory throughout the day, they end up being so Glad that they didn't simply just hit that snooze button over and over again. That example might not resonate with most people hearing my voice today, so here's one that might. Do you know that you should exercise? But you don't want to exercise. Remember the energy and the better health you'll have if you actually do, so you'll feel better overall. Think about the reward that awaits. Or how about this one? You know you really should skip the chocolate cake, but you don't want to skip the chocolate cake Well how about remembering those skinny jeans you've been dreaming of wearing? You don't want to go to work? That's a common one. Try to remember that paycheck that's coming. It'll help you pay your bills and take care of your needs and maybe even help you buy some things you want. Think about the reward at the end. You don't want to deal with family, you don't want to address those tough situations. Well, remember the peace and the growth that you'll enjoy if you do. You don't want to fulfill the commission? You don't want to witness for God's glory. Remember the end game As was touched upon in the middle of Revelation chapter ten, there was um if it was the last message or the message before, touched on this briefly. There will be an end to this world. There's a new world. A renewed world that's coming. And we now are living in a time that will end. An age that will end. This time, this age, it is not forever. But the one to come, the one to come is forever. And you know what We're already there. Sort of. So let this be an encouragement to you. We we're living in an age The age of the already not yet. I've mentioned this a few times over the couple of years of this church's existence, but I'm not sure everybody Here has heard me talk about this, and even those who have, I'm not sure if I've gone way out of my way to try to explain exactly what this might mean in an illustrative way. So let me uh let me try let me try to help that one um impact you in a fresh way. Have you ever taken a long road trip to a eagerly, highly anticipated destination? You know, you're you're going on a big vacation to uh to New York to take in some Broadway shows, or you're gonna go to Chicago and do some shopping on the Magnificent Mile, or you're you know gonna go to Magic Kingdom or something like that And then uh you're reaching closer to the end of your trip and you see the skyline of the big city or you you see that welcome to Disney World sign and you get so very excited. You know, you're you're there. Maybe you can imagine something when you were a kid on a family vacation and you you saw that sign Or you saw the skyline of the city off in the distance and you exclaimed to others in the car, Hey, we're there! We made it! And yet, the engine's still running. The tires are still rolling. The trip it actually still has more to go before you're fully there. So you're both there and not there at the same time, but in a different sense. Time's up, but there's still more time. Just like there's still more to read in Revelation. And there's still opportunity to warn others to repent. There's an element of mystery to all of this. We might struggle to get our arms wrapped all the way around the concept so that we can touch our fingers or even better, comfortably clasp our hands on the other side of it. But God by his grace he has revealed enough to us of what would otherwise remain hidden. And he has revealed that You know, we're not only to warn others of uh the road around the the that road to destruction. We are also, it's been revealed to us that He is calling us home on the road to glory. So here's another perspective to apply the analogy I just shared. So instead of being in your car driving to some big unknown scary crime infested city. Or heading with the family in your car to some overpriced anti-God theme park. Imagine instead that you are driving home. After a long, hard time away. And then you clear a rise in the highway, and suddenly you see it. There it is laid out before you. Your hometown. It's kind of off in the distance, but it's also right there. It's right in front of you, and you you mentally and your emotionally already start to settle in. Those many tough miles that behind you. And you're looking at your stomping grounds. You're looking at Well, here's an even more intimate example. of what I just shared. Imagine that it's the holidays. Or maybe better given the time of year that we're in. Consider it's summer vacation. And you're going to see grandma and grandpa. Visit them in the house that they've lived in their whole life together. And yeah, you haven't seen them in a long time. You haven't visited them in such a long time. You've missed him so much. I while you've been away, you've shared life struggles with them over social media, over the telephone, things like that, but you miss the hugs. You miss the home cooking. You miss the smells, the comfort of the surroundings. You uh miss that big beautiful tree in the middle of the yard that seems even more beautiful to you as you Turn the steering wheel onto the driveway. You know as you pull onto the driveway Maybe the driveway is one of those uh old fashioned, you know, good old long gravel driveways. You know, and so you hear the crunch of the stones under your wheels. You ever been on one of those? It's a wonderful sound. And in this illustration, it's the sound of we made it. It's the sound of home. And it's a sound that's also a feeling. It's the sweet sound of Well, gospel proclamation is that same kind of feeling, same kind of a sound. It's the sound of home. It's the sound of we made it. And yet we're still in a driveway. You're still in the car. And grandpa and grandma, they're running out to meet you, but you haven't yet had that full embrace. But All is good in your heart because you're where you're supposed to be. You are where you are loved And you want others to know this experience of being loved. I know you do. So let's honor our commissioning from our Savior. Let's be on mission, trusting that his Holy Spirit has already, in a sense, brought us home And let's point others away from the road to destruction and let's participate in God's word to get them on the right path. There's no denying that until we unpack the car and cozily settle into eternity that there are potholes. Oh, there are so many potholes. on the road to glory. As I've been personally intimately reminded this past week, there's so many that we have to contend with. But we can learn to remain content because the right path, that road to glory, it is the way of truth and life. Let's keep our mind on the end game, on the reward. Let's pray. Father, you are a good, good God. So much better than even our wildest imagination. We thank you for revealing yourself to us in your word, in the person and work of Jesus Christ. You illumined our might our minds and have Transplanted our hearts of stone with a heart, heart of flesh, so that we can truly begin to know you, to love you the way that you deserve, to bring glory to your name. To announce your goodness to a world who needs to hear about it. We ask that you would forgive us for not being as faithful as we should in honoring the commission you've given us. Help us to be more faithful, more committed soldiers, to truly be ambassadors for our King, our high priest. Our Lord. It's in his name, the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, that we pray. Amen. All right. Well let me start with kind of just an open ended question. Was there anything From today's message that particularly struck you, we can start there. Otherwise I can try to ask some pointed questions to get some discussion going. It came across as a commissioning as far as the verse goes. John is Essentially being commissioned once again to give this new message. You said uh leading to the beast and for Port Babylon and some of the other some of the w I guess the second half of the imagery. So this is a commissioning of the profit. Yeah, and and uh It's the same commission we've always had as God's people, and so it's not really anything new. It kind of reminds me of uh you know And John another part of the New Testament talks about Jesus saying this isn't a new command. But it is it it's the it the old command and the new command are basically the same commands, just a recasting of of the original command. And so that's what's going on here. And I think it's noteworthy for us to be reminded, particularly the context that we find ourselves living in as Americans for the first time in many generations, where we haven't had to worry about this in the past It'd be simple for us to say, oh, I've got to share the good news, but I'm not going to confront the powers that be. I don't see how we have that excuse when you read the last verse of Revelation chapter 2. We are to share the truth of the gospel even with those tyrannical kings. We can't be shrinking violets and shy away. We need to share the truth with them too, because one never knows what God might do with that. Some of the kings might repent. They need to know. And if they don't, God's word never returns void. And if if God uses our sharing of the good news to harden their hearts further Okay, well that's part of the good news too. It's just maybe it's just going to be useful to hastening the uh the arrival of Christ in his second coming. So yeah, we are to be faithful in our commission. And honestly, I don't know that we're always as faithful in that as we might be. So hopefully we feel a little bit of a conviction on that point today. You had your hand up. I have a friend. But um we used to church together and she's a believer, she she does everything about the gospel. But during COVID when she was not She was kind of like starting to start learning about the Hebrew part of the of the um she's not in Hebrews in the Hebrew movement but she is going kind of going back to some of the old things, like for instance, she's kosher. She She starts she started to w um worship on Sunday. I mean Saturday, Shabbat. She she actually is is take Shabbat. Um and she starts she learn she's learning a um Uh she's got a book that she's reading about how to um find Jesus in the old Testament. Now I don't think there's anything wrong with that, and there's some things that are, you know, that it's good to know the Hebrew part of our of it. Because I mean that's I mean the Lamb of God, you know, Passover and all that. And I think that's that's part of I mean we should I think we should know that. But my concern is that That it's it's kind of like she's kind of going back a little bit. And not going back where she doesn't have it in that part but she She's kind of like reverting to the to the law a little bit. Yeah, well I and I and we're seeing a lot of uh there there's kind of this pendulum that swings uh in culture and in particular in in in the church culture I guess. Um the culture around us and the the the the main line and even more mainstream uh what would have passed for conservative Protestant uh church traditions until recently have become what we would call uh more licentious, right? They're they're embracing of of of sins that the Bible clearly condemns, for example. They're not they're embracing them, celebrating them, making excuses for them, that sort of thing And so that's wrong. Licentiousness is wrong. And then in reaction to that, sometimes we we can can be prone to an overcorrection uh correction where the pendulum swings uh from away from licentiousness into more of a legalist attitude. And so people recognize, well that's wrong, and then they overcorrect, and it sounds like maybe that's what's going on going on there. Most of what you said doesn't trouble me too much. I think it can be healthy and good to understand the the Old Testament festivals better and it helps to understand what's going on in the New Testament better when we do that. I would strongly encourage everybody to understand how to find Jesus on every page of the Old Testament. He's there. Uh Jesus himself tells us in Luke chapter twenty four and in John chapter five that the old testament's about him. So we should all of that. But It's like it's like a messianic Jewish uh thing that you might have hooked up with. And that can be fine as far as it goes, but I get a little bit concerned that uh they might need to really understand what's being taught in Galatians To understand that Christ fulfills those things that uh were representative in the Old Testament. They were pointing Pointing ahead to Christ, He fulfills them, and we no longer have to go back and live that life as Christians. Um But I would say that I'm okay with that as far as it goes, but one more little tiny step further and all of a sudden you start to get into kind of the danger zone of what has become the Hebrew. And so I I think that I wouldn't panic over what she's involved with, but I would be a little bit aware of what's going on and And emphasize your friends with her, I would be emphasizing the fulfillment of Christ in those things and see, you know Yeah, well see I think she knows that. That's the thing. I think she knows that. I think uh I think she's was just Um I guess she was I don't know if she was in ha how she was in contact I don't know if she was in contact with somebody. Oh, she was reading some information and she got started getting really studying a lot about the Hebrew part of it. When sh you know and I think there's not you know, but I mean when she when she starts talking about e you know, being eating kosher I mean e yeah, people to eat healthy. Yeah, there's nothing nothing wrong with eating kosher, there's no requirement to eat kosher. That's where the the the problem is. But if she is you know her her her conscience is telling her that she should eat kosher, you know what? Okay. If you're c i if you go against your conscience When you're convicted that I need to eat kosher, I'm in sin, well then yeah, if you don't eat kosher for you, you're in sin because your conscience is telling you that to do otherwise is sinful and you're going against your own conscience. So that's not a good place to be. But I think we need to understand well the position here at this church, there's no requirement for God's people to eat kosher the the the fulfillment of those requirements uh we find the fulfillment of that in Christ. Um the uh the day of worship um We happen to meet on Saturday. It it has nothing to do with a uh a theological commitment that we must meet on Saturday. It has actually more to do with uh we as a family feel the need to have a Sabbath a day of rest as a family and uh the nature of our uh weekday jobs and stuff uh has a lot of spillover into saturdays for us. And so we're working a lot of Saturdays and then to also then have church, which for the pastor is a working day. I was working seven days a week and we as a family We're not having a day of rest as a family. And so we decided to shift and do things late on Saturday when most of our workplace stuff would be over by the time we meet. And then we actually have a day of rest as a family. on Sunday, so that's the reason we do that. Um but the days, I would say the same thing. You know Paul makes it clear that we don't need to esteem one day greater than another kind of thing. We have great freedom. But again, if somebody has a conviction in their conscience that well no, we need to do this, well until their mind is changed and their conscience shifts on that, then they should. It's a it's a tough thing. I the thing is though is is the point is is that is I haven't heard this yet but trying to say that I somebody I might need to have to do that as well because Yeah. Well and if she does it gives you a great opportunity to have a conversation. Because and then like if I had like if I went out to before a meal with her, would it be and I knowing that she's kosher, would I be in violation if I got something that wasn't kosher? Because it would be a way to be she might stumble because of that? Would is that something that I would need to be concerned about? Is she gonna eat your food? No, I mean if we could went to a restaurant or something and she might get pork. Yeah. Is that gonna make is that gonna be s a violation of making her stumble? Is she planning to eat your pork? No, but she's still sitting at the table there and uh I couldn't hear who we've got in a second. Isn't there something in there about don't uh uh somebody is a a weaker brother, don't not yes, I I I think I I I know what you're referring to. Yeah, I think and I if I'm um if my memory's not failing me, I think it's in the context of food that's been offered to idols. Yes. So if you're at a meal where you know everybody's saying, hey, this is food that's been offered to idols and somebody feels like wow this has been offered to idols, we shouldn't eat it Uh that it in we're all sharing in the same food that's been offered to the idol, theoretically. And if the one person is convinced that that's a sin, you're not gonna want to uh put them in a situation where they're going to feel like to get along and to fit in with what's going on around them. But well I guess my friend is eating it, so I guess I should eat it too, but I'll be sitting if I do, but I I guess I have to because she is And so then you're going to cause her to stumble and go against her conscience. But that's a little bit different than when you're at a restaurant and you're ordering off the menu or ordering different things. Um I mean she's eating around different people eating different things all the time Yeah. I feel like that's I I and so I'm just curious again. Yeah, for me I feel like that'd be different. Again, and unless she thinks that you should also eat kosher and then she's like, Ooh, well if she's not, then I don't need to either So un unless she sees it as an everybody should or it then Yeah, if she already thinks it's just a personal choice, then your personal choice won't affect her. And she better be careful what she wishes for because being kosher is far more involved than merely avoiding pork and shellfish. There's all sorts of preparation rules. And I promise you. And the products are in more stuff than you might read. Unless it's a firmly committed Jewish restaurant that advertises themselves as we are a kosher food prep establishment. There is not a single restaurant that you could get anything actually kosher from. Where you're gonna have something that actually is biblically clean. Is there anything with water based on the old testament rule? eggs and the fish and the sardine things and that section of the grocery store. That's the problem. was you know like co kosher I mean a Jewish person that was kosher, but no not rural kosher. I would say how would you do that at this point I would say it's a practical matter. You know, since you know this about her, you you can go out to a restaurant and stay with her and you know this how she feels and you can say, you know what, I was thinking about ordering the uh the the uh pork tenderloin but I know how you feel about these things. Would is it gonna really be a problem for you if I order that? And if she says, Actually yeah, thank you for asking, that's gonna be a huge problem for me like, you know what? Okay, I'll I'll get the uh yeah, I'll get the sirline steak instead or whatever. And And but then you could lead that could lead into a healthy conversation where while you're not directly challenging over what the food you're putting in your mouth You can say, you know, now that we're having this conversation, like, why exactly are you so committed to that? And you know, to be honest, if you know this going in Do some study in advance. You have some verses and passages to call to mind and you can say, you know, what about where it says this? And how do you interact with that? And just kind of see what her argument is and you know, hear what she is. I think this is something that You know, we could agree to disagree on at least for a period of time. If she wants to be legalistic and try to pull you into her legalism, you know, then that could be a contentious issue you'll have to deal with. But I don't think she it doesn't sound like she's there yet. It's like people who have have a challenge with alcohol. You know, and they m and uh there's some people we know that have that challenge and You know, we'll even say, you know, are you okay if we have a glass of wine uh or not? And they say, Yeah, I'd rather you not. It's like, Okay, no big deal. We'll just have water with the meal or whatever, it's not Thanks, please. You were gonna say something, you remember what it was? Um I mean big thing I mean sometimes y kind of like what you said where you have to test the waters. Um I would guess the accident team would be like the game Why don't you Christians follow the kosher? Well, Acts fifteen is kind of uh fast and answer in the Bible. We want to be careful, and that's why, you know, these overcorrections. So it's not unusual in our contemporary American church context for people to spend their whole life in the New Testament. They're not reading the Old Testament, they're not studying the Old Testament, pastors aren't preaching on the Old Testament, it's just not a focus. It's all New Testament all the time, and that's out of balance And then again, to overcorrect from that, people get so enamored with what's in the New Testament that they kind of maybe accidentally jettison some important things that are revealed to us about the New Testament. The New Testament gives us lenses or a grid or a perspective on which to understand better, more fully, what's being taught in the Old Testament. And we should be in both of them. Uh nobody would know that based on our short uh existence as a church yet because all of our messages uh almost all of our messages have been uh rooted in the uh New Testament just because of circumstances. We uh we did first John, then second John, then third John, and then I was actually going to transition to a book of the Old Testament, but had a request to actually go into Revelation instead. So okay, we'll do Revelation instead Uh so we've been in the New Testament pretty much exclusively as a church. And I was just mentioning this last week. Ironically, I think we'll probably do next 'cause I don't feel like I feel real good about us being a church for, you know, three years when that time comes comes. Uh on our three year anniversary to have never preached from the gospels. So I feel like after we're done with Revelation I'll probably jump into John, which will be interesting because we will then we'll have done all of John. First, second and third John, Revelation and the Gospel. Like all five books of the Bible that John wrote, we will have done those. We'll be experts on John. And at that point, unless there's some s well, assume Jesus had returned to me. Unless something really wild happens, we will definitely transition into the Old Testament, and I might even figure out a way where we could handle several Old Testament books in a row so we get some balance. in our overall diet because I don't want people to misunderstand and think that we don't believe the Old Testament is important. I think the Old Testament is hugely important and I haven't mentioned this in a few weeks, but early in our study on Revelation I mentioned it a lot to help set the foundation and maybe I'll swim back to mentioning a little more often. We, as the people of God, really struggle to have any sort of consistent agreement on how to grapple with Revelation, the book of Revelation There's all sorts of conjecture and controversy and conflict even sometimes over what we're to take from the the imagery that's being presented to us in Revelation. And a big part of that is because so many people in the church, particularly sadly the Western Church, Europe and America, we do not know the Old Testament well enough Because John is so steeped in the Old Testament. And if we understood corporately, collectively, the Old Testament better, we'd have far greater agreement of how to understand it. So we should spend way more time in the Old Testament than we do. So I wouldn't discourage your friend to stop paying attention to that, but you might just be a little out of there's a balance to these things. Right. You know, it's it's it think of it as a food item. You know? Um eating a protein bar is probably a good thing. But eating a thousand protein bars in a day is not a good thing. You know, we want to have a we have a balance. We've got to be appropriate on these things. So You know, eating nothing but protein bars would not be would not be good. Right, right. Um, another one other thing um about Bible translations Uh I found a b uh after my mom had passed I found a uh some of her old Bibles. And there was one Bible that I was reading and I was looking at it and I didn't think oh So I read the um John one and it said that in the beginning was the word, the word was with God and the word was a God. It was a Jehovah's Witness Bible. Yes. But she I don't think sh she didn't vote you know she She went to a Baptist church. But I don't know how she ended up getting that bot. But I mean it's a big thing. One of the witnesses might have knocked on her door and gave it to her. You know, who knows how she got it. Oh. And to be honest, I mean you might be shocked and scandalized, but I have those sorts of things in my house. You know. I have a copy of the Quran. I have the Book of Mormon. You know, I I mean I'm trying to understand what these false teachings are so I can better interact with them. So I would encourage everybody to come to understand what you know uh uh what the lies other people believe so you can interact with them on your own terms and figure out what is some common ground to then pivot and say, Yeah, but you know Well see I wouldn't have known that that was a Jehovah's Witness and so on Yeah well that's one of their favorite go to's that's why I knew immediately I was going to be able to do that. whatever the name of the watchtop tower thing. Then I saw that, but originally I didn't because I saw that scripture, so I thought that was Yeah. Interesting. If somebody doesn't know how to read Greek, how to properly interact with and translate Greek, understand the syntax, the sense the structure, uh because there are there are loads of grammatical rules in Greek, way more rules for Greek than there are in English, for example. And these rules are really important to understanding what the Greek actually says. The order of the words can be paramount. But you know, to proper interpretation. Uh as an example. So if you don't know the rules of Greek grammar, if you No, just enough to be dangerous in Greek, and you look at an actual Greek text of John and you read that verse, you could very easily mistranslate it the way they translate it So it's not that they don't have some reason to translate it that way, but they don't actually have a good reason, a right reason, an accurate reason, a trustworthy reason because they're mis They're m a perhaps initially they accidentally mistranslated the Greek. But now they've been shown the error of their ways for so many years they should know better. So now they're purposely running with a mistranslation of the Greek. But the average person who knocks on your door or, you know, hands you a Watchtower magazine or whatever, they don't know the Greek. They just know what they've been told To be honest, how many people in this room know how to read Greek? You know, you only know what you've been told two. But I would encourage you particularly on that question. If that bothers you, like wait a minute. The pastor just said they actually have a reason. It's just the wrong reason? What does that mean? What verse was this again? Dive into it. John 1 1. It's the begin it's the beginning of the Gospel of John. Okay And uh the right translation is the and he and it he was God, not he was a god. The a should not be there. Oh that changes quite a bit. Yeah. And that's um just one example. That's the most famous. There are some other examples that they get swept Which is why it could be beguiling, because you're reading the Bible say, Yeah, this is entirely what I'm used to. And then in just a handful of places they make these slight changes That's a pretty big change. Well, basically looking at it but the the impact of it is slight changes that change everything. But don't square with other things that we see in the Bible. So it's not even if you don't understand how to interpret and translate Greek, if you understand the entirety of the Bible, it's like it shouldn't strike you as right Wha why would that you know let's say you never have any Bible ever in your life other than a Jehovah's Witness Bible. And you've read all of the other sixty five books of the Bible and you finally get around to reading the bu uh the gospel according to John. And so you get to John after reading the whole Bible, really understanding the whole rest of the Bible, and now you read John and the first verse comes and you're like, Wait a minute, what? A god. That makes no sense in light of everything else I've read, the other sixty five books of the Bible. It doesn't make sense. I guess they're what is witness. Uh they have a low uh low Christology. They have a low view of uh of who the Son of God is, who Christ is. He is uh He's he he's he's divine in a sense, but he's lesser. You know, he he's he's cre he he's a creature, he's created. So they give back to more agnostic. From the tree. That would be or maybe Marcion. So going back to the old the old heresy. Yeah, there are Well trust me that Jehovah I think this is your I think this is your point. Jehovah's Works didn't it didn't invent the heresy. There are no new heresies There are different versions of the same heresies. Seven hundred years ago pops back up and then you go without beating that one down and meanwhile another one pops up. It's kind of like that. And so yeah, it does tie into uh The church struggled with how to articulate and explain what it means for Jesus to be fully man and fully God. Scripture clearly presents them that way, but what does that mean? How do you how do you understand that? It almost seems like a contradiction until you get into really careful philosophical language and very specific biblical arguments. to show how they're not contradictions. They actually do coexist in a way that is practically impossible for us to fully 100% get our arms around, but yet it is what the Bible presents to us. And then and also add into that confusion over the Godhead, where we have one God, one being who's three persons. What does that mean? And so it's confusing. And so a lot of people have gotten off track over the years, like, well that doesn't make any sense on the face of it. And so Jesus can't be God. There's one God. So he can't be he must be a lesser god. You know, and he and he can't be like fully God because he's human. So he must be some sort of created Man who's God like or Godish. Yeah, exactly. Like a like a demiurge. You know? Uh and T things. Uh Yes, a second one will be first. There was like some pastor I want to say it was James Mark Comer. Okay. I don't think I know who that is. Uh the uh Mary taught Jesus thing. No. This is more like he kinda had like a a distinction between like, oh, there could be other divine entities that are Gods in a sense like a lowercase I guess the DC universe understanding of You know, the all some of these superheroes are like divine gods, but there's always a god the god of Jacob is above all the gods of the DC So there's kind of like that understanding, but it kind of applies that to ancient mythology where like Zeus is the king of the gods and there's other gods underneath. Like there's a Zeus, but then you know the God of the Bible is above the Bible. No, so like there is an all-powerful creator, but then there's other powerful monuments. I I don't know if it was that particular person, but I remember someone like at best your need was pretty splitting hairs. At worst you're a classic polytheist. But he wouldn't call himself a plot polytheist because he only works with one guy, but he Well who are the impossible of the uh the godlike lesser gods? Jesus? Uh it's been a while since I brought that No, it wouldn't put Jesus in that. But it would just acknowledge that God so he's he's there's one true God but there are other gods that are not as powerful. So he's trying to say they might exist and we just don't necessarily need to worship them because Yeah, I think you can have a conversation because depending on what he and it doesn't sound like this is what he means, but depending on how he's meaning it The Old Testament uses that kind of language. So we want to be careful to clarify what's being said because we have Molech and and and and Baal worship and all the uh the Egyptian gods uh that are being shown up in a big way with the plagues. And so these are these are gods who exist in the mind and heart of the people. Right. But they don't actually in fact exist. So I want to clarify to make sure you're not saying that, right? That there are these gods basically of our own imagination You actually mean that there are in fact, in reality, these kind of divine beings that aren't the divine being. If that's what he's saying, there's no biblical argument for that. You know, that's uh it was really out and that's I don't know how it gets around polyphields. I don't know how he gets around he can deny it all day long. You know? I mean I could go down to the local grocery store and uh grab one of those protein bars I mentioned and walk out without paying for it. So you're not a thief? I'm not a thief. But you just stole that. I'm not a thief. But you stole it. What are you saying? I'm not a thief. Like I can deny it all day long. Yeah, whatever. Facts are facts. If the guy thinks there's a a pantheon of gods and then insists that he's not a polytheist, well okay your words mean nothing. I think that's the other thing I want to say was how we've gotten dumber with false teachings right now. Oh, in the early church they're debating the Trinity and trying to figure that out. And like ever since we were really just writing their work, you know. Because they they had to do the hard work of like formulating a coherent way to understand and teach the Trinity. I think I see what you're saying. Because those debates over how to define things and understand things didn't happen for hundreds of years. So early on the church just went with it. Like they weren't a they didn't ask the questions and define terms until heresy rose. Right. Every time a heresy arose, like, okay, that's not biblical. Now we gotta deal with this. We hadn't thought about that before, but now that people are saying things that aren't true, don't square with what the Bible teaches. Now we got we got it. So there was kind of a a Halo era where for maybe a couple hundred years the church really wasn't bad well The first real heresy that was a problem for the church was was Gnosticism. Oh yeah, that Nicolation and Judaizer. So you kinda had all three of those. addressed in the epistles. But at least they were like intellectual. It wasn't like uh y you know, yeah the Bible says that this This is a sin here, but it's not really a sin because we don't want it to be. Because we don't want it to be like evolved in We but you can read it. But you see how it becomes kind of dumber now? Like this for you. You know? Don't we deserve a better class of character pick? We deserve a better class of heretics. Oh Jesus. I guess from one perspective I almost can't I mean I could agree with that, but there's a part of me that doesn't want to, and I'm trying to think how I'd articulate why. Well we don't want better Yeah, we don't want better hair chicks. Um More reasonable heretics that you can talk to? I think as dumb. There are some really bright, articulate, thoughtful, careful leaders, academically you know, capable men who are doing really important hard work, but they're focusing on different things than those kinds of questions. Like they might be figuring out What is the best way for us to properly understand Islam and how to interact with what that means since it's the second largest religion in the world that did not exist in the early years of the church? And so they're really becoming experts on the Quran and the Hadith and the history of Muhammad and Albul. things and so they they're very proficient in those areas and they're very good at it. Um and they're learning Arabic because that they have to interact with the Muslims in that regard. Islam or Quran. Yeah, she learned to she learned the language to read it in its original language. um for very strong Christian woman. She learned it specifically for the purpose of knowing what they believed so that she could intelligence. And then she got sick and part of her brain was looking But anyway, before that I remember Tom She was like, It's very hateful. Yeah. Yeah, well it it certainly can and I would argue if you're gonna best interpret what's going on there that that is a good way to describe it. But in fairness, there are those that can be devoted Muslims who they can find a way to interpret the Right. Well she was I think she was going less off. Well yeah, and one of the reasons that she was learning it was to be able to interact with people who I believe you know who did believe it, you know, with Uh with Muslims and stuff like that. Um other good example just to to go to to to score another point for the uh modern day scholars who are wrestling with tough questions, think about all the advances that have made been made um with um with discussion and investigation and articulation of intelligent design. That's not something that the church wrestled with until really evolution challenged Uh in a new way. Yeah. That that is true. We have had to ad address concerns like that and then we have to debate society wise what's a woman. I was about to bring that up. Well I think we kind of moved past even that a lot of that because a lot of the denominations that they debate. Oh w yeah, a lot of the ones that you know fell fell on that one have pretty much fallen on everything else and pretty much shrank. Um well I think the problem is that evolution's kind of like more widely accepted despite It's highly flawed. Another thing that's a huge and very important field of study actually connects to the part of the message today. The church up until relatively recent years. years, meaning hundreds rather than a couple thousand years. So relatively within the last couple few generations maybe? Maybe five hundred years, let's say. So the last quarter of the churches exist did not have to wrestle with uh uh didn't have to didn't do much in the way of textual criticism And that's huge when we're interacting with all these different manuscript transitions and try and all these different copies and trying to figure out this is the Byzantine text, this is the Alexandrian text, this is the Masoretic text. I guess they went away from that. That one took over. And then all these archaeological finds and things and you know, trying to wrestle with okay, what does the original text actually say? But we've got hogwash anyway. I the people that are that say that you know like it doesn't matter what type of translation you have, it can't none of it can be accurate because it's too old. Um Those are the ones that are typically like hardcore. Like everything about Christianity is a bunch of things. Yeah. Because these things people probably believe that Julius Caesar existed. Right. They probably believe that Alexander the Great. We have way less proof of all of that. It's just except it's just not controversial because it doesn't affect anything. So they accept all of that. To be honest, probably unquestioningly they believe that uh Abraham Lincoln was a sixteenth president of the United States. They haven't done a deep dive investigation to prove. They just accept what they were told in fourth grade. You know, so uh they're not consistent And to be honest, if they were to be consistent, I mean seriously, anybody who wants to do a deep study on this, it will bolster your faith. There is so much manuscript evidence And when you do the time take the time to cross-reference and stuff, I mean yeah there are differences, but if you've got like you know a hundred versions of a particular text And one of them says something a little bit different, like a different word or different spelling, or a word is missing, or something like that. But the other ninety-nine are all in agreement. You're like, okay, clearly Yeah, you can figure out one is in error because everything else is consistent. And so and then in a different part of the text The the one the the one that got that one wrong might get everything else right and one of the ninety-nine might get a different word wrong somewhere else. But you can with incredible confidence reassemble what the actual And it's not just things that people wrote down like this is a translation of the Bible or this is a column of the Bible. Even citations or somebody's writing a letter to somebody and they quote the Bible and you can see They're quoting exactly what this text of the Bible says. So at least as of this point it didn't change from here. Yeah, I was listening to a series that um this guy did. He's a um Uh just well no I was gonna say hi his career is um homicide investigations and So he he started by investigating um he he was what? No, she's telling me Warner or whatever. Yes. Um William Warner. Oh war no it's William Whatever. Not Wallace. No. Whatever. I don't think I know that person. Um anyway. Very similar to Lee Stroble. He um Oh, I know Lee Stroble. Um, I don't, but the guy I'm talking about I do really like. Um he for like the first thirty years of his life he was atheist. And um his wife actually was like, Hey, I wanna go to church. Uh she wasn't a particular believer but she wanted her kids raised in the environment apparently. Very common story. Yeah, well they're all Christian now because he was challenged by something that one of the the the the pastors said, so he started Oh. Um, he started investigating the Bible as if it was a crime scene. And so which um a little bunch of like logical things, but one of those huge things he said is just all of the evidence. He said there's so there were so many eyewitness accounts not. He's not the uh forensic guy that would be called in to uh testify at uh courtroom trials and stuff. 'Cause there's a guy that sounds like it's similar to and wonder if it's a third guy 'cause I know Lee the story is very much like Lee Strobel so far. But in cold cases. But this other guy sounds like I might know who you mean and I don't know his name, but there's uh if not, there's a third guy that kind of fits his profile. I it I I think it it very possibly is because he's m worked multi No, he has he has testified in case in court cases on person in law court. I know, but We'll look it up later and I'll see if it's uh we'll look him up on my phone later and we'll see if his picture is of oh yeah, that's a guy. I I it sounds like it probably is Um but it's just the amount of information he said, everything from arts to scholars to if you look back through history, the number of eyewitnesses, not just the ones that we see in the Bible, but other people who were talking about Jesus, just in their own correspondences, the people who were quoting the Bible, the people who were, you know, the the ancient art and um cultural things. that came from Christians and Jesus' life. There y one of the things I think I remember him saying was, you know, even if you got rid of every single copy of the Bible. ever. The amount of information that you you could still put together a pretty good picture of the gospel from everyday people's writings, songs, art, literature you know, just the amount of evidence that there is that not only did this Jesus character exist, but was exactly who he is claimed to be. Some people they just like to argue. I'm like, you know, hey if it works for you, it works for you. Let's you know and whatever. But you know, if you're a if you're a you know more of a philosophical apologist and somebody else is more of an evidentiary apologist or somebody else is more of a cosmologist in their approach and others more presuppositionalist approach or whatever. If if if that's what kind of works for you, then run with it. Whatever. Yeah, that's how we started. But no matter and I become some I don't know that I'm expert or fully proficient in any Sound familiar with a lot of these different reviews? And I gotta tell you every single approach you want to take Yeah, God's word withstands you know, God's truth withstands any examination, scientific proofs, whatever. and like approached it from he said, This is how I approached it, so here's all the up and sides down. But he went from like moral and ethics and, you know, philosophical and cultural and he was like he was like it Similar way he said he's like no matter which way you come at this. He said that I tried 'cause I didn't really you know he said it came up to the same thing. So I think that's really cool. It's cool too, especially with what you said, everybody the s society as a whole saying you guys are dumb, you guys are believing in this fantasy. Yeah, and this gets to the point I was uh made during the message too is uh it can be challenging for us because we know the general teaching We have a general familiarity. We might be particularly good at partic in very specific areas of of the faith, but we we we know an awful lot about this And then we run into somebody in the world who doesn't really know very much about all of this, but they know but they're really, really, really expert about this one thing. And so you know a thousand things very well. But one of those thousand things they know inside out, backwards, upside down. Like they know ev they they know how to anticipate every possible argument you might throw at them off the cuff. And they can throw you off your game like I don't really have an answer for this. But I'm telling you there are other people who have done their homework and know how to respond to these specialists who wanna attack the faith, you can go do your homework and you say, okay, I don't really know how to answer that specific challenge. But there are answers. Take the time and go figure out what the biblical answer is. And they you can get to the point where they cannot effectively challenge it. anymore. But I mean they still will or they'll be like, well, well yeah, you could you could at the very you might end up arguing to a draw where they won't agree to anything you've said, but you're like, okay You're just you don't want to agree, but you haven't undercut the difficult truth. Um but yeah, we live in an area uh in an era of specialty. People are specialists. That's a lot of the jobs people have now You know, think about the the the phones you carry around. You know, try to find one person that could construct a uh um a smartphone You know, there's somebody that only knows how to work on constructing the outer constructing the outer shell. There's somebody else who only knows how to work on the uh touch screens, there's somebody else who only knows how to understand what how the apps interface with what's going on There's all these people you you you might need a dozen people in the room to accurately and s and fully describe what's involved in making a cell phone today Oh there might not be one person alive who explained everything. Think about because even the ingredients. You know, uh you need silver inside those. Well, okay, you have to know how to mine the silver. the people who designed the iPhones now know how to effectively mine silver. Like there's nobody that knows every little thing about making a phone. Right? But everybody's a specialist. And so if somebody who knows about mining silver, they can make somebody who knows so much about smartphones feel like an idiot because, well I don't know about mining silver. But there are answers about mining silver, and if they get something wrong, you could prove it to them. Or at least demonstrate it to them whether they have accepted as a truth or not. Anyway. Well good discussion. Everybody else anything they want to throw out before we wrap up the live stream at least? Well I like what she mentioned earlier about with her friends and the the kosher thing. It reminded me of the conversation I had with the coberkur when we talked about getting like a baking sandwich and she brought up how the Bible says we can't eat Uh eager to do that? I remember I mentioned it to you. Uh it was like months ago, I just not thought about it. I thought you were gonna say the whole thing about the Catholics going to heaven, but But you can you can have elaborate for that. I was just going focused on that And you can go from there because I can't remember exactly what it was we talked about. Uh it it had to do with uh It had to do with the whole thing about um you know, realizing that just because at one point that is indeed what people were saying. supposed to do does not mean that it is still what God expects of people. There were there were rules and laws in place for reasons at the time that God has since said it's okay. Right. For for multiple reasons. For in depending on what you're looking at. And uh for those on the stream well I'll make this the like the last thing we share on the stream and we can continue talking forever. But good in in reaction to the comment that was just shared. It's natural for humans to do this. Think about when when things get out of whack and there's all this turmoil, all this angst, like the world's not making sense to us. It's it's just common, it's natural, it's normal, and in many ways it can be good to try to Get back to Can't ground yourself. Yeah, let's get grounded in let's get back to the basics. Let's get back to the foundations. And so we see this play out in history like Um uh there was a lot of turmoil um fifty years ago and so everybody said, you know what? The world's not making sense. We entered the nuclear age, there was a Cold War, you know, we are embroiled uh in Vietnam and everybody was afraid that, you know, the there was the countdown clock. You remember that, right? You know, five minutes from thermore nuclear thermo thermo nuclear war, the world's gonna end kind of thing. There's a lot of angst. And so what do people do? They got very earthy. Right? We have the the birth of the flower children and woodstock and folk music. Get get in touch with simpler times, simpler methods. Um a really positive example is what happened five, five, twenty years ago. You know the the the world wasn't making sense and the those in power were were abusing people and using religion as a as a club. uh to exact money out of them out of guilt and so the Reformation happens where we just let's get back to the roots of things. Let's go back to the actual Word of God And let's focus on what the Word of God says. Let's get back to the basics. It's a natural uh tendency for for us to do that. And that's part of what's driving the Hebrew roots movement. Right? It's like, oh my gosh, this doesn't make any sense. It won't make no sense. Let's get back to the basis. What does the Old Testament say? responses that we can have. We just want to be careful that those natural responses don't pull us out of balance with what a godly response should be. But I think it's a it's a healthy instinct. You know, when you're in doubt, I do the same thing. So we just gotta like You know, when when things get unglued in my life and it's like oh my gosh Life is a frenzy. I will actually probably have this experience. You stop and say, okay, what do I know to be true? I know this, I know this, I know this. Okay, that's the foundation for every other decision I now have to make. I used to as a kid, um I've always had a long history of like really bad nightmares and as a kid I would wake up and look around at you know, the the the you know the furniture, the objects around my room, around my bed that did not move. You know, just to kind of it and it it's It's like that when you're on the oceans, right? And you lose your bearings without balancing but you're sea sick, you want to find a spot a stick spot on the horizon that doesn't move and that gives you some bearing. I mean another example from history, the the fundamentalist movement from uh you know hundred, hundred and fifty ish years ago, that window of time when uh hundred and what Thirty years ago maybe? When did the ninth uh twentieth century? Yeah. So you know again we had all these heresies rising, we had evolution challenging the faith, we had you know these cults, the Christian cults uh coming on the scene. and people in responsibility. But good things can become bad things When we make them preeminent then. Right. So anyway, I'm gonna uh wrap up the screen, but I guess Uh we should uh we should close the screen with a word of prayer. One of the people other than me wanna close us in prayer? Dear Lord, we thank you for this day. We thank you for the ability of us to just gather here and worship uh your holy name. Uh we thank you for just the discussion we're able to have and just kinda touching on various uh tendencies humans have in I guess I guess failing to adhere or follow your word and how we how all the deceptions that arise and ultimately there is nothing new under the sun. We pray that we can accept the uh The calling John we read in uh Revelation from John to preach the word to the every tribe, tongue, nation and to the kings. In your name we told this thing. Amen. Well if you're still with us, we appreciate you watching and uh participating. If you did comment on the thread, I wasn't able to pay attention, but if you did, I'll react to those later We're going to hopefully start on time next week. We typically start the stream at 6 o'clock on Saturdays. We got behind schedule today for a variety of reasons, but we'll try to pick that up next week. uh get back on schedule. Anyway, uh check us out online if you would. Householdtofai in Christ dot com was our website, all sorts of resources there for you. Till next week, God bless.