Welcome to the live stream portion of the weekly gathering of the Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online, follow us online through Household of Faith in Christ dot com. There you'll find links to all of our previous sermons, other sorts of messages, links to my radio show, The Faith Debate, links to trusted resources that we've vetted. Um what else? All sorts of other stuff. Things about us. And if you don't have a house, uh a church that is your home church, a church that you belong to, and you're within driving distance of Frederick, let me know, and maybe we're a good fit for you And uh if you're not within driving distance of Frederick, let me know. And maybe I can help you find a church that's a good fit, a gospel proclaiming church. People here know but for the stream, we are not going to have a live stream next Saturday at 6 o'clock. But in case you miss us that much I'll be live streaming tomorrow at seven o'clock from Fairview Chapel and I'll be and I'll be live streaming the following week on Sunday at seven o'clock as well. So if you want to get your uh your fix of streaming from us, then you you have two opportunities over the next uh what is that eight days I guess seven eight days. Alright, so we're gonna be Revelation chapter 11 today. So you want to get your Bibles ready? Measuring Up is the title of the message today. We're also going to be reading a short passage from Luke chapter 21. So if you'd like to read along, you want to bookmark that now. And Daniel chapter 9, we'll have a short passage from that that we read as well, so you want to bookmark that as well. But primarily, of course, we're going to be in Revelation chapter 11. I was recently watching an online video presentation about theology, and the presenter he took a moment to go off topic and he shared some images of fractals And he didn't provide any reason for taking this rabbit trail in the moment, other than just to say that he thought they were really cool and they were. But in seeing them Because he wasn't sharing them in a theological framework, and yet in seeing them, what I saw was a mathematical representation of what it is that's going on in the book of Revelation. First of all, I guess you've asked, everybody know what a fractal is? Fractal is a term that's used in mathematics to describe geometric shapes that contain really detailed artistic structures. And they continue their design ad infinitum. No matter how many times you zoom in further and further and further, the kaleidoscope patterns they just keep on repeating and repeating seemingly forever These fractals are also known by some as uh expanding symmetry or unfolding symmetry. Perhaps those are phrases or labels you you're more familiar with. If you want a really technical term, the ongoing repetition of the shape is called an affine self-similar. I had to look that one up. Anyway, if you've never seen a fractal, then I would encourage you, do an internet search. Go find a fra you know videos of some examples of fractals because even secularists tend to be kind of dazzled by them and theists We see a glimpse of God's fingerprints all over his intelligent design of the world when we are looking at the fractals. And more specifically as Christian theists We gain insight into God's masterful work, and we learn something from the beautiful, intricate artistry that repeats its beauty in stunningly sophisticated ways. Ways which ignite the human imagination. And here's the connection I made with Revelation. This is also true for what the Lord has given us through John in the 22 chapters of the Apocalypse. beautiful repeating patterns. Now we are about halfway through our revelation series now. We're beginning to study one of the more difficult chapters in the book Today we focus on Revelation chapter 11 verses 1 through 3. Then there was given me a measuring rod like a staff. And someone said, Get up and measure the temple of God and the altar, and those who worship in it. Leave out the court which is outside the temple, and do not measure it, for it has been given to the nations, and they will tread underfoot the holy city for forty-two months. And I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for twelve hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth. Ooh, baby, there is a lot of symbolic imagery throughout chapter 11. We just touched the tip of the iceberg here in these first three verses. And there aren't as many clues for unlocking their meanings in this chapter. Not as many as some people would like. And so we're going to take our time. And we are going to proceed with diligence, remaining committed to expositing the words that are on the page. So again, just in the spirit of going slow, here again is verse 1. Then there was given me a measuring rod, like a staff, and someone said, Get up and measure the temple of God and the altar and those who worship in it. So within his vision, the Apostle John is given a measuring tool. And back in ancient times, there were various items that people would use to measure things. Some of them would be pliable like a rope. Or like in present-day times, you know, tape measure. Other tools, they were firm, unbending, like a reed. Some of our English translations even use the word reed in this verse. Or like in today's context, a ruler or the longer yardstick. Well, in this case, John is giving something firm, like a staff. Now perhaps this image of a staff calls to your mind a shepherd out in the field holding his trusty staff, a tool used by the shepherd to separate the wolves from the sheep, to steer the lambs in the way that they should go. to protect the flock. And these ideas about the shepherd's staff, they actually do help us to better understand this particular passage. The measuring that's being done in these opening verses of chapter 11, they indicate God's preservation of his faithful remnant and his judgment of everyone else. All the wolves. Measure the temple, it says. Well, this can be thought of as gauging the quality of the institutional church. Not the quantity, but the quality. Is the church properly maintaining moral rule, consistently preaching the true gospel? And measure the altar, it says. Well, here we see the worship of God's people being quantified Is the church bearing good fruit? Is she salt and light, worshiping God in all that she does? Consider the idea of the old covenant offerings at the altar being consumed by flames atop that altar. Are we all perpetually on fire for the Lord? Are we kindling one another's faith? Encouraging and convicting one another so that the whole of our lives burn with increasing holiness and submission to Christ. Is our worship fervent? Is our walk spiritual? Have we laid down our lives? Are we sacrificial? How does our worship measure up Probably not all that great, honestly, right? So praise God, we have Jesus on our side because he worships perfectly. And we trust in what he has done in this regard. Now let's seek to better follow his example. Measure those who worship, it says. This is Pointing to the people of God, Christ's bribe, the sealed and the protected, the elect of God, the chosen. And here again we see the loving truth of the Lord on display. And in simple terms, Christ is the measuring rod. The word is the standard, the rule, up against whom all else are measured And Jesus is the good shepherd, who protects those whom the Father has given him so that we can fulfill our mission. The one. John is measuring that which belongs to God. The command to measure is it's a mark of God's ownership. God is taking stock of what he owns. And so it's a mark of God's knowledge of his possession and a mark of God's care for his possession. And in this context, we then see a moderation of the measurement command. In the next verse, verse 2. Leave out the court which is outside the temple and do not measure it, for it has been given to the nations, and they will tread underfoot the holy city for forty-two months. It's interesting, isn't it? Do not measure the outer court. It's going to be trampled. What's that about? Well, it helps to know something about the temple floor plan. The physical temple in Jerusalem was an emblem, well, and then some of course, of the presence of God. on earth, especially with and through his people. And recall all the scenes that we had described for us back in Revelation chapters 4 and 5, the heavenly throne room scenes. If you get that in your head, then you get some idea of what the earthly temple was meant to represent. But the outer court of the Gentiles, it wasn't part of the original layout of the temple. Herod added this to the court many years later, and it is apparently where the money changers did their business, so sort of a kind of a bizarre atmosphere. And its destruction here could symbolically mean a few different things. Like, does it represent an attack on the church by unbelievers who might nominally appear to belong to the true church? the true temple. But they're not really in, because they're only nominally Christians, and so they re are being represented here as being on the outskirts. Is this symbolically the area of uh wheats and tares mixing, the commingling of the good fish with the bad fish? The unbelieving people of the nations interspersed with true Israel. Is this a picture of the false church throughout all of time? It could be talking about a couple of very specific happenings in history. For example, is this talking about Christians being safe when the temple was under siege by the Romans back in A. D. 70? Spiritual protection during physical destruction. Or perhaps it's pointing to something that's yet to occur off in the future, sometime, in upcoming history. Or it could be representative of all of the history of God's faithful people through all of time, through all of the years. Christ's holy temple is secure in this imagery, and yet it's still vulnerable. It's free from apostasy by the true bride of Christ, but it's open to attack. English theologian uh George Bradford cared. He lived back in the 20th century, so not that long ago. He held to this last view I just mentioned, and in the year that I was born, he wrote Like the seal that was set on the foreheads of God's servants, the measuring of the temple betokens an inner security against spiritual dangers. But the angels' orders are to leave the outer court exposed, because God does not offer to the church security from bodily suffering or death. It is his intention that they should remain outwardly vulnerable to the full hostility of their enemies, secure only in their faith in the crucified and risen Lord. In this life there is suffering. But believer and unbeliever alike. But spiritual protection and then for eternity physical blessing belong to those who are on the right side of the measuring line. And spiritual and physical torment for eternity await those on the rebellious and unrepentant side of the measuring line. So I think a question that everyone should ask themselves on which side of the measuring line am I? Verse 3 of Revelation chapter 11 says, And I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for twelve hundred and sixty days clothed in sackcloth. So now we have the famous two witnesses introduced. And we're going to dive deep into the details of their identities the next time. We get together and I preach here. So for now we're just going to take a look at the the timestamp in this verse and the description of their dress. Now, verse 2, remember, we were told that the court given to the nations would stampede the Holy City for 42 months. And in verse 3, we're told that Christ's witnesses would prophesy for 1,260 days while dressed in sackcloth. Sackcloth, the vestments of penitence, humility, mourning. Sackcloth was coarse, rough fabric. It was usually made of goat hair or camel hair. And God's prophets, they would wear sackcloth to express their disapproval of the wickedness in the world and to symbolize God's judgment on the wicked world? And one thing when somebody thinks about it for just a moment, it calls to mind that sackcloth is actually an excellent emblem of Messiah. Jesus was a man of sorrows and humility and mourning. And Christ comes again, a second time, in judgment of the wicked world. Now some see the sackcloth, and they what they see here is the distressed and lowly state of the church And some see the mention of the 1260 days, and they equate this with the period of the reign of Antichrist. And that actually is an idea that helps to explain further that the sackcloth wearing witnesses from Yahweh bear a message of judgment and a call to repentance. So it seems we're to understand that while the outer court is being trampled, the witnesses are prophesying at the same time. This is a period that Luke calls the times of the nations or the times of the Gentiles. We read about this in Luke chapter 21, verses 17 through 24. I mentioned this at the start, so if you bookmark that, you can turn there quickly. Jesus says, You will be hated by all because of my name. Yet not a hair of your head will perish. By your endurance you will gain your lives. But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then recognize that her desolation is near Then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains, and those who are in the midst of the city must leave, and those who are in the country must not enter the city, because these are the days of vengeance. So that all things which are written will be fulfilled. Woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days, for there will be great distress upon the land and wrath to this people. And they will fall by the edge of the sword. And will be led captive into all the nations. And Jerusalem will be trampled underfoot by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled. This passage I just read, it finds at least partial fulfillment in what happened in 70 A. D. But also looking forward. Things are going to get rough. Things are already rough. But for how long? What's meant by 42 months? 1,260 days. Well, if we're good at math, and we know how various calendars work, then we can see that these two time frames they are the same length In round numbers, each lunar month is 30 days, and 42 of these lunar months equals 1,260 days. And this numerology it connects with the book of Daniel, where in chapter 12 it mentions 1290 days. Wait, what? Why does Daniel say 1,290 days, but Revelation says 1,260 days? It's because the lunar calendar and the solar calendar they do not precisely align. It's why we have different days for Passover and Resurrection Sunday and things like that within the Christian faith tradition. And lunar calendar years have fewer days than do solar calendar years, by about a week-ish. So to compensate, the ancient Babylonians would insert an extra month into their calendar every few years. So they could bring everything back into alignment. Similar reason to what we do now, right? Every four years every leap year in February we add a day. It brings everything back into alignment. Only for them they added the whole month The result is the Babylonian calendar, for them, 1,290 days would equal three and a half years. Three and a half years, 42 months, so that's pretty cool, right? Now for Daniel, he was writing about a time of persecution and suffering from his perspective in the future. And for John, he was writing about a time of persecution and suffering, from his perspective, in his time, and extending into our time, until the return of our king. So from one vantage point, the 42 months, it might be considered the entire church age. From another vantage point, we might see the 42 months as very narrowly defined moments in the life of God's people at particular times in history. Talk about all the repetition with the fractals, all the repetition in the book of Revelation. Well, there's maybe an argument for a lot of repetition just throughout redemptive history. Like from Luke chapter 4, verse 25, and in James chapter 5, verse 17, we know that Elijah's well-known season of drought and famine lasted three and a half years. That's 42 months. History tells us that the reign of terror by Antiochus Epiphanes in Judea lasted this long, beginning in B. C. 168. Emperor Caligula, he went mad. He led a reign of terror for about three and a half years, beginning in A. D. 37. The Jewish War, leading to the fall of everything in Jerusalem, including the temple, in A. D. 70, it began in A. D. 67, about 42 months before it ended. There's even possibly a corresponding connection to the Israelites wandering in the wilderness, depending on how you want to start and stop the clock. From the slitting of the Red Sea to the fall of Jericho could be calculated as forty-two years Now that's not forty-two months. But given the fluidity of John using days and months and years in This chapter of Revelation particularly seems fair to symbolically make that connection potentially. And I know we're used to hearing that uh the Israelites they wandered in the wilderness for forty years, and that is true. But there could be an argument to be made that that 40-year clock starts ticking almost two years after Israel is delivered from Egypt. Right after those twelve spies went in to scout things out, and ten of them came back and said, we can't go enjoy all that milk and honey, because there's giants in that there promised land. And so if the clock starts ticking then, maybe you can get to forty-two years. Now, the exact timing of all of that's not Perfectly easy to calculate, at least not in my estimation, so I wouldn't hang ahead of doctrine on it. But is John making an allusion to this sort of thing for illustrative purposes? And I think he could be And if we make this almost allegorical leap, so it's a little bit thin ice we might be skating on here, we then would see the church today maybe wandering in the wilderness. As it were. As we await the forty-two months to be up. It's a long forty-two months, isn't it? So we can cross the Jordan, so to speak. Join our fearless leader Jesus in his eternal victory on the other side. Now something else that makes a lot of sense when remembering the symbolism of revelation is best understood symbolically. Is that three and a half years is half of seven years The number seven is hugely important throughout this series of visions in the book of Revelation. Huge. Can't overstate it even. And number seven, that's the number of perfection, of completion. And so three and a half, that's halfway to Perfect. It's it's perfect completion cut short. You know it's a finite time. But If it's mostly meant to be half of perfect completion, and that's what I'm suggesting to you, then it could be a rather unspecified length of time, even though it is finite. It could even maybe be something like, oh, I don't know, two thousand years or so. Interestingly Added note, the length of Christ's earthly ministry might have been three and a half years. There's lots of people who think so. And taking this Christ connection even further, it's often said that the cross of Christ It marks the midpoint in history. Right? Everything that happens before that is looking ahead to the cross Everything that happens after that is looking back to the cross. So if three and a half is halfway to seven, and it is, Then maybe there's an allusion to the halfway point in redemptive history. Now dispensationalists they might say that the forty-two months this Three and a half years is uh representative of the final half of what they expect to be a seven-year Great Tribulation. Time in the future when God will uh shelter the Jews in the wilderness? This is connected to their uh interpretation of Revelation chapter 12, which we haven't gotten to yet. Many non-dispensationalists, they see it as 42 months highlighting a complete period of suffering that is cut in half. So it's a period of suffering that is much longer than seven years, but it's still cut short. So it's of a limited length. And comparing the three and a half years of suffering with the three and a half days of the beast's apparent victory in the upcoming verses of this chapter, which we'll be getting to in the upcoming weeks. Well, this helps us understand that the enemy's triumph, it is exceptionally brief by comparison. Now, as we're heading down the home stretch, I'm sure many already know that there is loads of information that could be drawn from Daniel chapter 7 and 9 and 11 and 12. to amplify some of these ideas here in Revelation. But we are drawing this sermon to a close very shortly, so we're not going to make each and every possible connection with Daniel that we could make right now. But I will simply draw our attention to what is probably the most significant of these clues to unlocking the numbers, the passage that is found in the last paragraph of Daniel 9, which says, picking up with verse 24 if you're reading along, I'm going to read through the end of 27. Seventy weeks have been decreed for your people and your holy city, to finish the transgression, to make an end of sin, to make atonement for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness. to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy place. So you are to know and discern that from the issuing of the of a decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until Messiah, the Prince, There will be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks. It will be built again with plaza and moat, even in times of distress. Then after the 62 weeks the Messiah will be cut off and have nothing, and the people of the Prince who is to come will destroy the city and the sanctuary And its end will come with a flood, even to the end there will be war. Desolations are determined. And he will make a firm covenant with the many for one week. But in the middle of the week he will put a stop to sacrifice and grain offering. And on the wing of abominations will come one who makes desolate, even until a complete destruction, one that is decreed. is poured out on the one who makes desolate. So in this section of Scripture in the Old Testament, God he sets out a period of seventy weeks worth of years and There are seven days in a week and each day is a symbolic year and 70 times seven is 490, 490 years, in other words, ten Jubilee cycles. Now you've heard of some of these sorts of things in previous lectures or Sunday school classes, other sermons. books you've read, online articles, what have you. And there's a lot of symbolic math here that's that that's that's built upon really the 70 years of exile that was prophesied by Jeremiah. With each of those years being sabbatical years during which the land was to be at rest. So anyway, the Jeremiah prophecy, it leads to preliminary fulfillment. A fulfillment that happened in the past with the end of the Jewish exile. And Daniel's prophecy it piggybacks on this, leading to a permanent fulfillment that happens in the future. And the book of Revelation is talking about this future, the final restoration of God's people. Now there is a whole bunch of stuff connected with the last week of Daniel's prophecy, the final seven symbolic years. This is the time of last days after the Messiah has come and accomplished redemption. It's in the middle of the final week that the temple is destroyed. And there's a period of great trouble and persecution. And it's from all this stuff I've said in the last few minutes. Really where we get all the fodder for so many of the arguments about pre-tribulation, mid-tribulation, post-tribulation timing. Whether or not the the middle of the final week is depicting the dis the the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple in AD seventy and whether the twelve hundred and sixty days of Revelation representatively cover um Well, really, the entire period of time between the first and second advent of Christ. Now we are not going to enter all the weeds of that today. Not here and now anyway, but suffice it to say that as with all of these visions in Revelation As you can tell by today's sermon, there are opportunities for multiple applications, and I think many, most, maybe all, have some validity to them. So let me simplify this, because there's so many things that I just threw out there today. In this case, one of the big takeaway items is this. Persecution will come. It will be limited in length by God, and in the end, believers in Christ share in his vindication. So all that other muckety muck, it boils down to that. And that's what we're going to continue to see as we progress through the remainder of chapter 11, which we will endeavor to do once more the next time. I preach here with household of faith in Christ, God willing, and the creeds don't rise. So let's pray. Father, you're such a good God We thank you that in passages like this we can be reminded that you have a plan that when things need to be out of control that you are in control. When it seems that there's no end in sight to all the plight of people around the world, especially your people, that there is an end. Everything's working itself out in your perfect timing. Did you have given us hints and clues and descriptions to help us have a security? Maybe not in every little detail of what's going to happen in the world, but have security in knowing that you know every little detail that's happening in the world and you've got it covered. And you've got your people protected. You have measured things out. And those who are in Christ were not found wanting. Because when you look at us, You see the record, the perfect record of Jesus Christ, his perfect worship of you. And we ask that you would help us to do a better job of worshiping you. By the power of your Holy Spirit, that we would lean upon you and your word to be obedient and to boldly proclaim the truth to a world that needs to hear it. Even when so many, at least for now, have clearly rejected it. We ask your blessing upon our upcoming conversation, our discussion of this passage and the lessons in it. And that when we leave here later today, that we would understand that we are entering a mission field around us. And we are to be on mission always. Forgive us for falling short of that, Lord. Help us to do better. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. You should try. So you might have noticed um I have a view that I think you could probably filter through what my view on some of these things is, but I was trying to be even-handed and Fair reminder to our Christian brothers and sisters that would approach some of these images a little bit differently than I think that we should. Um so I don't know if that was helpful or confusing. I'm hoping it was helpful, but if it was confusing, this is a chance to ask for some clarity. So anybody has any questions on the heels of that? Well we're going to get into the um the identities specifically of the witnesses uh next uh the next sermon I do. So we're not gonna I'm not seeing the witness uh but I can I can tell you generally speaking, um if you were to have framed that as a two-part question like so, is it or is it not, my answer would have been yes. Yay, I love answers like that. I think I think that there's I don't think that we can be dogmatic as we were trying to really wrestle what the scripture actually says to us Like we're looking at words on a page. What do those words really say? I don't think we can be dogmatic either way. Could it actually be too um you know historical human being figures, two men, possibly uh actually you know Old Testament prophets. Um Or representative of the Old Testament prophets, either one, because God could do that if he wants. I mean they show up at the moment of transfiguration, right? So he could show up at the end. I don't think we can take that off the table. However, as has then a a drumbeat for me with Revelation, I am the more I'm the the more steeped in the study I am, the more persuaded I've become, even than I was at the start that we need to uh there's no cliche particularly in like a conservative, you know, Baptist kinds of uh of uh uh uh traditions where the rule of thumb is you take it and I'm gonna use the word woodenly because that's really what they mean. You take uh they would use the word literally but I'm gonna use the word woodenly You take the passage woodenly unless you have reason to do otherwise. And generally speaking, I don't disagree with that depending on the genre that we're in. But in Revelation I've become increasingly persuaded that the rule of thumb should be take the image symbolically unless you have reason to do otherwise 'Cause it's just sim symbol on top of symbol and it's not even always as simple as this image means that specifically. I think that there's a lot of times in Revelation where this symbol that we're given a visual representation of, it means this and this and this and this and this. And so it has multiple applications. So um I'm gonna steal my own thunder a little bit, but finishing the answer. One of the reasons why I I wouldn't be shocked if there's two actual historical figures that arrive on the scene. But there's two reasons why I tend personally to lean in uh in a different direction is one, well who are those two people now? I don't think that they've come yet. Nobody's identified. Oh, those are the two. And if that's the case, that means that Christ can't return at any moment. We need to wait for these two witnesses to arrive. And I'm persuaded the scripture tells us that Christ is coming with I think it could happen it could you know Christ return could happen now. I'm persuaded that that's true. I know the dispensationalists firmly disagree with that. me on that. And the other thing is, there should be a personal application. When we're reading the Bible, we see how it does it apply to us. So how do these witnesses apply to us? I think if we see them, even if they are historical figures to come, at the very least we can look forward at time and see, okay, what are they doing? What does that mean for us as witnesses? So I think at the very least we should apply it to ourselves symbolically, even if they are, in fact, historical figures that will arrive. I know it's not as exciting of a movie to make. You know, with two men shooting fire out of their mouths and stuff like that, you know, that's that's that's uh that's a much more exciting movie to make than than how I think we should probably understand these things, but Anyway, I don't think I spilled too much by thunder. There's still some surprises waiting for you next time. What do you what has been your guys' experience in as been in church for a long time? I mean probably a year ago I read uh I was exposed to just the Daniel timeline, so I don't know if that's necessarily the same timeline. Uh John is just alluding to that. Because the Daniel timeline more or less you calculate it out with seven years, so one year um what, seventy years or whatever. The seven it's heptas, which basically means like a dozen except seven. So I think it's it and the way it divides it up it's like two seven what sixty-two or seven and sixty-two which each is to fifty nine and then on the seventh seventieth week then there's a break in the middle so it generally is interpreted that that adds up to Christ and you You do the years, break it out by years, it'll take you either to the uh baptism of Christ in uh by John the Baptist, or it would take the crucifixion just depending on how you how you calculate like rounding air, but you're in that you're in that ballpark. Yeah, I I I don't disagree with that. I think that Daniel is talking is pointing forward to the time of Christ. And so, you know, we do the map and oh look at that. It it it lines up with Christ. Big surprise. I think that's exactly what it's talking about And I do think that John, um It's been a while and you actually weren't with us when we started the series. Uh so John never directly quotes like the Old Testament like in a direct like oh that that sentence is from the Old Testament. Like he's not doing that But he is immersed in the Old Testament. Like the number of allusions in the Old Testament is off the charts. So uh I think that's helpful in this sense because he's obviously Oh finally we use the word borrowing. I can't think of a better word right now. Yeah, he's playing off of, he's making use of, he's utilizing what's going on with Daniel, but he's not quoting it verbatim. I don't think he's applying it exactly. I think he's touching upon something that was familiar to the original audience. They would recognize, oh, this sounds like something we heard from Prophet Daniel. And he's still applying it to Christ, but he's repurposing some of that differently, which is where I think the three and a half weeks a quote an actual quote like you might do in the gospel calendar thing because it's not necessarily one for one. I think I would I think I would be might be prone to interpret a little bit differently if he's saying, as Prophet Daniel says, bang, I'm like, okay, he's drawing attention to that specifically. And why would he do that if he's not using the exact same mass, the exact same idea? He's doing that on purpose. Unless he's then gonna pivot off of that and say, You heard that from the prophet in the Old Testament and now you're hearing this from me, because Paul uh uh does that, Christ does that. So people that uh have dispensational theology, and I'm not sure everybody in the room knows what dispensational theology is, but there's different ways to understand the end times. timing of everything. And uh one of the views is called dispensationalism. What in the world? Uh stream. Everyone watching because like oh my gosh I had an earthquake. What the heck? Did it just like randomly let down? That was all the dispensation. Oh you know what? I think the rubber band broke. Yeah, down there. Would you like a hair tie? Mm. Yeah, 'cause that's less like this now. It is? Looks like we might still be alive. Well it looks like we're still good. Alright, well I don't know if this is gonna work as well. You know what we're gonna do? Because this has gotten weird with the the the uh The high-tech camera that we have. I'm just gonna we're just gonna wrap up the discussion now. We'll continue uh for the stream. We'll continue here in the room, but we're gonna wrap up the streams So wanna say hello? All right. Anyway, so um Yeah, it looks like we had some people watching later they were gonna stop and they dropped off. So well if you're watching this on the replay later, goodbye. God bless. See you uh see you on this uh uh well I'll see you on the stream tomorrow if you happen to catch it at seven o'clock.