I make sure that's running. It looks like it is. Good evening. Yeah. Are there such thing as ghosts? Yeah, so welcome. We're making this a habit. I'm not sure how many we've done now. This is probably in the ballpark of ten, I'm gonna guess, probably in that in that vicinity. And um our intention actually is to continue what we've been doing right now is working through questions that people are submitting and then I'm tackling them during the week and preparing uh to share with you um what the results of those study This is the last suggested question, so I'm gonna actually suggest my own question for next week. It's screaming that we would uh talk about what a biblical perspective on quote unquote race is, so we'll probably do that next week. Um but then after that there's nothing on the agenda. So I wouldn't encourage you uh strongly to to volunteer a question. It could be a Bible passage you've wrestled with or a question you've always wondered about or something you heard said by somebody you weren't sure if it was biblical or anything like that or other that's related to Christianity in the Bible, suggest your questions and we'll add them to the agenda moving forward. Um tonight's topic again is are there such things as ghosts? And if you want to get your Bible ready, we're going to be reading the entire chapter of 1 Samuel 28. So 1 Samuel is in the um Old Testament and a pretty pretty big book, so you should be able to find it relatively easily. Here's a hint. If you find 2 Samuel It's right before that. First Samuel twenty-eight. Got it. Um and so we get into that, but I don't know if you We have a ghost joke? No, we're not even going to be able to do that. So here in a moment, uh Angela's gonna open us. the word of prayer that's kind of become her role of things. Uh and then I'm gonna have her probably close as well. Uh Dina's going to have her joke. She's gonna actually do the scripture reading. She's gonna read from 1 Samuel chapter 28 Um and so there won't be a song. Her her big contribution to the night is going to be reading the the the the chapter, uh telling the joke later, and uh hopefully we're gonna have time for a bit of a of a conversation because there are some interesting personal stories and anecdotes and and uh and things that I think people might want to share. And feel free to share your thoughts and comments and questions through the comment section and we'll address And at some point we're gonna either put her in the mudroom or lock her up. That barking's a little not so good. I I mean uh when I've watched these videos back, I can hear the barking and I don't know if that's distracting to you or not and I would rather not not have you be distracted. So I know she likes to distract you when she's in here, so we can put it in the button for talk for that. Anyway. Alright, Angela, if you wouldn't mind praying. Gracious Heavenly Father For we come here gathered in your name, Lord Jesus, to honor and magnify you, Lord, through this teaching. Lord God, we know that you're Word teaches that the Holy Spirit is the spirit of truth, and we are talking about the spirit or the ghost this evening. And so, Lord, we are welcoming the presence of your spirit, Lord, to to speak that to help Pastor Troy speak the truth and communicate it effectively to everyone. We are dependent upon you Lord, for the truth. You are the source of truth, and your word says you lead us into all the truth. And so we ask, Lord, that you would come and lead Pastor Troy into all the truth. And we uh ask that you would draw to this teaching all those who would need to hear it. And we dedicate this time to you, we consecrate it unto you, and we ask That you have your way in this time of teaching through Pastor Troy in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So we've had a couple of uh what almost strike you as out of left field kinds of topics suggested a few weeks ago. Would Jesus wear a mask? Uh it doesn't sound like a theological or biblical question, but it actually proved to be rather profound and I think it was good discussion and uh a good lesson. And are the such things as ghosts can sound like a silly kind of a question, but it's really not. And it's the kind of question that's People have on their minds, and the Bible does speak to these sorts of things, and so we should we should know what the Bible of God's Word has to say about these sorts of things. So what does the Bible say about ghosts? Well, it does say some things, but it borders on virtually nothing. There's not a whole lot about ghosts in the way that we think about ghosts. Certainly there's a lot about the ghost in the sense of the Holy Ghost, the Holy Spirit, but there's actually different words uh in the original biblical language. there which I'll touch on uh in a minute. So but there are uh a few references in the Bible in the New Testament um we find the disciples of Christ thinking that Jesus was a ghost In Matthew 14, verse 26, it says, When the disciples saw him walking on the lake, they were terrified. It's a ghost, they said, and cried out in fear. In Luke 24, 39, it's Jesus talking here, and he says, look at my hands and my feet. It is I myself. Touch me and see. A ghost does not have flesh and bones. As you You see I have. So there's two examples where the word ghost is used, and Jesus himself is one of the people talking. Now the whole word you could say is Jesus, right? Because Jesus is The Son, the Son is the Word, Jesus is the Word, and so a whole Bible is the Word of God speaking to us. But even uh in his uh incarnation, Jesus doesn't deny So we have a negative. We know that in that particular moment In time, Jesus wasn't a ghost, but what are they? The Greek word that's used here in these two verses I read, by the way, is uh the the word uh We would pronounce it uh phantasma. In the Greek the emphasis would be early on be phantasma, uh which means appearance, uh an uh an apparition, some sort of of a a spectre, uh different word than uh uh pneuma, which is uh the New Testament word for spirit, so uh they're not interchangeable. We have a tendency sometimes when we think Holy Ghost, Holy Spirit, that ghost and spirit can be interchangeable, but not in the Greek. So Jesus did not say, look at me, touch me because uh I'm I'm a spirit. it. So there's some distinction there. But all this does really is moves the question Okay, so if a ghost, a uh phantasma, uh phantasma, uh is an appearance, an apparition, a scepter, okay, so what is the appearance? What is the apparition? What is the scepter? We've just moved the question. Well, maybe we'd get some insight from what is perhaps the best known ghost story Maybe ever, but certainly the best known ghost story in the Bible. It's found in the Old Testament, where the witch of Endor is contacted by King Saul to summon the prophets. Samuel from the dead. So that's what I referenced at the very beginning here. So if you if you have your Bibles ready and you want to open, you can turn to 1 Samuel chapter 28. And uh Dina's going to read the entire All right. Now it came about in those days that the Philistines gathered their armed camps for war to fight against Israel, and Aqish said to David, Know assuredly that You will go out with me in the camp, you and your men. David said to Akish, Very well, you shall know what your servant can do. So Akish said to David, Very well, I will make you Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him and buried him in Ramah, his own city. So the Philistines gathered together and came and camped in Shunem. And Saul gathered all Israel together and they camped in Gilboah. When Saul saw the camp of Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly. When Saul inquired of the Lord, the Lord did not answer him, either by dreams or by By Urim or by prophets. Then Saul said to his servants, Seek for me a woman who is a medium that I may go to her and inquire of her. And his servants said to him, Behold There is a woman who is a medium at Endor. Then Saul disguised himself by putting on other clothes and went, he and two men with him. And they came to the woman by night, and he said, Conjure up for me, please, and bring up for me whom I shall name to you. But the woman said to him, Behold You know what Saul has done, how he has cut off those who are mediums and spiritus from the land. Why are you then laying a snare for my my life to bring about my death. Saul vowed to her by the Lord, saying, As the Lord lives, no punishment shall come upon you for this thing. And he said, Bring up Samuel for me. When the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice And the woman spoke to Saul, saying, Why do you deceive me? For you are Saul. The king said to her, Do not be afraid, but what do you see? And the woman said to Saul I see a divine being coming up out of the earth. He said to her, What is his form? And she said, An old man is coming up, and he is wrapped with a robe And Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he bowed his face to the ground and did homage. Then Samuel said to Saul, Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up? And Saul answered, I am great Distressed, for the Philistines are waging war against me, and God has departed from me and no longer answers me, either through prophets or by dreams. Therefore I have called you that you make known To me what I should do. Samuel said, Why then do you ask me, since the Lord has departed from you and has become your adversary? The Lord has done accordingly as he spoke To David, as you did not obey the Lord and did not execute his Fierce wrath of on Am Amalek, so the Lord has done this thing to you this day. Moreover, the Lord will also give over Israel along with you into the hands of the Philistines. Philistines. Therefore, tomorrow you and your sons will be with me. Indeed, the Lord will give you over, give over the army of Israel into the hands of the Philistines. Then Saul immediately fell full length upon the ground and was very afraid because of the words of Samuel. Also there was no strength in him, for he had eaten no food. The woman came to Saul and saw that he was terrified and said to him, Behold, your maidservant has obeyed you, and I have taken my life in my hand, and have listened to your words which you spoke to me. So now also please listen to the voice of your eight maidservant, and let me set a piece of bread before you that you may eat and have strength. So he arose from the ground and sat The woman had a fattened calf in the house, and she quickly slaughtered it, and she took flour and kneaded it and baked unleavened bread from it. She brought it before Saul and his servants, and they The word of God inspired infallible inerrant and a perfect rule. guiding our faith and lives. So what do we have going on here? This passage has caused quite a bit of head scratching over the years. For a lot of people because I mean it's within the biblical canon. This is the inspired word of God, which elsewhere condemns the kind of things that This woman in Endor was doing. It condemns necromancy, wizardry, spiritualist activity like that. In Deuteronomy chapter 18. So, what does this mean? Well, it doesn't have to mean that we have an unsolvable problem. There are questions, Galore, about a passage like this. To be sure, but there is an answer. Now, the first question that will often come to mind when grappling with this: if you pick up your Bible, you're working through, you're reading your Bible in a year, and you come upon this passage and you're like, okay, let me try to make sense of it this and I think an instinct for a lot of us the first thing we want to do is say, well was it really Samuel? Maybe it wasn't Samuel. Maybe it was just it appeared to be Samuel. So maybe Maybe Samuel didn't actually come and visit from the dead. Maybe that's a way to explain it. So, well, what does the text say? I mean let's start pretty basically with what does what do the actual words in the story say? I think a fair, plain reading of the text, taking it At face value, taking it for what the words actually are, the text says that a dead Samuel spoke to Saul. That's what the text says. It says that Samuel said to Saul. Earlier it talked about how Samuel was dead. Oh. It went out of the way and talking about how they mourned him. He was it wasn't like he was kinda sort of dead. He was dead, dead. He was really dead. And yet here he is speaking, and it says it multiple times. Samuel said, Samuel said. So the text would indicate Samuel, dead Samuel, spoke to an alive Saul. That's what it says. But it doesn't tell us how. How did that happen? What was going on there? And did this woman in the text really have powers to raise Samuel from the dead? Did she conjure him up? Did they organize a seance? And she put her fingers on the crystal ball and all of a sudden the table shifted and Samuel rises up out of the ground Well, reading the narrative, and Dina did a good job reading, so I don't think you could help but notice that the woman she seems to be able to She's as surprised as anybody when Sammy Hole shows up. She sh cries out in a loud voice. She say she screams, okay? So this would seem to Suggest at least a little bit that perhaps in the past when she was asked to do things like this, that whatever results she got were mere fakery Because when it actually happens, she freaks out. She is shocked out of her skin. Oh. Something actually happened. She can't believe it almost. So again, if we take the words of the story at face value, it is fair to say that Samuel, the prophet, is actually appearing from the dead, and the woman has nothing to do with making this happen. So what does that mean? Who did it Did Samuel raise himself from the dead? Who has the power to do this Ooh, ooh, me, me. God can do this. God has the power to do this. God can bring Samuel back and have Samuel speak to Saul. This is well within God's power. Do you believe that? I I would hope if you if at least if you're a Christian, I would hope you believe that you have to believe Because Christians who trust their Bibles believe that God can do this. Because if we don't believe that He can do this, then we We've got a real problem with Moses and Elijah coming back from the dead to speak to Jesus at the Transfiguration. So if he could do it there, he could do it here. And Christians must believe that God has this power. And if we don't believe that God can bring somebody back from the dead, what is the Christian faith all about anyway? I also think, by the way, it's so funny how she um She's so disturbed that she can't wait to get them out of her house. She's like, No, you need to eat and leave. Okay, get up, eat, and be on your way. Have a little food and then take up your mat and go. Pretty much. So um I think it's important. I don't want to pass over this, but I don't want to spend a whole lot of time on it either because it's not really what the passage is about, right? 1 Samuel 28 is not about witches and weirdness. That's not the point. That's not why this is here. People will turn to it and it's fun to grab Okay, what's going on? What is that apparition? Who made that happen? Was it really Samuel? That's all interesting. It's helpful in understanding what the true point and purpose of this chapter in the Bible is, but what is it really about? If it's not about the occult and hobgoblins, if that's not the main point here, what is the main point. Well, I would suggest that this chapter of the Bible is about three things mainly. The first one, the first lesson that the Bible student reading this passage of God's Word should take is That if you reject God's word, God will take his word away from you. Notice that Samuel, at the time of the attempted Conjuring of the dead by the the woman Andor. At this time uh the the writer is telling us some information Information and he's saying that God's mouthpiece, Samuel is a prophet of God, he's proclaiming God's word, he is God's mouthpiece to the previous generation and to Samuel Saul, by the way, by by s uh uh extension, and perhaps even in particular, so God's Word, God's spokesperson Samuel is dead. The writer of this passage wants the reader to understand that God's spokesperson to God's people generally and to Saul specifically. is dead. And the voice of God is now seemingly being sought by Saul, but he can't get over Word from God. The word is gone. He's no longer there. Am I emphasizing this enough? Saul has no access to the direct word of God. Now, without Samuel he could still have access through other means that would be biblical and scriptural or examples of them. Like it's possible that dreams would be a way. That Saul could could could hear directly from God, but he can't force God to speak to him in dreams. We can't force God to speak to us in dreams. The erm and thumen with the erm is mentioned in the passage that uh Dina read a moment ago. So that'd be a possibility, right? That's a way of discerning God's will, hearing God's word in a situation, kind of a binary choice. Should we go left or right? Let's Let's go to the high priest and find out. Except Paul had no access to the uh to the Urman themon because uh Aviathar, the the the only survivor of the slaughter of the priests. Wasn't with Saul. He was with David. And so Saul can't count on dreams. He can't count on going to the priests. So he has to resort, or at least he feels like, he has to resort to other methods. Saul has no access to the Word of God. Why? Because he had rejected the Word of God. He had rejected Samuel's prophecy earlier, which is alluded to in the story. And so God withdraws, and now Saul is afraid. The Philistines are coming. The Philistines are coming. And he needs guidance. He doesn't know what to do. But God is silent. God doesn't speak to Saul, and so what's the king to do? Well, what's happened here is that God has given Saul over to his reprobate mind. Turned him over to himself. He has hardened his heart. And when the Bible talks about God hardening someone's heart, all he's doing is is is removing his hand of grace because our hearts are naturally hardening. So all God has to do is remove his hand of sustaining grace, and our hearts will harden. And his heart was hardened and he's turned over to his own imaginations, his own sinful mind. And he did this because Saul exchanged the truth of God for a lie. And we know that he continued in this exchange, continued down this path, because what does he do? He goes to see a witch. Now in Pharaoh Well maybe he didn't know it was wrong. Maybe Saul didn't know what he was doing. Exactly. So he can't go to a prophet. He can't go to God's word because God isn't speaking to him, right? So he has no access to the truth. And so life has become a lie. I lost my uh I don't want to I don't want to I want to just I think I'm good but I want you Hmm. I know there's something on here on another page. Well I'll address your point. So some Oh he passes a law and he casts out all the all the uh necromancers, all the mediums, all the all the witches and warlocks. He casts them out. He knows that it's wrong and yet he goes to seek one out anyway. Disguise themselves, but that's a tip off. Yeah, well and there's and that's a tip off of of even more. The disguise is actually a a tip off that he's ashamed, that he's hiding and stuff, but there's even more going on uh there. Um so anyway, so Stall provides us a lesson of what happens when God removes his word, when God removes his voice. If you reject God's word Then it's taken away from you, and that's part of what this passage is teaching. Now it also teaches that if you reject God, all you have left is Satan. Right? That's your choice. If you don't want God, you're gonna have the God of this world. You're gonna have Satan. That's all you're left with. Saul has believed a lie. He's believed the lie. Well, who tells lies? Who's the father of lies? Who is the liar? Satan is The liar. He is a liar from the very beginning all the way back to the book of Genesis. So again, he knows the truth. He knows he shouldn't be consulting with witches, Saul does And there's great irony and hypocrisy in that, as we talked about. Um it's the path of the evil one that he's marching down, showing that he is left with only Satan, and as Dina said He puts on a disguise, he hides, he disguises himself. Who else disguises himself and masquerades or something that he's not? The enemy, the accuser, Satan, Lucifer, the devil, right? All these things the dragon. He's a great deceiver who lies and hides and disguises himself. So Saul is taking on the character Or the one to whom now he's really following after. He's not following after God, he's following after Satan. And he starts to take on the the image. He becomes an image bearer in a sense of of Satan Satan. Now I want you to notice when Samuel appears, he appears to the woman rather than Saul. Did you pick up on that? The woman describes to Saul What she's seeing. Saul asks him, What do you see? The woman sees Samuel, but Saul doesn't see Samuel. Again, emphasizing the fact that God's word has been removed from Saul So he'll show up and speak where the woman can see, but not Saul, at least not initially. And when Samuel talks, think about this, Noah. I said at the very beginning of this lesson, when Samuel talks, who is it that's speaking? I mean it's Samuel, I guess Yes, in a sense, but as a representative, he's speaking God's word. And so it's interesting that Saul is seeking after a word from God. He wants A word from God. He's been cut off from the word of God because he had rejected God's word and it's been taken from him. And now he's trying to find some evil, nefarious way to get it. And and so God, in the text, if this is the Detroit paraphrase. God says, okay, Saul, fine. You wanted a word from God? I'll give you a word from God. And what is that word? What does Samuel say to Saul in this chapter? The word is exactly what it was. was before. God has abandoned you. God has forsaken you. So you wanted a word? Let me add for emphasis the last word you have I'm turning you over to yourself, I'm turning you over to Satan. You get no more word from me. That's the third thing that's going on here. If if you reject God He will reject you. You reject his word, he takes it away from you. You reject him, he he he takes himself away from you. So this chapter is really not about And the spirit world and seances. It's about a guy who happened to be a king who rejects God and believes a lie. And Tries to go around God to hear from God. How ironic. He wants to go around God so he can hear from God. And God supernaturally does what only God can do. He puts forward the now dead Prophet Samuel to give him an echo of what he had already heard from him before. And I think it's important for us as believers to recognize that what's being described here with Samuel, it is it is not normative. This is not typical. This is an unusual happening. And it's definitely not a nod to the occult. This is not scripture encouraging us to go find somebody that can hope to conjure up a death person for us. And so with that in mind, I think it helps us to see that ghosts, whatever we think they might be, if you should happen to see a ghost, you should understand that they They are not disembodied spirits of dead people who are wandering aimlessly, like they're trapped between one phase of of life and another phase of life. You know, there's so many times our stories that are You know, horror movies and stuff, the haunted houses. It's about somebody died in that house three hundred years ago and they can't go to live happily ever after into the spirit world until they solve some last conundrum in their physical life while they walk the earth. But that's not what ghosts are. Certainly that's not the biblical example idea of what Ghosts are. But the Bible does indicate that there are ghosts. There are apparitions. There there is this spirit realm that's out there. So if you have a visitation from something you might call Ghost, what are you to consider that it is? Because we know this. When somebody dies, they don't haunt the planet as a ghost. We know that's not true. And we know that But they don't get turned into chubby little uh you know, fat guys with bones and arrows and and float on wings and look like Cupid. We know that that's not what happens. We talk about what happens when somebody dies actually a couple weeks back And so we're not going to be labored that. So, but if you do see something, because the spirit world is real, there's a spiritual war going on. Satan and the and and the demons Humans, they are they are real and angels are real. So what are we saying? Well I would suggest that if you happen to have a non-normative occurrence happening and maybe God could theoretically want to speak to you through somebody who has died. I would really check myself to make sure that's what I was experiencing. But we know from chapter 28 of 1 Samuel that that's on the table as a possibility. That could happen, although I'd be nervous that if that was happening, that it would might be for similar reasons to what was going on with Saul. He's sending somebody to speak to you a word that you already had as evidence that you had rejected him. Um it could It could be the deceiver himself masquerading, or one of his minions, bringing upon you a visitation from the dark side of the spirit world. It could be an angelic visitation. It could be some sort of an apparition in a in a spiritual sense of God Himself, maybe Christ appearing in like maybe a vision. That may be closer to a dream, but uh I think that sometimes people might see what they think as a ghost and really it's it's not anything like what we just read and talked about here, but it's more of a a a vision that God gives someone. So there's a variety of options, but whatever the options are, it's not your great great great great grandmother uh haunting you know the place So we're open for some discussion. We've got plenty of time here. We got uh a good twenty, twenty five minutes probably. Right, so this just popped into my head. After my mom passed, when I was eight something of her or a vision or weapon Whatever, used to walk up the stairs and go into the bedroom and it freaked me out. And I remember being like, Oh my gosh, please God, we can go away because it stopped happening once I asked God to not have it happen anymore, but what was that? Like I'm telling you, you know me, I'm not gonna lie to you, I'm your wife. Like I saw an apparition Like I know what I thought. So what is that? Yeah, well and for again for emphasis, I think I've already kind of alluded to this and maybe I've done more than allude, but I want to make sure The Christian response to these sorts of things cannot be there's no such thing as ghosts. Because really that's there's no such thing as supernatural. And the Christian belief believes in the supernatural. So we can't just say there's no such thing as ghosts. And it's very common. I mean the I I forget the exact number. But it's something in the ballpark of 80% of people believe in some idea of God, but it's like less than half of that believe in some idea of Satan. Like the people who believe in Satan the devil is a way smaller number. People discount that. There's no there's there's so was that my mother God allowing some Something that an uh some sort of an aberration to bring comfort to I was just had a trauma? No, I uh anything that we say here is gonna be mere speculation because Because we don't know and the Bible doesn't tell us exactly what that was in that situation. But I I I'm I feel confident that based on scripture that that was not uh your mother of her own volition and will appearing to you to bring you comfort. We know that that Well I didn't get comfort. So that's part of it. So if so if if it were to in fact have been her It would have been God choosing to bring her to you for a particular purpose. However, I wonder about that part of it because it was un. settling and made you afraid for the wrong reasons. Right. So I don't know that God would purposely want to strike fear into your heart at a young age. So I don't so it seems to me That it would be most likely from my opinion, and book this is not scriptural, you know, inspired word of God stuff. Okay, this is just my opinion for the taking my best shot. Seems to me that A demonic realm. Masquerading in a way to try to mess with your mind in a way that would be unhealthy and unhelpful to you, that seems possible. Um it could have been um a some sort of a of a of a vision and uh or or even an apparition that you misunderstood and it might not have been might have actually been uh it could have been a visitation from from the spirit realm that really wasn't your mother, but because of the proximity of her death and the youthfulness of your understanding how the world is and and and having you know uh a more vivid imagination when you're younger that there was a projection there that almost choked to see it as your mother when it wasn't? That seems possible to me. It doesn't seem probable to me, I don't know about you, Angela, it doesn't seem probable to me that God moved in that way 'cause I don't know what you gained from it. I don't know how it called you closer to him. Well, I called out to him. I don't know how it helped reveal his word to you. I I just I don't feel like it was that I would tend to agree with Troy uh on on that point. I I think that the the general so there's a r there's a rule and then there's there's almost an exception There's an an exception to almost every rule. And I think the general rule is once a person has passed on, they've completed their assignment on earth, you know, we're not to seek them, we're not to pray to them. Right. You know, they are if they're saved, they're at rest. If they're not saved, they're not at rest. But they're not here anymore. Their assignment on earth is over. Now the the Samuel story uh I think God allowed no this is the exception God allowed the very hard-headed and stubborn Saul to hear from Samuel one more time, which was the, as Troy pointed out, was the exact same word. God's not speaking to you. Right. He's done what you need. He's over. He has to make his own version. And but he he did get he did, you know, so the the thing about this story that could throw some people off is that he did give Samuel excuse me Saul some additional information which was, you know, lights are out for you tomorrow, which scared him. Now I just I believe that's an exception I don't believe that God as a general rule allows people to c to come back from the dead to give us direction because there's another uh or or instruction because there's another scripture in the Bible this when God is asking, it's in one of the book of the prophecies, and I can't think of it. I'm pretty sure it's in a book one of the prophecy books. When he asks, God asks the question, why seek Answers um for the living among the dead. Right, right, right, right. So God wants us to communicate with him He doesn't want us to pray to angels. He doesn't want us to pray to people. He wants us to pray to him. And I think that in that situation, that very likely was a divine entity. Right. Um trying to kind of rein you in, probably guessing that she's gonna miss her mother so much that you know, if I shouldn't start she'll start talking about it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then I can draw her in you know into that world into that world and it's it's it's it's it's the not the world of God. Probably I would think that evil spirits that that's a common tactic to draw people into the occult. Because they're vulnerable. Because people are vulnerable. Exactly. Especially if there's a loss. Yeah, if there's if there's a real loss and a deep a deep pain. Right. And they don't especially if they do not know God, to don't understand the Spirit to discern that. They they will just they'll cling on to that 'cause you know 'cause that's real 'cause by the way what is happening is real. Yes. I mean they're you know you the people who are mediums and spiritists and all that they are communicating with a demonic spirit with a masquerade Waiting as an angel of light or a you know a godly thing, and I use godly as small g in quotation mark because it's not the true God. But um There's another story if I might share, and actually I I got permission from our daughter to share this. I think I might have shared this with you too, Angela, at w uh a while ago. But when she was five, because we had just moved to my dad's house from Syracuse and she was, you know, in the family room playing or whatever, and I came home from someplace anyway, I walked in and W she just starts talking to me like as if you and I are having a conversation and she said, Yeah, Jesus came and he sat down and he was sitting on the window seat and he he asked me if I wanted to c Come sit on his lap and play. And I was like, what? And she was just telling me this story. Yeah, he had a big ring with keys on it. He she said, and I've never seen kinda like the keys I would go in and she goes, Let me show you. And she takes me upstairs to my where my father's bedroom is, 'cause my dad's house was old, built in like the probably eighteen hundreds and so it was like the funny keyhole with the skeleton key. Yeah, the key looked like it would go in that type of a hole. And she and sh and so from what I was trying to Text her earlier to see like what the dialogue was, and she couldn't remember, and my recall isn't as great, but I think it was something like he Jesus said to her, I I have the keys to all the doors. And it was something of that nature. But anyway, so I was texting her and I said, did Jesus tell you who he was or did you You just know and she said, Oh, I just knew which I thought was so and she's and the way she re told the story to me as a five year old, he came to play with her. And she said and he comes a lot. And he just sits with me and he asked me, you know, we just sit together and we talk. And I was like, Oh, okay. But it was just and again the innocence of a child He came to give her instruction of I am the way, the truth, the life, basically. I hold the keys to life and death, and here I am. So I believe that that truly was Jesus. She was not afraid. She went to him. She was drawn to him, which I thought was otherwise there's some strange man in my poppy's house? Like I should be screaming Right. But she knew he was Jesus. He didn't have to say, I am Jesus. She just knew. And he never said anything to her that was against the Bible. No. Or against it Right. And she said he wore a robe and he had a uh she did there was a rope around this room. And I just thought that that was so interesting. And if that s strikes, you know, if you're watching and you're thinking that strikes me as kind of odd that couldn't possibly be. Uh but I think we have to start with could it be legit? Because it can't be legit if it if it's impossibly legit. But it could be legit because we have examples in the Bible of Jesus appearing to people even before Absolutely. Absolutely before Joshua and Joshua want to know, are you on our side or on their side? And he's like, wrong question. Basically it's are you on my side is is what's going on there. So it it's it's possible. Uh sometimes the words that we use um are conventional uses of words, and I just want to make sure that a conventional use of words wouldn't cause any confusion a few minutes ago. Angela talked about somebody coming back from the dead. And just as a point of clarification, I'm almost positive Angela's going to agree. I don't think Angela is meaning to uh infer or convey that somebody came on their own back from the dead. Somebody quote quote unquote coming from the dead is maybe a better way for us to think, a better word to use be that you know being brought back from the dead. So rather than something coming from the dead, it's anything being brought from the dead because God's doing that. God's the actor, he's the prime mover uh in that. So and then we have to dad's house and then Oh my gosh. Okay. Well I wish my dad was watching this. So again, my dad lives in kind of an older house and um this Were we were we all living there or this was just when I was there? Well you told me stories about it beforehand, but then it happened again while we were there. With the flushing of the tooth. Okay. So so for whatever reason I don't know why. I was in college and I would come home from a class or whatever and I would walk into my dad's house and I would be sitting in the family room and then I would hear like a door open and close and then I would hear, you know, some walking and then I would hear the toilet flush. And I was like, oh, my father must be home. So I go, Dad, Dad. Nothing. Okay, well, he must be, you know, whatever, getting ready. Then like maybe five, ten minutes would go by and the door would open and it would be my dad walking in the kitchen. And he'd say, Hey, you know, I'm home. And I'd say, Oh I thought you were home. No, I just walked in the door. I said, you just walked in the door. Yeah. And this would happen on and on and on, you know, several days in a row. I said, this is just then I kind of share with him what happened. He said, Huh, I thought you were home the other day because I heard the toilet one. And so it's like, what is going on? So then when we lived there So we sold our house really quick in Syracuse. Before we moved here, we had a kind of a layover, if you will, at my dad's house in Jersey. And did you hear it or was it just me? No, it no it was during that period. of time that I think it was your dad that heard it? Or you and you I think maybe. My my br my recollection, which is fuzzy, this is you know I'm getting old in my mind I'm used to it. But my recollection is that you relay to me in the moment. Yeah, my dad said he heard the the I think he might have said ghost, you know, heard the ghost again flush the toilet again, like what I told you about what happened when I I was in college kind of thing. I thought, well, yeah, exactly. It happened just yesterday. So you know basically be on the lookout. Pay attention. Listen for it. See I that's my recollection is that he heard it again But maybe I'm misremembering. Okay, right. So you never heard it. I I never heard it. Okay. So anyway, so now I'm thinking to myself, all right, now I'm living here again I'm not doing this. So I started with that and I said, look, you are not welcome here. I know what your problem is. I know like and I'm you know, I kind of get silly so I'm I don't know if you have a bathroom problem, but you're not welcome here anymore, so you need to go. It never happened again. I said, you know, it's it's you're just not welcome here. You're just not welcome And so yeah, it left. You know, but when things bring fear with them, that's an indication of the demise in in action. Right. You know, when when when things bring when when you lose your peace and they bring fear, which what people call ghosts do, right bring fear, right? That's not of God, right? You know God comes he brings peace. Well there is a holy fear though, because a holy fear but it's it's not that terror. I'm talking about that kind of fear where right, right, right Well sure because you've you're because they talk about how you were on your face sometimes. Right. It it but I'm talking about that kind of fear where the hair stands up on And you're just terrified. Right. And you know, that's a demonic kind of fear. Right. And um a lot of people of people they they mention how the room gets cold, you know, and and they it's that that's the that's demonic, you know by the way I don't know if this is the the best way, but a way Maybe think about the difference in those fear because we do have, you know, peop people falling down on their face and you know uh coming undone. Um I think that if the fear is oh my god gosh, I'm so afraid. I think uh I'm afraid I might die. Like my life is in jeopardy. I'm gonna lose my life. I'm afraid I'm gonna die. But that kind of fear, that's not the kind of fear that will be honoring fear of the holiness and the righteousness. And compared to that, I'm afraid I'm gonna die, uh the holy fear maybe that coming undone kind of fear could be understood as, oh my gosh, I'm so afraid I don't deserve to live. Like I recognize my own unholiness, my own unrighteousness, and I come undone and I I'm afraid because I realize I don't even deserve to live. It's a different aspect. It's the same it's just a different maybe side It's like with Isaiah. I think it was Isaiah. I'm the man. I'm hurting the unclean I come hurting the unclean lips. Absolutely. Woe is me, because the holiness of God God is that that reverse will feel like this is a holy, holy being and I am so dirty. Oh my gosh. And and and and even then God gave him comfort. Right. Well because Yes. I'm sorry. I mean But there was this fear of I'm not I can't p I'm gonna die. Right. And you're right, God's like I got And we've had some situations with some churches we've been a part of in the past or DNI was feeling this this presence of an evil spirit or spirits. I don't know why God gave me that gift. And and I wasn't feeling it quite as acutely as she was, but I was definitely feeling a present. And we went and we prayed through the church and she was casting out demons. And I remember in this house we had you have to be careful what you invited Oh boy. And we've had some things brought into our home that are not godly. We didn't bring them in, but others brought them in and when we discovered them, uh well you can tell what you did with them. I burned them in the fire pit. I was like, oh no, oh no, we are not having this. I said, You were brought in not by me. Christ is ahead of his household. You are going out. And and you're never to come back in again. And they were burned up in that fire pit. Oh yeah, my neighbors probably thought I was crazy. And then she anointed all the the doors posts with oil. I did. I took olive oil and I prayed and I asked the Lord to to make it holy and I know and I and I'll be darned it made stains and I'm trying to scrub it off now. I have a I have a story along those lines. Um what happened What happened was I had invited um Christians. Um, it was a couple, um, they needed a place to stay for a while. And And um so they until they got on their feet. So uh everything, you know, everything was fine. We we went to church every Sunday. Um Um it was just everything was fine. And then um one of the people one of the uh the it was actually the wife, I I noticed that she She had she began quit going to church with with um with with with us um and she just began to act a little this a little aloof, you know. And so uh I don't want to belabor this or make the story long and drawn out. I just kind of get to the point. What happened What happened was they went on a trip and uh so they were gone for they're they were to be gone about a week to visit some relatives. And I got up that morning and I was not intending to do this. Lord knows I was not. It was not even on my mind. But I got up and almost it's almost it's it was as if the invisible hand of God so I put my I put my feet over my bed, getting up, and it was as if the invisible hand of God pulled me to my feet and told me, go look. I've had that happen to me too. And so exactly what you're talking about. I don't I know exactly where I needed to go. Yeah, I I understand that. I understand that, yeah. I went to the room that they shared and I just began looking and I saw evidences of idolatry, of of of worship in my house. Okay, I saw where um I I I opened up like the the chest drawers, you know, and there was a great big bottle of Apple cider vinegar in it and the doors look had dried apple cider vinegar going down the door. Oh no my closet door dry apple cider vinegar going down And I looked behind the the the the dressers and there were just tons of pine cones. I mean just trash bags full of pine cones combs all over all behind the dressers and there was beside the chest drawers it was it was Shaq Carter's Something like this. And a rectangle had been drawn on the on the car on the carpet. And there was a pine cone here and a pine cone on there and all these geometric shapes and I went, oh no. I knew what I knew what it was. Well this is what I'm getting this is this is what what I'm getting to though So I I realized that that was certain things certain there was lots of things. There was a ritual of some sort that was a good thing. I knew that There was some some going on the fact that so but here's where the the spirit part comes in. Yeah. The spirit part was that When you stepped into the room there was this odor. Interesting. When you step out of the room, there was not the odor. In the room you could smell it, and it was like this dank, musty kind of odor. It was not a pleasant odor. Step out of the room, not the odor. So I would step out of the room and I would say, well maybe it's it it's in my loss So I blew my nose trying to get the kid and she gets an older stuck in your nose. But but I stuck out of the room. I didn't see smell it. So so I threw away all the pine cones, I cleaned I cleaned everything, you know, all the dried apple cider vinegar and all this and that weird thing that was in our carpet I rubbed it out. Hey, drive it out of your carpet. I there was a word for that. Somebody told me that that was actually a demon that did that. Somebody I forgot the word for it. actually a and and and the reason why I knew that there had been an entity in my house is because of the odor because I I I cleaned the carpet, I I took the comforter off the bed, I washed the comforter I took a bottle of I did everything I could to get that odor out of the room. I took a bottle of bleach water and I was like, well maybe it's in the wall. And I started spraying my walls down and I was sitting in the wall and nothing got rid of me That order. This is what got rid of it. I stood in my room and I said, In the name of Jesus, this is my house. You will not run me out of my house. I did Yeah, you and I together we have some quick prayer time. Oh no, this is my house. I'm not gonna be afraid to go into this room. I'm not gonna and so I began And worshiping the Lord in that room on purpose. Amen. I was worshiping the Lord in that room. I would pray in that room. I would play worship music in that room That room. I would sleep in that room and I would say, You're not gonna make me afraid. I'm not gonna allow you to do it. I'm not gonna do it. I'm not so I would sleep in the room and I would say, In the name of Jesus, we just and so anyway It took probably about a week before I really felt like that thing, whatever it was, was going to be. It could have been more than one. And it could have been. And the reason why I think that I can biblically say but that's what that was is because because I was seeking the Lord about it. And the Lord I said Lord what can what in the Bible would give me you know cause to to believe that that nat that that biggie smells was a spirit. Right. The Lord reminded me that He has a fragrance. So I said, so if you have a fragrance, they have a fragrance. And it makes sense that their fragrance would stink. Right. Make you tear in your stomach. And you are the rose of Sharon, yeah. And he's the rose of Sharon. Right. But the spirit world is real And I'm telling you when people when when people get into worshiping in a serious way, you know, a a a a a demonic entity They show up. They they manif whatever she was doing, it was causing something to begin to manifest in that room and the odor was the elements of it. Even for if you think it's for fun, don't play with Ouija boards or tarot cards or palm readers or or psychics or d that's i really you're inviting something in And here's the thing is they sh they they uh first appear as good. Because remember the enemy is It's the ultimate counterfeit. So and he knows probably more about the Bible than we do. He's been around longer. And so he uses it as a weapon Against us as opposed to the Lord using it as a tool to encourage us and to build us up. He uses it to entrap us and to ensnare us. And um to to twist it. So he will show up as an angel of light, that's God's word, and draw you in until you are s ensnared in that. And to be honest, it's it's it's it's so deceptive that you don't even you honestly will believe. I've talked to you Oh no, they bring messages of hope and fa it's not though. It's not. It's never what it it exactly. It's never what it appears. And that's how you know it's not based in truth. Because truth is truth and it is what it appears. That is never what it appears. And that's the danger The the last a little um story or or allusion to these kinds of stories before we check our comments and maybe if you have a joke yet, I don't I don't know. Um Frederick is actually well known on the Ghost Tour circuit. I don't know if you even know this, Angela, but apparently, reportedly, Frederick is uh on the list The top five most haunted cities of the United States. Oh good grace. Without a doubt. I was surprised that like Frederick was ever even heard of Frederick, but it it's apparently it's on this registry of haunted places. And so you might be able to might might be able to guess. Could you guess uh Some of the cities that would be on that list? Oh well I would guess some of the older cities. I don't know, maybe um Salem. Salem, Massachusetts, where the witch the witch trial. So that's that's Down the top five. Very good guess. I'm not putting a spot isn't it? No, no, no, I just yeah. They're not surprising really. New Orleans is on the list. Look at you! Yeah! Because they invite it. Oh my goodness. I'll get you in here. Baltimore? No, um Go north. Gettysburg? Gettysburg. Gettysburg, yeah, okay. Gettysburg. And then the fifth Which might not automatically although I gotta say when I when uh when we first heard about this, we had recently visited visited family in another state And so it was on my mind and so I threw out this as a guess and it was right. But I just got lucky, Savannah, Georgia. So those are apparently the five most haunted And there's the uh National Civil War Museum in downtown Frederick and we went to visit that and Dina had a really uncomfortable I that she laughed. She like I can't There was there was such an oppression that it made me physically nauseous and sick to my comic. And I it's interesting, so I we have authority, obviously as believers, but I felt like in that sense scenario that God just wanted me to leave. As opposed to be like, hey, I belong 'cause I don't know how to explain it. I just knew in my spirit that I just needed to to leave. Right, I hear you. I don't know what I you know, I felt that I I I kinda felt that when I visited the Holocaust Museum. I just felt like there was Something there. And the Lord showed me if if I could read, because I actually brought it up because I thought about it. If I could read it. Yeah, yeah. So I'm gonna read Proverbs 9 Nine eighteen out of the amplified Bible. Are you gonna read the Bible? Yeah, we don't do that. So we're gonna be Proverbs nine eighteen out of the amplified it says, but he knows not that the shades of the dead dead are there, spectres haunting the scene of past transgressions. That's how it reads out of this translation. What I thought the Lord showed me was that you know how they say when uh like serial killers like they'll go back to the scene of Yeah yeah yeah. I think that's that's what they do spiritually. I think e Evil spirits go back to the place where they had a lot of place of a lot of death and a lot of pain and a lot of suffering I think it is attractive to them. It's like a trophy to them because they were really honored at that location. And so I think that some of these museums and you know the museums are just telling a story and I understand that but there are implements there, objects there right that are emblems of their success at doing something really bad. Right, right, right. And that makes sense. And I think the 'cause I one of the one of the the I mean speaking of a Holocaust The whole thing is about you know the terrible suffering of the Jews. There is one display of just hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of shoes. That's the one where I just disturbed at. I it's so funny you said that. I had a visceral tooth I wept out loud with wailing. I am not kidding you. We were on a field trip with Tyler, so all the special needs individuals were there and the and I am wailing. It was not a normal response. It was like I felt the heart of God crying and just so sad that it overwhelmed me to the point where I had to leave the room I was wailing. Like we're talking like the whole thing was it was bad. It was really bad. It was terrible. And the other place I had that for obvious reasons because of Tyler, they um so before they even annihilated the Jewish people, they annihilated all of the special needs people. I did not know that. They killed all of the people who were institutionalized because the genocide is you get rid of the weak weaker and they perceived them for obvious reasons as weak. So they completely annihilated that entire population of people before they even moved to to the Jewish people. Which again it just it just upset me something but the room with the shoes, everyone I talk to, that's the room they talk about. Every single person Which is so interesting to me, that there is such an emotional spiritual component that even those who are not necessarily, you know, um w churchgoers you know what I mean? Can't help but feel that heart of God because we are you creation grown You know, the Bible tells us creation cries out and groans at because of such evil and such unrest. And I just believe that that's just a small, small you know, example of that. But that that was yeah, that I I I I feel like there's some there's something a in that Holocaust It has to be spiritual just because it's such a reminder of a incredible manifestation of evil. And those shoes are my it's such a personal item. Right. And you're able to And the hair. And to have an empathy where you can literally imagine yourself in their shoes kind of idea. So that's really powerful. We had Not quite as dramatic, but something like that. We went raising. Um I was thinking of Pearl Harbor. Oh yeah, that was that was Yeah, but another I wanna And I don't know if the reputation that Fre I don't know if it's just, you know, a marketing ploy or if there really is a lot of spiritual activity in Frederick or not compared to other cities. It's har hard to know for sure. It could just be a marketing ploy. But um there if there's a connection, I wonder, because I've heard from more than one pastor over the years in Frederick that being a pastor this is the quote that I got. Being a pastor in Frederick is like plowing pavement. It's I mean that's like a pretty stark image. It's really hard. There's there does seem to be a bit of a spiritual dampener or spiritual oppression even. A stronghold. Yeah, stronghold, a negative spiritual stronghold in and over and around Frederick. And it's hard to know exactly what that is is, but maybe it's because there is a some sort of a heightened supernatural activity going on here for that far they get away from the other. And and Revolutionary War uh uh uh fights and uh civil war fights and battles against the uh the original inhabitants of this land, the The Indian Wars and there's a lot of killing that took place around here and so maybe that's part of it. It's an interesting spiritual crossroads with you know the uh the Methodists and the Catholics and the Dutch Reformed and you know and and the and the brethren, all kind of and and just to the north of here the Quakers and there's an interesting mix of of uh spiritual ideas around here that I don't know maybe the maybe it it has become a a uh a staging ground for spiritual attacks I don't know. We went to um Boise and we went to the prison. Remember in Boise. Oh my gosh. Again. And I and I again I got physically ill And I said, I can't do this. There was one where we were in the one jam side of the solitary confinement. I was like, Oh, it's in here. Okay, see you later. I don't need to be here. I mean it was like That I'm glad you said that that reminded me. I I visited Alcatraz once. Very unsettling. Very unsettling. It was just it was the middle of the day and it It was spooky as can be. Oh sure. Oh sure. There's just oh some spiritual activity in that again. Yeah. Um and we got lucky that we didn't get together Oh well let me do our joke. Okay, we'll do the joke. What's a ghost favorite dessert? Come on now. Say it all together. I'll be able to do that. What kind of mistake does a ghost make? What kind of mistake does a ghost make? I can't even think of a way to come. What does a ghost do to stay in a s to stay safe in a car This is not funny. He puts on a sheet belt. Oh that was bad. I gotta end on a better one. What did the boy ghost say to the girl ghost The boy goes? Yes. Huh. Come on. Really? You look booty fool Okay. That's not much better than she wanted to do just now? Um no, just a good evening from from Charlene. Nobody share it's hard to share and um Kathy Moray and she's laughing at the joke. Thank you, Kathy. So um yeah. Well they're gonna wrap up again next week. We're gonna we're gonna to tackle the issue of uh the uh uh a biblical view on race uh because that's in the news and dominating the the culture right now so nobody specifically asked But I think it's on everybody's mind, so we're going to tackle that. And the week after that there's no question on the table. So you have an opportunity to get first dibs on the question to follow for the following week. Yeah, you can private message. You can add it on the comment section on the Facebook. So anyway. Um I guess that's it. Yeah. Alright, if you would close us a prayer as well. Question Heavenly Father, um, we're we've come to a close, Lord, and we thank you for being here. We we believe by faith that you were here and that you helped truth to be shared, and we are very grateful for you For that, Lord, because your word says it is truth, truth that is received and believed, that sets men free. We hope, Lord God, and we pray in your name, Lord Jesus, that the truth that was was released has set someone free or many people free from um false belief, false ideology, false ideas, Lord God, and and um given them um Lord God, a a straighter and and more righteous path to walk, Lord God, as they um walk this journey in life. And we just ask, Lord God, um We pray for everyone that's watching, Lord, that you would keep them safe, Lord God, and give them peace. And we just pray, Lord, that you would be with all of us, Lord God. Keep the evil one away, or we do not welcome the presence of evil spirits masquerading as ghosts, masquerading as spirits of light. We say no in the name of Jesus, you're not welcome here. We don't want We are pleading apply the blood of Jesus Christ over everyone under the sound of my voice. And I thank you for it, Almighty God. We bless you, Father. We ask these things in the matchless name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you, ladies. Thank you for joining us. Thank you for participating in what we do here on Facebook in the household of faith in Christ.