Well good evening. My name is Troy Skinner. I bring you greetings from the Household of Faith in Christ. It's always a pleasure and an honor to be invited to uh to share God's truth with you here at Fairview Chapel. Most of you probably know me because I've these faces look very familiar to me. A couple of you maybe don't. You might possibly know my name or my voice from the radio. I've been hosting a radio show on WFMD for going on 18 years called The Faith Debate that airs on Sunday mornings. So you might possibly know me from that. If so, don't hold that against me, please. Today we're going to be singing a total of four hymns. So get your uh thinking caps on because you get to meet a music director today. You're gonna choose those four hymns. So be thinking about the first one that we're gonna sing here in just a second There's also the Lord's Supper today, so we'll uh we'll be having that later this evening as well, and um, of course, a message and that sort of thing. So Uh I guess without further ado really let's let's get right into the first song. Does anybody have one that's a favorite that uh you might want to have us sing first? Anyone try three twenty-four? Equal zero time? Three twenty-four? It's a short one That's usually proud of the function. I have. I just build on I feel like I'll think we're just gonna be more than a little bit. We're gonna be gonna go to the wall to make one of them. You may be seated. Everyone sounds beautiful as usual. We're going to go ahead and have the announcements and then get the offering stuff done early. I'm not sure who's handling the announcements today. Sometimes it's somebody different a lot of times. Okay. Oh yeah. I know. Yeah. Well, thank you so much for the day. Appreciate that so much. Yeah, so you guys know because I've been here a little more frequently than normally would, but I just kinda I pay attention to the sign-up list and when you guys get within like eight, nine, ten days and there's a slot that's not filled, I feel like okay, somebody's gonna start having a heart attack soon. So so I jump in. So I jumped in. I signed up for this uh for today. Like A week and a half ago, and then I signed up for next week on Friday. And then it looks like you've got the next several taken care of, and so we really, really appreciate that. Okay. So then the next week Two the two weeks on of the test is Billy Horton. And um then we're gonna have Ashley Darling again on the seventeenth And on the 24th is going to be Mark Clayborn. And we don't have anybody for the 31st. So maybe you'll be back. Well, on the 24th is the Gaspel Rose Blue Red. Is that gonna be like a whole music thing again? Yeah, it sounds like it could be our reader Okay. Are there any other announcements for anybody else that need to be All right. Well at this point then we're going to uh take up an offering to support the ministry here at uh Fairview Chapel. Uh we're gonna do this uh it it doesn't take that long to take up uh the offering during a time like this. So I I think it's It's a good use of our time for us to meditate on God's blessing in our lives, that we have the opportunity to give back a small portion of the fruits that He's blessed us with So we're meditating upon God's blessing and and and the uh and be silently praying maybe for the ministry here and how that these monies will be stewarded well. After the money is gathered, uh it will be brought forward. We will sing the doxology at that point, and then we'll pray over the offering. uh and then we'll actually have a group prayer after that. So I'm not sure who handles the uh taking up of the collection. We were able to arrive. Praise God from whom all blessings flow. Praise him all preachers here. Praise him above me. Heavenly host Father, we praise you and thank you for being the amazing God that you are. that you have brought us together to share this time of fellowship and to use this particular time in our evening of worship to give back to you a small portion, a very small portion, a token really of our appreciation for all that you have given us. We ask that you would help those who have to minister these funds to be good stewards of it, that the advance of the cause of your kingdom will be forefront and the and the foremost in the mind of those who have to make such decisions. And we thank you that those here gathered have been so moved to support this ministry. We ask that you would bless them immensely for having a tender and generous heart. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Everyone may be seated. So as is my habit, I'm not sure if anybody else does this when I come here, but as is my habit when I come here, uh usually And it's not just here. Whenever I'm in a a situation where there's like twenty, thirty or less people, uh I think that's a small enough group for us to do a kind of a community prayer of the people where everybody is comfortable praying So this is your opportunity to do that. Uh as is my house. I know that Teresa is comfortable doing so. I'm going to ask Teresa if she would open us in prayer. A few words of prayer. Anybody else who feels led to pray aloud after her, we can go and turn. If you're not comfortable doing so, there's no pressure, but as as I say every single time, if you have never prayed aloud before You're missing out on a true blessing, not just for yourself, but even of utmost importance, a blessing for others, to hear the heart of God's people. uttered aloud is really a blessing. It's really edifying to everybody else. So if you've never done it before, maybe tonight could be that first night. And if not, no judgment, no worries. Uh silent prayers are heard by God as well. And then after a period of time passes, I will close this in prayer. Father God, we come to you with adoration and praise because you are worthy of our praise. We thank you. Thank you, Lord, for all the blessings he keep upon us. And today, Lord, I'm thankful that my daughter is safely moved into her new situation in Ohio. And I didn't ask you to bless her as she starts her job this week. Thank you, Father. Um over the world's right. All the children have been put to death with that one to millions, millions of thank you so much. I ask you Lord to calm those who didn't want that to happen, but they still want poor children and take them away. For the world more and just ask for peace and you know keep these people in mind, Lord, that they're not so angry when they're broken for And take control to a word. Just pray that these children will be born and adopted into love and holding the story. Here's how I take care of Stanley and Rose, Stacy Rose, Brentman, Bob Morrison Earls, and Dawn and And scripture. They need your help. Take care of everybody. They need your help and I'll get it for you soon. Or we looked up our friend Todd who's in the hospital tonight. um broken down and his book men and um Lord it's not thinking to transfer to uh rehab vendor for a while to Lord, pray your blessing of human eye. Jesus, my baby cheers, he said, all of them. Some of you know he's gotten trying to often have more cancer and he's still unstable on his feet, but he's eating more keep those going or should keep them comfortable or keep them without suffering or So smiling still shade off the other power into space forwards or She might be forward. Father, we were amazed in so many ways. We're amazed at the wonder of your creation. Amazed at your eternal sovereign plan to rescue your people. Amazed at your patience with us as we continue to live obstinate lives. Father, we do praise you and thank you for a political and cultural victory this past week. That's been on the hearts and minds and in the prayers of your people for more than an entire generation. But we ask, Lord, that you would help us now to realize, based on what we've seen these last few days, that the political and cultural wind is not what we ultimately are after help us to be recommitted to being just super busy about the business of proclaiming the gospel, sharing So that your Holy Spirit would move and change hearts. That is what this people needs. And yet we do pray for those in leadership that can affect our practical life in so many ways. We pray for The federal leadership, from the Oval Office to the Houses of Congress to the various courts, we pray for the state houses and the legislative chambers all across this land That the men and women that are serving there would understand that they are serving there and that they would seek you, be led by you in your wisdom, rooted in the truth of your word in making difficulties profound impactful decisions for us here in the entire society across the land. And will we pray for your church. May she be more obedient, may she be more tethered to the truth of your word. May we be diligent in not just reading your word, parroting pet phrases and verses from your word, but Deeply studying and meditating upon and digesting your word and applying it in our lives day after day. And we beg your forgiveness for not doing much better job with this. But praise God. We preach you God that you have sent your son and we rest upon his perfect record. Christ was and is perfectly obedient. Perfectly glorifying your name. Help us, Lord. To better follow his example. And for those who are suffering, we heard that in the cries of some of the prayers tonight. People who are Dealing with various medical maladies, concerns for loved ones, the loss perhaps of recent loved ones in their life. We ask that you would send a ministering spirit to them to turn their focus from The devices of the devil to distract us from the truth of your provision. We keep our eyes focused on you and the storm. We praise you and thank you that you hear our prayers. And we come before you with confidence, knowing that you hear our prayers, because you tell us that we'll come to you in the name of your Son Jesus Christ. Holy Spirit that you hear us. And so it is in His name, the precious name of our Lord, our Savior, our King, our High Priest. Our substitutionary atonement, Jesus. That's the name in which we pray. Amen. Alright, so now we're going to have another song, so we need somebody to uh offer a suggestion. The one I heard was four four eight. Somebody else said one too, I didn't hear it, but whoever said that one, you you know the next one. The four four eight is Open my eyes that I may see. Well, it should be. With your hand for me and so on and tell me free. My family now I wake for thee. Way my God I will see Of my eyes in Landley. Open my ears now I give you voice of true proud friend How do you know my way would be ready, my God, my real misty? Open my mouth and let me read when we no more through where we were open. Happy Britain following I won't be my heart. And how many be seated? Jeremiah chapter 23, verses 16 through 22, say, Thus says the Lord of hosts. Do not listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you, filling you with vain hopes. They speak visions of their own minds, not from the mouth of the Lord. They say continually to those who despise the word of the Lord, It shall be well with you. And to everyone who stubbornly follows his own heart, they say, No disaster shall come upon you For who among them has stood in the council of the Lord to see and to hear his word? Or who has paid attention to his word and listened? Behold, the storm of the Lord. Wrath has gone forth, a whirling tempest, it will burst upon the head of the wicked. The anger of the Lord will not turn back until he has executed and accomplished the intents of his heart. In the latter days, you will understand it clearly. I did not send the prophets, yet they ran. I did not speak to them, yet they prophesied. But if they had stood in my counsel, then they would have proclaimed my words to my people, and they would have turned them from their evil way. And from the evil of their deeds. There are times when I've been asked to preach and it's been short notice perhaps and I don't always know exactly what to say. In fact it was one time, a number of years ago when I showed up here at Fairview Chapel uh expecting to sit where you are Uh and it was like 7, 705, 710, the person who was supposed to be where I'm standing never showed up. I'm I'm not sure if that's ever happened other than that one night where there was a no-show. And uh I happen to be here and so I don't know if it was Trees or somebody else, hey, would you mind, you know, giving us a word? And so like Basically, I just as best as I could try to make an application broadly to a congregation based on what my daily devotional reading had been that morning So I don't always know in certain situations what exactly I'm going to say when I get up here, but this is different because we are kind of wrapping up a very long, long, long, long process that's kind of been a multi-year series For the handful of been here, uh for each and every one of the Sundays I've been here, I've preached a lot from the uh epistles of John, first, second, and third John. We've covered them all. And then to put a bow tie on it, the last time or two that I was here, we decided to apply the things that we learn from John, what he's driving home in his epistles. to a practical situation that we can learn how these things play out in our practical lives. John is all about the truth, and he wants us to be discerning of the truth and to turn to God's word unlike the quote-un quote-unquote prophets that are talked about in Jeremiah, to focus on the true teaching of God's Word That's what God's people need to hear. We need to get better as a group, corporately, myself included. We all need to get better at hearing the sweet-sounding lies that are so close to the truth that they sometimes can get us a little sideways. And then a little bit later on, another thing that sounds very close to truth gets a little sideways again. Before you know it, you're way out here way, way, way out here, like in the in the middle of the field somewhere, instead of dead center at the hearth where you're supposed to be So if you were here the last couple of times that I preached, then you know what uh what the uh object lesson, the exercise be rooted around. It's about the book and the movie that's been around for, I don't know, uh past decade plus called the Shack. And it's not as popular as it once was, but it's still pretty popular. Um and it's on DVD now the movie is, and it's still the kind of thing that people will pick up at the store, might even show up as a stocking stuffer during the holidays, that sort of thing. And we need to understand How well it matches up with biblical teaching. What do many people in and around the church believe about the nature of God? And how is this rightly or wrongly exemplified in the teachings that we find in this novel, The Shack? And what are the implications of these beliefs, the good and the bad? Now, as I mentioned, the book it continues to be somewhat popular, but that's not the point. This is, again, this is an object lesson exercise for us, because the kinds of things that are touched upon in the shack Once you become attuned to what's going on there, you see it everywhere. Does it feel to you like the world has lost its mind and the church is off the rails in recent years? Does it feel that way? Do you want to know why? Because right now we're living the embodiment of the philosophy that's in the shack. So if we can better understand what's going on in the shack, we can better understand what's going on in our world. So, in the spirit that the Apostle John, again, this is on the heels of a lot of time that I've spent here with you on what Paul what uh what the Apostle John would have us understand. Let's try to be attuned to what the truth is. And so I that's a long preface because I know it's possible I could step on some toes. The shack is popular for a reason. People like it. You know, and you might be one of those who likes it. And you might have seen the movie and didn't see anything wrong with it. You'd be like, what? What are you talking about? There's nothing wrong with that movie. So if you're potentially offended, I just ask that you give it a fair hearing and think these things through, not based on what I'm saying. Think these things through based upon what God's Word says. And if I'm faithful in articulating what God's Word says in distinction from what is said in something like the shack, well then it stands on its own merits. And if I fall short, well then you need to have discernment on that too, right? I'm not suggesting we s we automatically just swallow hole what I'm saying any more than I suggest we swallow hole what the author of the shack, William Paul Young, has to say So last time I was here, well I think two times ago, spent a lot of time talking about the various philosophies and influences on William Paul Young And his philosophy, his theology, his understanding of scripture, and how that exposes itself in the pages of his book, and then therefore in the movie as well. And then last time we got more into the nitty-gritty of the story of the book and spent a lot of time talking about one of the main characters in the book named Papa. So today we're going to pick up there But it's not going to spend as much time on Papa since I spent so much time on that last time. For those who don't know, the Shack is a novel. It's a story that's got a very simple structure There's a little girl named Missy, I think she's six years old, if memory serves, and she's abducted while our family's on a camping trip, and she's taken deep into the woods, and she is brutally murdered in a shack. And this just devastates the father, whose name is Mac in the story, as you could imagine. Could you imagine? I mean, how horrifying this setup is. And so he's distraught and he's not finding answers anywhere you might hope to find answers, and so He's answerless, and he's at his wit's end, and it's at this point in the story that he is introduced to what we're to understand as a representation of God. That shows up in the story as three persons who are named Papa, Jesus, and Sarayu. So Papa is the Father, Jesus is the Son, and Sarayu is the Holy Spirit in the story. So, like I said, I spent quite a bit of time talking about Papa's name last time, but I do want to take a few more minutes to talk about that as we talk about the three main God characters in the shack and just take it in turn one at a time So again, we're going to begin with Papa, who was intended to be God the Father, and represented in the book as a black woman, which makes a lot of people sideways, but we're not going to focus on that today. Now Papa says repeatedly in the story that she is especially fond, quote-unquote, of people. It's a recurring phrase that Papa likes to use. And so Mac asks Papa if there's anyone whom she is not especially fond of. And so Papa's answer, after running through the catalog of all beings who ever existed All the false prophets who deceive God's people, like what we read in the Old Testament passage today. All the Antichrists that are warned against by the Apostle John and his epistles All of the demons, the devil himself, concerning all of these people, is there anyone Papa is not especially fond of? And Papa answers, quote, Nope. I haven't been able to find any. Guess that's just the way I is. To this, Mac actually asks, what about your wrath? And Papa answers, I don't need to punish people for sin. Sin is its own punishment. It's not my purpose to punish it. Now this is completely unbiblical. I could point you to dozens of verses. Old and New Testament. If God doesn't punish for sin, With death. Exactly. Somebody said it. Why did Jesus die? Isn't that what Christians believe? That Jesus had to die for our sin. Well in the Shack, Papa says, quote, I'm not asking you to believe anything. End quote. Why not? Because Papa says, quote, I am now fully reconciled to the world. No matter what they believe. So back asks, the whole world? And Papa answers, the whole world, end quote. Now this smacks of universal salvation. When Mac asks, he says, you know, for clarification, because he doesn't understand. Papa responds by saying, men such idiots sometimes. So if you disagree with William Paul Young on this point, then you are an idiot Especially if you're a man. And I suppose I'd have to be if Papa, God the Father, is the one calling me an idiot in the shack. You know, almost as bad as being called an idiot by a fictional god is being called an idiot by a fictional wuss god. As I alluded to last time I was here at Fairview Chapel, the God of the Shack, kind of a wuss. We see this weakness on display, for example, when Papa says, Mac, for you to forgive this man is for you to release him to me and allow me to redeem him. A wow, what God needs Max permission Later, Papa says, When you forgive someone, you certainly release them from judgment. Who's judgment? God's. Apparently. So it doesn't matter what God declares in the shack, it matters what humans declare. And this helps to explain why Papa says, just say it out loud, there's power in what my children declare. Do we have a word of faith theology going on here? Papa tells Mac, Give him over to me so that my love will burn from his life every vestige of corruption. Again hinting at universal atonement, but only if Mac, representing us humans, says it's okay So that's enough on Papa now, because like I said, Papa dominated a big portion of the last message. Let's shift now to Jesus. Put our gaze on Jesus. That sounds good, right? But I'm not talking about the biblical Jesus. I'm talking about the chacalical Jesus. Jesus in the shack is a Middle Eastern man and he is not particularly handsome. So far so good. Seems that William Paul Young has Isaiah chapter 53 in mind. But oddly, Mac did not know to expect this, despite the fact that we're told that he was seminary trained. Mac also doesn't know that Jesus is the Pearl. I want to say other than, oh well, some seminaries are better than others, I guess. Now on the plus side, and I don't mean this facetiously, seriously, on the plus side, I'm going to give credit where credit is due, there is a profound quote by the Jesus character in the book. It's on page 142. If you wanna if you have a copy of the book, you want to look it up later. Do you realize, this is again Jesus speaking, do you realize that your imagination of the future Which is almost always dictated by fear of some kind, rarely, if ever, pictures me there with you. That's good. Do you tend to think of your future with Jesus in it? War with Jesus not in it. Paul Young really does give us a splendid thought starter with this quote. I would encourage you to meditate on that question and how it applies to your life when you go home later. But sadly, there are hints in the book that Jesus is almost only human. It's said that he had no power within himself to heal anyone, is totally dependent on the power of the Father. That's not exactly biblical. And the way it's portrayed in the shack, it feels an awful lot like uh the heresy called adoptionism. But it would be a variant of it because on page 100 of the Shak Papa he talks about Or she, I guess, and this is Shahak Papa. She talks about having been limited when the Father was in Jesus. This sort of thing maybe could or should have your head spinning like one of those fidget hand spinners that were popular like 10-15 years ago. The Bible doesn't teach this stuff. The Jesus of the Shack is not unique in having become human Papa says, when we three spoke ourselves into human existence as the Son of God, we became fully human. We now became flesh and blood. Now, this is a form of what's called Sibelianism, which holds that God is three characterizations, not three persons. And this is heresy. But yet, it's a weird form of Sabellianism because in the Shack, Jesus, quote, chooses moment by moment to remain grounded. And has never drawn upon his nature as God See, William Faul Young's position, it requires a change in the dynamic of the Trinity, which is central to Christian belief. If the Son is permanently grounded, then there's an imbalance between the three in the Godhead. Now compare this to him merely having veiled his divinity. then the reality of his power is still there. And thus we avoid a change in the very nature of God and the corresponding change within the Trinitarian structure. Something like this can be subtle, but it's crucial to understand and get these sorts of things right. I wondered as I was reading this, maybe Paul Young is following the teachings of the Eukites or the Messalians, because they taught that There was uh or is a threefold God that's one, so far so good, but they taught that God takes on different forms that are that are perceived differently by the senses And so Christians, in this view, they need revelation to their senses. They need to have a personal experience. Revelation through the institutional church or through inscripturated word, not so much. Jesus the Shack is not unique in having suffered death on the cross. In the book, Papa has wrist scars. This is what's called patrapassionism. Another heresy. And actually the movie takes this heresy even one step further because Serayu Again, meant to represent the Holy Spirit, is depicted as having wrist scars too. Papa says that the Father and the Son, they are both crucified Says, we were there together. Regardless of what he felt at the time, I never left him, despite his sense of forsakenness. Now we used to be thinking, holy smokes, danger, danger. The Bible teaches that Jesus became sin. He never sinned, but he became sin on our behalf. And the Father cannot look upon sin. Jesus more than self-forsaken. I would point you to Mark chapter 15, 2 Corinthians 5, Isaiah 53, which I mentioned earlier. Now in the shack, Mac, again, this kind of the central character that he's kind of us in the story, he actually makes the point I'm making. He says, that makes no sense to me This can't possibly be true. Well, it's not. But sadly, Mack is made out to be the fool. The Jesus of the shack also is not unique in having limited himself. The Holy Spirit character, when talking about the Godhead, says We have limited ourselves out of respect for you. And goes on to say relationships are never about power And one way to avoid the will to power is to choose to limit oneself. Where is this concept found in the Bible? This is an anti-authoritarian view. This is a one-dimensional view, one-dimensional picture of God. It's a God who is simply saccharin-sweet, mushy. No masculine strength, no seriousness, no regalness. I mean, is Jesus merely a youthful best friend? He's not king, lord, he's just a guy Some guy who now says he sees beauty better as a human than he could as God? You find that on page 109 The Jesus of the Shack is not unique as the way to the Father On page 110, Jesus says, I am the best way any human can relate to Papa or Sarah Yu. The best way. Yeah, how about the only way? And here's another distressing quote from the Shack. Jesus said Who said anything about being a Christian? I'm not a Christian. Well, what is he? A Buddhist? Well maybe, because in the Shack, Jesus adds, those who love me come from every system that exists. There are Buddhists or Mormons, Baptists, or Muslims, Democrats, Republicans, and many who don't vote or are not part of any Sunday morning or religious institution. I have no desire to make them Christian Now to this Mackey asks a pretty darn good question. And in light of all this strange new information, where anything goes, he says, okay What do you want me to do? To which Jesus says, Whatever you want. It's an odd dialogue. It's odd dialogue in the real world. It's even odd dialogue within the pages of the shack because throughout this book, Jung has said that when people do what they want, bad Things happen like little six-year-old girls are taken to a shack and slaughtered, and God can't do anything about it And Jesus had just finished making the point that not all roads lead to him, because most roads don't lead anywhere, but it seems that Young has left open the door that at least several roads Lead to Jesus. Jesus the Shaky says things like, filling roles is the opposite of relationship. You know, and at first that almost sounds profound, doesn't it? And then you realize this is a mixing of categories, and so it really should strike us as gobbledygook. And he says, I am not about performance, I am about being. And again, this could almost trick us into being, oh, that's profound. But he's about being what exactly? And he says, I came as a man to complete a wonderful picture of how we made you. Again, wow, that's profound again, isn't it? I thought the Bible, though, teaches us that Jesus came as a man. To save his people. Guess I was wrong. He came to complete a picture, says the shack. But at least it's a wonderful picture. We've got to understand this picture, it's not even meant to be an example because Jesus goes on to say, my life was not meant to be an example, end quote. I would agree the life of Christ is not merely an example. But has William Paul Young forgotten what the Apostle Paul writes? Follow my example as I follow the example of Christ. That's 1 Corinthians 11, verse 1 for those scoring at home. We'll actually be in that same chapter of Holy Scripture when we have the Lord's Supper later this evening. Why does this sort of stuff fire me up and bother me as much as it does? Why am I encouraging you maybe to have it bother you a little bit? Because it seems to me that this sets up an anti-gospel. And it leaves us with a Jesus who sounds a bit like the Long Island Medium. You guys know who Long Island Medium is? Has the TV show? Not sure if it's still on. It was on for a long time. Not sure if it's still on. Well if you're not familiar You're about to hear what the Long Island medium sounds like. This is um Jesus telling Mac about his deceased daughter. Missy and I, we talk. She was actually more worried about you. She prayed for you, for your peace. I can tell you, there was not a moment we were not there with her. She knew my peace. And you would have been so proud of her. She was so brave. Long Island medium. Jesus tells Mac that you were made in our image, unencumbered by structure, and free to simply be. I'm old enough to know that that sounds an awful lot like a 1960s flower child. I mean, seriously. Some Mackey protests that certainly it's it's okay for someone to use power for protection. And Jesus says, nope. So there's no such thing as a just war. There's no power of the sword given to the state. There's no valiantly defending your family from attack. All this is just evidence that people are, quote, addicted to power, it says And Jesus adds, Jesus' character adds, I'm not too big on religion, not too fond of politics or economics either. Well, you know, the Jesus of the New Testament, he sure does talk an awful lot about money because somebody's not all that interested in economics What we have here is a fight to power, truth to power Jesus. A John Lennon Jesus. Imagine no possessions, I wonder if you can. Imagine there's no countries, it isn't hard to do. Nothing to kill or die for, and no religion to. Who needs the old Bible when we've got the old beetle? So those are some of the things you should know about the Son of God as presented in the Shack. Now let's turn our attention to the Holy Spirit character. In the Shack, the person of the Holy Spirit is depicted as an Asian woman. Her name is Sarayu, who collects tears because tears are healing water, as we're told. The thing that struck me right away is that's an interesting name, Sarayu. Why Sarayu? Turns out Saryu is the name of an Indian river that flows through Hindu territory. Saryyu is the name of a Hindu god. The wife of the god of fire. What are some of the things that Basario? Well, she says, hierarchy would make no sense among us as the Godhead. Well she's wrong right off the bat. I would point you to 1 Corinthians 11, 3, John 6, 38, John 8, 28, Mark 14, 36, 1 Corinthians. 15 verse 28 and other places. But despite being so very wrong, Papa agrees with Sarayu. Calling any form of hierarchy, quote, such a waste. And so does the Jesus character agree, saying, once you have a hierarchy Then you need rules. You need law and the enforcement of the rules. Hierarchy imposes laws and rules. End quote. Are laws and rules bad? Is God not higher than man? Is Christ not the head of the church? Is the husband not the head of the wife? Are parents not the head of the children? Is government not the head of the state? Well, according to the Shakna. Saryu says Authority, as you usually think of it, is merely the excuse of the strong to make others conform to what they want. Does that sound familiar, by the way, in the rhetoric we've heard these last few years? I mean holy cow. Is Christ just some power-hungry jackal with a sinful will to power? Now there are people, they seek to be authoritarian, right? They they they want to independently control everything. I I get it, but that's what's called sin. There is a sinful sort of a hunger for power, but the shack tosses out the baby with the bathwater by dismissing biblical authority structures, authority that's premised on servant leadership. Instead, the Shaq Hassarius say, the Bible doesn't teach you to follow rules, end quote. Untrue. Now she does also say, life and living is in him, meaning Jesus, and in no other. Well that's true. But where is the glory of the atonement in all of this? As Jung presents his view here in the pages of The Shack and then later on in the movie The Shack. Now here's what's odd. Paul Young agrees with me, or better put, agrees with the Bible for a moment on some of these points. Near the middle of the book, Sarius says, For any created being, autonomy is lunacy. Freedom involves trust and obedience inside a relationship of love. Oh, so there is hierarchy after all. But then there's not, because just a few pages later, the Jesus character says, Papa is as much submitted to me as I to him, or Sarahu to me, or Papa to her. In fact We, this is Jesus talking, the Godhead in view, right? We are submitted to you in the same way. End quote. Heresy. Even the main character, Mac, he has the good sense to ask, how can that be? Why would the God of the universe want to be submitted to me? Well that's a good question, man. That is a very good question. Now Sarah also says in the last third of the book or so when Mac asks these kind of questions Your words are dead, full of law and fear, and judgment. Yeah, well. What about the law of God? What about the fear of the Lord? What about Judgment Day? Saryu continues, you won't find the word responsibility in the scriptures. Religion must use law to empower itself and control the people. Postmodern thinking pervades this book. Of course the word responsibility isn't in the Bible. There are no English words in the Bible in the original autographs. But the concept is there. I would point you to the gospel according to Luke, chapter 12, verses 47 and 48. Now, as is often the case in the shack, Mac asks a question that we might want to have asked. He inquires, are there no responsibilities of a husband or a father or an employee? And the Shack says no. So we should all have open marriages, and we should make our kids, not let our kids make our kids tend for themselves. We should tell our employers, I'm not going to do anything you want me to do. So Mac asks, wouldn't everything just fall apart? And the response he gets, only if you are of the world. But people are of the world. And those of us who are called to be in the world but not of it, we have expectations to live godly lives. But not according to the Shack. Papa says, I've never placed an expectation on you or anyone else. It's unbelievable. And as already kind of alluded to, there's really there's quite a few moments of irony within the book. Page 98, William Paul Young writes, and here he's writing as God speaking. He writes The problem is that many folks try to grasp some sense of who I am by taking the best version of themselves. Projecting that to the nth degree, factoring in all the goodness they can perceive, which often isn't much, and then call that God. And while it may seem like a noble effort The truth is that it falls pitifully short of who I really am. I'm not merely the best version of you that you can think of. I'm far more than that. Above and beyond all that you can ask or think. True that But Young doesn't even follow his own advice. And about a hundred pages later Young again, ironically, issues a warning that really could be slapped upon his own book. He says, Check your perceptions, and beyond that, check the truthfulness of your paradigms. Just because you believe something firmly doesn't make it true. Boy, I wish he would listen to his own words. Let me end with the Apostle John's parting words from his first epistle, 1 John chapter 5, says in verses 20 and 21. And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding so that we may know Him who is true. And we are in Him who is true. In his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life. Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Let's pray Father, how we adore you, knowing how deep, Father, your love is for us. And we know there was a fountain of life available to us through your Son Jesus Christ and the blood that he shed on our behalf. He is our true Redeemer, not some figment of our imagination, but as truly revealed in your word Help us to know our place in this world, in this universe. You are transcendent, we are not. But in your transcendence, you are also imminent and you are dealing with us in personal, interpersonal kinds of ways. We thank you again for this opportunity as we come together and worship you. We ask that you would help us to do so rightly and prepare our hearts and minds. To participate and share in a blessing for your people as they come to your table. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. All right, we need another song suggestion. Somebody shouted one out earlier and they got shouted down. So do anyone remember what number that was? Oh yeah. Oh and I am waiting for Everybody who's able if you withstand the Everyone may be seated. So as many times as I've been here, which is about a dozen and a half times, this is only the third time actually that I'm uh ministering the supper. for you. And the first time we're in the midst of all the weird restrictions and stuff, and so it was little cups and wafers and things. And then last time I didn't realize that the cuffs and wafers had been away with and so it was a little bit off. We'll see up the third time the term and still have And I can get it right this this time. Yeah, we'll just go like the wafers. You don't like the wafers? But if anybody here likes the wafers. No judging if you like the wafers. So as I mentioned during the sermon, we're going to be working our way through the supper uh using First Corinthians chapter eleven as our guide. So the first thing that uh I want to mention is that I'm not sure uh if you always do it this way, but Uh probably you do, but just to reinforce when it comes time when the elements are distributed and everybody has them, if you would wait and everyone will take it together as one body. I don't know that this is an ironclad requirement for churches to do this, but I do think it fits nicely with what the Apostle Paul says here in 1 Corinthians. Let's see, I'm going to pick up in verse 18 of chapter 11. In the first place I hear that when you come together as a church, there are divisions among you. And to some extent I believe it. No doubt there have to be differences among you to show which of you have God's approval. When you come together, it is not the Lord's Supper you eat, for as you eat, each of you goes ahead Without waiting for anybody else. One remains hungry, another gets drunk. Don't you have homes to eat and drink in Or do you despise the church of God and humiliate those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you for this? Certainly not. Now the context is different because they would be having a an actual full fellowship meeting, like a feast, if you will. Over time we've kind of gotten away from that sort of idea on this. It's more tokens and emblematic. But as we participate in the tokens that are emblematic, think about what is emblematic of There is a grand, great feast awaiting us in glory. And this is just an hors d'oeuvre, if you will, for what awaits us. And so this is, there are different views, but what happens in the supper, at the very least, there's something special that is happening here tonight. Yes, it's representative, it's symbolic, but I feel im impressed upon me that it's it's some something more than that. There's at at the very least, there's some sort of a heightened spiritual thing. that's happening here and now. So um I'm assuming if you're here on a Sunday night that you're probably all professing baptized believers, but just in case. This is a family meal. It is meant for Christ's bride, for those who are God's children. So this is meant for those who are members of a gospel proclaiming Bible teaching Christ-exalting gospel proclaiming church who have been baptized into the faith. If that doesn't describe you, then Maybe one day it will and then you would participate, but for now this isn't a meal that's meant for you. This is a a family meal. Um But with that in mind, let me read uh starting with verse 27 from 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Therefore, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord In an unworthy manner will be guilty of sinning against the body and blood of the Lord. A man ought to examine himself before he eats of the bread and drinks of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without recognizing the body of the Lord Eats and drinks judgment on himself. That is why many of you are weak and sick, and a number of you have fallen asleep. But if we judge ourselves, we would not come under judgment. When we're judged by the Lord, we are being disciplined so that we will not be condemned with the world. Too many people misunderstand these words. And I've heard pastors do it. This does not mean that if you sinned against your neighbor yesterday and you haven't gone and asked for for for forgiveness and re- and and and properly in a visible way repented from that, that this isn't for you. You should be repentant and you should make those amends. So it's not an excuse like get out of jail free card. You go do things right. But I want to impress upon you it's a family meal, and the family is comprised of sinners. This is a meal for sinners So you're not to judge yourself as to whether or not you're holy enough, righteous enough, good enough, because none of us would pass that test. Not one of us if we're honest. So what we are to judge is what is said here Anyone who drinks and eats without recognizing the body of the Lord eats and drinks judgment on himself. The body of the Lord. What does the body of the Lord represent? The body of the Lord brutally tortured, in all likelihood beyond recognition. Paying the price for our sin, that's the body of the Lord. Hanging upon the cross, dying of death, that's our death. That's the body of the Lord. Pierced in his side to make sure that he was deader than dead. Before he's placed in the tomb to arise in victory on the third day. That's the body of the Lord. And then corporately we are the body of the Lord, his bride. We are in union with him. It's one of the Apostle Paul's favorite phrases. Right, but this idea about in Christ, in Christ, in Christ, unity it's with Christ. So again, this re-emphasizes the idea that it's a family meal So we need to focus on the body of the Lord. And the body of the Lord. And if you rightly judge those things, well then you rightly understand the gospel and you are a believer, you're a member of the family of God and you should be participating. In this meal. So, bouncing back now to verse 23, Paul writes, For I received from the Lord what I also passed on to you. And then he says, the Lord Jesus on the night he was betrayed, he took bread. Before going any further, I'm going to pray. Father, we praise you and thank you that you have provided this reminder, this profound reminder to us that we are yours. And that you love us and you provide for us. You provide us nourishment in a practical physical way Which was represented in part by when we gave back a small portion of that during the gathering of the offerings. But also we are nourished in a spiritual way. And we come before you today hungry. Hungry to know you better. As we partake in this Meal. Help us understand that we are partaking in the Word of God, and this is also representative of us partaking in your written word, that we are to press into your written word and to digest it as well. There's so much symbolism and imagery and profound truth wrapped up in what we're doing here. Help us to have our minds and hearts uncluttered and just clarified with the truth of this. so we can truly appreciate what it is we have the privilege of participating in here this evening. All these things I lift up to you in the name of your Son, Jesus Christ. Inviting a reawakened understanding of the presence of your Holy Spirit here among us. And so when he took the bread and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body. How do you guys like to distribute the uh the elements? We usually come up and you're doing tangsion, is that how you do it? Okay, well then we that's fine. That will work. So I will I will be all right and people be right off. Gotcha. Okay. All right, well then in a moment you'll be invited forward. Where was I? Let's see. So he broke it and he says, This is my body, which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And in the same way, after the supper, he took the cup. And in another part of scripture to praise here as well, but since we're using First Corinthians chapter 11 as our guide. There's not a prompt for a prayer here. So the prayer from a moment ago will encompass everything, which I think actually works well given that we're going to do the two together by the method of intention. He takes the cup. Do this whenever you drink it in remembrance of me So those uh who are participating, I guess, come forward. Is that how you guys typically do it? Alright, I invite you to the Lord's table. I already said that. Yeah if you if you could since I've set the state I'm not sure what's normal for you but if you could hang on to the elements until you get back to your C. We'll all do it we'll all ingest together This is not a nice shit for you. All right. Is everyone uh who's participating in the meal ready? Looks like. Okay. So Paul concludes this section, this paragraph, with these words. For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until The comms are the same thing. Now at the original Lord's Supper, after they had the meal, they sang a hymn before they left. So in accord with that, we need one more hymn suggestion. One sixty nine. One sixty nine. Because he lives on the first time. God I don't want to be honest. And joy what greatness in the will. I can pray for third ministers Because we will I pray Oh we should have and wife ordered before me. And then one day I'll promote the ring and white white. And my job because you You can actually remain standing if you're like this. We're almost done. I just want to remind you. Out those doors is an immense mission field. So as you leave here today, meditate upon the truths of God's word that we talked about today. recognize the lies for what they are and boldly proclaim the truth in the face of those lies. There is a wanting, lost, broken world that needs to hear the good news. And who are they going to hear it from if not? us. So may God bless you as you enter the mission field. We can sing the uh the Alleluia now I guess and uh Bid each other adieu. Aleluia Aleluia Aleluia Thank you so much.