Hey, welcome to the uh live stream portion of the weekly gathering of the Household of Faith in Christ. We've sang songs, had some time of prayer, some fellowship. If you don't have a church that you belong to and you're within driving distance, reach out to me. Maybe we'll be a good church fit for you. And if you're not within driving distance, you don't have a church Reach out to me anyway. I see if I can help you find a church because Christians should go to church. Good churches. Um I guess I should tell you how to reach out to me. Household of Faith in Christ is website. Household of Faithinchrist. com. That's Household of Faith in Christ. com. We are in uh the book of Revelation. Uh we'll be in chapter eleven today, so you'll want to uh be ready to follow along there. And we'll be having a a passage read during the sermon from Zechariah chapter four. If you want to read along, you can. I don't know that uh That's absolutely necessary. At the very least you might want to look at it later and and see the points that are talked about. And there'll be a quick pit stop, very short pit stop in John chapter 8 if you want to bookmark that as well. So We haven't been in this series for a couple of weeks. So there was a holiday weekend that got in the way, and then there was a a baptism last weekend, and so we deviated from a regular plan. Since we've interrupted our study of the book of Revelation now, it's been what three weeks since we've been in it, seems like it might be a good time for just a very brief review. As we can see, Week after week in our study of the book of Revelation, there are lots of intricate symbolic details that are throughout this series of visions that God gave the Apostle John. There's lots of complexity. It opens the way for the potential to confusion. This has led to some controversy, disagreement within Christ's Church over the years. And what we read in chapter 11 is certainly no different. So I want to take a moment so that we can focus our eyes on a fixed point along the horizon. So we don't lose our bearings as the waves of interpretation are battering our bow and our stern. There are five things. That are the big picture message of the apocalypse. Five things, always keep these in view, because this is what the message of the book is. One, God is in control. 2. Christ will return. 3. The Lord's bride is preserved through the difficulty of the last days. Four, evil is crushed in the end. And five, followers of Jesus should be encouraged in this hope. This should not be a scary book to believers. It's a glorious book to believers. So, with this reminder in tow, here is what's written in the first half dozen verses of Revelation chapter 11. Then there was given me a measuring rod like a staff. And someone said, Get up and measure the temple of God and the altar and those who worship in it. Leave out the court which is outside the temple, and do not measure it, for it has been given to the nations, and they will tread underfoot the holy city for forty-two months. And I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for 1260 days clothed in sackcloth. These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth. And if anyone wants to harm them, fire flows out of their mouth and devours their enemies. So if anyone wants to harm them, he must be killed in this way. These have the power to shut up the sky, so that rain will not fall during the days of their prophesying, and they have the power over the waters to turn them into blood, and to strike the earth with every plague as often as they desire. This is what's called the inspired word of God. It is God breathed. It is the only God-breathed re revelation that we have available to us as Christ's church. And since it is the only available God-breathed resource that we can turn to, it is the only. reliable, trustworthy, infallible, source of how we should live our lives, work out our faith. So those with ears to hear, let them hear. Now we worked our way through the first half of these six verses the last time that we gathered together for a sermon. And so today we are going to pick up with verse 4. Two witnesses, two olive trees, two lampstands. If we spend some time regularly in the Old Testament, well then we might almost instantly think of Zechariah chapter 4 Then the angel who was speaking with me returned and roused me, as a man who was awakened from his sleep. He said to me, What do you see? And I said, I see, and behold, a lampstand all of gold with his bowl on the top of it and its seven lamps on it, with seven spouts belonging to each of the lamps which are on the top of it. Also two olive trees by it, one on the right side of the bowl and the other on the left side. Then I said to the angel who was speaking with me, What are these, my lord? So the angel who was speaking with me answered and said to me, Do you not know what these are? And I said, No, my lord. Then I said to him, What are these two olive trees on the right of the lampstand and on its left? And I answered the second time, and I said to him, What are the two olive branches which are beside the two golden pipes which empty the golden oil from themselves. And so he answered to me, saying, Do you not know what these are? And I said, No, my lord. And then he said, These are the two anointed ones. who are standing by the Lord of the whole earth. I just read verses one through five and verses eleven through fourteen of Zechariah 4. And in between these two sets of verses, Zerebabel is mentioned by name four times. And right before these verses that are read, in chapter 3, the high priest, Joshua, is mentioned by name five times So armed with this information, it appears that the two olive trees in the passage I just read, they likely symbolize both ruling and priestly offices. New Testament language, royal priests. Zerebel, he was the governor of Judah at this time after the exile. Position of rulership, sort of a a king-like figure, if you will. And he supervised the reconstruction of the Jerusalem temple with the help of Joshua, who was then the high priest. Now this is a different Joshua than the more famous Joshua who appears in the Old Testament narrative early on in our Bibles. Well if we know something about the technology. Two weeks in a row. Or two uh urban Broke. Alright, hold on. Let me uh use this haircut. Where the heck is the uh microphone now? I don't even see it. So you mean the thing that you wear? No, the one that's attached to this usually. Is it up there somewhere? Like did it not fall away? Oh actually you know what? It did catch on the wall. Alright. Well maybe have a hair tie I can use for a minute? I have hair tie. All right. So I'm not sure. Can you double check to see if we have audio? I don't know if that's gonna be big enough, we'll try. Is the audio working? Can somebody check? I don't have my phone. What do you need to do? Oh, yeah. Check the thing that's a good thing. I wasn't connecting, so I had to actually shut my phone. Apologize our technical little snafu here, but rubber bands do not last forever. I think it's one of the seven signs the apocalypse is upon us. It's one of the seven signs. Okay. Broken Rubin. Broken's not a good now, but go to the grocery store and All right. So Uh we are talking about the imagery in Ze uh Zechariah. Huh? Yeah, in Zechariah chapter four. So I'm gonna Sort of pick up where we left off. I might back up uh for a half a second here because I'm not sure exactly where the interruption occurred, but I think it happened when I was talking about If we know something about the technology that was in use thousands of years ago, well then we know that there is a direct connection between olive trees and lampstands because olive oil was commonly used as the fuel inside the lamps, which the lamps of course symbolize light. And the beacons of light to the world, well, that's God's people. And we know from earlier in the Book of Revelation that this lampstand's imagery represents churches. We're going to talk more about all that in just a second. But in one sense, of course, these two lampstands they would then mean two churches. But what's the importance I want to start there? What's the importance of there being two? Why two? Well, as you've maybe heard before, it has something to do with witnessing. With an eye on Deuteronomy, consider what John wrote in his gospel account in the eighth chapter. It says, In your law is then written that the testimony of two men is true. Having two or three witnesses to testify, that is an important element of the biblical legal code. And so the two lampstands. They show us the witnessing church. It's just like what we saw in Revelation chapter 1. Except there we read about seven lampstands. And here, ten chapters later, the vision here, it scores that exact same illustration point, that illustrative point, while also tapping into the duality pattern of Zechariah, which I read to you. Right, with its two offices, its two olive trees, there's a duality pattern of twos. But drawing our attention there, John doesn't want us to think that these witnesses here are actually Zerebel and Joshua, does he? Well no, that's not very likely. So then what or who are the two witnesses specifically? Well, at the very least, we know that they are prominent representatives of God and they are in conflict with the bestial kingdoms of the world. Now are they possibly two historical figures from the past who were in fact martyred? Just before the fall of Jerusalem, approximately 40 years after the death, burial, resurrection, and ascension of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. You know, I don't think this can automatically be 100% ruled out. I think maybe that could have happened, and John is making reference to that. Or are they two prophets, historical figures, who are set to appear in the future, immediately prior to our Messiah's second advent? Lots of people think so, and you know what? I don't think this can be ruled out either. And given the overloaded symbolism of Revelation throughout the book I don't think we can rule out a metaphoric application as yet another option that's available to us. Because think of all the combo witnesses for God that we find in our scriptures throughout redemptive history. I mentioned the more famous Joshua From earlier in the Old Testament. Well what about that, Joshua, along with Caleb, right? Caleb and Joshua, the only two spies who said, Well heck yeah, we should go on in there and take that promised land. What about John the Baptizer and Jesus of Nazareth, right? A couple of cousins handling the transition from the old covenant to the new covenant? Peter and John, another combo of witnesses, the two most prominent disciples during our Lord's earthly ministry. There's Enoch and Elijah, they also come to mind considering how dependent John is on the Old Testament for so much of his imagery in this book of Revelation that we find here in the final book of our Bible. Speaking of Elijah, what about Moses and Elijah? The plagues struck by God through Moses on Egypt fits right in with the happenings of the book of Revelation. And Elijah's miracles, they are prominent and noteworthy as well. God had him keep it from raining by bringing a drought for three and a half years. And he called down fire from sky. And Jewish tradition, it expected both Moses and Elijah to return. And they did. Both were present at the Transfiguration. And both of them have interesting stories surrounding their deaths, right? Moses, he's buried in a place where only God knows. And Elijah's taken alive to heaven. And the supernatural powers that were on display during their ministries were used by both of them as a means to provoke repentance, and that's what's going on here in the book of Revelation as well. There's a provocation to repentance here. And so these two prophets, they're definitely in the running as legitimate possibilities for interpreting today's passage. But do the two witnesses even have to be two human beings? They most definitely could be. But must they be? I mean, what if the two witnesses are emblematic of things like the Old Testament and the New Testament? The law and the gospel, nature and scripture, each testifying to who God is. Or maybe the two witnesses are the Jewish and Gentile believers in the church symbolically representing the opposite of Sodom and Egypt who are poster children for the enemies of God. I've read some commentators, they suggest that the witnesses are the Church of God and the Word of God. I mean after all, throughout Revelation the church is the Lamb's witness. And Jesus is the Spirit of prophecy. He brings a self-attesting testimony, a self-attesting witness. So hence the idea that the witnesses are Christ and His Church. It's possible that in an exacting sense the two witnesses are just one of these two of these combinations of two. But maybe the two witnesses are, I don't know, all of these combinations in some sense, and then some perhaps, symbolically speaking. Well, as we decide who we might personally believe the two witnesses to be, I don't want us to miss an important point of personal application. And it's my conviction that this is the primary point of the passage. Whoever they are. These two witnesses, and the author John as well, for that matter, they're models for us The saints are called to be faithful witnesses, even if we're persecuted by a great big scary beast. This is true individually and corporately. It is important for you to be a Christian. And it is important for us to be the church. We are kings and priests. We must act as such. If you peek ahead in this passage, there is a bunch of rough stuff ahead for these witnesses in the upcoming verses. Really rough stuff. But God ultimately preserves and vindicates them. Yeah, persecution, it does come, but those who intend things for evil, they learn that God uses their behaviors and intends them for good. And so, like Moses and Elijah, let me ask, are you bearing prophetic witness? And in this context, what I mean by prophetic is, are you proclaiming the truth of God's word? Thus saith saith the Lord. Are you putting his word out there? And I hope this is speaking to each of us right now. I really do. Revelation, it's both a warning to the saints who have grown apathetic. And it's an encouragement to the saints who are faithful during the struggles. If you're apathetic, snap out of it. If you're faithful, keep at it. Too often I think we can fall prone to being passive observers. We read Revelation and we we view the images as though they're CGI insertions, you know, computer-generated images that are plugged into some movie that we're watching. We run across symbols of God's people in the text and we think, hmm, particularly when the text is about something hard, something difficult, something dangerous. We think, well, you know, could this be a symbol of Paul? Peter or Moses and Elijah, like I mentioned. And these are all people of God who I've mentioned so far. So it's true we can make those kinds of applications. It's okay that our minds would go there for a bit But if we're followers of the way, then we're people of God too. And yet we too rarely see ourselves in the story when it's rough going. You only want to see the blessings. We don't want to see the suffering. We are to be more than couch potatoes who are watching Revelation play out on some glowing idiot box in the corner in front of us. I mean, have you noticed in the text recently, the Apostle John, he has he has taken on a role that is Much more than that of a viewer. He is a participant in the narrative now. And he continues to write down what he sees while also becoming a witness Who's a very active participant? He eats the scroll. He digest it. He proclaims the message. He measures the temple. He is burning calories, man. How many calories are you intending to burn this coming week for the kingdom of God? We need to be busy in prayer, in worship, in praise, in study In deepening our relationships with others, in service to the mission of our King. And it's hard. You know why? Because we feel like the world's trampling us. Feel like the world's trampling you? Well, the outer court is being trampled in the text. And the two witnesses, they're doing what? As a trampling is taking place. What are they doing? They're prophesying. Are you doing the same? As we grow weary, we might ask, How long, O Lord? How long? How much longer? We consider our lifespan and maybe we think, is it just is it another three and a half dozen years? Can I make it that far? Is it just three and a half dozen more months? You know, it it it wouldn't matter a lick, it was just three and a half dozen days if we won't get off our butts or even three and a half dozen seconds. And I know some of us we need a repeat like this. I know others they have gotten off their butts. And they are figuratively dressed in sackcloth, and they are conducting prophetic ministry with a humble penitential attitude And if you're one who can do better, well then let's consider how you can do better. And if you need to start doing so that later on you can then aspire to the level of trying to do better. And let's consider how you can join those who are engaged in sacrificial service right now. You can do this. Do you hear me? You can do this. You're part of the royal priesthood if you're part of God's covenant family. And this means witnessing to the world. And most of us actually we get that pretty quickly. However, it also means ministering to edify and nourish the church. What are you doing to strengthen the church? And there are multiple facets to this. At the macro level, what are you doing to strengthen the church? Around the world and nationally. At a more localized level. What are you doing to strengthen the church congregation to which you belong? And the church community within which you live. And at the micro level, what are you doing to strengthen Individual church members who you know, who are in your life, and family who's in your life Feel like your life is battered by God's enemies? Feel like your life is battered by the circumstances of your life Battered by personal bad luck. We don't do luck, but you know what I mean. If I had more energy, well then I would share the truth. If I had more money, well then fire would flow out of my mouth. You can count on that. If I could get more sleep, well then I would devour the enemies of God's people. If I had more experience, well then I'd share the gospel. If I had more. And I'd do more. If I had more. Brothers and sisters, you are indwelt by the Spirit of Yahweh. What more is there than that? Your name doesn't need to be Moses or Jeremiah or Saint James or the Apostle Paul because when you look in the mirror, you can say to yourself, Hello. My name is Child of the One True King. That's the name of a song. It's one of the favorites of my eight-year-old nephew. And Matthew West, he proves at least with this song, that he gets it. The song he both sings and wrote. And the lyrics of the song that go like this. Hello, my name is Regret. I'm pretty sure we've met. Every single day of your life on the whisper inside that won't let you forget. Hello, my name is Defeat. I know you recognize me. Just when you think you can win, I'll drag you right back down again until you've lost all belief. These are the voices. These are the lies. And I have believed them for the very last time. I am no longer defined by all the wreckage behind. The one who makes all things new has proven it's true. Just take a look at my life Hello, my name is Child of the One True King. I've been saved. I've been changed. I have been set free. Amazing grace is the song I sing. What love the Father has lavished upon us that we should be called His children. I'm a child of the one true King. You are a fire-breathing child Of the one true king. The fire is God's word. The fire it refines The fire purifies the fire. It convinces people, some people. And the fire condemns other people What a weapon we have at our disposal. Let's unsheathe it. The present-day world, I know it is it is a scary place oftentimes. I know it is. But it's like a somewhat legendary scene from the nineteen eighty-six movie Crocodile Dundee. In the film there's A punk gang member and his friends. They try to mug the star Australian character by using a rather scary item, a switchblade. And the actor Paul Hogan he famously refuses to hand over his wallet, saying to the thug That's not a knife. And then he pulls out this huge hunting weapon and says, That's a knife. And then the gang members, they all flee. The powers that be, they try to intimidate us with their own switchblade, their statist agenda, their lying propaganda, and it can be scary. The satanic kingdom, it's a scary switchblade. To which we can say that's not a kingdom. And proclaim our allegiance to the Lion of Judah and say, now that's a kingdom There is no mistaking that the cultural tide of Western civilization is ebbing. There is no denying it. And when the tide ebbs, it can appear to us as we stand on the shoreline with a finite vantage point. From our limited perspective, it can seem as though the sea is actually disappearing. There's a giant hole in the ground somewhere in the middle of the ocean and all the water's falling through. There's a drain in the floor of the ocean that the water's circling. And bringing back all that water, man, what an insurmountable task And that's how it can feel to us. I want to encourage you, it is not as bad as all that because you know why? Our Father, our God, is El Shaddai. He is in full control. During the ebb and the flow of history. He is God Almighty, all powerful. He is the overpowerer. Because he is the eternal, one true king, and we're his children. You are his child. If you trust in him alone for your salvation. And the Lord, this Lord, He has a plan, and you are part of it. Now go tell the world. Be faithful witnesses. Let's pray. And we beg your forgiveness for not being more faithful in proclaiming it. It's become cliche in certain circles within your professing church to warn others who are too strident in their advocant in their advocacy for the gospel truth to say to them, the world is watching Well, if it's true the world is watching, then they should see our testimony in action. And if they're hearing, they should hear the words of your truth proclaimed from our mouths. Help us to do so better, Lord. You are a good God. You've called us as a people to yourself. Humble us to trust in you and your provision and to share what is difficult news for the world to hear. News that they will jeer at. News that is a stumbling block to so many of them. Help us not to seek some sort of response one way or the other so much as to speak to seek to be obedient to you and leave the results of our obedience to you. We ask that you would, by the presence of your spirit, help us in our conversation, to guide us, nurture us, give us Well seasoned selfie language so we can come to understand one another and more importantly come understand you better. We adore you, Lord. Help us to adore you more. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So one of the um I I wanted to to mention as a uh something for us to think about we can talk about it later. But I want to mention it now so if anybody is watching on the stream or they watch this later and they want to say something in the comments actually I'm contemplating the possibility of when we do the live stream either just having a very short part of our discussion be included in the stream or perhaps not have any of our discussion included in the stream. When we first started doing this a couple years ago, we actually would get participation in the comments section during the stream and we would interact with that But since the restrictions of the uh great lockdowns are behind us, people uh are doing other things with their life while they've been participating in comment sections on sermon. and discussions on Saturday night. So uh but if somebody's watching the stream and you see value in it and you want to be able to continue to be at least included in part of our discussion time, please let me know and we'll keep that in consideration. But more importantly, those who are in the room, those who are part of the household of faith in Christ, I'd like to know your thoughts. Do you think that we should continue to include all are part of our discussion time? in the stream or that when the sermon is over to pretty much kind of wrap up the stream and just leave that out there for people to consume? What do you think? If we know it's not being strained. Um I think most of us are usually okay with it, but not all of us. Um So I mean we don't have to make a decision in this moment, but those of us who are here, I think all of our I'm indifferent either way. But whatever helps the you know, whatever metrics of the sermon get out of it. out there and there's gravity helps so if cutting down on the length helps with metrics and stuff like that, that's not a bad idea. But I do Think there is value to the live conversation, so I think the ball's in the court. Does anybody feel strongly one way or the other? Apparently she does. Ready? Ready? I'm not sure if it's it's there'll be a I know I think He never had a lot of people. Oh no, I'm mad. She looked really mad as I think she was pretty interested in holding on to was taken off. Okay, so for now it's still an open question and Oh babe, it's here for at least for the streamers. It's it's an open question for the but if you're somebody who likes to watch the stream And you'd like to weigh in on with your opinion, let us know and we'll consider that. And I might not make the decision super soon. Might make it today. But uh it's something that's uh being considered. So anyway. So now that question kind of tabled for now, more directly related to the the passage and to the uh and to the sermon I'm gonna uh for the sake of our discussion put some of us on the spot maybe. So in what ways are you planning to burn some calories this week, this coming week? For the uh glory of God and the advance of his kingdom. Now any place you are could be use useful for the uh for the cause of the kingdom. So if you're gonna be uh polling stations during uh election day Uh in what way can you turn that into some way of advancing uh you know God's truth, being a prophetic voice in a hostile world. No, I mean some some parts might just be like connection and fellowship and sometimes people don't know that Uh they had friends that had this uh support, so I mean it's like net there's a value in networks. Um so that's one way obviously, you know are articulating the points as far as what we're trying to w what our message is and you know why that should appeal to set to the people we're trying to appeal to of course also So it's like you know trying to win people over and simultaneously, you know, connecting with them as well. In a generalized sense, in a general revelation sort of of an idea, but all truth is God's truth and do everything in truth. you're doing something good. But I'm talking even more specifically. You know, what are we doing to engage with people and to let them know about the person and work of Jesus Christ? Christ and the need we all have for the person who worship Jesus Christ. And the grand plan of redemptive history that we talked about with our fivefold sharing of the gospel. to do that, to advocate for righteousness in a in a direct way. And I'd think no I'm surprised if either one of you has already mentioned, well I do that every week with the the stuff we do with our online efforts. That is true That's true, I guess I'm honest. I don't know. Oh, here you are. Yeah. Might do a little less of that this week, but yeah, otherwise I'm this week in particular, yeah, because you've got other busy I mean I know one of the stories that I'll be doing is like more of a celebration of a repentance. So that that's definitely a reminder. Oh, but I can So not everything's bad. Or not everything's about evil or whatever, but there is I would say even in friendships that you work the friendship in the sense that you call upon the relationship that you already have But then you um you break through the truth knowing that that's not uh Something that would be received well but for the sake of loving that person you do care it anyway. Um knowing that it could risk the relationship because ultimately Eternity is what's important, not the here and the now. So uncomfortable at times, offensive most times, because the truth is offensive to those who don't have ears to hear and eyes to see it. But that's not up to me, that's the work of the Holy Spirit. So then surrounding that interaction with with prayer So that it can be fruitful for that person. code. I mean but even with the kids, I mean the fact that you're working on the Lord's prayer with Nadia is Yeah that that that's about Yeah that's one of the things that uh has really struck me recently is I've uh I think I haven't made it a the C secret here that I've been going way out of my way, more so than I ever have before, to try to find ends for sharing the gospel, which is why the fivefold idea of sharing the gospel has been so helpful to me And having those kinds of conversations, it's not just a sharing the gospel, it leads to broader conversations about worldview and the Bible and faith matters and concerns and what's going on in the news and and you can put uh a a a a Christian answer to those kinds of questions. And I think that too often our our heritage as American Christians has been, oh, we need to uh we need to make sure we witness that let's organize A witnessing event. Who can join us, you know, uh on Thursday night at seven o'clock at the witnessing event? Yeah. It only gets harder from here, dear. Sadly. Well actually I think think for for today, for the stream, I'm gonna wrap up the stream. We can continue to to talk through the through the noises. I'm not sure how comfortable that is for somebody trying to watch on the internet. So I'm gonna wrap up the stream now. We'll continue our conversation here. This is an indication that we're not going to include the discussion in the streets moving forward one way or the other. We haven't made that decision. But for now we're going to applause until uh next uh no we're going to be we'll be back next week around six o'clock on Saturday. So until then, God bless.