Looks like we're rolling. Welcome to the live stream portion of the Household of Faith in Christ weekly gathering. Thank you so much for uh checking out this stream. If you'd like to learn more about us. You can do so by going to our website, householdoffaith in Christ. com. That's household of faith in Christ. com. We've been making it a practice here for us to uh to be iron sharpening iron and to challenge ourselves to be more consistently comfortable in sharing the gospel and to do so in a variety of ways and a variety of contexts. you know, variety of different kinds of words and ways to do it. There's there's more than one way to share the gospel. And one of those ways we're going to hear here is uh Yeah. No pressure to make it long-winded or anything, but Dina's gonna share a a basic idea of what the what the gospel is. So if you've never heard the gospel before, at the very least you're gonna hear it now and then hopefully you'll hear it throughout the upcoming sermon as well. Well, first of all, you are loved, you are created for a purpose, there's a plan for your life, and if no one has told you that, you have value and work. And you're pretty amazing because you were created in God's image. But you can't live up to your potential because you were riddled with sin. That's the bad stuff. That's That's the bad news. But the good news is because you have so much value and worth, God couldn't bear to be separated from you. So he sent his one and only son to live a very perfect life Life, the only one who can live a perfect life. And he became what pleases God. Because he's the only one that can please God because only complete and total holiness Can be in the presence of God. But the good news is because God couldn't bear to be away from you, He sent His Son to sacrifice his life so that you could have life. Everlasting. So with that, with that gift comes with it um an abundance uh uh glorification that You may not feel like you'll ever see, but you will. But that's that's the end. In the interim there's a process, we call it sanctification for a fancy word. But it just means that you'll sin less and be more holy, but that's only through the power of the Holy Spirit, which is a gift to you when she received the gift of Jesus Christ. So being Encouraged to know that the end game is you're on the winning side and you will be in glory. Well, thank you for that and amen. So we meet again, fellow children of the one true King. It's good knowing we belong to God, isn't it? It's a comfort knowing that Jesus loses not one the Father has given him. We are marked safe. God is in control. Our eternal destiny is Set. Let's breathe in that truth for a moment. Deep spiritual breaths. Feels good. What a pleasure to be the Lamb's Witnesses. Today we are going to continue our series in the book of Revelation. So we're going to jump right in. We're going to read from chapter 11. We're looking today specifically at verses 7 through 10. And those verses say, when they, the witnesses, have finished their testimony The beast that comes up out of the abyss will make war with them and overcome them and kill them, and their dead bodies will lie on the street of the great city which mystically is called Sodom and Egypt. Or also their Lord was crucified. Those from the peoples and tribes and tongues and nations will look at their dead bodies for three and a half days, and will not permit their dead bodies to be laid in a tomb And those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and celebrate. And they will send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth. Goodness. Are we accidentally reading from the wrong book? I mean, this sounds horrible. Is this really the Word of God? Indeed it is. The inspired, inerrant, infallible Word of God. In fact, it is the very Word of God, fully sufficient as the guide and rule for our faith and life practice. And so even if you are not sure that you are overly comfortable with what I just read aloud, Those with ears to hear less than hear. So what just happened? Aren't the Lord's witnesses marked safe? What we read from these four verses doesn't sound so safe to me. And what the heck? The witnesses they're they're faithful all the way to the end. They they finish their testimony. And then WAMO It's like the scene depicted on that movie poster from so many years ago. Remember the movie poster for the movie Jaws? This horrible beast comes up out of the abyss to kill. I don't think I like this turn of events very much. The gospel is good news, but this sure sounds like very bad news, doesn't it? Let's go through the verses one at a time. Let's see what in the world we can figure out. So again, verse 7. When they have finished their testimony, the beast that comes up out of the abyss will make war with them and overcome them and kill them. He gets. It was no more fun reading it the second time than it was the first. What happened to the protection of God? Well, you know, these past what, eight, nine months, whatever it is, now I've lost count, that we have been emphasizing in our study Revelation, we've been emphasizing that God spiritually protects his saints. Physically, all people, believing, unbelieving people, all people are subject to injury, illness. Even death, physical death. But there's no spiritual death for the believer. A physical death, that's on the table. And until the day that Christ returns, death it will come to all of us. After we have finished our testimony. This is the plain, unvarnished truth for each one of us individually. But you know, there is a corporate importance to this too. At the end of time, when the witness of the bride of Christ is complete, then the bride, she will be, in a sense, put to death. The lovely lady's voice will, for the moment, apparently be stilled Does this make you sad? That's understandable. And appropriate. But there is a profound truth here as well that will bring you comfort and even immense joy. The death of these witnesses is illustrative of the death of their Lord. And what happened when Jesus Christ died? He rose again Do you think that this could be what's in store for the witnesses? Now whatever you do, do not read verses eleven and twelve or you will spoil the surprise ending. Seriously, we don't need to worry about any sort of a spoiler alert, right? Christians know how this ends. And we know About God's enemies, who are also the enemies of God's people. Now if you knew just one thing One thing about the Book of Revelation, before we even began the series so many weeks ago, months ago, and our long trek through the pages of this book, I'll bet that that one thing you knew something about, had heard something about, was the beast Right? Everybody's heard about the beast, this horrible Antichrist with his mark of the beast and the number 666 and all that. The beast dominates much of the legend and the folklore of the apocalypse. And yet, and I don't know if you've noticed this yet or not. This is the first time that the beast is mentioned in this book In all, the beast will be mentioned 36 more times. I looked it up. And it caught my attention. Well, I looked it up and counted it. 36 more times. I caught my attention because, well, six times six is thirty-six You know, the glory of God and his plans and his purposes, they're highlighted throughout this book by the number seven. We've touched on that point repeatedly. And in this spectacular letter, the evil of Satan and his plans and his purposes, they are often highlighted by the number six, a number that falls short of the number seven. And this this beast comes out of the abyss. Well, who did we learn is in charge of the abyss not too many weeks ago? Satan. Make no mistake, there is a spiritual war being waged. And Satan and his beasts, they hate God. And they hate all that represents God. And so we find ourselves under attack And sometimes by all appearances it seems as though the godly witness is overcome and killed. And all this imagery and this these ideas, they're not brand new. You can ask the prophet Daniel. Well, his beastly creatures, they're called to mind by what John writes here in Revelation. And ask anyone throughout church history who has lived through the corruption of a demonized state power that turns to set its sights upon persecuting the church. Think of Assyria. Think of Babylon. Netopersia, Greece, Rome, in more recent centuries, think of Islam and their caliphate. Looking at this text makes us think of Sodom. Think of Sodom when Lot left it. Oh, the sexual perversion, all the violence. And think of Egypt, and Pharaoh refused to let God's people go, given over to being power hungry, to being an enslaver. And think of Jerusalem when the church fled to that city in A. D. 70, the city of David, having wickedly crucified their Messiah. And think of now in America and throughout the West. And what has happened without the presence of a God-honoring church that is prominent in culture? There was a time when God's church was more prominent in culture. That is not the case right now, today. In a couple more chapters in Revelation chapter 13, we are going to see John taught, he's going to write about two beasts. One from the sea, one from the land, and we're told that both of them are under the control of the dragon. And in chapter 12, the dragon is identified as Satan, the devil. And mixing and matching the images and the metaphors, we can directly associate the angel of the abyss with the demonic spirit of the age that we face. Because the beast is under the control, in a certain sense anyway, of Satan Who is the puppet master? And the state power in so many ways is doing his bidding. It is a persecuting world power. And you know, it's scary stuff. No doubt. But I think it helps us to keep in mind that a persecuting spirit is a cowardly, fearful spirit. We're gonna see the enemy cower in terror when we get to verses eleven and thirteen. I want to insert here, there's an interesting uh textual note that I think is kind of fun to toss in. The Greek word for beast. And the idea packed into this word is talking generally about a wild beast, a beast of prey, as opposed to a domesticated beast, a domesticated animal. It's spelled somewhat similar to the Greek word for lamb, which is a domesticated, docile kind of a animal. They share four of six letters. Each word has six letters in it. And I found saying they have four letters the same out of six, it might not sound all that similar to you, maybe, but The shape of the letters at the beginning of each word, they're kind of look vaguely alike. So the start of each word can kind of look similar. And then each of the words they end with the exact same three letters. And so at a glance, it might almost make one do a double take, like it did me. There are clearly different words here, so I don't want you to read too much into this. I want you to get me wrong, but there is something It seems to me, maybe, almost deceptively and eerily alike about the words in the Greek. And given how the Antichrist tries to mimic the true Christ. I found this an interesting thing that if we were to take an uncareful glance, the words they could almost look the same to tired eyes. Even though the fact is they are exact opposites. Anyway, there's our little fun detour for the moment. Since we've already uh said some things about Sodom and Egypt, I'm gonna we're gonna take a gander now at the next two verses in chapter 11 together, verses eight and nine, they say. And their dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city, which mystically is called Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified. Those from the peoples and the tribes and tongues and nations will look at their dead bodies for three and a half days and will not permit their dead bodies be laid in the tomb. Now almost all English translations have bodies or corpses here, stating things in plural form in verse 8. And contextually this makes a whole lot of sense, right? Because this talks about there being two witnesses. However, a more wooden translation Would probably be more exacting translation would be body, or corpse, meaning a singular body. And use of the collective singular, it also makes sense here contextually, since the two witnesses are of one voice, representing the one people of God. Now while they are united as one, there's two witnesses mentioned and they are treated terribly. And with the mention of Sodom in this passage, we might be reminded of the two angelic messengers who were treated badly by the worldly mob in the Old Testament. Even if there is a veneer of religiosity, we see the worldly mobs in both scripture and in the experience of our lives, don't we? In Jerusalem. Most definitely had a veneer of religiosity. And this city is referred to in this passage as Sodom. And Egypt. Once a great blessed place, and now Yeah, I wonder what America and or the Western Church would be called if John were writing specifically about us in this letter. To reject the witness of biblical messengers is to be given over to depraved idolatry. And to end up being in spiritual bondage. Depraved idolatry and spiritual bondage. It sounds a little familiar to us these days, doesn't it? It's a hard thing to hear, I think, in many ways. I know. It is a hard thing to say. But we now know, or at least we certainly have an increased sense of what it is to live in a great city that has become a worldly city. We are residents of Babel. We are citizens of Rome. And it's sad. And we point out this sadness. We point out this ungodliness. The pagans of the world, they hate us for it. And note here the fourfold phrase, people. Right? Peoples and tribes and tongues and nations. The fact that there are four words used here to say basically the same thing. It tells us that the Christians who announce the gospel, they're hated throughout creation. We talked about how the number four in Revelation is so often talking about Creation, the whole world hates the truth of the gospel proclamation all around the world And the two witnesses they they lay dead three and a half days. And we've talked in in uh previously about the the importance of the number three and a half as it relates to the number seven and all that sort of stuff. So we're not gonna go down that path now. But uh you want to say it's interesting to me. This isn't precisely the three days of Jesus in the tomb, but I don't know when I read this, the fact that the three is there as part of the three and a half days does draw my My mind, I wonder if there's a faint echo of of Christ and his death and burial here. I wouldn't want to read too much into that, but my mind goes there anyway for a little bit. And refusing to bury the bodies, what's that about? Well, this is a big-time insult. I don't know if we understand how big an insult this really is. In ancient times, this was a dramatic way to dishonor your enemies. It wasn't enough to kill them. The goal was to utterly show them all the contempt you could. So you disrespected even their dead bodies. And this is a violation of God's word, actually. It's forbidden in Deuteronomy chapter 21, verses 22 and 23. So the fact here that the witnesses are so brutally and inhumanely treated, it provides an emphasis for us to understand that the coming final judgment that we're going to be see see it be spelled out in very vivid dramatic ways as we march forward. We've already begun to see a little bit in our previous messages. That final judgment, it is absolutely appropriate. In the end they get what's coming to them. But what's more than this is the Christian hope. And what appears to be a horrid defeat for the bride is actually a victory that results in a crown of life. So don't look to the beast. Look to Christ. Who tells us in John chapter sixteen, verse thirty-three These things I have spoken to you so that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take courage. I have overcome the world. When times are turbulent, always recall the pattern. for Christ and His church. You always see this recurring threefold pattern of conflict, preservation, triumph. And the conflict it often means even dead degradate degradation. And preservation that's uh is accomplished by God by bringing perseverance to his people. And triumph, that's what we share in the end, and it might not feel like it at first. But what Revelation chapter 11 gives us is a visionary representation of these three things in tandem, the faithful witness of the church against really tough odds, conflict. And God's preservation of his witnesses until their mission is complete. And God's vindication of his witnesses from these charges against them from God's enemies. There's triumph. It might appear that a great statist city is completely bent on independence from God's way. Sneaking around every corner, it seems, while they seek to be rid of God's people. And it seems that this great city is having its way with Christ's bride sometimes, doesn't it? Seemingly snuffing out her very breath. in certain places around this planet right now. But their dominating aspirations are cut short ultimately. in mystifying ways. So when you turn on the news, and why in the world would you want to do that these days, but When you turn on the news and you see the pride parades and those who dwell on the earth rejoicing and celebrating and sending gifts to one another Presumptuously feeling that they have vanquished the prophetic voice. No, that their arrogance is their downfall. Pride goeth before fall. And you know what we need to warn them of this. Because maybe there's revival ahead You know, next week, God willing, next week, we're going to see that the witnesses are resurrected. And we might wonder, is the resurrection symbolically equal to revival? And you know what? It could, I think. At least in part. Occasionally the message of revelation can be a tad on nerving. It might have a steel the one push comes to shove. We ourselves might fall flat. And you want to know what? You would fall flat. If you're trying to do everything in your own strength. And that is the beauty of resting our confidence on Jesus and not resting our confidence on ourselves. The picture is painted in chapter 11. Here in Revelation, it is extreme What we have here is reality presented starkly. It's something that gifted storytellers are able to do. You know, you they exaggerate for a fact without lying. They they embellish to drive home the point while remaining true to the facts Many of us who might have family members or friends who are really good at this. They do this very well, and their stories therefore are kind of captivating. And they become memorable. I mean we tell that exact same story in a mundane everyday style and uh people they quickly forget what was said if they even really got it in the first place. But you tell that same story with vivid amplifications, and it's a story with memorable high impact. And that's what John here is doing in Revelation for us. Because in reality, Christians, let's admit it, we are inconsistent, often very clumsy in our witness, aren't we? And non-Christians. They're in rebellion against God, but this too is inconsistent and clumsy. No human being is as bad as they could possibly be. So imagine if John telling this story in Revelation used a rather run-of-the-mill manner. It would have to say something like, I don't know, an inconsistent Christian witness ran into some trouble from Clumsy rebels. That setup sounds kind of funny actually. But the screenplay, it would be dry, it would be boring And we even as believers have mixed motives because you know we're not yet fully glorified, right? We're not perfect witnesses. Well, the reprobates, they have mixed motives too, because of God's common grace at work in their lives. He is restraining their most base instincts. But revelation here, it cuts to the chase. It shines a white, hot spotlight on the conflict. So there's no shadows. There's no nuance. Just black and white, no gray And so the witnesses here, they are shown to be immensely powerful. As in a superhero comic book. You don't feel immensely powerful yourself? Well, that's okay. You don't live in a comic book And the villains, they're shown here to be practically unstoppable, motivated by pure 200-proof evil Like The Joker in the Batman series, or The Borg Collective in Star Trek, or The Evil Empire in Star Wars, or George Soros, The World Economic Forum The nefarious spirit of the age. The Holy Spirit illumines our minds and gives us eyes to see, and so we understand. what the bad boys are up to. You know, they might act civilized. They they might seem moderate sometimes. Because you know what? Sometimes they might actually be just a little bit civilized, a little bit moderate. Or, you know, sometimes they're just working to veil their true deep evil motives. So we have to look beyond the surface. We need to peek behind the curtain. We don't want to simply judge all the books by their covers. And that goes for those in the church, too. Professing Christians might behave boorishly sometimes. Might say things that are inappropriate sometimes. Because sometimes, well, Christians let their flesh get the best of them. But you know, sometimes these professing Christians, they're actually truly nominal Christians. They're Chinos, right? Christians in name only. working to veil their deep evil allegiances. And we can't accurately know who the good guys and the bad guys are, but God knows. We can only make educated guesses. But when it comes to providing a witness of Christ, it doesn't really matter. Because the lost and the broken, the sinners of this world, they need to hear the gospel from you. And the rescued and redeemed, the saints of the church, they need to hear reminders of the gospel from you. So tell them the truth. The gospel truth. Every day. Even if you get attacked for it. Even if the attacks come from those who are scary. Even if the attacks come from those who you once thought were actually on God's side. No matter what, remember that we have a job to do as the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth. Get on mission. And stay on mission to the very end. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the truth of your word and the dramatic way in which it which it is put to us here in Revelation chapter 11. We know that we are imperfect witnesses of our perfect Christ. And yet it is your will. That you would work through your people to witness the gospel truth to a world that needs to hear it We ask that we would have a heightened sense of your spirit here among us. That you would make our conversation edifying to all who are gathered, all who would hear what we have to say We ask that we would be a blessing to one another as we are a blessing to your name. Okay, right. We lift up this prayer to your name of our Lord, our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. So it was mentioned last week about the possibility of us not continuing the live stream when we got into our discussion time. only having the sermon be the live stream and at least for now that's how we're going to be doing it. So I'm going to bid you all who might be watching this adieu and hope to maybe see you here in person one day. God bless