Welcome to the live stream for the Household of Faith in Christ, our weekly gathering. We've sung our songs, prayed our prayers, had some fellowship, encouraged and rebuked one another, cracked the whip. We're all ready for a word of encouragement from uh the book of Revelation. We're gonna be in Revelation chapter eleven today as we continue our series Looking specifically at verses 15 through 19 today. If uh you're new to the stream, let me just let you know who we are. We are the Household of Faith in Christ. You can learn more about us online at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's our website You can find previous messages and all of our contact information and that sort of thing. And if you need prayer or you need an answer to a biblical question or you're looking to find a church or anything like that, um reach out to me. I'd be glad to try to help you if you're within f Driving distance of Frederick, maybe this could be uh a fit for you. And if not, I've I've I've actually worked uh a number of times now to help other people who aren't within driving distance of Frederick to help them find a church that they could trust to be true to the Bible, to preach Jesus. uh to be faithful, to hold each other accountable, that sort of thing. So I'm happy to do that. So let's turn now into the uh sermon. Have you noticed how so many people in the United States they like to refer to the Constitution as a living, breathing piece of paper? You notice that? They tend to say this because they like the idea of the words in that constitution changing meaning over time. This allows these postmodern regressives to mold the text of our nation's governing document into whatever they desire. So they can fit it to whatever new tyrannical notion they can dream up. Because you see, they don't call themselves regressives like I just did. They prefer the label progressives because, as they say, they are on the right side of history as it progresses towards some eugenics inspired dystopia that their poisoned brains somehow believe to be a utopia. Never mind what the framers of the Constitution had in mind. Ignore the cultural context of those men and their society in the late 1700s in America. The authorial intent matters not one bit. This has been the dominant view in law schools for years. And it has also become now the dominant view, therefore, of the judges and justices throughout the land for years. It's talked about in the media as legislating from the bench. The courts, they get to determine the law, we are told. The lawyers in the black robes, they get to make it up as they go along, it seems. And the result is then chaos. This same tendency towards chaos has confronted the church. It's done so in our generation and in previous generations as well. In theological terms, we like to use words like exegesis, eisegesis. We use these words to describe this phenomenon that I'm talking about. Exegesis, that is reading out of the text what the author put in there for us. An eisegesis, that is reading into the text what we want there, with the reader, not the writer, deciding what all the words mean. Now in a sin-filled world, it is pretty easy to see how this could happen. But still, why would Christians do this? I can't. I'm not talking about the whacked out leftists who profess to love Jesus while they are busy ignoring, misrepresenting, and disparaging everything that he has to say. I'm talking about sincere followers of Christ who end up twisting what is the intended meaning of the words on the page. Why would real-deal saints do this? How does this happen? I was listening to a podcast by Dr. James White, who's a pretty well-known apologist and theologian on the American Christian scene. He mentioned in the podcast the importance of reading Scripture in light of what it truly says. And what it was communicating at the time it was written. And then he shared a brief illustration about Instruction manuals. And this reminded me of something that Dina and I experienced just last month. We had a coffee maker. You know, one of those coffee makers you use to make just a single serving. You know, one cup of Joe at a time. You know the type that I'm talking about. We had it for quite a number of years, and Dina she used her quite regularly. Uh I I almost never personally used it myself, so I didn't really know a whole lot about how it how it worked. But Dina, she knew this thing inside and out. I mean literally inside and out because you have to clean the inside and all that sort of stuff Well, as good as this machine served us for so many years, it did uh finally stop working and it couldn't be fixed. And so time to get a new coffee maker. And the brand that we had for all those years, as so many other things in the world these days, had gone way up in price. And so, you know, she found another brand. If I recall, it was somewhere around half the price, I think. And the reviews were good and seemed pretty much the same as the old coffee makers, so we bought one. And Gina, she tried to use it. And she did glance at the paperwork that came with the unit, but she mostly didn't pay a whole lot of attention to what those words on the page said. She just did all the stuff that she knew to do. She had a coffee maker like it for years But it didn't work. Worse than that, it made strange noises. It spit water out under the counter. It dribbled out about I don't know two tablespoons of coffee into the cup that we had placed beneath the machine. And I'm thinking What the heck? I mean this is brand new. We just bought it. It's broken already. Well that's not good. So we went, we dug out the operating instructions from the box that we had thankfully not gotten rid of yet. And I read the words on the page aloud, being very careful to go line by line, read them aloud to Dina as she followed what the words said to do. And it took us about, I don't know, 15, 20 minutes, maybe a half hour. I'm not sure. It took us a little while to figure it out, but then success. The sweet smell of brewed coffee success. We had brewed a cup of hot coffee and I enjoyed it very much. So why did we succeed this time? When we had failed so miserably the first time And Dina knew how to use a coffee maker. She'd used that old coffee maker for such a long time. And she used it all the time. It became a tradition in our house that on Sunday morning, Dina, she would make a cup of coffee, and then she would come and get me out of bed saying, I made you coffee and breakfast. I like traditions like that. Traditions are good. Or they can be. Until traditions get in the way. See Dina, she tried applying her old coffee maker tradition to the new coffee maker But the buttons, they were in different spots. They did different things. The technology was not precisely the same. The protocols were different. And the kind people who made that new coffee maker, they provided an instruction manual. It was right there for us. And those words in the instruction manual, they are the coffee makers. Constitution, as I stretch the metaphor a bit. But our tradition told us what it was going to say. So we didn't need to worry about all those tiny little words on the page, or so we thought. We imported our ideas into the text. We didn't exegete that little trifle piece of paper. Instead, we did eisegesis. Because our tradition steered us wrong. This happens in life all the time That happens in politics. And it can happen when we read God's inerrant-inspired infallible word, including the book of Revelation And if we are not super careful, we can allow ourselves to import our traditions into the only God-breathed rule and guide that is currently available to us. And thus we sometimes risk changing the meaning away from the intent of the author. And this is a big part of why we have been going so laboriously slow through the images and the teachings of this final book of our Bible. Because so many people, including preachers and professors and study group leaders, they have often unwittingly joined their faith traditions with what is recorded for us in the scriptures. And this has been done whether the traditions are good traditions or bad traditions. Leaving us a somewhat tangled mess to navigate on occasion. So with all that in mind, trying to set our traditions to the side and figure out exactly what the text does, let's pick up today with chapter 11. Verse fifteen. Then the seventh angel sounded, and there were loud voices in heaven saying, The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of His Christ, and He will reign forever and ever. There's interesting phraseology in this verse. Did you catch it? After God made the rest of the creation, he then added Adam and Eve as the crown jewel of what he had made. And the humans bearing the image of God were to exercise dominion over the world as Lord's the Lord's ambassadors, his vice regents, his representatives. But this rulership by mankind was abdicated, handing it over to the evil one to become the prince of this world. But now, with Christ our warrior king, this has changed. The text it says, the kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord. The second Adam has conquered, and the kingdom of the Lord reigns forever. The cosmos is brought back into its proper relationship with its Creator, with everything to be forevermore properly ordered under the Lord's kingship No, incidentally I am reading from the NASB 1995 edition today, which has the word kingdom in this verse in the singular. Some other English translations they have kingdoms in the plural form. Now I don't think this really alters the intended meaning, really Because either way, I mean all the evil kingdoms of the world, they are in partnership, whether they know it or not, with the devices of the devil. And so, in that sense, at least they are of the same kingdom. And all authority goes to Christ, no matter the kingdom or the kingdoms that we might place in our view. But I mentioned this variation for a reason, and I'll swing back to it in just a second. But first, the next verses, 16 and 17, they say And the twenty-four elders who sit on their thrones before God fell on their faces and worship God, saying, We give you thanks, O Lord God the Almighty, who are and who were. Because you have taken your great power and have begun to reign. Now, having mentioned that slight textual variant in verse 15 with the question of the singular and the plural with the word kingdom or kingdoms. Again, a textual variant that is of very little consequence. There is another variant in what we just read, in these two verses, and this time there's a bit more theological importance potentially at stake If you happen to have a King James Bible or some other translation like it that's within the tradition of what is sometimes called the Textus Receptus, You might have thought that I just skipped over something when I read. For instance. I'm going to pause for just a second. So when I was reading, I don't know if anybody has a different translation where it looked like I skipped something. So for example, I don't know if anybody's reading along with the King James. Or maybe New King James. The New King James it says We got a chorus of joyful noises to the Lord have accompanying us today. By the way, for those who might be watching the stream and are wondering We purposely are family integrated here. Most house churches are. I feel like all house churches probably should be. And there are challenges that come with that. There's a training up process that has to happen for everybody in the congregation and for the little children and for the parents and we all have to figure this out together. But there's something that's really beautiful about children participating in a worship service with their parents, seeing their parents worship, seeing their their parents particularly I would say their fathers, not to dismiss the importance of mothers, but there's something really important about uh children seeing their father worship God and attending to the study of God's word and listening diligently to a sermon. and being the spiritual leader in the home. There's something that's important about that. And these kids, before you know it, when they're three, four, five years old, they just know that this is what we do, this is what our family does. And when there's time for a sermon, it's time for me to sit and be quiet and try to pay attention. But until they get to that stage, you know, we can have some uh unscheduled interruptions that can be a little bit distracting and stuff, but that's uh That's the um that's the price of the admission for discipleship of these younger uh people that are in the fold. And so um It can feel frustrating, it can almost it can feel even embarrassing to the parents sometimes, but I I want to assure everybody that um It's a beautiful thing when families worship together, uh come what may with regards to that. Doesn't mean we don't work to train them up and to minimize disruptions and all of that, but uh there's a process in this. So anyway. So back to the passage where we're looking now at 16 and 17 verses, the 16th and 17th verse. If you have a New King uh New King James Bible. Your Bible in this verse in this passage reads, the one who is, and who was, and who is to come. But the NASB that I just read it simply reads essentially the one who is and who was. There's no mention of the one who is to come. So which reading is right? I'm persuaded pretty firmly that the NASB gets this one right. The ancient manuscript evidence that points to the NASB and other like-minded translations having it correct in this case, with the KJV and others like it having added a phrase that in all likelihood does not occur in the original Greek autographs. It would appear that a scribe somewhere Probably remembering what is said twice in Revelation chapter 1, but described accidentally, or maybe even on purpose, I suppose, added is to come. into this phrase. I mean it keeps everything in the book consistent. So no harm, no foul. Except There could be a tad bit of harm here if we're not careful. Why do I say that? Because if the is to come phrase was not there in the original writing, it begs the question Why not? It is there in chapter one, as I mentioned. Twice it's there. So why not in chapter eleven? And as we'll see later on, why isn't it in chapter 16 either? Well, it's because the Son of God is The Son of God was. But by this portion of the story in Revelation, the Son of God has already come. This passage is the second description in the revelation of the second coming. As the narrative unfolds, it is no longer he's coming No, no, no. Now it's he's here. He's taken power. He has begun to reign in absolute fullness. And with his presence comes the renewal of all things. Pointing to something we talk about a lot here in household of faith in Christ's circles, right? The restoration. of all things leading to final glorification. Now as we saw with the completion of the first cycle of judgments, the seals, With the completion of this second cycle of judgments, the trumpets, the triumph of the Lamb is in view here. The kingly rule of our warrior king is clearly in focus. With the bringing of the last judgment. And this is the context for verse 18. And the nations were enraged. And your wrath came. And the time came. For the dead to be judged, and the time to reward your bond servants and the prophets and the saints and those who fear your name, the small and the great, and to destroy those who destroy the earth The elders are still speaking in this verse, and they are speaking of the final dispensation of wrath. This is the future judgment from our perspective. It awaits our reading eyes with more detail when we get deeper into Revelation, particularly Revelation chapter 20, especially verses 11 through 15. But it's spoken of here as if already present. Because we again are seeing the cyclical, repetitive recapitulating pattern that is the literary structure of the Book of Revelation. With these repeating cycles, there are differences within them that help us to see the different aspects. For the end of time that awaits us. You might recall the seventh seal that brought an interlude. Remember that? That interlude was defined by an awesome silence Well, how different is this second interlude as we're greeted by a great shout of joyful voices. You know, as everyone in our church knows, we have been helping one of our youngest members to learn the Lord's Prayer. And in that prayer, one of the petitions is, Your kingdom come. Well, in this section of Revelation, his kingdom is gone. Hallelujah And you know what? Ever since the incarnation and the death, burial, resurrection, ascension of Jesus Christ, and even Pentecost, that whole season in our church history, there is a sense in which Christ's kingdom has come. And so we can now join the chorus of hallelujahs. Now the very best is yet to come, but it's already here, in a sense. This is the already not yet experience of the church that we've mentioned a few times before. There is a future climax that awaits A future climax of Christ's present messianic rule. Because he is king. And he is king now. And we love this truth, don't we? All who honor the name of the Lord, all who belong to God, all who proclaim the truth, all the saints, great and small, all of us, we love this because We're rewarded and the purveyors of evil are destroyed. And this is the exact same reason that the non-Christians they are enraged. The wrath of the Lamb serves up to them their just deserts. They face judgment, and this annoys them. Yeah, they're annoyed. They're missed. They feel put upon. They are inconvenienced. This makes them say, well, gee whiz, God, what'd you have to go and do that for? Well no, actually that's not really what they say, is it? That's not the response. The text on the page it says the nations were enraged Enraged, it says. Can you recognize people enraged at God? They're the ones who insist on murdering their babies while insisting that you fund the murders. The enraged are the ones who not only desire to have sexual intercourse with a mirror image of themselves, but also insist that you celebrate this fact with them. They're the enraged, the ones who are not only given over to the depravity of having convinced themselves that they're a man when they're really biologically a woman, or vice versa. but also canceling you if you just in good conscience cannot use the pronouns they prefer. They are the enraged. The ones who not only tell white people that they are guilty of the sin of being white But also want to steal from innocent people to pay for the so-called oppression that is claimed by the pagans, They're the enraged, the ones who not only want to shake their private parts and the face of young and freshable little kids. But also demand the right to groom your children into becoming demented little beastmasters in all sorts of places, like schools and libraries. Places of business. In your home even through media. And sadly, even in so-called churches. We live at a time when the nations are enraged. And their aim is to destroy the earth, we're told here. What are they up to? Everything they do, it makes no sense. What are they trying to do? Their aim is to destroy the earth. And so they will hear from heaven. Revelation 11, verse 19. And the temple of God, which is in heaven, was opened. And the Ark of His Covenant appeared in his temple, and there were flashes of lightning and sounds and peals of thunder and an earthquake and a great hailstorm. What a beautiful picture we have here. We here at the end of the interlude we see the Ark. What do we know about the Ark? The contents of the Ark. There are some wondrous things that were held within the ark, including the tablets of the law. During the reign of Antichrist, the law has been ignored. Lost. Reminds me of the time of right before King Josiah in the Old Testament. But back then there was a revival. Will there be revival again? Well, if you count the glorification of everything at the end of our current history, well then yes, there will be revival. You can count on it. And that future, knowing that that future awaits, it can be so comforting as we wait and pine for it. But we can be comforted even now. Because the Ark of the Covenant, it's a sort of a Sacrament, really, the sacrament of God's abiding presence. It's a symbol of the Lord's steadfastness, his unchangeableness, and his atonement for his people. As we see over and over again in the pages of the Old Testament, the Ark of the Covenant, it went before Israel in its victories. And so we see here an image of our Redeemer's continual help for his people and presence with his people. This final verse of chapter eleven. It points to the end game. From the Gospels, we know that the veil in the earthly temple was torn. We mentioned that last week in a different context, right? The veil is torn. This allows direct access to God by his people. But now here in Revelation, you notice something? We see not just the veil torn. We see the heavenly temple itself thrown open. Our minds are blown when we try to contemplate this level of direct access to God. You're back in the gospel accounts, there's no Ark of the Covenant. Because it had been lost to the ages by then. But now, in Revelation, here it is again. Perfectly in place where it belongs. Everything set back the way it's supposed to be. You know, when Jesus is on the cross and he says, it is finished? This is the reality he had in mind. No more guilt for his followers. No more depravity anywhere in his kingdom. For now, of course, there is depravity all around us. It's part and parcel of our experience, isn't it? We encounter it every single day. And while it's very real, there is another aspect to reality. Not to diminish the physical earthly realities, but there's another reality we must not forget, and that is the spiritual reality. From a merely created universe point of view When Nebuchadnezzar destroyed the temple and destroyed Jerusalem, he probably destroyed the ark. That's what most people, most historians think happened. However, you know, there's a legend. Maybe you've heard it. You heard this legend? Legend says that Jeremiah rescued the ark before Nebuchadnezzar could destroy it And that he hid it away, and that this Ark of the Covenant is currently hidden in a cave somewhere. And the legend says that it's going to be revealed once more. Only When God ultimately gathers his little chicks, gathers his people around himself again, as we see happening in the visions that John has recorded for us here in Revelation. That's a pretty comforting idea. Kind of a neat legend. It's just a tradition. It's not scripture. So who's to say if it's true? It is a lovely extra biblical idea. It is very sweet and comforting to ponder these things, but let's not get our comfort. There. Let's get our comfort from the text itself. And also comforting to us are the flashes of lightning, the peals of thunder, the earthquake, and the great hailstorm. immensely comforting. Seems counterintuitive. How are those things comforting? These are demonstrations of God's awesome power. And they are signs of him bringing a crushing defeat to the enraged nations. Those who refuse to repent. And our job is to glorify God for who he is and for what he has won for us. And we are to do this while we also warn those. Who are given over to the spirit of the age. We have to warn them They absolutely must repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. Let's pray. Father, we adore you. We're only able to do so because you adored us first. You've called us to yourself. And by the abiding presence of your Holy Spirit, have given us the ability to love you back after you first loved us. We know that you have a plan and a perfect timing for the execution of that plan, and we grow impatient so we feel like our timetable is more important than yours, God. We ask you to forgive us for that. That we would trust you. That we wouldn't invent ideas of our own imagination, or we wouldn't import others' ideas of their own imagination to bring us comfort, that we would find our comfort solely in you and your revealed will in your word. We know that you sustain us. We know that you sustain the entire universe. Without you, we are lost. We know you are a God of good judgment, and you're a God filled with mercy and grace, and an abounding love for your people, and so we trust you. Help us to trust you better. And help us be faithful on the mission of encouraging one another in this truth while at the same time warning those who need to hear it. Because everyone will face judgment. There is a last day coming. We ask that you help us to redouble our efforts to be ready ourselves and to help ready others for that day. Best that you would lead and guide the conversation that is here to follow, and that you would bless all who have heard my voice here today or hear it later via podcast. That your truth would minister to people, would transform lives, and that we would live lives that give people a reason to come up to us and say, what is the reason you have so much hope? And that we will be equipped and prepared to give them that reason. And that reason is named Jesus. And it's in his name we pray. Amen. All right, as is now our new habit, I'm going to draw a close to the live stream. We're going to uh continue here in a discussion. If you would like to participate in discussions, just come join us in person someday. Anyway, all blessings to you. Hope to see you in person. I know there's one person not present today. I'll be seeing you soon. Safe travels to you. Love you very much. God bless.