Welcome to the live stream portion of our weekly gathering of the Household of Faith in Christ. Thank you for joining us, whether it's live or War of Memorak. The younger folks have no idea what I just said. We're going to be in Revelation chapter 12 today, so you might want to get your Bibles uh ready to follow along there. Again, Revelation 12. For those who are interested, we're also going to be, I'm not, I'm not expecting you're going to turn to all these places. We've got about a half a dozen different spots in Scripture that we'll be bouncing to during the sermon. But I'm going to mention them now, so in case you want to try to bookmark them quickly, or at least for later, you can you can jot them down now and you can uh look them up later in your own personal study. But we'll be in Genesis chapter 37, Song of Songs, chapter 6. Romans 8, Matthew 28, and Galatians 4. But again, our primary text is Revelation chapter 12. Um incidentally for the people on the stream, if you'd like to learn more about us, you need prayer, you have a particular theological question you need help working through, you're struggling to find a good church wherever you live, I've I've I've actually Spent a bit of time in recent months helping people to find churches that don't live anywhere near where we are. Glad to help you there. All of our contact information is on our website, Household the Faith in Christ. And um if you are within driving distance of Frederick, like these lovely folks, then maybe this could be uh a church that you would consider uh Uh coming and worshiping with us at and again you can learn more about us, household of faith in Christ dot com. So today the message is titled The Woman and Dragon Introduced. So today as we begin to examine and expound Revelation chapter 12, Uh we have reached what is recognized as the literary center of the book. We've been through the introduction, we've been through the Initial scenes, the letters to the seven churches. We were taken into the very throne room of God and then we entered Groundhog Day. Have you seen the Bill Murray movie or at least familiar with the Bill Murray movie? His the Bill Murray character, he he lives through the exact same day repeatedly. But each experience of this one day has differences as he lives out the scenes in light of new perspectives. And this is what's happening in the book of Revelation. We're shown the same thing over and over from different perspectives to help us to gain new and interesting and helpful godly insights. Like back in uh chapter 1, way back at the start of this whole uh Odyssey that we've been on now for many months, the Apostle John he receives his commission from the Lord, and then of course later he is commissioned again. We write about that not so long ago And we share the commission. And in chapters 2 and 3, we see the churches specially addressed, called to righteousness. And also, where appropriate, encouraged in their faithfulness. And we see echoes, and we hear echoes rather, I guess, of this throughout the remainder of the letter. And these lessons they apply to us also. And we read of a mission that is fraught with danger in chapter 6 and in chapter 8. And in chapter, well, pick one. And so God's people are called to be an obedient church militant in chapter 7. And just wait until we get to chapters 14 through 16. And we saw a seven cycle series of seals and then a seven cycle series of trumpets, and soon we're going to see a seven cycle series of bowls or censors, depending on your English translation. We've already seen aspects in a variety of ways of the cosmic battle that's taking place between God and Satan And we're going to see more of this in the remainder of the apocalypse, including here in chapter twelve, which we're beginning to look at today. And we know already from what we have read that Christ and his church in this cosmic battle, Christ and his church win in the end. And we're going to especially I read about this again in chapter 17 through 22. Again, this recapitulation of things coming from different perspectives. But knowing this ending, knowing that we win in the end, this does not make us passive. Or at least it shouldn't make us passive, because there's an Urgency throughout these pages, from the prologue to the epilogue, the urgency of the church's mission is continually stressed. Events, they happen quickly. Christ's first Advent is behind us, and his second Adventist just ahead of us. Our King is returning. Soon. So this helps to reset the stage for us as we now read Revelation chapter 12, verses 1 through 3. And a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars. She was pregnant and was crying out in birth pains, in the agony of giving birth. And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold a great red dragon. with seven heads and ten horns, and on his head seven diadems. This passage and the other passages we're going to be referencing today in this sermon, they are from God's Revealed special revelation, his inspired word, a God-breathed word, is the only God-breathed revelation we have available to us. Because it's God-free, it's infallible, it it is uh inerrant. It's totally up to the task, fully sufficient as the rule and guide for our faith and life practice. So those with ears to hear, let them hear So as I read this passage, these first three verses of chapter 12, right off the bat we see here that we're hit with a sign. This is the first of seven signs that we will be shown in the final half of this book. We saw the second one actually in the same past I just read, right in verse 3. And there are going to be two more signs in chapter 13, and then one each in chapters 15, 16, and 19. Now in verse 1 of chapter 12, we're told of the great sign. Of the woman. She appears in heaven as if the wife of God That might strike some as strange language, but this is actually the kind of language is found in the Old Testament books of the prophets like Ezekiel and Jeremiah and Isaiah and Hosea. This is language about God's people. Contrast this woman here in chapter 12 with the pagan woman Jezebel in Revelation chapter 2. Contrast this woman here in chapter 12 also with the apostate scarlet woman of Revelation chapter 17 that we'll get to later. This woman here in this chapter is the faithful wife of the Lamb. And we'll read so much more about her in chapter 19. There are some commentators who like to argue that the woman here is merely pointing to the people of God in the Old Testament only. But the narrative here, it points to something that's more expansive than that. Yes, the woman here does point to the Old Testament saints, there's no doubt. But also to the New Testament saints. The woman is corporately God's chosen. His elect. God's church is Israel. A key to understanding this imagery is found in Genesis chapter 37, verses 9 and 10. That's where we're told about Joseph's vision that he had while he slept. Then he dreamed another dream and told it to his brothers and said, Behold, I have dreamed another dream. Behold the sun, the moon, the eleven stars. were bowing down to me. But when he told it to his father and to his brothers, his father rebuked him, said to him, What is this dream that you have dreamed? Shall I and your mother and your brothers indeed come to bow ourselves to the ground before you? In this dream, Joseph is a type of Christ. And all the tribes of Israel bow before him. The very cosmos bows before him, the sun, the moon, the stars. When I was growing up as a Roman Catholic, I was taught that this woman here in Revelation chapter 12 is the Virgin Mary. And that she is to be venerated in a sense she is to be bowed to. But this takes a biblical truth and it stretches it beyond godly recognition That said, however, I do want us to make sure that we're fair to our neighbors in Rome, because there is a sense in which we can see the Mother Mary in this text. When the fall of mankind occurs, we're told about that in Genesis chapter 3. There was a promise given by God then. The promise that the seed of the woman would defeat the serpent. And then we see the bloodline of this seed of the woman traced throughout the pages of the old covenant, all the way up to through and including the genealogies of the new covenant. And not without plenty of drama along the way The line of the seed of the woman is placed in great peril over and over again. I mean a worldwide flood that could have snuffed out the seed of the woman. The line of the seed of the woman. Elderly women with barren wombs. That could have meant the end of the line for the seed of the woman. In one very shocking case. The seed almost met his demise when Abraham raised his knife-wielding hand against the promised son Isaac. But God intervened. In that case and in all the cases, He would be true to His promise. That the woman, his people, would bear a son, who would conquer the evil one. And this woman, his people, they did so. And the vessel for this miracle was the Virgin Mary. She was the particular woman selected by God for the immense honor of delivering the child whom God foretold would spring from the woman. His people. So I want us to take note of this. It's talking about us. The woman is the bride of Christ, and his bride is clothed in brilliance clothed with the magnificent sun. And note, she doesn't self radiate, does she? She's clothed with the sun, so let's not get confused. The bridegroom alone self-radiates, but he adorns his beloved bride with the sun. You want to go get that from him? So the beloved bride is adorned, magnificently adorned, which is emblematic Of the bride being clothed with Christ's righteousness. I'm still gonna wait. Okay, seems like the game is now over. So I want us to really feel this. The the the way that God looks at his people, the he clothes us in Christ's righteousness. I mean how How much God honors this woman. That's what we can see here in verse 1. He honors this woman And the young women, they saw her and called her blessed, the queens and concubines also, and they praised her. Who is this who looks down like the dawn? Beautiful as the moon, bright as the sun, awesome as an army with banners. Those are words from the Song of Songs, chapter 6, also called the Song of Solomon. Those are words about the woman of Revelation chapter 12. Those are words about us. If we're God's faithful people. Again, in that passage that I just read, we see the word moon here in the Song of Songs. Just like we see the word moon in Revelation chapter 12. She is beautiful as the moon, it says. And in Revelation, it says the moon is under her feet. What does that mean? Well, in at least one sense, this is this is a picture of dominion. Some say it specifically suggests dominion through the law of Moses, or dominion over that which is irreligious, dominion over false religions like Islam, for example. I'm not sure exactly how far I want to take all of those specific kinds of connections and applications, but I do think it definitely speaks to Dominion. This picture does, in the sense of the permanent nature of the church. The moon is a symbol of changing times, changing seasons in the church. It does not lose. It maintains its dominion no matter the signs of the times pictured by the moon. And the church here we see wears a great crown. The end of verse 1 shows the woman with the crown of 12 stars. The number 12, well, that should mean something to Bible students, shouldn't it? There were twelve tribes representing the pre-cross people of God. There were twelve apostles representing the post-cross people of God. And less commonly known, the Jews they sometimes call the minor prophets of the Old Testament the Twelve, because, well, they're twelve minor prophets. So all this helps us to see why we can say that these stars are emblems of Orthodox teaching and orthodox teachers specifically. They are faithful messengers. Recall Revelation chapter 1. Remember verse 20 there? We're told that the stars, they are the messengers of the church, the angels of the church. And with an eye back on Genesis chapter 37 that I read from a moment ago about the dream, the stars and the heavenly bodies there in that story, they are representing Jacob and his wife and His sons and his sons, they are the the heads of Israel's tribes. And they bow before the Christ figure. Well, this foreshadows the coming Messiah who builds his church, and the church wears a crown. A beautiful crown, and not just any kind of crown, a crown of victory. We should rejoice in this. Seriously, take time. To rejoice in this. Remind yourself of these tremendous, tremendous blessed truths. Because the life of the woman is not presently a stream of endless roses and chocolates, is it? The woman who brings forth the Christ child Cries out with birth pains. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly, as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. That's Romans chapter 8. eight verses twenty-two and twenty-three. And we are to be fruitful and multiply, as what we're told in Genesis chapter nine. And part of this mandate is to be fulfilled by having babies, lots of babies. But for followers of Jesus, it is also a mandate to go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, in the name of the Son, and in the name of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, Jesus says. And this is hard. And the world is broken. And that's not the half of it. The world is rebellious. And so the world groans Being more specific. Individuals. Individual people are broken. And that's not the half of it. Individuals are rebellious, aren't we? So parents experience pain rearing their children from the moment of childbirth up until now. And the spiritually commissioned, grown inwardly, doing the work of disciple-making. As even those of the first fruits of the Spirit battle against confusion, battle against compromise, battle against Lives marked by stubborn sins and those people around us. Stubborn sins. It is most definitely a challenge training up children, biological children, and the spiritual children of our Heavenly Father. Teaching them to observe all that the Heavenly Son has commanded. As the Apostle Paul writes in Galatians chapter 4, my little children, for who I am again in the anguish of childbirth, until Christ is formed in you. This is hard, painful work. It was true for the incarnate Christ and it's true for us co-heirs as well. We share in his glorious victory. We also share in his pain and suffering. Everything I've just said in these last few minutes, that's what's packed into verse two here in Revelation chapter twelve. And it gets tougher from there. Because after chap uh verse two, comes verse three. And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold, the great red dragon With seven heads and ten horns. You're not as heads seven diadems What sort of evil monster is this? This is the second Simeon in Three verses. Semayon, that's the Greek word for sign or wonder. And the first semion was glorious. The second sign is Hideous. A red dragon. The color of deadly war. This is a picture of bloodshed. A picture of cruel fierceness. Some Christians they try associating the seven heads and the ten horns and the seven diadems with various ancient kingdoms, even future kingdoms to come. So are the seven heads meant to illustrate for us the seven hills of Rome? Are the ten horns, the ten provinces that were set up by Augustus Caesar? Are there ten more? Evil kingdoms to come before Christ returns. I say Sure. Yes to all. Why not? I mean, not to be flippant. But is he all of them? And so much more as representations of what is symbolized here in Revelation 12. There are so many different manifestations of Satan's power in the annals of history. Powers that arise and persecute God's people. Powers that arise and persecute all that is good and true. Seven and ten, these are numbers of fullness. Indicating that Satan's influence spreads over the full earth, over the entirety of the earth. The dragon also is full of power. And this power is arrayed against God. And against God's church. Seven and ten, they are also the numbers of perfection. indicating Satan's effort to have his demonic fiefdom imitate the resplendent kingdom of God. But only God Himself is perfectly powerful. And what our Lord gives his church, gives the woman. is completely other when it's compared to what Satan has. For instance, the woman and the dragon, they both have a crown of sorts. But the Greek word In verse 1 and verse 3, often translated in our English Bibles, some of them have crown in both places. There's a different Greek word there. So therefore you actually see a number of English translations that make an effort to use different words in the two verses. Usually crown in verse one and diadems or something like it in verse three. Because the dragon's headdress His diadem, it symbolizes his temporary, earthbound power. It's about him being Lord for the day, Lord for the moment kind of idea. He's earthbound as prince of this world. The saints, pictured by the woman, wear a crown of victory and it's a forevermore victory, an everlasting victory. And it extends it's not earthbound, it extends even to the heavenly realms And it feels borderline noteworthy to me that this is one of thirteen times that the word dragon appears in the book of Revelation. 13. That's one shy of seven doubled. I'm not sure if this is done on purpose or not. By John. Might be, might not be. I can't be sure. But regardless, it does help to highlight that the dragon falls short in his attempt to usurp the lamb. If he's aiming for seven doubles, he's aiming for fourteen, he falls short, lands on thirteen. And even when the dragon doubles up his efforts, he overshoots the target if he was aiming for twelve. He misses twelve, lands on thirteen I say this in the context of the godly numbers of seven and twelve and how they're used in Revelation numerology. Seven, twelve, even fourteen, seven doubles. Thirteen is none of these numbers My interpretive application here, it could possibly a stretch, so I don't want you to run off and go wild on this. I might be overstating it. But given the biblical signs add emphasis for us to understand that something is being symbolized. Well, this numerology of 13, it does accomplish this, and so for what it's worth, I mention it to you. Now, of less speculation, something that is very important for us to remember is that there is an enemy who is called Satan. And he's represented in this portion of the revelation as the dragon. You know, it's important to remember this because it's a terrible, uh, endangering shame that so few people believe in the existence of a devil these days. So few. We must remember that he's real. However, we don't want to err on the other side of things. We don't want to err in the opposite direction. Because Satan is not all-powerful. He's bound to affecting things on earth. He is bound by time, and he's running out of it. He is bound by limits to his power, limits to his strength. He is not omniscient. He is not omnipotent. He is not omnipresent. And even if he were, and he's not, but even if he were, it wouldn't matter because the Lord is overcoming for us. And Christ gives us, those who are faithful to God, the strength to fight. You know, we've had some in this room. Speak of being afraid that when push comes to shove, they might wilt under the pressure of worldly fear, afraid of beheading and things like that You know what? If you are a sheep belonging to the fold of the Good Shepherd That acknowledgement of personal inability is not a bad place to be. Left to our own devices, we would all fail Knowing our own frailty, it drives us to an even deeper dependence upon Christ. Trusting that He's not only a perfectly holy Lord with demands and expectations that come with that, but he is also the graciously loving Savior And he holds you tight. And he won't let go. You're his Given to him by the Father. And he has sent his Holy Spirit to get you through Worried that God will give you more than you can handle? Yeah? Well that's the point It's a lie that God never gives you more than you can handle. How many times you heard that? Somebody's going through a tough spate in their life and somebody goes, Oh, it'll be okay, honey, it'll be it'll be fine, dear. You'll get through this, you'll make it, because God He never gives you more than you can handle. That's crap. We are given more than we can handle every single day. You can't handle breathing if God doesn't give you the air that pumps through your lungs You can't handle navigating life on this planet if God doesn't unceasingly sustain things through his providence and common grace? Don't think you can do it alone? Good. You can't You're totally right. But you're not alone. If you're in Christ, indwelt by his spirit, you will never, ever be alone. Ever. Now this doesn't mean that you just let go and let God. There's another farce of a bumper sticker we see all the time. Now don't misunderstand. Trust God. Be still. Watch God move. Yes. And don't tell Jesus, yeah, bro, I got this. Hold my beer. Don't do that. But you are to enter the fray. You don't let go and let God. You enter the fray. You are in this fight, whether you want to be or not. So go forward bravely. Even with wobbly knees, go forward bravely. And I think you'll find that over time your knees will become less wobbly. We are made stronger by battling. We see this to be true for trees, and it's true of us as we bloom where we are planted. You heard about the big trees? Scientists are trying to grow them in a climate-controlled biosphere. Did you hear the story? Everything looked really good at first. I mean, why wouldn't it, right? The perfect amount of light, excellent soil conditions, just the right amount of water, and yet every time a tree reached a certain height, it toppled over. It collapsed under its own weight. How bizarre. It made no sense. Until the arborists realized that the big trees needed wind. They can't stand without developing stress wood as they grow. And this development happens when they are battered about by wind. The wind, the struggle, the fight, the war against the elements It gives the streets the stress wood, the trees the stress wood that they need, the strength that they need to stand as they mature. So don't quit. Don't you dare And don't think about making a hasty retreat from the field of battle. As we wrestle against not only flesh and blood, but also against the rulers, authorities, and cosmic powers. In this present darkness we contend with spiritual forces of evil. Yes, we do. But those evil forces are dead man walking. They've already lost So continue your march forward. And I say continue. But if you find that you've actually stepped out of the battle line, well then step back in. With an attitude that says, we have not yet begun to fight. And I say we because it's a privilege that Christ allows us The privilege of fighting alongside him, shoulder to shoulder, side by side And if you should ever feel that you've been captured by the enemy, don't be captured in spirit Just tell the enemy what a British drummer boy is reputed to have said to his French captors once upon a time. As the story goes, the French were being beaten back by the Brits, and so the French French soldiers told the young drummer boy, whom they'd have taken as a prisoner, Come on, my lad, we must now retreat. And to this, the boy, in his thick English accent, responded, I don't know how to retreat. The Drittis army never retreats. May we likewise be forever. Onward Christian soldier. No retreat. Let's pray. Father, we Love that you allow us to participate in your victory. You don't need us to win But you allow us to share in it as though we're playing some important, indispensable part. By your providence there's a sense in which that's true. None of us is indispensable. Every part of the body has a purpose. Help us to bloom where we're planted. Help us to not shy away from difficult times, knowing that this will help us to mature. Will strengthen our faith. will make us better ambassadors for Christ. That we'll be better able then to encourage others who are going through tough times in the spiritual war that we face. And it will be an example to a very lost, lonely, and confused world that has turned its eyes inward unto themselves, not recognizing their need for you, not even wanting to recognize your existence. Our world is broken because our world is rebellious. We know that even we rebel far too often. We ask you to forgive us for that. We rest in the assurance of forgiveness that comes through Christ. An assurance that we have because of the illumination of the Holy Spirit that helps to bring this assurance into our heart. Help us to be brave soldiers, even when we're afraid. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So has anyone been a brave soldier this week while they were afraid? There's a question for you guys to ponder as we uh shut down the the live stream. We're going to have a uh discussion here. If you'd ever like to sit in on one of the discussions, well, you've got to be present for that. So until next week, you know, six o'clock hour, you know, we aim for six, but sometimes it's closer to six thirty or thereabouts, but we aim for around six. Every Saturday you can catch us on the live stream. Until next week, God bless.