Well, welcome to the live stream portion of the Household of Faith in Christ weekly gathering on Saturday evenings. For those who are used to watching us live, we're getting a rather tardy start today, but that's because we have a special guest. uh making a special presentation and uh hopefully it's gonna be edifying to you. Uh I think it's on Galatians chapter five. So you want to want to follow along, get your uh Bibles open and ready to follow along can do that. If you want to learn more about us, go to our website, Household of FaithInChrist. com. There you can find our previous sermons. We'll get back into our revelation series next week at God willing. And um there's there's trusted resources that uh we've vetted that if you're looking like where can I turn to get good information, uh we've we've put some stuff up there that's not ours, but we've linked to other stuff to help you in that regard. Um you can link to the Faith Debate Radio Show that I do uh through our website as well. So it's kind of a one-stop shop, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. So I'll let you maybe handle your uh anything you care to say i as by way of introduction in the video. But everybody here already kinda knows who you are and this is mostly for us gathered here, so I'm not too ear but there might be some things you would like to have for public consumption, so I'll let you Uh do that. And I'll just I guess set this over here so it picks you up better. Does that work? That's it. So I just keep sitting here or go back there? Oh you can go back there. Okay, is now the time? Now the time. You're on. Nancy's interest. My name is Bernie Beale. I'm an evangelist. And I've just begun my 40th year in ministry. And uh I've been married for the same amount of time. No coincidence there. My wife Linda, who's not with me, but my youngest son Daniel is here, uh Linda and I, um 16 years ago After twenty-three wonderful years with Campus Crusade for Christ, we launched our own local ministry, kind of here in the greater DC area, lived in fact here in Frederick County, and even have a shirt to prove it that we have our own ministry Great Commission families. We were really kind of surprised. You think how many ministries talk about the Great Commission? Think how many ministries talk about the family. And so we thought, well, surely someone has the name, Great Commission Families. And we left, as I said, Campus Crusade for Christ. It was a it was a warm party and I'm still invited back to speak for all kinds of things. Um but uh We went from the world's largest Christian ministry, Campus Crusade for Christ International. By the way, they never changed their name. It was the U. S. ministry that changed their name to crew. Every national ministry could have its own name. Like in the Middle East, the all the nations that have a Campus Crusade for Christ in the Middle East don't go by the name Campus Crusade for Christ. They go by some indigenous name. But we went from the world's largest ministry, which I didn't know that until we read Dr. Bright's obituary, to the world's smallest ministry, meaning just us, just Linda and I. Our original idea, which is still in play, our idea from the beginning, was to create and lead family-friendly evangelistic outings using, especially using America's Christian heritage. And spiritual insights from the past to help us to live in the present as we look to eternity to living for the Lord. And tonight, the presentation that I uh put together. Um this actually I put I I put this together a couple of months ago. I got a call from a pastor uh up in Pennsylvania, uh one of the elders in his church is a student who was involved in our ministry years ago. We've been in touch ever since and occasionally make Every few years I I go up there and preach. And he kind of called in a little bit of a hurry. Hey, can you come in a couple of weeks? And I thought, well, yeah. And then I thought, well, what am I learning lately? Uh what am I talking about lately in ministry? And what's what's a a passage from God's Word that relates to it? Uh and I thought about some of the statues that relate to freedom and liberty in the Capitol, United States Capitol, and I thought about the passages that I often use with those particular statues. from Galatians chapter five. The repeated thing, if you ever go with me into DC or anywhere for that matter, and uh we'll I'll I'll tell you some interesting history. Hopefully it's interesting to you, but then I'll say, and that reminds me of a Bible verse And then I'll share the Bible first. So what I'm gonna do is in the four so if you have your Bibles, open it up to Galatians chapter five. Now let me put something on the screen here I forgot to get the power. Oh there it is. And turn this on. Power up and re-engage. So push this button, and that wakes that up. The title of what I've put together here is Freedom in Christ, Freedom in America. Not quite yet. My light solid. And uh Galatians chapter five has twenty twenty-six verses. I'm gonna do selected verses, so we're not gonna do a a uh a solid walkthrough of all twenty-six verses. Um but I'm going to start with with uh verse number one. Pausing. I don't like silence, but sometimes silence is good Yeah, it's gotta warm up again. Oh, maybe it doesn't. What happens when I push that? There. That's what happens. That's good. Yep. Full screen. In our twenty-three years with uh Campus Crusade for Christ From current slide. The last three years, um well I'll preface this by saying I've dealt with pe uh we used to live in Fairfax, Virginia, had a lot of friends who were in the military, and there was a saying that if you worked at the Pentagon, the longer your title, the lower your rank So, I want to tell you my last title with Campus Crusade for Christ. I was assistant to the National Director of Bridges International, which is the international student ministry of the campus ministry. of Campus Crusade for Christ USA. So you put that on a business card and you've got a really long title. So I I like this little slide here because it has welcome in many, many languages. Now let me see which button makes it go forward. There we go. Here's my family. In 1991. So this is a 4D picture. In other words, it it includes time. The two snapshots in time. On the left side, in 1991, so now 31 years ago, uh Linda and I moved to the DC area so you see the Washamani in the background. We stood on the sidewalk with the Washerman in the background and had all our pictures. So Josh was eight. Aaron was six, Sarah was four, and Daniel sitting right here was two. And we came back to the same spot twenty-eight years later. with now three times as many people. So that's everybody on the right. Our older two sons were married. And between them, okay this is a joke, so don't don't panic. Between them we have four and a half dozen grandchildren Four live in Virginia and a half dozen live in West Virginia. So that's ten. So just and what that's a personal family joke. My father was the youngest of ten And when we were on vacation back when my sister and I were like nine, ten, twelve years old, uh we'd be um at at like a Howard Johnson's restaurant. And my wife, uh my wife, my mom would say, she put her arm around dad, my dad, and uh say, This is my husband for Ed. He's the youngest of four and a half dozen children. And the waitress would be like, Four and a half dozen? How about Yeah, four girls and a half dozen boys. So it's kind of an old family joke. Now I have ten grandchildren and it's three girl three boys and seven girls, so I thought, oh, I missed it. Then I realized, wait a minute, four of them live in Virginia and four of them live in West Virginia So we went back to the same spot. A remarkable thing about this picture, this is just kind of for me personal. So this is Aaron in the red coat, six years old. uh 31 years ago, so 1991. Here's Aaron, um twenty-eight years later. He's holding a two-year-old son, but this is his six-year-old son, Ezra, our oldest grandson. So Between this time twenty-eight years difference, here's two boys side by side, six years old, father and son, and I think that's pretty cool. And I get to share that because we're great commission families. Okay. Here's here's the topic for tonight. Freedom in Christ, freedom in America, Galatians chapter five. And I'm going to look at these are the selected verses. If if you want, you don't need to write these down or anything like that. Um in in fact um In college, my favorite class was any class where the professor said, uh, don't worry about taking notes. I have a handout. And I wish that was today. I don't have a hand out. But an even better class is when the professor said, don't take notes, just listen. I want you to just listen. And so that's kind of what church is for. We listen to the one in front to hear what God has to say to you and me in our heart. And that's my prayer, as we've been praying earlier. So you see three sets, verse 1, 3 through 5, 13 to 15, 20, so 1, 2, 3, a four uh a four-point outline. So I'm going beyond what um what the typical preacher is supposed to do, three, three-point outline. We're gonna do a four-point outline And here's what's going to there's a key word and a key verse for each one. Versus bondage, freedom, love, and provoking. So that's we're going to trace right through those as we go along here. And so here's verse 1 of Galatians chapter 5. For freedom, Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to the yoke of bondage. Keyword bondage, so I've got that underlined. And here's a little phrase I kind of came up with without Christ, bondage to sin is our natural state. Now making that personal in a group sense, plural sense, bondage to sin is our natural state, even as Christians. So think of the world who don't know Christ. Bondage to sin is the natural state of the world. So as you look out to the world, don't expect um well why do they do that? Well the world, including you and me, apart from Christ. Our natural state is bondage to sin. Let me put that there and go to the next slide. And I told you with each of these key words and the key verses that go with them, I have a statue in the in the US Capitol, um in or near the U. S. Capitol. Actually this first guy is in two places, and actually the third guy is too well anyway. Um so this is uh at the US Capitol. Uh they tell me I've never seen the this a TV program where they zoom in on this and this is Ulysses S. Grant, the Union victorious Union General for the North after the Civil War. So after the Civil War there were quite a few or g uh a large handful of equestrian statues of Union generals and his is by far the biggest and in the most prominent location. Interestingly enough, he also has a statue inside, in the Capitol itself, in the main room, if you will, the symbol uh the the room of ceremony, uh there's uh uh also a statue of him. Uh You can't quite pick it out here, so I'm going to zoom in a little closer. So there's Ulysses S. Grant right there. Um and uh there's a gift statue from the uh uh the U the the the the veteran officers of union officers of war war uh war of the civil war. Now they gifted that statues. Every state has two statues, so that's fifty states times two is a hundred statues, plus others that were gifted for various reasons. So I mean there's a lot of statues. in the Capitol. And I have spiritual stories about most of them. Over the years, decades I've been doing this. I meet people from this state, that state, the other state And so I look up, well, who's the statue from their state? Who's the statue from that state? And I read about it a little bit, and then I come to the conclusion, you know, there's a spiritual lesson in that. And uh we don't have time for all the lessons, we're just gonna do a few of them. And so here's Ulysses S. Grant a little closer And here's the um actually I wanted b oh yeah but before yeah yeah delicious as grant Um here's here's a m I I've written a guidebook on the Capitol. Uh it's not published or anything, it's just my stuff I put together and I'm always printing things up And if you listen to that's Grant, a few things I say about him. Um he was the eighteenth president, so that's two presidents after Abraham Lincoln. If you know this don't worry, there's not gonna be a quiz on this. I'm just kinda giving you a sense of you know how you might fit things in your head. What when was that? Who was that? So he was a general during the Civil War and the president two presidents after Abraham Lincoln. Um when he was president he um uh another former Union general wrote a book. In fact this former Union general became famous here in Frederick, Maryland. He was the general leading the Union side at the Battle of Monocassy, right here outside of the outskirts of Frederick City, here in Frederick County. And that man was General Lou Wallace after the war. Um A few number of years after the war, he was on a train ride with a man who was traveling the country, a former officer of his, and the man was traveling the country preaching atheism And so he was trying to convince Lou Wallace, yeah, you shouldn't believe in God. God doesn't exist. And Lou Wallace was like, I don't know. Well, okay, I guess you're right. And so before they parted, this other man said to Lou Wallace, again the man who became famous here because of what he did in Frederick Maryland, uh Lou Wallace decided, you know what, I'm gonna he was challenged and Lou Wallace took up the challenge. I'm gonna do research and I'm gonna write a book to disprove Christianity. He did research and instead he became a Christian And then he wrote a book. And he decided that he would write a novel that would engage people in the culture to learn about Jesus. And that novel was the number one best-selling book in America, after the Bible in his century. And that book was Ben Hur, A Tale of the Christ. It was such a um a cultural stir that for about a decade it was a lot everybody talked about it The top the subtitle is A Tale of the Christ. And it's a message, it's a novel about forgiveness that that Lou Wallace wrote. Well when Ulysses S. Grant got his copy of Ben Hur, he was so he was president of the United States at the time He was so enthralled that he stayed he pulled an all-nighter. That's kind of an old college term. Pulled an all-nighter. He stayed up all he could not put the book down. He he read the book through the night and into the next day. Could not put it down Ulysses S. Grant, it's kind of funny. He's famous for a speech. I love these little tidbits from history. This isn't the spiritual part, but we'll get to that, don't worry. But uh he had a famous speech called The Perfect Speech. It goes like this I rise only to say that I do not intend to say anything. I thank you for your hearty welcomes and good cheers. And then he sat down. But this was his toast, his famous toast, which does come to the verse we want to talk about God gave us liberty and Lincoln. Let us fight for both. And so that's when I think of that verse. Stand firm therefore, Galatians 5. 1, stand firm therefore in the liberty by which Christ has made us free, and do not be entangled again with a yoke of bondage. So our natural state is sin, so in Christ we can be unbound from sin. That's kind of the first point in thinking about bondage. Now the second point, think about this verse, verse thirteen, so skipping ahead of it there if you will. For you were called to freedom, brothers, only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. And the key word there is freedom, freedom, freedom. Freedom and liberty will be interchangeable in different translations. And years ago I did kind of a Bible word search in multiple translations. Why does some say liberty? Why does some say freedom? And there it's really only a semantical difference. There's some slight difference. But liberty is kind of like when a ship comes into port and the sailors are given like three days shore liberty Lead liberty sometimes is defined with parameters. Freedom has the ends with dom as in domain or kingdom the domain of the king. So freedom is like entire free uh liberty, so it's liberty to the max. So liberty and they just used a little bit differently. But I like this word freedom. So the key word bondage and now freedom. And I want to think about a particular statue in Washington, D. C. The most famous statue in New York City would be the Statue of Liberty. But in Washington, D. C. , on the tippy top of the U. S. Capitol dome, let's zoom in a little closer, or at least circle it right for now, is the Statue of Freedom. So in New York Harbor, they have the Statue of Liberty on top of the U. We have the statue of of uh of freedom and there it is. Um off in the distance you can see the Washington Monument, the Lincoln Memorial, due north from the from the Washington Monument is the White House due south from the Washington Monument is the Jefferson Memorial and to connect those five points, Capitol, Washington Monument, Lincoln, and then going due north and south, White House and the and the Jefferson Memorial, that forms a perfect cross And it's in the congressional record in nineteen oh one they added uh the Lincoln Memorial to the mall and then later they added the Jefferson Memorial and they said in the congressional record with the addition of these two prominent monuments, the National Mall will be in the form of a Latin cross. It's in the congressional record, so it's not, you know, some Christian guy says it, it's in the congressional record. Um but I'm going to focus on the Statue of Freedom. Um so here it is a little closer. Uh it's an allegorical figure uh that has um it's kind of a quirky story. I think I'll tell it. Um Uh yeah, okay. Uh in the eighteen fifties they were expanding the Capitol. They're going to put new rooms for the Senate and the House to meet and they knew well we should have a bigger dome to balance out the kind of the widening of the Capitol. It should also go up. And so they were going to put a new dome. and a new statue on top and there was a senator from the South who was in charge of uh some of the artwork and so he ki in charge of the committee for the artwork and so they hired a guy uh named Thomas Crawford to design and we bring a of small-scale model of the statue that would ultimately go on the top when it was full scale. And the first statue that the the guy brought, the statue had a liberty cap on, which goes back to Roman times slaves who were set free and slave was not a racial thing. It was it mostly was an economic and debt thing. Um and uh but uh that senator from the South, I don't I don't think I'm gonna use his name Um that Senator from the South said, We were never slaves, and he could have said, and I own a few. So it was a good awkward, you know, 1850s. Uh so he said, take it back. I don't like that one to Thomas Crawford. Well Thomas Crawford thought, well I like it. You know, you know how artists are I like it. And so Thomas Crawford thought, I'm gonna make something else so ugly that he's gonna want to go back to the first one, which I like. And so he made one And this is kind of hard to tell from your distance, but it looks like kind of like a dead chicken with his claws hanging over to the side, and the head of the chicken has flat feathers coming straight out of the head. There is no bird on earth like this It is just kind of goofy looking. But and so the artist thought, Thomas Professor thought, well I'll show that to the Senator, and he'll say, Oh that's ugly, make the one you did before. Instead he showed it to the Senator and the Senator said, Okay, that's good, make that. And that's what we have on top of the Capitol This allegorical figure of the Statue of Freedom. In my Bible in Galatians, or my Bible that I've written in the most for the for years, below the title I have this phrase here. The Gospel of Grace brings true freedom So that's what the book of Galatians is about. And now I have kind of a rejoinder to go with that. True freedom is not permission to do whatever you want to do, but the ability to do what's right. So in the world today, people think freedom is, uh, do whatever you want. You know, that's no, that's called biblically that's called license. True freedom is the ability to do what's right. In other words, to not be in bondage, which is the natural state of us apart from Christ, but instead have freedom in Christ. Freedom in Christ, and so I'm thinking about freedom in America as well Let's see if I want to say anything about more about that. No, I don't. I'm gonna go on to the third of four points. Um and so the the the two verses for this point The third point, for the whole law is fulfilled in one word, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another That phrase, the whole law is fulfilled in one word, always kind of buzzed me that then the next thing isn't one word. But that's it's kind of a colloquial thing Uh it's a natural way we speak. Like have you ever heard someone say about the seven last words of Christ on the cross? That's a great study if you ever want a sermon series. There's a nice seven seven week sermon series And it's but it's not seven individual words that he spoke. It's the seven times that he said something. And so that's what this means. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word or or one expression. That might be another way of saying it for us today. You shall love your neighbor um as yourself. You mean I wrote down here the ever enlarging boat of liberty is to bless all versus sowing the branch you are sitting on. Okay, those are two phrases I want to explain, two metaphors. The first metaphor, well I got I heard them from other people. A guy named Bill Federer is a wonderful uh historian, wonderful Christian man, and he uses the metaphor of think what the pilgrims first came across. They came across for religious liberty Actually that's um they came across the continued religious liberty which they'd had in the Netherlands which they'd escaped from England like a decade before, but in the Netherlands they felt they were losing their kids to the world. The kids were going into, so to speak, bondage, the bondage of sin. And so I thought we need to go to a place where where our children can stand on our shoulders to be as lights to the world So they had an evangelistic missionary vision. That's why they came to the New World. Pretty interesting stuff. But the but the idea of the boat of liberty, metaphorically speaking, Bill Federer uses the idea of the boat of liberty and I'm with my hands I'm making like a small boat. Well soon after the pilgrims came the Puritans. The Puritans were like the pilgrims, but they believed just a little differently. This happens in the Christian world, uh well, constantly. Um and so but they looked at each other and find so okay, Boat of Liberty, pilgrims and puritans, you're allowed in the boat Uh and then over time they said, okay, anybody who's any kind of Christian allowed in the boat of liberty here in the New World and then they then they said okay anybody who believes in the God of the Bible, which means Jewish people too, and Maryland was the first for that. I don't need to get into it, but it's kind of interesting. Maryland was the only colony that really had religious freedom for Jewish people as well, especially. Uh but anyway, over time then we had a civil war. Okay, everybody, skin color does not matter. Everybody's in the boat of liberty. And I know this is going out over the internet, maybe, but I would point out that the Boat of Liberty, the last people, Christians built the Boat of Liberty for a specific purpose, to bless anyone, not necessarily people who are Christians. The boat of liberty is for anyone. But it seems in our day and age that uh there's some people that are in the boat of liberty here in America and they look around, and Anthony I'll pick you, they look around and they see a Christian And they look at him and they say, what are you doing in the boat? We don't like you narrow-minded Christians in the boat. Get out of the boat. Remember who built the boat of liberty? The Christians who wanted to bless everyone. But now the Christians are being the one pointed at get out of the boat. So that's one thought. The second thought is, and you've probably heard this before, sawing the branch you are sitting on Have you ever heard that example? Picture somebody sitting on a branch and he's got a saw in his hand and he's sawing the branch. There's a big question that needs to be asked and answered right now for that minute. Which side of him is the tree trunk from where he's sawing? If the tree trunk is on his right, he's good, he's just lopping off some of the branch. But if the tree trunk is on his left and he's sewing with his left arm, he is sawing the branch he is sitting on, and when he's done sewing it falls to the ground. So freedom in Christ and freedom in America is based on freedom in Christ. And so as much as everybody in America doesn't need to be Christian, but the boat has been built to be a blessing to all And um so let me show you some people who uh who I think you could say, um, wait a minute. Yep. Yeah, I do want to go on. I'm going to show some more about another guy. So that so now the the third the the the um uh I like that turn of the phrase uh For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. So Christians, we are building up a boat of liberty to be a blessing to all. It is never Christian intentions to build bondage for the world, you've got to do things our way. It's we want the best for others. If I ever ran for office and I won't because I have a higher calling If I ever ran for office, you know, it's almost ubiquitous in American political discourse. At the end of a speech, someone says, and God bless America. You know, they always say that at the end. I would say, God bless America, and God bless the whole world And I and if I was asked to explain that, it says, Well God only blesses America to bless the whole world. If God's not blessing America, it's because we're not seeking God's blessing, so we can bless others. It's blessing is never something for ourselves, it's something God gives us to be able to give Okay. The third key verse, or it's actually it's one sentence, but it's two verses, Galatians 5, 22, 23. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness. Uh faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things uh there is no law. So three words so far, key words, bondage, freedom, and now love. And I'm going to expand on this. Let me see how much I want to yeah, yeah The third statue I want to talk about is this guy, James Garfield, like Ulysses S. Grant, he has a statue out in front of the Capitol and inside the Capitol. We'll get to that in a moment. Well actually here it is Now you might recognize the guy alive, but here's the statue of James Garfield. We've had four presidents assassinated. Most people can name Lincoln and Kennedy. The other two are McKinley and Garfield. James Garfield is the only minister to later be elected president of the United States, so that's over for me. But I have no plans And then this is Billy Graham in 1996 receiving the Congressional Gold Medal. The lady in red over here is Ruth Graham. The white hair is Newt Gingrich. There's the Vice President of the United States, Al Bore There's Bob and Elizabeth Dole and on down the line Strom Thurman, all the leaders there because they have gathered to honor Billy Graham inside the U. S. Capitol Rotunda. And uh this was from Decision Magazine, which the Billy Graham's ministry puts out. And I don't know if they did this on purpose, but they framed Billy Graham the preacher with a preacher on the right, statue of a preacher on the right, James Garfield, who I'm gonna talk about more, and I'll just mention. The one in the background right behind him is also a preacher. And uh there's a lot of preachers in these statues, so it's not a totally random thing. This is Roger Williams, the Baptist founder of Rhode Island. So uh here he is, Baptist preacher, Baptist preacher. Um Oh yeah, there's James. So that one's James Garfield in the upper right. Here is a little closer to kind of see James Garfield, so my focus is going to be on him. You know what? Let me let me tell you about uh Billy Graham, actually. Let me tell you let me share with you part of this speech of this man in this setting. This is pretty remarkable. So he's got kind of the gathered leaders of our nation. And so it's an event where they're honoring him, but he got the gospel in. Here's how he did it. I'm going to read this verb and you can watch this on C SPAN, which I haven't transcribed it. And uh Billy Graham said in a 15-minute speech, one part of it, he says, from time to time I've wandered through this building and looked at all those statutes. I stood in front of some of them whose biography I knew a bit about, and although I thought to myself, there's one thing they all ha but I thought to myself, there's one thing they all have in common. They're all dead. Secretary Brown has joined them Um, and you will too someday. Are you ready for that day? And so Billy Grant, even in this setting, was pointing to people, think about eternity. Think about eternity. There is a policy that any statute that any state puts forward, it has to be someone who's no longer living. Uh and um anybody from North Carolina? Everybody ever heard of North Carolina? Okay. They have two state Yeah, I'm sorry. That's just silly Um they have two they have two statues already and one of them is a governor, I don't need to name his name from over a hundred years ago. He built a lot of schools in North Carolina, but he tended to only build them for one type of people So this is like a little bit of an embarrassment for North Carolina to have that particular statue. So for years they've been thinking, all right, we gotta go somebody else. And they had actually had a combat competition. I think Michael Jordan was in the running, but then someone realized, hey, wait a minute, this is still alive But guess who won the competition? Billy Graham. So Billy Graham, before he passed away, this is several years before he passed away, it's been I think two and a half years since he passed away, but like five or eight years ago it was announced Billy Graham will be the next statue. He was in his late nineties by that time. Billy Graham will be the next statue to replace this other guy for North Carolina Um and you can imagine that uh his son, Franklin Graham, had to come to him at some point, Daddy, it's all worked up, the plans are in lay, there's only one more thing that needs to happen You need to die. Now I don't know that they had that conversation, but he has now died and uh the statue is planned and this is kind of the pose. If you ever saw Billy Graham preach, had his Bible, you know, big old King James Bible that kind of flopped over his hand And he's holding he's like this. Uh he is preaching, so I can't wait for that statue to get to the US Capitol because um boy that's gonna be an easy one to transition to the gospel when I stand in front of it. Um not that any of them are Okay, yeah well so back to back to this guy, James Garfield. As a young man, he was a preacher. Then he went into politics, so he's not like a preacher who got elected president. to point that out to you. But I do want to say, uh well yeah, here's here's a couple of quotes. I like quotes from people, what did they say for themselves? James Garfield, men are tending to materialism. Houses, lands, worldly goods attract their attention And as a as a mirage to lure them on to death. So stuff leads to death. Bondage. This earth. Instead, our eyes should be lifted up. I'm continuing now to read what he wrote. Christianity, on the other hand, leads only the natural body to death, and for the Spirit, it points out a house not built with hands, eternal in the heavens. Let me urge you to follow him, not as the Nazarene, the man of Galilee, as the carpenter's son, but as the ever-living spiritual person full of love and compassion, who will stand by you in life and death and eternity. He was in Congress for like I had uh like ten terms or something like that. And then almost in a flute b other guys uh they thought they'd be president and And it was it was so close they all said uh the the different public parties said, What about this guy? This is James Scarfield, suddenly got elected president, almost like a surprise. And um then he was assassinated almost right after that as the twentieth president. So that was two after Ulysses S. Grant, who was two after Abraham Lincoln, if you're counting at home. Um but here's something I want you to think about. He talked about Jesus Christ being full of love. And the passage I'm uh the the verses I'm talking about right now is the of the spirit is love. We were talking earlier. There's no punctuation in the original. But I think, what if the punctuation was like this? The fruit of the spirit is love. Colon And now he's going to give multiple facets of love. I put a lot on the board up here, and I'm not going to, well yeah, I'm going to walk through it quickly. I think the fruit of the Spirit is love Period. But there's different ways that love works itself out. For instance, this is my little tip. Love plus emotion, well that's joy. Remember love, joy, peace? Love plus confidence, having a sense of God's in charge. That's what can give you peace. Love plus confidence is peace. And then the next three, love plus time, that's patience. Love plus action. Love in action is kindness. You can see love when there is action, and you think that that's a kind person. And then the next one, love plus character is goodness. In the last three, love plus commitment, faithfulness, love plus sensitivity, gentleness. Um I have this memory of uh Walter Concrack uh in the seventies having a TV program about the twenty-first century about things that will be happening in the future. And one was robots. And I remember them trying to teach a robot to do a simple thing. Pick up an egg. carry it over somewhere and put it down. The problem they were having, a robot doesn't have what we have on our fingertips. Many, many highly t highly detailed sensors. So we can gently pick up the egg gently and move it over here and put it down A robar picks it up and either crushes it in the old days anyway, or drops it part way. So sensitivity, love plus sensitivity, that's what gentleness is. is so we don't break the eggs emotionally of people around us. That's true love. And then the last one, love plus discipline is self-control. By the way, so this is it. Love, then love, joy, peace. That's three one-syllable words. This works in the NAS, doesn't work everywhere. Love, joy, peace, three one-syllable words. Patience, kindness, goodness, three two syllable words. And then faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Three three syllable words. I just like seeing those things in the Bible. It's just for me. I mean, you know, it's like a way to remember stuff. Alright, I got a picture here These are eight of my ten grandchildren. At the time, the ninth one was in a stroller and the tenth one wasn't born yet. But for my 60th birthday, I asked my children who are married to deal with the rigmarole of getting all of our grandchildren and go to the U. S. Capitol Rotunda and I had them line up because this child, the oldest, is holding a $100 bill. Behind her in the painting is Ben Franklin. That's the face on the $100 bill She's holding second oldest grandchild's holding a $50 bill and there's Ulysses S. Grant right over there, his statue. Next one's holding $20 bill, and I took the picture and behind me is a statue of Andrew Jackson, $20 bill And the next one's holding a ten dollar bill, Alexander Hamilton. There's Alexander Hamilton. And on down the line, you get the picture. And I call it the faces of money in the Capital Rotunda. So the fact that uh uh Um all the faces of money are there. I've shared it with multiple people. But that's in the center of Congress. And now I want to end Garfield with another quote. I love these kinds of quotes. In eighteen seventy-six, he wasn't president yet. I I don't think. I think we're still in Congress. And so he made a comment about Congress and the American people. Remember the theme? Freedom in Christ, Freedom in America. James Garfield, July 4th, 1876 Now more than ever before, ever before, the people are responsible for the character of their Congress. If that body be ignorant, reckless, and corrupt, it is because the people tolerate ignorance, recklessness, and corruption If it be intelligent, brave, and pure, is because the people demand these high qualities to represent them in the national legislature. In other words, we get the Congress, we deserve. And that's kind of a scary thing sometimes Alright, on to the fourth and final point, and with the last three verses of the passage of Galatians five. And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. Let us also keep in step with the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. Strikingly, my last key word is this word here, provoking Now that's usually not like a pleasant word. That's like two little boys, brothers. Oh, I think Abraham Lincoln, he had two sons. He was walking along the streets of Springfield, Illinois, when he was a young, fairly young lawyer one day, and his two boys were fussing and fighting with one another. And someone across the way said, Mr. Lincoln, what's the problem? And he said, the same problem is with the whole world. I got two boys and I gave them one walnut. Mm. Now there's a three-letter word with I in the middle, sin. There's a five-letter word with I in the middle, pride. The I in the middle is the problem. I shared that with uh my kids once. and and Daniel's sister Sarah said to me, Well dad, smile is a five-letter word with I in the middle. Okay, it doesn't always work. But this idea of provoking, usually we think of it in terms of like two bo two brothers Poking each other and provoking one another. But here in this passage, it's d using the exact opposite. Provoking one another. Um oh, I'm sorry, not in this passage, but here's a passage. All those who belong to Christ oh and uh Um did I not put that verse in there? Uh let us consider how to stir one another to loving good deeds. Where is where is that Verse fi oh yeah but um verse that's not verse fifteen. Philip uh Philippians three twenty, but our citizenship is in heaven And so we're we are to consider how to stir one another to loving good deeds. That's the kind of provoking we want to have. But here's two verses I want you to think about. So from this phrase and those who belong to Christ Jesus That's in the passage we just led, the last of the four parts of Galatians. But what I want to add to that is Galatians 3. 20, but our citizenship is in heaven. I shared with the group earlier, uh, you know, freedom in Christ, freedom in America. Okay, is America like this godly nation that God's going to bless forever? I don't think so. There's no nation like that Because our citizenship is in heaven. Now our stewardship, every person on earth is born somewhere, born into some setting, some culture, some some language, some nation. And so that becomes that person's stewardship. And we have our stewardship. of what are we going to do with what God's given us for the purpose of being able to bless others. So now I want to bring up the last guy of the statutes. So we've had uh we've we've had so far Ulysses S. Grant, a real person the Statue of Freedom, a metaphorical person, James Garfield. And now I'm going to show you this is um The most photographed man in America in the 19th century, that'd be the 1800s, not Abraham Lincoln, because he was only president for a little over four years, but a man who lived a long time and got a lot of people took a lot of pictures of him Because it was a big deal. And his picture's in here. It's kind of hard to see, so let's zoom in. He has a statue in the U. S. Capitol. That tapestry was in the Museum of the Bible where Daniel and I spent the day. This man is Frederick Douglass A wonderful Christian man. If you read some of his writings, in fact I have more I have thousands of books. And I have more books on Frederick Douglass than any other single person, with the notable exception of Jesus. You know, that's probably you know it's not fair But I want to look at, yeah, this is the phrase I was thinking of. Let us consider how to provoke one another to love and good deeds. That's the provoking that we're to be involved in. And so key word is provoke. And so now I want to have, you know what? I want to go back to the Douglas statute because I want to read some of the things that he said When I stand in front of this statue in the U. S. Capitol building, this is the quote I have from him, Frederick Douglass. I have one great political idea. The best expression of it I've found in the Bible It is in substance. Righteousness exalteth the nation. Sin is a reproach to any people. This constitutes my politics, the negative and positive of my politics, and the whole of my politics I feel it my duty to do all in my power to infuse this idea into the public mind that it may speedily be recognized and practiced upon by our people You know, a couple of years ago, uh there was a host of people, I'm thinking of how many courts I want to do from Frederick Douglass. I think I want to um Yeah, this is his testimony. I was thinking of skipping past the testimony. Wait a minute. You can't do that in a sermon. He uh amazing man when he wa uh he he was born a slave never saw his mother in the light of day. His father honestly was probably the slave owner. It's a it's a difficult and awkward history Uh we're talking I forget the birth year, we're talking 1820s, eighteen thirties, something like that. Uh a couple of decades before the Civil War, several decades before the Civil Civil War. Um and uh he he escaped, gained his freedom, uh got married, uh and s and became a speaker, like in his twenties and into his thirties, and well the rest of his life. But by the time I think he was in his early thirties, he wrote an autobiography And then a couple more decades go by and he did a lot of stuff, did a lot of speaking, very active obviously in the abolitionist movement, went to Europe, you know, well traveled, well spoken man So he wrote a second autobiography. And then towards the end of his life, he wrote a third autobiography that was actually longer than the first two. Um and you know kind of recovered and expanded on a number of things In all my readings of people throughout world history, I have never heard of anybody that had enough light going on that they wrote in their lifetime three autobiographies. This man had a lot going on, Frederick Douglass. So let me read this. I have uh I think I'm going to do two long, somewhat long quotes, but to kind of give him the respect of his spiritual birth and his vision for America. Alright, you ready? When I was about thirteen years old and had succeeded in learning to read, he was he was a brilliant guy. He um he'd be sent to the store to pick up stuff and he'd be given a list of go get these things to the he was just to give it to the grocer 'Cause he he was not allowed to be learning how to read and write. So um he would look he would point to something on the list and then go see what they brought and then he knew Ah, that's apples And then you know point to the next thing, see what they got. Oh, that you know, brilliant guy. He would find scraps of paper in the gutter uh and he'd he'd uh he'd show it to some of the white boys And he didn't know what it says, so he would make up something. Oh this this talks about as if he knew, he'd pretend. This says da-da-da-da. And they would tease him, that's not what it says. Let's tell you what it says. This guy was brilliant And he taught himself to read he significantly taught himself to read and write. So I'll try to start again. When I was about thirteen years old and had succeeded in learning to read, I want you to understand the impact of that phrase succeeded in learning to read, every increase of knowledge, especially anything respecting the free states, was an additional weight to the almost intolerable burden of the thought I had that I am a slave for life To my bondage I could see no end. It was a terrible reality, and I shall never be able to tell how sadly that thought chafed my young spirit And then I was not more than thirteen years old. With my loneliness and destitution I longed for someone to whom I should go as to a father and protector. The preaching of a white Methodist minister named Hansen was the means of causing me to feel that in God I had such a friend. He thought, this preacher, thought that all men, great and small, bond and free, were sinners in the sight of God that they were by nature rebels against his government, God's government, and that they must repent of their sins and be reconciled to God through Christ. I cannot say that I had a very distinct notion of what the was acquired of me, but one thing I did know well, I was wretched and I had no means of making myself otherwise. I consulted a good old colored man named Charles Lawson. Lawson And in the tones of holy affection he told me to pray and to cast all my cares upon God. This I sought to do, and though for weeks I was a poor, broken hearted mourner, travelling with doubts and fears I finally found my burden lightened, my heart relieved. I loved all mankind, slaveholders not accepted, though I abhorred slavery more than ever. I saw the world in a new light, and my great concern was to have everybody converted. My desire to learn increased and especially that I want thorough acquaintance with the contents of the Bible. There's there's lots more on him and I'd just better move move along. Except um I want to tell you that uh two and a half years ago uh there was a speech of his that was quoted a lot. Um except it was misquoted. And I was really kind of Why do people get away with that? Because in eighteen fifty-two, for the fourth of July, he was asked to give a speech, was actually celebrated because the fourth of July was a Sunday, on Monday, the fifth of July. Um and the the title of the speech that he was assigned to speak on to a women's suffrage group in upstate New York, so it was women who wanted the right to vote, and they invited him to be the speakers. famous, already famous guy, famous speaker, and the topic was, what does the Negro oh the Fourth of July in the Negro And so he gave a speech, and so quite a long speech. It's fine. I prints out for me 19 pages, and what I have here is the last page. Or an excerpt from the last page. Because for about well he starts on a positive note and then he does something that uh really good speakers do to get a crowd motivated. He says some really negative things. He says gets people riled up. And that part was quoted heavily in twenty twenty, the summer of twenty twenty. But that wasn't his point. His point was to lead to action by presenting the conclusion of what the solution is. So this is how that speech ended. And allow me to say, in conclusion, notwithstanding the dark picture I have this day presented, and he did it pretty powerfully by the way, so when I I just say the dark picture. If you read it all, you'd go, whoa man, that guy's good. Um but uh the dark picture that I have presented of the state of the nation, I do not despair of this country There are forces in operation which must inevitably work the downfall of slavery. We're talking eighteen fifty-two, almost a decade before the Civil War. And then he quotes the Bible. The armor the Lord is not shortened. That's Isaiah 59, 1 And the doom of slavery is certain. I therefore leave off where I began with hope, while drawing encouragement from the Declaration of Independence, the great principles it contains and the genius of American institutions, my spirit is cheered by the obvious tendencies of the age. In other words, he believed that the foundation documents of America, the Declaration of Independence, and in an earlier paragraph he did the same kind of thing, talking through the Constitution. He believed those documents would make it inevitable that slavery would be abolished in our nation. He was better than a prophet. He was a Christian that could see where God was taking a nation. And I'm pretty impressed with that. All right So now I'm gonna kinda come to a conclusion. Um uh what now? What now This is a post-it or from a post-it I have on my desk for years and years and years. There were some years ago. I I don't even remember the particulars. I could think if I thought about it a little bit, I could Uh but it doesn't matter. That's kind of the point of it. But I was kind of looking at the world saying, Why don't those people do this? Why don't those people do that? About people in leadership and national things or international things or whatever. And then it was as if God said to me, Why are you pointing the fingers at others It's kind of like at the Last Supper, remember Jesus? Someone said, Hey, what about him? Meaning is he gonna live to an old be an old man? disciples asking. Uh and Jesus said, don't basically paraphrase it, don't you worry about that, you worry about you. So I think God kind of said that to me when I was kind of looking I'm I mean I can be a newsah at sometimes and I realize it's wasting too much time trying to understand and know everything about everything. And uh why didn't this person do this, that person do that? It's like God said to me, What about you? You need to do the one thing or the the one thing, whatever I call you to. So what now? What do you do in a world that's not perfect? And you're never going to get any other world until we're at the banquet table Um you know what? I'm gonna do a small aside there. I um from time to time when I spend time with people that are Christians and then we're not we're partying, we're probably not gonna see each other again because it was kind of like a at uh you know some event where we were together and then you're going to your state, I'm going to my state. I used to do well I still do what we used to say what was said back in the seventies. We'll see you again, here, there, or in the air. That's kind of my little thing. Well just this week a guy said to me, and it just came to mind when looking at this, a guy looked at me and said, See you at the banquet table. I thought, whoa, that is cool. See you at the banquet table. That's what I'm looking forward to. So this thing of two things to do As you look at anything in your world, remember your calling. What has God called you to do? Be faithful to what God has called you to do. And while you're doing that, number two, keep looking up Because you're gonna see it. I'm I wanna see you. I'm looking forward to seeing you at the banquet table. So that's the conclusion. Um Except I I've got to share this quote. This is on uh the Constitution Hall in Washington, D. C. It's a Bible verse, remove not the ancient landmark which thy fathers have set. That's a beautiful thought. Right next to it is a quote from uh uh you know it there you go. Um I'll stand in the light. Walk in the light, right? That's right. Um that's a quote from George Washington at the beginning of the Constitutional Convention, so they They carved it, or they put it in copper plate anyway, over top of the door at the entrance to Constitution Hall in DC. I've known these quotes for years and only recently did I realize He's quoting the Bible. Twice. Um I mean he's he's using a pull phrase. He's not like quoting a verse in in its full verbatim. He's using phrases and concepts from the Bible. At the beginning of the Constitutional Convention, George Washington, let us raise the standard. to which the honest and wise can repair. So in Jeremiah 17 talks about raising a standard. Second second sentence is much shorter. The event is in the hand of God And a few years ago at church we were going through the book of Ecclesiastes. You remember that, Daniel? You've got the chapter nine and verse one. It's kind of a long verse, but in the middle of the verse, or actually towards the end of the verse, it has this thing about events being in the hand of God. Events in the hand of God? Pastor George Watson said So if I, uh a person who knows knows the Bible pretty well, above average, I think, uh, and I enjoy history, and I didn't know that George Washington was quoting the Bible, think of how a secular historian is going to be who who doesn't know the Bible and they're reading things from history, th they're gonna have what I and I mean this in a polite way, they're gonna have historical ignorance. They they just don't know It's not uh it's not even necessarily deliberate ignorance, though Romans chapter one does talk about that. Um but those are the four things uh bondage, freedom, love, and provoking, as in provoking one another to love and good deal Galatians chapter 5. Now, um for years, well when Daniel was a little boy, my Daniel's sitting right here Um we homeschooled, we, as in uh it's like the the two guys that went bear hunting and one of them shot a bear and they got back to camp and the other guy said, We killed a bear. Well no, it was the other guy. So we homeschooled, as in my wife homeschooled and I supported her Uh and early on one of the assignments Daniel had was to memorize some poetry. Was it Robert Lewis Stevenson? Yeah, something from Robert Lewis Stevenson. It was just on his to-do list for the coming week. Well he came back like an hour or so or later that day and recited it for Linda. And Linda's like, wow, that's pretty amazing. We should like give him some Bible assignments. So uh one thing led to another. Daniel has memorized uh a couple of dozen chapters of the Bible, the whole chapters, and one of them happens to be Galatians chapter five. Um let me get my copy right here. And uh so uh to conclude, and then I will uh close at least this part of what I'm doing, what we're doing in prayer. I want you to just sit and listen. You are free to follow along in your copy of God's Word, but let God's Word wash over you. So Daniel's going to recite Galatians chapter five, and we just did about, I don't know, eight eight or so verses from Galatians chapter five. Let me just put a blind screen up there. Um just let God's word wash over you as you hear Daniel recite. It's a little bit different to hear someone recite God's word from memory than they than to hear someone read. I mean it's obviously very good to sit in the reading of Scripture. but to sit in the hearing of Scripture, to hear someone recite. So Daniel, where do you want to do that? You want to just stand right there and recite? I think that'll be fine. And I'll I'll just be over here listening as well. Stand fast, therefore, and the liberty Wherewith God has made us free and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage. Behold, I Paul say unto you that if If you be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing. For I testify again to every man that is circumcised that he is a debtor to do the whole law. Christ is become of no effect unto you. Whosoever of you are Justified by the law, ye are fallen from grace. For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision, but faith Faith which worketh by love. Ye did run well. Who did hinder you that you should not obey the truth? This persuasion Cometh not of him that calleth you, a little leaven leavening, the whole love. I have confidence in you That you will be none otherwise minded, but he that troubleth you shall bear his judgment, whosoever ye be. And I, brethren, if I have pres pre circumcision, why do I yet suffer persecution? Then is the offense of the cross peace. I would then they were cut off Which trouble you for brethren you have been called unto liberty, only use not liberty for an occasion to the fleet And this thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. But if ye fight and devour one another, take heed that yeah Ye be not consumed one of another. This I say then, walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary the one to the other. So that she cannot do the things that she would. But if ye be led of the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are manifest Which are these adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance Emulation, wrath, strife, sedition, heresy, and beings, murders, drunkenness, reveling, and such like of the witch I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom. of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness temperance. Against such there is no law. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affection If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Let us not be desirous. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Daniel. Let me close this part in prayer, and then we'll have a discussion of uh ministry outing opportunities. That sound good? All right. Lord God, thank you for your word. The power of your word is spoken, read. Your Holy Spirit brings life to us by your word. And I pray that as uh we step forward from this evening, this church gathering, that as we go into the different parts of the world you call us to, that in each case, each of us Myself, each of us here, would remember the calling you've given to us to walk with you, faith with you, and yet as we live in this fallen world, we would be looking up, uh looking forward to that banquet. Um That's in the future, being prepared by the Lord Jesus Himself. So Lord, thank you for this time together, to gather, to sing, to worship, to pray, to be in your word And uh to be in your word in the context of the world we live in. Uh thank you for the uh uh the the the privileges that have come to us by being born in America. And um and yet we want to be people who are uh living out faithfully because no nation is perfect and it never will be. Um but uh we want to live faithfully here on earth as we look forward to the completion of our citizenship in heaven. day in this we pray in Jesus' name amen amen I'm gonna close this and come around sit over there because I have handouts and I'm gonna try to get Okay, yes. Do some baby shifting. So I think this is a good transition point actually. to uh to wrap up the video. I think so. That's kind of a piece, a certain what a blessing. I don't know if people really took note, but we actually uh as a church uh Uh we're blessed by three full chapters of the Bible in different contexts today. Right? We our scripture reading with the entirety of Daniel chapter seven, and then our time of prayer, folks. I'm praying through the entirety of Psalm uh five. And now we just have the recitation of uh Galatians chapter five, so which uh puts the rest of us to shame. I can't say that I've got any chapter uh fully memorized so that I could recite uh from memory. So what a what a blessing and uh hopefully every blessing of that. Anyway, thank you for watching us uh whether live or later on And I should probably allow you, you have a website. Yes, gcfamilies. org. G for great, g for commission, and families. gcfamilies. org. Or just Google Bernie Beal. Well there might be more than one burning veal. But if you do that it's uh beal is uh is be all B E A L L. That's right. Be all things all man, so there's something I could say. Pronounce the old. So again. So one more time on the website. Wot GCfamilies. G C Families. Gcfamiliesplural dot org not dot com. So you can uh learn more about what Bernie has going on, or you can hook up with him for one of his tours and his uh industry outings. Ministry outings, he does them all throughout the the region, the Maryland, Southern PA, uh into Virginia I guess, uh and stuff as well in West Virginia. So Anyway, thanks so much for watching. We'll find you uh here same time same bat channel next week, double us