Welcome to the live stream portion of the weekly worship gathering and household of faith in Christ. Thank you for joining us on the stream, whether it's live or later on on delay. We're going to be in the book of Revelation, picking up our series. We took a little bit of a of a rest from that for one week, but we're right back at it. Actually I'm going to take a slide of this before we get going. So you all want to have your Bibles uh open and ready to follow along in chapter twelve If you're new to finding us online here, just real quick, you can learn more about us online at our website, household of faith in Christ. com. Oh, one word, household of faith in Christ. com. Today's message is titled Child in Heaven, Woman in Wilderness So when I was a little boy, it was probably at I don't know, I think I was like seven, eight years old, we went on a trip from Illinois to Florida. It was a road trip. There were six of us packed into one car. There was my aunt uh her two kids, my cousins, uh me and my two grandparents. And it's you know about a twenty hour ride. It traverses six states, two time zones, and we made this trip back at a time uh when uh well time in history when the interstate system was still kind of a pretty new thing actually. And the plan was to drive straight through with the adults taking their turn behind the wheel to give each other a break and rest. But we ended up needing to stop at a motel for a short amount of time because our trip ended up getting extended when we got a little bit turned around on the highway system. Now old fogies like me Maybe a couple others who are hearing my voice remember a time before smartphones. And the 1970s was just such a time, and so there was no such thing as GPS guidance. There were no automobiles that had installed within them navigation units or anything like that. So what we had back then were maps. And our memories if the route was something we had traveled before. So my grandparents, they had made this trip before, so they had their memories. And you know what? They they had their maps, which they had diligently marked out in advance, so they were they were ready to hit the road. But did I mention that the interstate system was still a pretty new thing back then? And the new big highways, they created a bit of a domino effect across the country with new feeder roads and on and off ramps being built and some roads actually changing their names and stuff and so this messed with my grandparents' memories And it messed with their old maps. They were less than 100% accurate. And so as you can guess, they they got lost. Wandering in the wilderness, as it were. And as you can guess, they got a little bit testy with one another. And my grandmother, she was so so upset that day that she refused to enter the motel when we stopped for the night, and she decided to sleep in the car instead. She was rather stubborn. Good thing that didn't get passed down through the gene pool. But you know, she was frustrated of course by getting lost, but really she was mostly angry that people in the car had earlier laughed at her expense. See, she was in the backseat behind my grandfather who was driving. And he decided that he would clear his throat by coughing up one of the world's largest ever known balls of phlegm in history. And he cranked down the window. There were no automatic windows back then and they had to crank the roll things. He rolls down the window and then he spit that gob of mucus into the summer breeze. But unfortunately for my grandma, the summer breeze aided by the wind of a vehicle traveling the highway about seventy miles an hour It slung that nasal soup right back into the car, slapped directly into the face of my grandmother. Who was seated quietly minding her own business behind her husband? We all laughed hysterically. But she found it not funny at all. No, it was not really. Anyway, when we all climb back into the car after that motel pit stop that I mentioned, my grandmother, she made sure this time to sit in the front seat. And my aunt handled the navigation from the backseat, and things were, you know, rather tense, pretty quiet. My grandmother was still seething, but otherwise all was well, or so we thought, she'll began to realize that we probably were seeing the same landmarks pass us by. At first we were like, wow, this area looks just like where we were before. And then a little time passed and we're like, huh, are we sure we haven't passed this way already? And then we all collectively knew the truth. We had been driving in circles. My grandfather had encountered a bypass that circles the city, and he just kept driving around the loop. At this point he was thoroughly disoriented. He didn't know where to get off. I don't think he even knew how he got on. And the masks, they didn't even show that this beltway even existed. So the masks were not any help at all. And so it's at this point, cutting through her hours of giving everyone the silent treatment, my grandmother decides to pipe up and she says to my grandfather, follow that truck driver. He knows where he's going. I must say, to this day, I have very little doubt that that truck driver knew where he was going. But did he know where we were going? Were our destinations the same? It turns out the answer to both questions was No, and I know this for sure because we did follow him for about an hour, I think. And then happily we recognized the names on the road signs are matching the names we were seeing on the map. And this helped us to realize that we were traveling in the wrong direction. So we ended up backtracking, getting back on the right path, and then we did finally arrive at our Florida destination about a day later than we had originally anticipated. Now what does this story have to do with anything? Well, it does help us to understand the importance of consistently following The right people, the right plan, following Jesus, who is the way, the narrow path, and not getting caught up in following other people or things that will sweep you from heaven. And will cause all sorts of misunderstandings and hurt feelings and bad behaviors. and will undermine the blessedness of your trip through the wilderness Today we move forward in our study of the Revelation by focusing predominantly on chapter 12, verses 4 through 6. But to better set the context, and since it's been a couple of weeks since we've been in Revelation, I'm going to re the entire beginning of the chapter, so I'm gonna start up start up our reading here with verse one and read through the end of verse six. And a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars. She was pregnant and was crying out in birth pains, in the agony of giving birth, and another sign appeared in heaven. Behold a great red dragon with seven heads and ten horns and on his head seven diadems. His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she bore her child He might devour it. She gave birth to a male child, one who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron But the child was caught up to God and to his throne. And the woman fled into the wilderness. Where she has a place prepared by God in which she is to be nourished for 1,260 days. What we see in this brief picture is a side-by-side comparison of the light-bearing woman who is representative of those who are on God's side, his people, in contrast with the bloodthirsty dragon, who is most assuredly not on God's side, as we will see with even more detail. with the devil's people, the false prophet and the beast and his other agents, whom we're going to begin to meet in the next chapter. Now we addressed the first three verses of this chapter in some detail in the last sermon, so we're not going to belabor all those things again here today. Just remember. That the dragon image just highlights that Satan, as a dragon, has stupendous power, but not as much power as God. Whom the devil hates, with terrible enmity, hates him. But since the dragon can't beat God, he tries to go after God's faithful Now many pastors they would likely preach verses one through six is just one message. And if our habit here at Household of Faith in Christ was to preach longer sermons than we do, then I I might have done the same. But we try to keep our our messages here to about a half hour, give or take. And that's really simply not enough time to helpfully deal with the boatloads of symbols that we we find packed into this chapter. So today we're picking up our deep examination with the symbol that we find at the start of verse 4, which says, His tail swept down a third of the stars of heaven. Now I'm guessing that you have heard from lots of people over the years that this one third of a verse is talking about Satan's original rebellion way back in time when he persuaded one third of the other angels to join him in fighting against their creator. And I am not going to try to persuade you otherwise. This interpretation is probably about as good as any other. However, I am going to try to persuade you that while you hang on to that idea that you you would broaden your view to consider other additional applications as well. Now this is admittedly a difficult set of concepts for us to to nail down so firmly that we can make our understanding airtight because the Bible it really tells us very little about the fall of Satan and his demons. I mean the clues are there are really f very few. But there are clues for adding layers of insight here into verse four. Remember the imagery that we came across when we read and studied and I preached on chapter 9, where tails inflict great torment. The tails are said to have serpents' heads. Remember some of this imagery? The serpent is a biblical symbol for liars. And these lying tales in chapter nine, they they wound. They wound with their lies, with their deceptions. And here in chapter 12 we have the dragon with his lies, his deceptions, deceive a third of the stars of heaven. Now is this to be understood as an exact mathematical formula? With 33 and one-third percent of the angels deceived. Now it's possible that it's that exact, but given the the genre type, because we don't want to forget that this is apocalyptic literature. So we're going to uh keep in mind that we don't want to necessarily press the text for any more exactitude. than than than must be exacted of it. Now it could be that it's 33. 3333333333%. But it could also simply be a symbolic representation of a very significant minority. One out of three is a lot, that's a big number. But it's less than half. In fact, there's a supermajority that's still remaining on the side of what's right. Now the precise precise details aside, this Is the point. God and his angels cannot successfully be outflanked. The other side does not have the numbers. Amen. Even though they do represent an opposing force. A force with which we must contend. But remain mindful always. God, all by Himself, would still be the majority. Now think also about what we've learned about stars. We've learned a lot regarding stars and how the imagery is used here in the Revelation. Previously in Revelation, we've seen that stars can represent angels. And the meaning of the word angel is messenger, and so a significant minority of heavenly messengers are deceived. And they become dwellers of earth, we're told. They have lost their heavenly status. You know, we might be on safe ground here to suggest that the stars, they could also maybe represent the heavenly character of the angelic representatives of the church, like pastors perhaps. We were introduced to this idea very early in the book of Revelation, you might recall. We're definitely on safe ground to see an echo of the language that is found in Daniel. chapter eight with a kingdom that's so impressive it displaces part of the heavens. This is part of why, before we started the stream, during our the beginning part of our worship together, we actually read the entirety of Daniel chapter eight. As a congregation. Now on top of this, that in the Bible, stars also sometimes represent Stars. Like, you know, those twinkling lights in the night sky. And these heavenly bodies are themselves symbols of the created order. I mean the creation is massive. And orderly. And designed. And beautiful and awe-inspiring. And the stars they help us to see this order over which God rules. And so the dragons attack on the stars. is an attack on God's order, on God's rule. And the immediate focus of verse 4, it's what comes next, the final two-thirds of the verse. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she bore her child he might devour it. The dragon, Satan. He wants to put an end to the child. Any guess as to the identity of the child? It is Christ, of course. Satan wants to devour Christ. And short of that, he wants to devour Christians. But we know he fails. Because keep in mind, the woman, the body of Christ, we're told in verse 1 is a great sign. While the dragon, we're told just a couple of verses later, it's not a great sign. The dragon's a mere sign. The woman has the moon under her feet as a sign of dominion. The best a dragon can do is to try to counterfeit this. And we're going to read about this with the horror, with the anti-church, that comes up later in the story. But the devil is defeatable. In fact, his defeat is guaranteed. He has no power compared to Christ. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. And resist you must. We cannot sit idle Christ's church is under attack with arrows of heresy and landmines of lukewarmness and the duplicitous double agents of all mind, no heart. Or all heart, no mind. We face a wily, cagey adversary. He works to fool us. His seven heads they This harkens the imagery of Revelation chapter five. Remember there we saw the seven horns of the lamb, the seven eyes of the lamb. The dragon is a counterfeit trying to trick you. Continually be rooted in the Word so as not to be led astray and devoured. The devil prowls around like a lion, waiting for an opportunity to gobble you up. Like Pharaoh did, telling the midwives to kill the newborns. Like Herod did, ordering the murder of all infants. We see Satan attempt to devour Christ in the wilderness through his lying temptations We see Satan in in the background when Christ confronts the false teachers of the Jewish religion back in the day. We see Satan's minions attacking the Jews and Christ casting out those demons from these poor beleaguered people. We see all of this actually wrapped up in Revelation in just one short phrase. The dragon stood before the woman and sought to devour the child. But all for naught. Because, as verse 5 tells us, she gave birth to a male child, one who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. Our child was caught up to God and to his throne. You know, this is basically the full story of Christ's life in just one verse. Jesus is born. And yes, the dragon, he wants to devour him, but this child is born to be king. He will not be overruled. He will not be overrun. The King of Kings rules all nations. His scepter is an unbreakable rod of iron. And we know from elsewhere in Scripture that this Son of Man is killed, buried even, but we also know that he is resurrected and he has ascended to heaven. And we see this encapsulated very succinctly with the image of the woman's child caught up to the throne of God. With the Son of God now safely seated where he belongs in heaven. What happens to his bride on earth? Well, verse 6 tells us. And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, in which she has been nourished for 1,260 days. God's people, that's us. Are in the wilderness. Throughout the scriptures, we see the wilderness as a place of testing. Jesus was there for 40 days. The ancient Israelites, they were there for 40 years. The Lord's church has been there for now going on two millennia. And each of us, personally, we have times we feel like we're wandering in the wilderness, don't we? The wilderness is a tough place to be. You know, there's no luxury in the wilderness. There's no binge watching your favorite show in the wilderness. There's no tailgating before your favorite team's next big game. There's no ordering out for pizza or staying in for hours upon hours of video gaming. Right? There's no comfort. in the wilderness, but there is safety in the wilderness. And look, from a particular point of view, comforts are destroying America. And the visible church in America. Comforts. Can't go to church. Pre-game show is about to begin. There's a big carnival in town. Can't proclaim the truth of the gospel, might get ratioed on social media, might embarrass myself. Can't stand up for what's right, 'cause I might lose my job. My friend. my worldly reputation. Look, I I understand the pressure to conform to the world. I do. We all do. I mean I get it, you get it, we all get it So as I just said, the wilderness is tough. It's uncomfortable. There's no luxury. But consider this. So often luxury is danger. As I just said a moment ago, in so many ways luxury is killing us. Luxury is slaying our culture. And in the Revelation, this idea of pseudo-luxury is depicted by the beast and its great cities. Cities, whoa, they have luxury, don't they? You ever been to one of those big cities like New York? There's a restaurant on every block, there's a show to see every hour, there's a good time to be had, every evening. Luxury. But no safety. Again, if you've been to a big city like New York, need for police presence on every block. A robbery goes down every hour, a tragedy to behold every evening This is the worldly city. Not the wilderness. In the wilderness, as depicted in the Revelation, There might not be luxury, but there is safety. And in the world, in the city, it's very sparkly. But very, very dangerous to your soul. In the wilderness, being in the world, but not of this world. Well that's that's character forming. And there is a place prepared there for you by God. And so it is very, very nourishing to your soul. Trust God. He has prepared a place for you. Jesus promised. He provides manna to feed you. We saw this demonstrated following the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt. And you will ultimately overcome the sparseness. And you will be granted great eternal rewards if you are in Christ, because he has overcome. As we saw during his 40-day trial in the wilderness. In fact, as we saw in the entirety of his life, he is overcome. And he shares his riches. With his followers. With those followers who are his co heirs. Expanding on this theme and taking in a slightly different direction, think about this turn of phrase. We're to be in the wilderness, not of it. Don't become dour. Don't begin to identify with the wilderness as some sort of a prisoner might identify with his prison cell. We travel through the wilderness. The wilderness is not a permanent home Brothers and sisters, we are heaven-bound. Glory awaits, and that's our home Now with verse 6 I should mention that some they see here ethnic Israel taken to a specific wilderness region or regions around the planet in the moments right before the very end of history. For example, some say that this happens three and a half years into what they anticipate to be a seven-year tribulation period. Now some those who say this, they would be in what's called the mid-tread, the pre-mill camp with regards to their eschatology. Now honestly, I don't interpret this passage uh that way, but I'm not going to pick any fights over it And the reason is that building end times consensus is not easy. And there are parts that probably all of us get right, and there are parts that probably all of us get wrong. We can only know that which God has revealed. And the more clarity God gives, the more certainty we can have. And God has chosen By his own providence, by and for his own good reasons, to leave a few things tantalizingly mysterious And I'm good with that. I spent more than three decades of my life in the entertainment business, and I learned the importance of the old adage, always leave them wanting more. And God leaves us wanting a little bit more here, doesn't he? Because God's a He's a good showman. He's the most wondrous showman of all time But still the question hangs, right, is this portion of Revelation 12 telling us something that's relevant to a mid-tribulational, premillennial, dispensationalist? Sure. Why not? I said something similar last time and I say it again this time. I'm open to all these sorts of insights for any and all disciples of Christ. However, as I also said last time, there's even more to be seen here than that. So let's even if it's just for the sake of argument, let's grant the point. Does God provide for Jewish believers? Well, of course he does. But I want us to also be reminded that God provides for all of his believers. Do God's people of ethnic Israelite heritage have stories to tell about living life in the wilderness? Well, in fact they do. And so do you. Even if you can't trace your biological bloodlines back to Jacob. Because the truths seen in God's written word, they are truths for all people with spiritual lines of faith connected to Abraham. By God's agency. God's people have given biological birth to the promised child, and the male child has given eternal life to his woman. Do you say Jesus is your Savior and your King? Well, if this is true, then you are part of the body of Christ. The Messiah's bride. So as we begin to cinch things up here a little bit and for clarity, let me ask this. Who are you going to follow? The male child or the dragon. Follow the trucker, he knows where he's going! Yeah, well that trucker is leading you in the wrong direction. Oh, oh, oh. He's going to hell. And he knows it. And he wants you to follow him there. He wants to take you there with him. Who are you following? Are you following the one who points you to the wilderness? Where he'll provide for you until he returns. The devil's coming for you. Do you get it? He's like one of those bad guys in one of those movies we've probably all seen at least once in our life where you know the bad guy wants to snuff out somebody who's powerful, somebody in a leadership role, but He fails to do so, so then he tries to to get at this guy, this powerful person, by going after this guy's kids or his wife. You've seen a movie like that, I'm sure. Well that's what's happening in our lives Satan wants to kidnap you, hoodwink you, cajole you, do whatever it takes to get you into the pit of torment. Oh. As a way of getting to our king. But Christ is our hero and he's providing safety for you. In his wilderness. Will you join him there? Awaiting his triumphant arrival. Will you remain faithfully there once you've set up camp in his wilderness until the day that he brings you to his glory? As the great song by Rustaft says, there's a table in the wilderness Where the blind can see and the poor possess, where the weak are strong, the first ones last, where the blessed sing of his tenderness. Where the lame can walk, and the weary rest at the table in the wilderness. Come find life, come find peace, come find rest Father, we praise you. We adore your name. We are so thankful that you have provided a way. That you've called us to be followers of the promised child, our Messiah, our Lord, our Savior Jesus Christ. We know that we're not deserving. If left to our own devices, we he would happily hop, skip, and jump after the dragon. But you have a different plan for us. You've called us to yourself. You have saved us, rescued us from our own sin. You have given us a new heart, a heart of flesh, replaced our heart of stone. Given us a heart that beats for you. We know that we still wrestle against sinful attitudes and sinful actions in our life. We ask your forgiveness for these things. We ask that by the power of your Holy Spirit we would continue in our path of sanctification that we would grow in our faith. That we would be better equipped to be witnesses calling out to a lost and lonely world, bedazzled by the cities within which they live, thinking all is great, realizing that there's no safety there, that they need to join us in the wilderness. Help us to do this more readily, more faithfully, more productively, more confidently. Knowing that even when words fail us, your spirit gives us the words necessary. At the time required. We ask your blessing upon our conversation that is to follow. And when we leave here later this evening, that you would bless each and every person. As they go to enter the mission field around us. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. And we end with a some joyful noise. Joyful. Oh, oh. So We're gonna we're gonna wrap up our live stream. Uh you can catch all of our messages, uh link to them through our website, House of the Faith in Christ. You can also link to The radio show that I've been hosting now for 18 years called The Faith Debate. My contact information if you need prayer, have theological questions, anything like that You can reach out to me. Just go to our website, householdoffaith in Christ. com and uh connect with us, uh, contact us that way. Till next week. God bless.