Looks like we're rolling. Welcome to the live stream portion of the weekly gathering for the household of faith in Christ. We just had some time of prayer and fellowship and singing and all sorts of good stuff and now we're ready for The message which will be in Revelation chapter twelve. I'll be focusing drilling in on chapters uh twelve verses seven through twelve. So if you want to get your Bibles ready, today's message is titled, uh, War Breaks Out in Heaven You're joining us on the stream, by the way, and you're curious about what we're all about, or you want to catch up on our revelation series and see previous messages or connect with Um the radio show that I do, the faith debate, or see trusted resources that we have vetted, or reach out because you need prayer or an answer to a theological question, anything like that. All of my contact information and all those things I just mentioned are on our website, Household of Faith in Christ. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. So Revelation twelve It basically breaks out into three chunks, and today we are going to be looking at the second chunk. Structurally, I want to make sure that we are properly oriented within the outline of the entire book, particularly this center portion of the book From chapter 8 to chapter 11, you might remember we were working to digest the series of seven-fold visions. And the author here is going to return to this pattern for chapters 15 and 16. So this leaves three chapters in between. those portions of the text that present things in the sevenfold cycles of judgment. Now this part of the Revelation, chapters 12 through 14 It is referred to as, here's a fancy word, an interregnum. It's an elongated pause. that we are given here between the visions of the seals and the trumpets on one side and then the the vision of the bowls or the sensors on the other. Now we've seen pauses before as we've studied the earlier portions of Revelation. We identified these pauses as interludes, but this here, this is more than just an interlude. Here in the middle of the letter, we are presented with a kind of suspension of the description that we see earlier and will come in later of the suspension of the description of the earthly events. Now why does God have us take this kind of a detour? Well it's because now he wants to show us this same spiritual warfare that we have been looking at and talking about and studying. He wants to show us this spiritual warfare. from a heavenly vantage point rather than an earthbound perspective. So in other words, this is a peek at the cosmic battle From a perspective that overarches what we see from what some people like to call the third rock from the sun. This cosmic battle, it is what in many ways dominates and controls what's happening in our lives. Do you want to know why things are happening on this planet the way that they are? This is why. There is a rockam sakam Donnybrook that's taking place between the forces of evil and the forces of good. And so There are noses that get bloodied along the way in the process, even among us. This reminds me, my cousin in Orlando, she's about the same age as me, one of my cousins in Orlando. And when she was younger, she had what some would call a slender lepterine nose. That's the official name for that kind of a nose, a lepterine nose Well now she has a button nose. So what happened? You might be assuming plastic surgery. And actually you'd be correct. However, it was not elective surgery. She was a young adult, actually about the same age as some of the people who are gathered here in this room right now. And she was seated in a nightclub, minding her own business, when a bar fight broke out. And she wasn't among the combatants in that fight. Again, she was just minding her own business, but she heard all the commotion, so she turned to see what the source of all this noise was, and just as she turned, a flying projectile, I was told it was a chair It met her square in the face, and it obliterated her nose And the doctors, they did what they could to give her a new one. It looks fine. But it doesn't look even close to what her natural nose looked like. My cousin was the victim of collateral damage. She wasn't mixing it up with those fighting. But she got smacked in the face anyway And this is related to what I was saying. You might remember just a couple of sermons ago. We are in the fight, whether we know it or not. There is a spiritual war being waged. And sometimes our lives get knocked around by airborne shares that come flying in our direction, hurled at us by others. It is the nature of the times within which we live. In glory it's going to be different, but for now we live in the already not yet. We look during the interregnum. The Latin word. It means a period of time between sovereign reigns. Here's time between the first and second coming of Christ. As subjects of our heavenly king, we know that Christ is now enthroned in heaven. He is ruling over his spiritual kingdom, even here on earth. And we also know that there is presently a battle that is led by the lords of evil who reject this lordship of God. And so the world at this moment is not experiencing all the blessing that comes from surrendering the rebellion so as to be brought under the fullness of Christ's reign. And so that's our reality that we deal with in our lives today. And that's the reality that John is talking about here in the book of Revelation. So hopefully this introduction. is going to help us all to be properly oriented as we now read Revelation chapter 12, verses 7 through 12. Then war broke out in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back. But he was not strong enough, and they lost their place in heaven. The great dragon was hurled down, that ancient serpent called the devil, or Satan, who leads the whole world astray. He was hurled to the earth, and his angels with him. Then I heard a loud voice in heaven say, Now have come the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the authority of his Messiah. For the accuser of our brothers and sisters who accuses them before our God day and night has been hurled down. They triumphed over him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony. They did not love their lives so much as to shrink from death. Therefore, rejoice, you heavens, and you who dwell in them. But woe to the earth and the sea, because the devil has gone down to you. He is filled with fury because he knows that his time is short. There is so much cool stuff in these half-dozen verses. One of the first things that might jump up at you is the name Michael. A new character name is introduced to us here in the Revelation. That's fun. What's it mean? Well, definitionally speaking, Michael means one who is like God. Or who rather it's a question, it's who is like God? Michael means who is like God? Who indeed? No one is like God. Although God's enemies, they do try to confuse things by attempting to imitate aspects of our Creator's godness. And it's no coincidence, not to me anyway, that in the very next chapter we are going to read a very similar-sounding question: who is like the beast? And who can fight against it? Well the beast is a fraud. He's trying to impersonate the one true God. And he is an accomplished actor. And he fools so many into thinking that he is the real deal. When he's nothing but an imposter. Now this is the first mention or allusion to Michael in the Revelation, but it is not the first mention of Michael In the Bible, you can see Daniel chapters ten and twelve, for instance. We see in Scripture that Michael is said to be the guardian of God's people. The patron angel of angel of uh Israel? He comes to their their aid in the end times of suffering. Michael, he's also said in the book of Jude, verse 9, to have protected the body of Moses. And over the years, I have heard some suggest that Michael is Jesus Now I can understand why they do that, but I believe that this takes things just a little bit too far. However, Michael does arrive with the authority of God putting wind in his sails. So Michael's victory is the Messiah's victory. It is accomplished by the power of Christ. Another way of expressing the truth of what's happening here is to say that the victory it is accomplished by the word. Because in a manner of speaking, the spiritual battle, it's a war of words Satan's lying words challenging the truth of the word of God and slandering God's people. Those who trust in the Word of the truth of the Word Now Satan he falsely accuses the saints. Falsely accuses those who have already forever had their sins judged and dealt with at the cross. Well Christ stands as intercessor for his people before the throne of God, where the one seated there exercises his authority to accuse and condemn not the saints, but to accuse and condemn the reprobate. And Satan doesn't like this. So Satan he has contempt for the Lamb, the Christ child that was talked about earlier in this chapter. Satan has contempt for all the children of God. Satan has contempt for God, the eternal judge. In short, he stands in contempt of court. Satan does. So he is thrown out. Get out of here! Christ says, look, you snake. There's not enough room in this town for the both of us. There's no room for two opposing lawyers, two opposing counselors who are advocating Claiming anyway to be advocating for the same client while pushing forward different agendas? Satan says he is the rightful representative of the woman who was introduced to us in verse one of this chapter. Christ's bride. And Christ says, No. You are not. I am. I am the wonderful counselor. So the devil is tossed from the heavenly council Remember the story of Esther? She advocates for God's people, right? She just stands up in defense of God's people. In this role she is actually modeling Christ for us. Do you remember her adversary, Hampman? He accuses God's people, wants to destroy God's people. Well, with his attitude and actions, Haman offers us a picture of Satan. In the end of that Old Testament story, Esther and God's people win. While Haman is humiliated in defeat. Do you remember the story of Job? The opening scenes of that story feature an interchange between Satan and God. Or the devilish one going to and fro on the earth came into the presence of Yahweh to slander Job. The word devil, it comes from the Greek word which means to slander, to falsely accuse. The name Satan, by the way, means adversary or enemy. Well, have you ever made note of the fact that the story of Job occurs in history prior to the cross of Calvary? You ever make note of that? It is at that cross that Satan is defeated. It is by the testimony of the cross that Satan is defeated. It is by the life that takes up their cross that Satan is defeated. And the proof of the defeat of the adversary, the enemy, that is found in the resurrection and the ascension of Jesus Christ. It's at this point in history that the dragon and his evil host are expelled. Permanently from the throne room. The Christ child, we're told, is caught up to God and to his throne as the devil and his demons are thrown down to earth. No longer are they welcome into God's presence to accuse God's people. Now does that mean that he is done accusing? No. He can't accuse in heaven, but he still does accuse here on earth. He can't bend God's ear, not anymore, but he still works to bend our ear. And so we must be engaged in the war against the accuser here on earth. And because those of us in Christ still sin, sadly true We give Satan ample opportunity to accuse God's people, don't we? He looks at us and he says, your clothes are filthy. And they are. And he says, You do what's right for mixed motives. And we do. And so he says, See, I told you. I'm right. And this is why God doesn't love you Follow me instead, and I'll give you your heart's desire. And this is where the devil lies God does love you. And brothers and sisters, God gives you a new heart. And this new heart's desire, He gives that to you too. All that your new heart desires. This is The truth for those who are citizens of God's kingdom, which he rules in sovereignty and power, and the devil is no match for that, no match at all. But still he tries. Cast from heaven he now roams the earth. The war in heaven for him is now lost, and so he brings his war to earth. The war against heaven, it now rages, in a sense, within us. I mean the Holy Spirit indwells the believer. So this war rages in us as we battle daily against the weaknesses of our own flesh. The war rages also As we have seen all too clearly in recent years within the walls of the visible church, we have false teachers who have brought the world into our midst. A major move towards syncretism. We've seen this recently, haven't we? But it's nothing new. Now I am focusing and talking about today, I sure am. But I'm also talking about yesterday. And actually I'm talking about all the tomorrow's to come until Christ should return. And bring us all the glory. But here, to show you that this is not new, here's a quote from a sermon in the 1800s, from across the pond, in Europe. addressing the persistent temptation to make the wilderness a home, to so bring the world into the church as that the church itself should become a world, so to mingle the worldly with the religious life, that the latter should partake more of the former than the former of the latter. Nothing new. You see, the war in heaven is one But the war against heaven, it continues on a different front, as a war against the church, because the church, the Holy Spirit indwelt, bride of Christ, is the kingdom of heaven on earth, or at least or the citizens of that kingdom here on earth. And so I charge you to equip yourself. Be one of the holy messengers who's fighting back. Being sure that you are indeed a holy messenger. By studying God's Word to measure your walk by the contents of the Bible. You want God's best. Apply God's word. You must apply it. And you're going to want to find ways to apply it if Christ is truly your King. And this starts by reading the word and also hearing the text of the word preached. Now it doesn't end there, but it starts there. So do you read it? And apply it. What happens when you don't On a very broad scale, we can see what happens by looking at what happened in America over the past several hundred years. Many of the early colonists, they came to North America to escape so-called Christian totalitarian leaders. In Europe, and these so-called Christians, they didn't know their Bible because they didn't read their Bible. And illiteracy was rampant during the Dark Ages, and with no biblical truth to keep the tyrants in check, persecution of actual Christians ran wild. And the common folk they had no access to the scriptures. And so they accepted what they were wrongly told, which was that the state and the church even Could rule the people with a heavy hand. And some really bad things happened during this era. Things that still show up in history books as a black eye on Western civilization. So many decent men and women killed. As neighbor turned on neighbor, rattled them out For going against the powers that be. One citizen hating another citizen. Why? Because the tyrants told them to That sounds like today. I'm talking about hundreds of years ago. Hundreds of years ago, people didn't read the Bible. They didn't study it. They didn't apply its truth to their lives, to their circumstances. That's where we are today, too, except we're not illiterate. We all have access to English Bible translations in our own native tongue. So what's our excuse? Our ancestors whom I'm talking about, they couldn't read. And even if they could, the few printed Bibles available were not in their native tongue. But then came William Tyndale and John Huss, or do you prefer Jan Hoos? Thomas Cranmer and others who were burned at the stake for their efforts to bring the Bible to the people. Martin Luther John Knox, Robert Brown, and others on the run as outlaws for basically the same or similar reasons. See, this is the context of the establishment of the American colonies. These pilgrims, they they had a Bible in their own language and they studied it. And what's more, they applied it. To this day, the Puritans are famous for having this kind of an attitude. They're even mocked for it today, aren't they? Well, the world might mock, but you know what? In a certain sense, I am calling us to be more puritanical. And by this I mean to teach our children to read the Bible, to train them up in the way they should go. And I also mean that we should follow the example of our forefathers and overcome deception by delighting in God's word, his God-breathed You'd hear me say something like this almost every single week. God's word is a sufficient rule, sufficient guide for our faith and for our life practice. Because it is inerrant and infallible. It is the only inspired written revelation from our Maker that we have available to us. So let it come alive in your life. Bring you a personal great awakening, just as the first great awakening of the 18th century set the stage for the establishment of one of history's epic nations, the United States of America. And let the truths and principles of the Bible guide your life. As it guided for so long, in so many ways, the history of the USA, guiding us through some challenging wars. Terrible civil strife and the ups and downs that come with major economic events, major weather events, and major social events America wasn't always faithful to what we find in the pages of Scripture. And she is not to be confused with the kingdom of God, a kingdom that is in, but not of this world. And so the analogy at The the one that I'm drawing here, it is it's only loosely appropriate, but big picture, it works. When Europe stopped reading, studying, and applying God's truth. The entire continent was swallowed in a lengthy period of darkness. When the new world was established upon the foundation of God's truth, the entirety of the West was blessed by it. And then as our country, this country of ours, lost its tether from God's truth, well, the tyranny returned. We're now told that fornication outside of marriage is wholesome We're told that everyone is whatever sex they imagine themselves to be. We are told that all things are ultimately meaningless. And we are told that God's truth is hate speech. Are you able to see what's happened to culture when it got too busy to read the Bible? Found the Bible to be too boring and confusing to read. Allowed others to promote their ideas about what it says without checking out these claims for veracity to make sure that they're true. And can you see? Our culture now has dry rot You do see, don't you? Our society is in desperate need of revival. Are you able to track with me on this? Really track with me and see what has happened to us as a people when we neglected the Bible and neglected the application of its teaching in practice? I mean I really truly do hope that you are fully tracking with me because now I want you to take these same global questions, these international and national historical kinds of questions, and I want you to apply them to yourself. Are you able to see what happens to you when you're too busy to read the Bible? When you make the excuse that the Bible is too boring, it's too confusing to read When you allow others to promote their ideas about what it says without checking out these claims for veracity to make sure that they're true Can you see? Does your life now have dry rot? Have you even looked? Are you personally in need of revival? I wonder if you're still tracking with me. To see what's happening to you as a person who neglects the Bible and or neglects applying its teaching to your life. In practice. You can't say you're equipped for the spiritual warfare that's talk about In Revelation chapter 12 and the other chapters as well, if you are not picking up the sword of the Spirit and girding yourself with the belt of truth, and wrapping yourself in the breastplate of righteousness. Hear me. You're already in the fight. The enemy is seeing to it. He is bringing the fight to you. Do you get it? It's time you take the fight to the enemy. Pick up your Bible and read. Oh And take up your mat and walk. Walk the walk as well as talk the talk. And join in then with the triumphant song that we see here in verses 10 through 12 of today's passage. You know, as we have taught here as a church, we were recently teaching about this regarding the Psalms, this is a song that is sung also by our Lord. Then we talk about the Psalms, they are songs and prayers. And they are God's Word. And who is the Word of God? It's Jesus, of course. Every Sunday school student knows the answer to that question. And the word is the author of the Psalms, along with David and the other psalmists. And so Jesus writes these psalms. Jesus sings these songs. Jesus prays these prayers with us and even for us. And it's the same dynamic that we see here at play in Revelation chapter 12. We sing God's praises as Jesus leads the singing. He's our worship leader. Telling us the victory is won. The enemy is hurled down. And yeah, that enemy is angry about it, that's for sure. So in verse 12, the loser he bedevils the world, as pictured by the earth, and he brings chaos to the nations, as pictured by the sea, and he is filled with fury. But his time is short. Very short. So short. What are you doing during this short time? Are you singing God's praises? Praying to him, reading and applying his word. Christ has given you life. What are you doing with that life? Are you offering all of your life to him? The reality is your present physical life will end. It will be sacrificed for something Are you sacrificing it to him for noble causes in all areas of your life? If not, is it because the enemy has gotten in your ear and has told you that making such a sacrifice is not really worth it? Or at least it's not all that important. Well, what's the Bible say about that? Examine the scriptures to see what they say. And then examine your life in light of what you learn. To join me in prayer. Father, we are so thankful That you have rescued your people and called us to a higher purpose. Purpose that gives us hope and motivation to do what is right. But we know that too often, even as your bride, we are a stiff-necked people, aren't we? But we know you've given us a new heart. And we ask that by the strength of your sovereign will and purpose if you would cause our hearts to be ever more gladly and joyfully for you. And we would be a voice out in that dangerous world where the the devil is seeking to tear down and destroy and kill that we would equip ourselves for battle. That we would share the truth, that our words would be salt and light, that we would Challenge one another to grow while at the same time encourage and edify one another with a firm gentleness. We know that we as a people, collectively and even individually Have not leaned upon the truth of your word the way that we should, as consistently as we might. And we beg of you that you would help us to do this better. knowing that there is great blessing in us doing so. We ask that we would have a heightened sense of your spirit among us as we enter into a conversation now about today's message in this passage. And about you and the wonders of who you are and who you've called us to be. We thank you for this opportunity. For so many years we've taken opportunities like this for granted in this country. But in recent times we've come to realize how special it is that you have allowed your people in this land to assemble peacefully and to speak these truths and to glorify your name. without, at least for now, fear of the most dramatic kinds of persecution. Thank you for hearing this prayer. I lift it up to you in the name of our Lord our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. I'm going to uh shut down the stream here. If you have any reaction or questions or thoughts you'd like to share in the comment section, I will check those out later and uh and dutifully respond. Until next week, round six, six thirty somewhere in there, God bless.