Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ livestream portion of our weekly fellowship and worship gathering. We're going to be in Revelation chapter 12 today, so you might want to get your Bibles ready to follow along. The message today is uh titled Safety from the Serpent's Flood of Lies. And if you want to follow along with our reading schedule, uh we've been reading through uh portions of the book of Daniel. Today we read the entirety of chapter chapter ten in Daniel. So if you want to do that at at home, you're encouraged to do so. If you're new to this stream, you stumbled upon it as a podcast, or you saw it pop up uh on the live feed, and you're like, oh, what's this all about? You can learn more about us on our website, household of faith in Christ. com, Household of Faithinchrist. com. There you can go access all of the previous sermons. uh podcast and information about the radio show I do called The Faith Debate, our statement of belief, links to trusted resources, all sorts of good stuff. And uh I do want to emphasize this, if you just need prayer or you have a theological question you're trying to work through, or you're looking for a church, you need some sort of help or what guidance or whatever All my contact information is on the website. You can uh give me a call, shoot me a text, send me an email, whatever. You can access all of that at household of faith in Christ dot com. So let me take a quick swig of water and we'll get into the sermon. So today the plan is to finish up our look at Revelation chapter twelve. And as we do so, I want us again to remember the interpretive principle that's guiding us through this apocalyptic journey that we've been on in this particular book of the Bible. Our author is making use of, one way of thinking about it, is he's using a multifocal lens. And then he's taking that lens and he's presenting images to us from a variety, a variety of camera angles. Like with the seven seal judgments, we notice there the focus was upon the worthiness of the Lamb, other things too, but the primary focus was there. And then we had the seven trumpet judgments, and this took us through the the ta the same time frame but as that of of the seals, but this time it the focus shifted to the stubbornness of the reprobate who refused to end their rebellion against the Lamb, uh, despite the horrendous warnings that they have heaped upon them. And all of this we see over and over again recapitulated in the Book of Revelation. We see that Satan cannot win. And as this new vision here that began in uh with chapter twelve, which we started studying in earnest a couple of sermons ago, we again see once more that it's taking us from The first coming of Christ, and actually even before that, in this section of Revelation, to the second coming of Christ. And this newly started cycle of visions that we have here beginning with chapter 12. We note a difference. These visions are not numbered like the there was the numbering for the seals and for the trumpets that we've been going through in recent months, and we'll see some numbering coming up later on in Revelation as well. But despite there not being any numbers associated with these visions, we are going to yet again see that we end up with a vision of the second advent. It's all leading up to Christ's return. We'll see that in chapter 14. Now, the period of these cycles that Revelation is taking us through is the period of the Great Cosmic War on Earth. That is called in part or in toto or in part uh the last days, the the great tribulation, the thousand years, the forty-two months, the 1260 days, the time times and half a time, and so forth. And there's a great cast of characters in this epic drama. They include the dragon, the woman, the beast. The 144,000, there's angelic messengers, of course, there's the Son of Man, and there are other characters too. And we're going to see, actually, among these characters, we're going to see the serpent. Joined by false prophet and the whore of Babylon and other ideas. You notice I'm holding up three fingers, other ideas that indicate that the enemy is working to establish a counterfeit trinity. But through it all, the woman, God's people, are provided for in the wilderness, just as God cared for and protected Elijah and Israel and others in the wilderness. The Lord also provides for us, the worshipers of the one true God, who here in chapter 12 of Revelation is identified as the woman. We live in a time of trial and testing, don't we? But we do so with the assurance that the promised land awaits ahead. So this is what's going on here in the book of Revelation. So it's no wonder that this final book of the Christian canon has captured the imagination of so many people. It is a spectacular story. And as a story, then when it is rightly understood, it keeps us grounded in the reality that Christ takes care of his own. And he vanquishes the unrepentant purveyors of evil. So with this contextual reminder now in place, we're going to pick up our reading in chapter 12 with verse 13. And we're going to read through to the end of the chapter. And when the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child. But the woman was given the two wings of the great eagle, so that she might fly from the serpent into the wilderness, to the place where she is to be nourished for a time and times and half a time. The serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman to sweep her away with a flood. But the earth came to the help of the woman. And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had poured forth from his mouth. Then the dragon became furious with the woman, and went off to make war on the rest of her offspring. On those who keep the commandments of God and will hold to the testimony of Jesus. And he stood on the sand of the sea. What you just heard is a profound thing. I say words to this effect pretty much every week, but I want to say it a little bit differently so that we just don't by rote get used to hearing the same kind of trite-sounding terms. You just heard The word of God read to you aloud. This is a unique kind of a thing. It is the only God breathed revelation that we have available to us. We need to cherish it. We need to take it seriously. We need to understand that it is the sufficient rule and guide. Not just for our faith and what we believe and what we say we can claim to believe, but also for our life practice. As we put things into practice, they should be in accord with what we see in the pages of our Christian canon in the scripture in the Old and New Testament. Because we can trust it God breathe, the word we use for that as we say it's inspired of God. And because it's inspired from God, it's inerrant. It's infallible. It makes no mistakes So I want us to really understand this is precious to us and we should pay attention when it is preached and we should be diving into it and fervently studying it when we're not gathered in a corporate setting like this. So we reminded here in this text that Satan has been cast down to the earth by the truth of the gospel. And this means that he can never again enter heaven to make accusations against the saints, the woman. He's not welcome to do that. He's borrowed from heaven, but he still seeks to do damage on earth. And so he's running wild on earth. He pursues the church. All who bow in allegiance to Christ, which is the male child in the passage today. He's chasing after him. But what happens in verse 14 of today's passage is what we saw happen back in Exodus 19, verse 4, where it says You yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. This same sort of eagle's wings imagery. It's found in Revelation 12, and it's also found in Deuteronomy 32 and Psalm 91 and Isaiah 40. And these great wings of a of a of a great bird, they're symbols of protection. In the word for the It's giant bird. It's often translated and rightly so as eagle. It can also be translated in different contexts as vulture. You'll see that in scripture. This is because eagles and the vulture-like griffins were said to be the largest birds known to the area that we now sometimes refer to as Palestine. So these are big, strong, capable birds. And so they can carry you off to safety as God protects his own. That's the image here. Now before we move on to This the symbolism of verses 15 and following, almost tongue in cheek, I would like to uh apologize to anybody who's upset that I haven't just now well talking about the Eagles made a an o uh an overt connection to the United States of America. Because there are a lot of people that want to try to figure out where is America in Revelation and they see an eagle, they say, Oh well we have an American eagle. This must be talking about America. And this is demanding too much of the text. We want to always remember that the text, it needs to have made some sense to John who wrote it And it needs to have made some sense to the original hearers and readers of this word back in the first century. And it needs to have made some sense to all the Christians who have read and studied and imbibed this word for the 17th centuries after that. There was no bird called an American eagle 2,000 years ago. So we don't want to be anachronistic We want to understand the images as they would have been understood then and then apply that understanding into our situation. So we don't have this problem with the serpent, because they would have known what's going on with the serpent. The serpent, known as Satan. And he opens his mouth and he pours forth a torrent of lies. This is pictured in today's passage as water like a river pouring out of his mouth. Chasing after the woman. He aims to sweep you away with a flood of falsehoods. From Christ's mouth, we receive the life-giving truth of the Word. And from Antichrist's mouth, we are hit with life-threatening deception. It's a flood of fake news. Imagine, if you can, a world where doctors would give people shots and call that medicine even though the shots make them sick And can you imagine something like an orchestrated coup that is said to be an election, fraudulently so? Can you imagine a controlled economy, controlled avenues for speech, controlled secular regulation of worship, and then calling that freedom? Can you imagine Can you imagine being accused of heresy for denying that melanin count is an indicator of sinfulness? Can you imagine an X and an X yielding a boy and an X and a Y yielding a girl? And can you even imagine such madness? I think we can. Well, what can we do? As the dragon spews his tsunami of hateful untruths, what can we do? We can stand upon the truth of God's revelation. We can stand upon the rock of truth, the gospel truth as provided to us in the Bible. The Bible, this is called God's special revelation. And there's also what is called God's general revelation. General Revelation encompasses all the beautiful things of God's ordered creation. I mean just look at The great vastness of the stars and the deep depths of the oceans and the majestic heights of the mountains. Look at the design of the galaxies and the solar systems and the design of our GNA uh DNA genome. In the design of applied physics and chemistry and mathematics and logic and irreducible complexity and biological compatibility and so on and so forth. Now I think that in some way this is part of what is meant by the earth coming to the aid of the woman in verse 16. I mean, after all, there is the self-attesting witness of the Word and the Word's creation. Both then are attested to by the people of the Word. And so there's not just the special revelation, but also the general revelation to swallow up the lies pouring from the dragon. Satan tries to submerge God's people. He's trying to submerge us with his own version of a global flood. But God makes use of the created order itself. As if to say, nope A world will not again be destroyed by any kind of a worldwide flood, water or lies or anything like it. Then they're done that, don't need the t-shirt. Your flood of lies, Satan, will not destroy God's plan and purpose for his people. I think that here John he is reminding us of what happened in the book of Numbers, chapter sixteen. That's where we read of the lying false prophets. And more importantly, they're challenging God. And so what does God do? God puts dirt to good use. The earth opened up and swallowed the false accusers. God's creator, he can cause his creation to do whatever he wants it to do. So by the way, this means he could even, if he wanted to, he could he could even choose to enter the creation himself. Again, only if he wanted to. that you know like uh think it maybe be a male child born to a virgin only to then be a human who gets mocked, beaten, and killed by his own creation? But even this would be according to his plan, if he were to ever choose to do something like that. God can and does use all available resources, if he so chooses, to defend his people. The woman. With this flood of imagery, uh flood of lies imagery. I think John's also reminding us of Isaiah chapter 43, which says in the First couple of verses, but now, thus says the Lord, He who created you, O Jacob, He who formed you, O Israel, Fear not, for I have redeemed you, I have called you by name. You are mine When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you. The lies don't ultimately undo God's people because Satan is defeated by the truth. And perhaps this is as good a time as any for me to remind you of the truth. If you are a follower of Jesus, then the guilt of your sin has been removed. Christ paid that debt So when Satan he yells his accusations in our ears, we know that they have no merit, those accusations. And the devil, he's going to try to accuse us. He does accuse us to our face But he cannot accuse us before the face of God. Not anymore, he can. I wonder Christ. Do we comprehend this well enough? Sin no longer has any legal hold on us. The penalty due has been paid by God Himself. It is paid in full And therefore sin's power to condemn is broken in Christ. The truth of the gospel has set us free. We have no reason left to fear. Not even death should we fear. Because our Messiah has conquered even death This makes us very happy. And it makes the dragon very unhappy. He's furious with the church. And so he attacks the woman. He makes war. You see, when his deceptions no longer have the desired effect, well then he shifts to persecuting power. He persecutes the institutional church and he persecutes her offspring. Are you one of those who keeps the commandments of God? Are you personally holding to the testimony of Jesus? Well, if so, then you should expect to be under assault. The enemy comes after the church as a whole, and also comes after the church as individuals. And while we know we win, it is no walk in the park, is it? It's the walk through the desert. The wilderness. But you know, we've all probably seen just enough Disney movies and we've probably read just enough fantasy books that have friendly dragons featured that We don't tremble at the imagery of Revelation chapter 12 the way that we likely should. The way that the people of old likely would have In the ancient Near East, there were lots of stories about dragons of a sort. They had sea monsters and chaos-producing water gods and things like that. And this would instill lots of fear and trembling And the multiple heads on these scary images would often represent multiple manifestations of a single kingdom. That's what it said in the old folklore and legends and myths, and we see that being the case here in Revelation as well. We notice the same literary device at use. in the text of the Bible. And we see it not just here in the New Testament, but also in the Old Testament. We see it in Daniel, as well as we see it in Revelation and other places. But we have to be reminded and remember that God, he's bigger than any boogeyman, real or imagined. Because as it says of God in Psalm 74, You, God, divided the sea by your might. You broke the heads of the sea monsters on the waters. You crushed the heads of Leviathan. You gave him as food for the creatures of the wilderness. And the book of Revelation, the Book of Daniel, these aren't the only places where dragons are to be understood as worldly powers and even as human governmental leaders individually. For example, there are passages from Ezekiel and Chapter 32 and also in chapter 29. And I'm going to read a couple of short passages here. And as I do so, I I want you to to make note of the water imagery. And the idea of the enemy being thrown down. These are two ideas and concepts that are in Revelation 12. Son of man, raise a lamentation over Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and say to him, You consider yourself a lion of the nations, but you are like a dragon in the seas. Do you burst forth in your rivers, trouble the waters with your feet, and foul their rivers? Thus says the Lord God, I will throw my net over you with a host of many peoples And they will haul you up in my dragnet, and I will cast you on the ground. On the open field I will fling you. How is Ezekiel 32? Now here's Ezekiel 29. Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh, king of Egypt, the great dragon that lies in the midst of his streams that says, My Nile is my own, I made it for myself. I will put hooks in your jaws and make the fish of your streams stick to your scales. Whether it is the old school pharaohs and kings or the new school presidents and prime ministers The rule of the line of Judah, the Lamb of God. It's a rule that trumps all other rulership. Presently our sovereign Lord, he he rules what we recognize to be the age of grace. What follows is his eternal rule of power in glory. With God Is God over all? As we were talking about earlier, he is the Alpha and Omega. Now Satan might have rebelled in a significant way, symbolized by the dragon sweeping a third of the stars out of the sky. But God's army is way bigger. His army is like the sand on the seashore. Remember the promise he made to Abraham. His descendants would be like the sand. The grains of the sea. And this metaphor actually brings us to the final portion of today's text, where we see the enemy of God trying to mimic this as well. The final phrase that we're looking at today is. And he stood on the sand of the sea. Now, this sentence is rather flummoxing in a couple of different ways The ESV, the English Standard Version, which is what I'm using as the preaching text today, like many of the other English translations, it places this sentence as the final portion of verse 17. Other translations, they make it the first part of verse 1 in the next chapter, chapter 13. And some even make it its own verse. And they call it Revelation 12, verse 18. Now none of this should really be all too concerning because we want to remember that the chapter divisions and our new favorite word of the day, the versifications. That we see in our Bible, the versification, it wasn't part of the original Bible. In fact, these things weren't added for hundreds and hundreds of years. Each book was broken up into chapters. Can you even imagine when that happened? When the bu books of the Bible got broken up into chapters for the very first time. It was in the twelve hundreds And the verses didn't come along for a while after that. The Old Testament got its verses added first. That was in the 1400s. And then the New Testament got its verses added in the 1500s. So none of that is inspired. And I gotta be honest, some of these uh additions with these chapter divisions and the versifications, they've been both a blessing and a curse to the church because Well, the chapters and verses they're a blessing in that they make things easier to find, to reference, make sure everybody's going to the the right part of the scriptures and getting there quickly and knowing exactly where he's talking about, so that's good. But they can be a curse because these chapter divisions, these versifications, these can sometimes be a little bit arbitrary, and the different people didn't always put the chapter divisions in verse two. choices in exactly the same place, and so this can cause a tad bit of confusion, as we see today with Revelation chapter 12, verse 17. Or should I say Revelation 12 Verse 18. Or Revelation 13, verse 1. And adding to the confusion and of significantly more importance Is the question of the subject of the sentence. Who is the subject? Now, the Greek in the earliest manuscripts says he stood. That's what the ESV went with, by the way, so you might have noticed that when I read. But we still have to grab with okay so let's make sure we know who the he is. But before we do that, to clarify, what are considered by most uh observers and commentators to be the better ancient manuscripts have the reading as he stood. And so most commentators using this evidence they consider the he to be the dragon However, the majority of the manuscript evidence, it has the reading, I stood. So the Bible you hold in your hands might actually say that. And if it's I still, well, that will make the Apostle John the subject of the verb. So is it the dragon or is it John? What to do, what to do? Well Personally, I think he stood is correct. It is the more difficult reading, actually, when we're trying to interpret the vision. And because it's the more difficult reading, this actually opens wide the door of possibility that some scribe or maybe a couple of scribes somewhere along the way, they assumed that the right reading must be the easier, simpler reading. It must be I stood He stood is a difficult reading. I stood is smoother. So it matches what comes in the very next sentence where it says I saw, so I stood, I saw, that makes sense. So you can see how somebody would, you know, do something like that. And this could have been an accident. Could have been on purpose. Could be either one when we think about it, because it's really simple in the original language, in the Greek, it's as simple as adding one small little letter to the end of the root So it's a much smaller change than in English where we would have to swap out an H and an E and replace those with an I. You don't have to do that in the Greek. Just one little tent stroke really changes it. Now some translations, I'm not sure what everybody's reading today, but some translations you might have uh a group of translators who made the interpretation for you and it doesn't say I or he, it says the dragon stood. But dragon, it's not the word that's used in the Greek. They're making an interpretation decision for you to make it clearer for your understanding as you read. And speaking of that, what about understanding the meaning? How does this little dilemma affect all of that? Now, if you're somebody who prefers the IST translation, then basically what you would have here is an image of the narrator of the vision. Having a vantage point from the edge of the sea, as he observes the beast rising up out of that sea. In the next sentence. So It's a smooth reading, doesn't really undermine any earth-shatteringly important points, so that's fine. There's nothing really wrong with that per se. Although I will say structurally it does have a small negative impact. Because elsewhere in the book, the phrase, and I saw, is a phrase that marks a transition to a new vision. It's a device that's used throughout Revelation. And so if we shift here to make I stood rather than and I saw, the phrase of transition, this breaks the pattern. And this can screw people up when they're trying to outline the passage, figure out where the sections uh flow and how they all connect and stuff. So that's not great. Not the not something that'll sleep over, but it's not great. Now the he stood reading, again having the advantage of it being the more difficult reading, it also has the advantage of bringing a bit more depth to the interpretation of the passage. And we haven't gotten there yet, but in chapter 20 of Revelation, we're going to find that Satan's army from the nations around the world assemble for battle, and they are as numerous as the grains of sand in the sea, it says. And here in chapter twelve, he stands in command over them, over the sands of the sea, as his beast makes landfall, this emerging beast from the sea. Oh, kind of the dragon's attempt at a Normandy beach invasion, I guess. But it's all in vain, because remember verses 7 through 9 of this chapter, which we looked at, was it last week, the week before? I'm losing track. The dragon and his angels fought, but he was defeated, and there was no longer any place for them in heaven. And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent, who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world He was thrown down to the earth. And his angels were thrown down with him. And this is what Jesus is talking about in the Gospels in Luke in chapter 10, verses 17 and 18. Where he the it says, the seventy-two returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name. And he said to them, I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. I think I might have touched on this once before, but a more wooden translation here, it might say, I was watching Satan falling. See, Jesus is watching this in his incarnation as he walked the earth prior to his death, resurrection, and ascension. And so already Satan was falling as the gospel was first being preached. How much more true is the demise of the devil at the very end of time? Satan's whooped. And he knows it. He just wants to do as much damage as he can on his way out. And we should know all this too. And we should know that Satan cannot whoop us. As Robert Mounts said rather succinctly. The salvation, power, and kingdom of God are present realities. Christ is king even today. Because Luke 10, where I just read a second ago, Jesus goes on there to say, Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions. and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you. He's talking spiritually there. Nevertheless do not rejoice in this that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven. In other words, don't keep your eyes fixed on the enemy. And how he can't defeat God's people. I mean you always want to retain that truth. Keep that truth in your mind, but keep your eyes fixed upon your Savior and know that He has written your name in heaven and He's Sovereign. He wields ultimate power. And you are a citizen in his kingdom. Always keep your eyes on your hero. Rebels will oppose God and his ways. They will try to steal authority that does not belong to them. He'll do this even in the visible church. But the invisible church, the church that God sees, that he knows are his. We can't see the way God sees, but the church that God sees That church is preserved. And all the schismatics, they will be outed. They are outed before the judgment seat of God, and they will be put to shame So let me leave you with this to ponder. The dragon is called the serpent in the text we've studied today, like the serpent of Genesis 3. He tempts with lies. He attacks with lies. His bullets are bullets of doubt. Did God really say? His darts are darts of narcissism. You will be like God. Pressures you. To commit apostasy with the false promise that you will not die The thing is, God did really say we are not ourselves God, and if we become unrepentant apostates, we will surely die an eternal spiritual death. So don't take debate. Test everything against the teaching on the pages of God's Word. Remembering what John MacArthur teaches. You know, I gave Dr. MacArthur a little bit of a hard time just a few weeks ago, so I offered this quote to show that I still hold this Dear man of God, in very high regard, Brother John says obedience to God's word always marks a genuine believer. Are you a genuine believer? Are you obedient? Are you overcoming lies with the truth? Something for you to think about as we wrap up today's message. Let's pray. Father, we praise your eternal plan, a plan that brings you great glory and that brings your people salvation undeserved. But much appreciated. We know that we face a battle, we are engaged in a spiritual war, and that the enemy is strong, but he is already vanquished. Help us to trust and rest in that truth while we are busy about sharing the good news, advancing the cause of the kingdom. Being bold in our proclamation of the word of God to others, people who need to hear it, even those who will be used as devices of the devil. And we know because of our own continuing struggles with pockets of sin in our life Sometimes giving sway to the pressures of the world around us. We are not as obedient as we should be, as obedient as you have called us to be, as obedient as you have made us to be So we ask that you would forgive us. By the power of your Holy Spirit, you would lead us and guide us in the coming days. To demonstrate that we are genuine believers. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. All right, so I'm going to wrap up the live stream. Again, if you want to visit us online, you can at householtofaith in Christ. com Or you can comment on the uh this Facebook feed right here and I'll jump into your comments later and answer any questions if you have them. Otherwise, have a great evening. We'll talk to you next week somewhere in the six o'clock hour. We used to start almost exactly at six. Now we've been starting more like, I don't know, somewhere between six and six thirty. So somewhere after six next week, uh, we will see you then. God bless.