Looks like it is rolling, so welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ in our weekly gathering. Every Saturday evening, we usually start the live uh stream portion of what we do somewhere in the 6 o'clock hour. We're a little bit later today than usual, but usually between 6 and 6. 30, I think it's a little after that today In case you're first time stumbling into us, I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. My name is Troy Skinner, and my pronouns are repent and the kingdom of God is at hand. So uh I would encourage you to pay heed to that. Um today we're going to be um in Revelation. So you want to open your Bibles and have them ready to turn to Revelation chapter 13. And we're also going to be uh reading from a chunk, uh a good section from Daniel chapter seven. We'll actually be there first. So you're gonna wanna Have your Bibles bookmarking ready to go to Daniel 7 and Revelation 13. The message tonight I've titled Seaside Lessons So there are lessons in this for all of us. And one of the lessons I want to mention before we actually get into the meat of the message, and this is for anybody on the stream, of course, you're eavesdropping what we're doing now, but it's really primarily for those of us who are gathered here. Just a good, helpful, healthy reminder of what it is we do when we come together. So we come together, we have fellowship, that's good. And we pray and we read scripture and we have the sermon and all these things are part of what we do, but I want to speak to the motivation that undergirds and stands behind what it is we're doing. Why are we doing what we're doing? And I don't want you to misunderstand, so let me start by adding the caveat, which is all of our life is worship. It is to be to the glory of God. There is something that happens when we come together and gather as God's people for a specific time like this when that idea of worshiping God, it has uh a little more profundity. There's something a little bit more tangible and special about it, or there should be. And so we should fellowship to the glory of God. We should pray as an act of worship to God. We should, when we read Scripture, we should do so, understand it's God's word, and we're We're sitting under the reading of His Word and the hearing of His Word as an act of worship to Him. And even now, some people when we're singing songs, oh, that's the praise and worship time, and now it's time for the sermon. Yes, we sing his praises, we are worshiping God. But when we sit and listen to his word expounded, his word preached, that also is an act of worship. Now, how is an act of worship for you as you're listening? By listening, you're worshiping, by leaning in, paying attention, figuring out what is exactly being said, also being a Berean, and is the pastor actually teaching what the text actually says And also thinking about, okay, so what? Meaning in my life, what does this mean? How do I put into action the things that are being said here? And as you actively engage and listen You are worshiping God as you do so. So I want to encourage us to be good worshipers throughout the entire time that we gather together, but um since we're about to start the sermon, particularly now as we begin the sermon. So today We are going to be working our way deeper into Revelation chapter 13, but before we go there, I want to read the first eight verses of Daniel chapter seven. In the first year of Belshazzar, king of Babylon, Daniel saw a dream and visions of his head as he lay in his bed, then he wrote down the dream and told the sum of the matter. Daniel declared, I saw in my vision by night, and behold, the four winds of heaven were stirring up the great sea, and four great beasts came up out of the sea. different from one another. The first was like a lion, and had eagle's wings. Then as I looked its wings were plucked off, and it was lifted up from the ground, a and made to stand on two feet like a man, and the mind of a man was given to it And behold, another beast, a second one, like a bear. It was raised up on one side. It had three ribs in its mouth between its teeth, and it was told, Arise, devour much flesh. After this I looked, and behold, another, like a leopard, with four wings of a bird on its back, and the beast had four heads, and dominion was given to it After this I saw in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast, terrifying and dreadful, and exceedingly strong. It had great iron teeth. It devoured and broke in pieces and stamped what was left with its feet. It was different from all the beasts that were before it, and it had ten horns. I considered the horns, and behold there came up among them another horn, a little one, before which Three of the first horns were plucked up by the roots, and behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking great things. Now, here are the first eight verses of Revelation chapter 13. And as I read them, I want us to listen for the common threads and the similar common imagery ideas. that we hear. And I saw a beast rising out of the sea with ten horns and seven heads. With ten diadems on its horns and blasphemous names on its heads. And the beast that I saw was like a leopard. Its feet were like a bear's, and its mouth was like a lion's mouth. And two at the dragon gave his power and his throne and great authority. One of its heads seemed to have a mortal wound, but its mortal wound was healed. And the whole earth marveled as they followed the beast. And they worshipped the dragon, for he had given his authority to the beast. And they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like the beast? And who can fight against it? And the beast was given a mouth, uttering, haughty and blasphemous words, and it was allowed to exercise authority for forty-two months. It opened its mouth to utter blasphemies against God Blaspheming his name and his dwelling, that is, those who dwell in heaven. Also, it was allowed to make war on the saints and to conquer them. And authority was given it over every tribe and people and language and nation, and all who dwell on earth will worship it, every one whose name has not been written before the foundation of the world in the book of life of the lamb who was slain. So there are differences for sure, but did you note the many commonalities? Daniel has a vision. John has a vision. Daniel wrote down what he saw. John wrote down what he saw. Daniel saw beasts come out of the sea. John saw a beast come out of the sea. In describing the beasts that he saw, Daniel mentions a lion, a bear, a leopard. And what do you know about that? So does John. And Daniel, he talks about ten horns, and will you just look at that? John talks about ten horns. And in both of these visions, we have beasts that talk. Great things or great blasphemies come from their mouth. Let's examine some of this overlapping symbolism We talked a lot about John's vision of the sea last week, and so let's narrow in this week on the beastly attributes. So in Revelation chapter 13, verse 2, John says the beast was like a leopard. This is an animal that is noted for its bloodthirsty swiftness and its cruel agility. Some commentators they like to associate this image with ancient Greece under the leadership of Alexander the Great. And I think that's okay. Especially if we go along with the idea here and we consider that Greece is a type. It's not just pointing to Greece, but also pointing to a type that Greece represents as all of the swift and agile military forces that have existed over the years. And John adds that the beast from the sea has feet like a bear. Now this reminds me of uh of an old kid's joke I learned years ago when I was a little boy. Maybe you've heard it too. What do a grizzly and a newborn baby girl have in common? They both have bear feet. Now seriously that joke it might be cute. It might not be cute. You might think bears are cute But bears are ferocious. They are wild animals of great strength, and they bring to bear crushing force and tenacity of purpose. And so there are commentators who like to associate this image of the bear with Meadow Persia. And again, I think that's okay. Particularly again if we would also consider them to be a type for all empires who are noted for their strong rule and great stability. After the bear, John describes the beast's mouth as being like that of a lion. King of the jungle long been a symbol of lordly dominion and rule, and there are commentators, lots of them, who like to associate this image with the Babylonian Empire. And I think that that makes A lot of sense. And once again, I'd like to also extend the image to picture each of the fierce, all-consuming political powers that have existed throughout human history. Now, given the book of Daniel gives us a uh view of four beasts that share so many visual connections to the one beast that John describes here at the start of Revelation 13. It seems probable that in the Revelation we are being shown a composite, a world power that mixes and matches all of the attributes that are represented with Daniel's beasts. And so there are commentators that like to associate this combination of imagery with the Roman Empire And I gotta say, once more, I see a lot of merit to this. But again, once more, would like to suggest that we again see how this also points us to and prepares us for other beastly powers that we might encounter or that we are currently encountering even now Now, as many of you might already know, there is another noteworthy, very noteworthy vision in Daniel's in chapter 2 And the vision there, it's also associated by a majority of the commentators with Babylon, Meadow Persia, Greece and Rome, with the Roman Empire in that vision having ten toes. And so between the two books of Daniel and Revelation, we've got ten toes and Ten diadems and ten horns, and in Daniel we actually see an eleventh horn, which displaces three other horns. So does this mean that Antichrist will rise from among ten kings? And does this have anything to do, maybe, with the the wounded head that's healed that we see in Revelation chapter thirteen, verse three? A lot of people ask these kinds of questions and put forth lots of different ideas. Strikes me it's difficult to say with absolute confidence. We can't have total confidence on answering that kind of a question because The healing from a mortal wound, it could be a fake death, a fake resurrection that's performed by a fraud. He's intending to trick the non-watchful using deception that mimics the authentic, real, deal miracle of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. So that's one possibility. However, it could also just be a symbol that represents a destroyed but then revived kingdom. We've seen this actually as a possibility throughout history. I mean you thought that uh con communism died with the fall of the Berlin Wall not so long ago. Well, hello, People's Republic of China. You thought that fascism died with the end of World War II? Hello, great reset of the 21st century. You thought that a mortal wound was suffered? You feel like it was uh you know the old Roman Empire was dead in the 5th century A. D. Well, hello, Holy Roman Empire of the Middle Ages And how many times have we had to, even in our own political context, even now, have we had to politically defeat, had to politically mortally wound, if you will? These political dynasties and powerhouses like the Kennedys, the Bushes, the Clintons, even in our own local context, the Young's Something for us to think about. So that's why I say we can't say for sure what it means, but these are some possibilities that I think have some merit for our consideration. Now lest we forget the beast that's described at the start of Revelation chapter 13 has seven heads, as do the beasts of Daniel, right? There's three beasts with one head, and then there's a fourth beast, another beast that are uh Uh yeah, another beast has four heads, so four plus three is seven. So in both visions we're seeing seven heads. And so there are compelling reasons to think about connecting these seven heads and what they represent. All the way back to the time of Daniel, actually even before the time of Daniel. If you wanted to create a timeline that would map out the very greatest of the ancient world powers that have existed that existed on this planet through time, you would most likely begin with Egypt. Because the Egypt of three, four, five millennia ago was no joke. The old Egypt, they dominated their region for thousands. of years. I mean there's never really been anything quite like it. And then after Egypt came Assyria. They were a true powerhouse for about three hundred years. They covered the tenth through seventh centuries BC. And they were followed by Babylon. This was during the time frame when Daniel was written, actually. And the Babylonian Empire didn't rule the international roots for all that long, just about, you know, maybe less than a hundred years, really. But there were different iterations and incarnations of the Babylonian Empire that kind of came and went over the years and they were definitely significant as an empire before the time of Christ. And you know, honestly, their legend has really lived on in a big way even to this day, hasn't it? Next up would be Meadow Persia. The Medes and the Persians, they are generally grouped together And they had a very good run, taking over world power status from Babylon in the sixth century BC, and then they can controlled the entirety of the fifth century and then finally gave way in the fourth century to ancient Greece. And this Greek Hellenistic period, it ran its course militarily speaking through the 3rd and 2nd centuries BC. But that's just militarily, their influence continued. far beyond that, helped to shape Western civilization, and actually it still leaves its mark on the world today. And then of course the next big empire after the Greeks were the Romans. And the Roman Empire, they had some ebb and flow to their dominance on the world stage, but generally speaking, they were big men on the block from the first century BC. All the way through the 5th century A. D. , that's more than 500 years. And it came at such a crucial time in history. It's when Rome was on top that Christ was born. It's when the New Testament was written. It's when the church was established and when the gospel began to spread across the world. It's even when Sacralism was allowed to take root. Sacralism, that's the mixing, or really the confusing, of church and state. So it's when Christianity began to morph into what is sometimes called Christendom. So it opened the door to what I like to sometimes call churchianity as opposed to Christianity. Now at the time all this was considered to be a good thing, unambiguously. You know what Emperor Constantine and his successors did in first recognizing the way of Christ as a legal religion and then making it the official state religion of Rome. It was considered unambiguously to be a good thing, but in hindsight, we could see that the these events were a very mixed bag So from the darn near beginning of recorded human history up to and including the firm establishment of the Christian Church, this entire period of time. Within that we see six Superpowers. Now we're keeping track just again. Egypt was one, Assyria was two, Babylon was three, Meadow Persia is four, Greece is five, Rome was six. And then it stops. Why just stop? This used to really bother me. That's fifteen hundred years ago. Or more, actually. Bothered me. But then I began to see that with the dawn of the church age, which took place during the Roman Empire, Rome, which is symbolized within these images that we see in the Bible, Rome would become a symbol in and of itself. It represents a prototype for all of the domineering political powers with which the followers of Jesus have had to contend down through the church age. Sometimes we are persecuted. Christians are. Right? Persecuted is the point of death sometimes for the faith. And sometimes Sometimes we're left alone, so we can coexist with the politicians. And then sometimes we're even shown favor as the officially sanctioned religious institution of the state Well all of these different scenarios, as varied as they are, they all existed under Rome. And all of these realities continue to cycle through history. So as it turns out, we look at our situation, we recognize our generation, we're going through arguably one of the most consequential of these cycles in history. As consequential as it is, it's really nothing new. Because there's nothing new under the sun. Now, admittedly, over the last, I don't know, ten, fifteen minutes, however long it's been, I have given you a lot of history. And it's not generally the kind of thing, it's not something I really spend loads of time on usually when I'm preaching. I like history, but I like the Bible better. And while the history that we just walked through, it is connected to Scripture, it is not itself scripture, right? It's not scripture in and of itself. So why discuss it at all? Well, let me ask you this. Have you ever heard other men preach and teach on the text of Daniel and Revelation? I mean there are pastors on the radio, on TV, they have built entire broadcast empires. Broadcast ministries that are kind of epic, talking about almost nothing but the arc of human history and how it all intersects with Daniel's vision and John's vision and Ezekiel's vision and so forth. So this sort of content is so prevalent out there that if I never talk about it at all, you might begin to wonder well Jesus, our pastor Do you know about some of these things? Has he ever considered some of these teachings? Or if I never talk about it, you might be disappointed. You might be, you know, concerned because you want help. You want to know how to understand what it all means and how important it is or isn't, to immerse ourselves in the geopolitical forces that have existed down through time. So my rule generally has been and continues to be to try to remain rooted in the text. And when the text is essentially asking us, inviting us strongly to take a peek at history, well then we take a peek. at history. Oh, for now. And it's good to do this. I want you to misunderstand. I'm not trying to downplay the importance of incorporating historical outlooks. It's good to do this, but we don't want to get carried away. As do so many knuckleheads. So many knuckleheads over the years have made some really strained connections. Strange connections between the history books and the biblical books. But the faith and the teaching that we believe in, it is rooted in history We can never forget that, right? Daniel, Jesus, John, the author of Revelation, these are men who really lived in history I mean they walked the planet. For real. The political pressures that they faced were real. And the family pressures, and the economic pressures, and the spiritual pressures, it was for them real. as it is for us. And so we want our faith to maintain its tether to history. But we want to make sure that it's real history. And that it is the tether that the author of the biblical books would expect us to make. Actually, John and Daniel, they're showing us something about their perspective in history here, I think. Because a careful study it reveals I don't know if you caught this when we read through the passage of the beginning, but Daniel he presents his beasts in one order. Did you notice the order? It was lion, bear, leopard. And John presents these beastly images, the same beastly images, but in the reverse order. Leopard, bear, lion. So it's as if Daniel, he's looking forward in history from his standpoint, from his perspective. And John, he's looking backward at that very same history from where he stands, from his perspective. I don't think that's an accident. Now both historically and biblically we know that evil forces come and they oppress mankind, and we know this is especially true for the saints. And we know the enemy's aims are terrifying. And we know that they come. In varying styles of dress with varying titles of position, like Pharaoh. King, Queen, Potentate, Emperor, Caesar, Monarch, Tribal, Chief, Mein Führer Il Duce, Prime Minister, Supreme Leader, even Mr. President Tyrants come in all shapes and sizes, even governor, senator, mayor, commissioner, chief justice. When these seats of power are occupied by dictator types, that's not good. These enemies of God and of God's people, they have historically just kept coming in waves, and it's wave upon wave upon waves. And I sometimes wonder, maybe maybe that's one of the symbolic meanings of the beast coming up out of the sea. But these beasts we need to know and be assured they will not prevail. They cannot prevail. As the man who's been nicknamed the Prince of Preachers once remarked, the anvil is smitten hard year after year, but it wears out many a hammer. So too, Charles Haddenspurgeon was saying, the church wears out the prosecutor's hammer. It can seem the opposite at times. It can seem as though the Prince of Darkness is the one who just won't wear out. He suffers a mortal wound and just won't die. It's like verse 3 in Revelation 13. The beasts, like a zombie, right? The the living dead. Like Michael Myers of Halloween. Jason of Friday the thirteenth. And those are contemporary examples. But you know, we have examples from the olden days too. In fact, way back in first century Rome, the Romans, they thought that Nero, who had killed himself, They thought that he hadn't really died, or maybe he had somehow died, but he was going to come back from the dead, and he was going to gather an army of Parthians, and he was going to come back to Rome and retake his throne And that can seem just a little bit nutty, right, to us at first, until we remember that there are people today who still believe that Elvis is alive. Or that John F. Kennedy Jr. is alive. So it's not nearly as as nutty as it at first seemed. So who is the narrow legend legend which uh stands behind, uh is that which stands behind the idea of the mortal wound from which the beast is healed? There are a lot of people who think so. Or is that image pointing to something that happens later, like the fall of Rome only to be replaced by a nominally Christian empire years later? There are some who think that. Or is it pointing to something that occurred way earlier? Like way, way, way, way earlier. Like you know, Satan's original fall from heaven. You know, for many, that fall from heaven, that seems that should have been the end, right? That's a pretty mortal wound to suffer. And yet here he is. He's still wreaking havoc. It's kind of like that All-State commercial. The All-State Insurance, you see that commercial character? Mayhem, I think is his name. He shows up commercial after commercial, reeking havoc everywhere. Well, some theologians they argue that the beast's death blow, a mortal wound, that it came at the cross of Christ. But yet the beast still is able to limp along, if you will, until the second coming. Lots of different ideas there. And they're all put out by some pretty reputable theologian types, and lots of debate and discussion and conjecture. So many guesses, so much conjecture. Why? I think it's because perhaps there's not necessarily just one right answer There might be many types, many iterations of the beast. And it's death. And it's popping back up again from its apparent grave. Now this isn't to say, I'm not arguing right now that this doesn't mean, well, there's not going to be one final beast to end all beasts. That doesn't preclude that at all. What I'm trying to say here though, the point I'm trying to really score is we can drive ourselves nuts if we try to pin the tail on the precise spot of the precise donkey with regards to all of this. And so I suggest that we could bring ourselves some sanity if we were to just step back and just try to take in the big picture again once more. And the big picture is that there is an ungodly beast vying for our worship. And so many people surrender to worshiping the beast. Because the beast is impressive. From a worldly point of view, he is given great authority by Satan himself. And did you notice how the first beast that we're shown here in Revelation chapter 13 looks like the dragon of the previous chapter, Revelation 12? In many ways they're practically mirror images of one another. Seven heads, ten horns, whole bunch of diadems. This is because the beast is given over to the dragon, Satan. And the dragon has given his authority to the beast. You know, near the start of the sermon I read Revelation 13, verses 1 through 8. So you might have been thinking we're going to cover all of that, but Last week we actually went all in on verse 1, so no need to belabor that today. And then today, it turns out we primarily have hit upon verses 2 through 4. So the plan is that we're going to set our sights on tackling verses 5 and following the next time I preach, which won't be next week. It'll be the week after, I believe. But before we get into verses 5 and following, let's answer the question that awaits us at the end of verse 4. And just to r to frame this, remind us what we're talking about here, this is a section that has received pretty much all of our attention today. Verses 2 through 4. And the beast that I saw was like a leopard, his feet were like a bear's, and his mouth was like a lion's mouth. And to it the dragon gave his power and his throne and great authority. One of its heads seemed to have a mortal wound, but its mortal wound was healed. And the whole earth marveled as they followed the beast, and they worshipped the dragon, for he had given his authority to the beast, and they worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like the beast? And who can fight against it? Last chapter you might remember, we uh ran into Michael, right? The Archangel Michael Archangel Michael is a name that means who is like God. Well, this chapter we're confronted with a very similar sounding question, who is like the beast? And who can fight against it? And you know what? That really is a good and fair question. It really is, because in the natural, we cannot fight against the supernatural. To try to do so would be like being stuck in a gunfight and not even holding a knife. So In such a situation, we have to admit we're screwed. What do we do? There's nothing. There's no hope except for Jesus. When we stand with him, by standing in Christ, we know the one and only answer to the question: who can fight against the beast? I quoted from Charles Spurgeon a second ago, well one of uh Charles Spurgeon's contemporaries in England, he once wrote Evil on this earth, though it is strong, has the multitude and the empire on its side, although it has lived long, won victories, and is active and vigorous to this hour It will not live forever. Its doom is sealed. Its head is bruised. Its limbs are withering, and its death approaches. What Christ Himself saw when saying, I saw Satan fall like lightning, will one day be witnessed by an adoring universe. Well, praise the Lord for that. Amen. Come quickly, Lord, come quickly, Maranatha. Now today's message was a little bit thin on specific application. And that's because I want that to be the focus of our discussion time that we're entering here in just a second. We're going to see about how do we apply the truth of this passage in tangible ways in our lives. So we're going to Do that in just a moment, but first, let me close out our sermon time with prayer. Father, you are precious to us. We adore you, not as we should, but we ask your help in doing so better. We know that your truth stands firm, your plan is unalterable. You know what is from the beginning to the end. And you have a place in your plan for those who are yours, washed clean by the blood of Christ. We thank you so much for that We thank you for equipping us by your Holy Spirit to do spiritual battle with the uh rather imposing enemy that we face. We ask you to help us be more diligent, to trust in you, to have confidence in you, not to rest upon our own strength, our own flesh, our own ideas and imaginations, but to lean upon you, the truth of your word the power of your spirit, totally dependent on the strength of your will. We ask that you would bless our conversation. That it would be edifying, that we would be iron-sharpening iron, that we would come to understand you and your word and your truth better as we come to know each other and even ourselves better. We thank you for the privilege we still have in this land to gather like this without fear of immediate persecution. All these things we lift up in the glorious name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. I'm going to uh wrap up the stream. I think I said at the beginning, but in case I didn't, our website is Household of Faith in Christ Household of Faith in Christ. com. You can find all my contact information. If you need prayer, answer to a theological question, help finding a church, whatever, I'm glad to help in regards to that. There's all sorts of resources there. You should check it out. Not just with the church, but things outside of our church, my radio show, other ministries, that sort of thing. So anyway, check it out, household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week. God bless.