It looks like it's rolling. So welcome to the weekly Saturday gathering of the Household of Faith in Christ. A little programming note for you that join us for the virtual part of what we do every week. We're actually going to be having the stream live next Sunday instead of Saturday. So it'll be around the same time, but it'll be eight days from now as opposed to seven days from now. Uh I'm not preaching. Next week we'll have uh our next uh sermon from uh the book of Revelation. But uh this week we're having uh a repeat performance by popular demand. Bernie Beale was here not too long ago with a presentation about some of our spiritual heritage in this country, and he's making it more specific to Maryland and Frederick today. So we're going to hear all about the flag and the state seal and those sorts of things. And so he does he can promote himself if he wants later. But if you want to find him online, he's got uh an organization, a ministry called Great Commission Families. And uh the website is uh either Great Commissions Famili Great Commissions uh Great Commission Families. org or gcfamilies. org. So if you want to Take that over from now and thank you again for uh being with us and looking forward to hearing what spiritual lessons and gospel proclamation we can glean from uh the stuff all around us in Maryland It really is amazing that uh the the heritage of our nation, especially here on the East Coast, the 13 Original Colonies, People came here for uh religious freedom and uh and they lived it out. Um and I wasn't gonna plan to say this part, but um in the U. S. Capitol I'm thinking did I bring that picture? No. There's a painting of the pilgrims with a Bible right in the center of the picture. So you can go to the Capitol Rotunda and actually all eight paintings have something to do with something spiritual, but that one is so obvious I walk up to him and I say, this painting illustrates the DNA of the USA and part of his religious liberty. The DNA of the USA is two freedoms that they saw that their pastor had taught them, because in the painting, their pastor is praying for them, they're about to leave Europe, and they're gonna they're on the ship going to come to America Um and the two things that they applied was free markets and free elections. That is the DNA of the USA. The DNA has to be held together by something. And the two things that hold it together are religious liberty and godly fam families. Godly families and religious liberty hold together the principles. And I developed all that thinking when before the pandemic uh from time to time uh friends that serve in countries where they're not allowed to share the gospel said, Well hey, we want to bring some business people to America and find out why America is so successful and says, We'll go to the Capitol and we'll show 'em. It's the DNA of the USA. I was afraid it was going to get muffled maybe. Yeah, especially with the jacket going back and forth on it. Good idea. Yeah. Yeah, I do a lot of talking but usually it's uh without a microphone and loud. Um what my what my dad used to call use Barney, use your camp meeting voice. Which is louding outdoors and maybe standing on a s on a on a stump of tr of a tree stump. Um but but growing up, my parents Uh my mother's still living. I just talked to her this morning. Um we'd be driving along and my mom would say to my dad, Fred, my sister and I, Joy and I are in the backseat, and my mom would say, uh, Fred, pull over It's one of those historical markers ahead. Then she'd look in the backseat and she'd say, kids, won't this be fun? We'll find out why they put it there. Oh, so it's probably something really interesting. And Joy and I would look at each other and go, Oh Mom, oh not again. But you know what? It would be interesting. And my dad might say, you know, there's a spiritual lesson Well let's look at this godly fault that these people put in this black ear. Um so I was growing up with that stuff all around me all the time. Born in Frederick in Memorial Hospital, grew up on a dairy farm just on the other side of the county line. I Me and my co uh some of my cousins went to the Montgomery County schools and some of my other cousins came up to the Frederick County schools because we farmed on both sides of the county line. So Frederick is very very special to me. So I want to share about three emblems. And you're going to know the first? Because here it is And I always look at the McDonald's when they're flying through the flag to make sure they have the black square. Now it's actually a trapezoid, but you just think, you know, four-sided figure. Black square in the air. This is the proper way to display the Maryland State flag. In other words, this would be upside down. But unless you know what you're looking at, you know the grommet is over here. So the flagpole would be would be on this side is what I'm saying And uh the black square in the air. That's how how you remember it. Uh and just glance at the Maryland State flag, it is, in my opinion, the most beautiful flag in the Union And it is correct heraldic imagery. You know, like uh knights in shining armor kinds of things. And that's part of the history. So I'm gonna I'm gonna explain it all. In fact, I think I'll just lay it here, somewhat like that. Uh and um you know I need to tell you, my favorite class in college was any class that began like this. Don't worry about taking notes today. I have a handout with everything you need on it. So in my pocket right here, I have one of the first of a couple dozen gospel flyers that my wife and I have written that are what I term location specific gospel flyers. When we launched our own ministry, Great Commission family sixteen years ago, after twenty-three wonderful years with Campus Crusade for Christ, and the last fifteen of those We're in Washington, D. C. So we do a lot with the monuments and things down there. Um but uh our original plan, and it's really the same, um, was to create family-friendly evangelistic outings And we realized, you know, people like to go to um tourist places. Uh there's an old campus crusade principle that is Go go to the place the college students want to go because that's where you can find them to share Christ. So we would go on spring break to Daytona Beach as a for instance 'Cause that m you know, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of students were going there. So we started thinking, well what do families like to do? Well they like to go to tourist places and we live in a you know every part of the country, it's got whatever the local tourist places Um so we uh we would go to Annapolis or any place in Maryland, we can take these flyers. So I'm I think I think I I I gave I probably gave you one when I was here last time. I want you to have one now, but I'm also thinking about in in speaker training, they g they said one time, never hand anything out unless you want people to look at it instead of looking at you. So I've got one in my pocket and um that the thing I said earlier, I don't know if it was on the the the video at the time, but uh the Mark Twain thing of if you don't care how long I speak I can go for hours But if you have a certain thing, then you I'm gonna need to take two weeks to prepare. So in a sense, this flyer is my two weeks to prepare to explain the gospel imagery. and the colors and the history of the Maryland State flag. Um and uh so sometimes I like to r to read what I wrote because it keeps me from rambling on and on and on and on and on. But the Maryland State flag My subtitle on the flyer is The Most Beautiful Flag in the Union, and I'm prejudiced on that, but you understand. The most beautiful flag in the Union is an illustration of the greatest need in the universe. That which should cause a question to pop in your head. Well what's the greatest need in the universe? In a word, reconciliation. Reconciliation between people in families, among people, in countries, but the ultimate reconciliation is with God. This is two flags that were combined to make one reconciled state, Maryland. post Civil War. During the Civil War, if you fought for the North, and Maryland raised regiments for both sides, mostly the North, but you go to the State House in in Annapolis. They have a plaque in on one of the the the main hall there that was put up I don't know maybe seventy, eighty years ago. Uh that's dedicated to the Marylanders who fought in the Civil War and they they use very diplomatic language But after you read it, you go, hey, wait a minute, I thought we fought for the north, because this is saying some things about the other, you know, and you realize that Marylanders fought on both sides. which created the phrase which you sometimes hear referring to the Civil War as brother fighting brother. Well it was true in Maryland. Uh and here we are in Frederick, Maryland In in Frederick Maryland is a there's a famous story about one family that they were divided. And it was a three- they lived in a three-story house. So the people who were for the north they s ate and s or they slept and lived on the third floor. The people for the south they ate and um I'm sorry, they they slept and lived on the second floor. But in the kitchen they were allowed to eat together. I mean they they come to a family agreement as long as you didn't talk about anything. that would that would get people riled up. But so this is the brother fighting brother. And it's so if you fought for the for the North, uh this black and gold color was it's called the Baltimore colors. And in fact the City flag of Baltimore is this this quadrant, this one-fourth of the Maryland flag, with the an emblem in the middle. There's a monument in what in Baltimore. to George Washington. It's not the W they call it the Washington Monument, but it's not the when you say Washington Monument, you think Washington DC, but they do have a a monument to George Washington in Baltimore. It's actually older than the Washington Monument So the city flag of Baltimore is with the mine in the middle, just the black and gold. And but if you fought for the South in the uh Civil War You probably you might have been in Robert E. Lee's army, and so you'd put a little pin or just even cut a piece of paper in a special shape. This is a special cross This is a botany cross. And botany is kind of anglicized meaning button. So you see on the end, it's like it's got three little things. That's like a button. And it's a four arm cross, so not a cross that you like to plant in the ground. But y you you paint on a picture or you put on a shield or you put uh the the Crusaders use it. Um Uh so it's a very Catholic emblem as a matter of fact. But the imagery is rather amazing. It's a four arm cross to show that the four gospels are to go to the four corners of the earth. And what is the gospel? Well it's tipped on the end by three buttons. The gospel is the message of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. And that's the image that's in the Maryland State flag. And you see it everywhere The NFL, the Ravens got it on their shoulders. This image of the gospel is to go to the world. And it's the message of the Great Commission talks about baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. And that's the that's why it's got three buttons on the end I'll tell you where it all came from a little bit more in a moment. But the imagery of um of the black and gold is actually powerful imagery as well. If you can kind of tell it's like um uh I think it's called in heraldry, it's it's it's uh it's called a bend. It's not bent, but it's at an angle, so it's not It's not like a checkered flag, it's at an angle. And that's to symbolize, if you can kind of picture, a sash coming across a soldier so he can put a sword in. That's a sash thrown across the shoulder to put a sword in. And then the up and down is is to represent like palisades, like a fort. And so where this imagery comes from goes back to anybody have a King James Bible? Goes back to the era of King James. He uh he had been King James the Sixth of Scotland, and then a relative died. And he inherited another throne in bec of England. And he became King James I of England. And so there's all these things going on with the who's got what throne, and then they they wanted to have peace treaties And sometimes you would have somebody of another royal family of another country marry somebody in your family, and then that's cause a peace. That'll create a peace treaty. So in King James I's private council, called the Privy Council Uh he had a man named George Calvert, good friend of his, and he sent him to Spain to kind of work on maybe um Get in a marriage arrangement. Never worked out. But while George Calvert was in Spain, he had conversations with Catholic priests, and he privately became a Catholic Now why I said the word privately back at the Privy Council in England, it was at that time where the king was Protestant, and so everyone Parliament required, everyone in the Privy Council must also be Protestant So when George Calvert came back, he eventually told his friend, King James I, I've become a Catholic. And it wasn't like a a worrisome thing, 'cause King James liked him so much, he says, Well I'm so sorry, you're out of the priv private council, the Privy Council, but I want to do something special for you. I'm going to knight you. So he was not an actual soldier. He was more like a political soldier And I'm going to give you the rights of heraldry. And I'm going to give you a castle, a castle Baltimore over in Ireland. And I'm going to listen to your ideas if you'd like to have a place established for Catholics to be free and thus that's how the plan began for Maryland. He died, his son followed through on the second Lord Calvert. I mean Lord Baltimore. Um and that's why we have a Calvert County. But the imagery, uh when you were knighted, you were allowed to make a a a crest, a family crest, and it would just be for you So it doesn't pass on the other family, say this was my grandfather's crest. And the imagery that he made, it was quartered like this flag. So they they got the idea from something old for the flag. But uh it was quartered to show uh to honor both sides of your family. If it was it was half and half, it'd be like putting your your father over your your mother's honor and that kind of a thing. So the it it's a traditional thing in heraldry, you accord it. And so and they had family colors in those days. The Calvert family's colors were black and gold. And George's mom was Crossland, and so the the their family colors were red and white. And so he chose they the uh the the imagery of fighting for his king, again politically not actually a soldier, and the crossland, the red and white with the cross and the and the forearms going to the four corners of the earth And so that was the family crest. And in the early years of the mi of the of the republic, it was part of the the the state seal and I'm going to come to that. Um actually I think I'll just show it to you right now So you can see the state seal seal. I'm going to talk more about it and get some Bible verse. Actually there's a Bible verse right on it. I'm going to come to that. But you see in the middle there's a shield So that was George Calvert's shield and that was used from the beginning of Maryland, but it was not a f we didn't have an official flag. All states didn't always have flags from the beginning, is kind of the point. But colors, have you ever heard of the colorless book? I'm sorry, the the wordless book, the wordless book they use in child evangelism fellowship You turn to the first page and it's a color and you talk about it, give a Bible verse, then you go to the next page and it has a color. Well that's what I do in this little booklet. Um You know what I I think I w to summarize what I've said so far and to lead into the biblical imagery and the colors the uh the imagery and the colors A flag of family heritage and reconciliation. So it goes back to the Calvert Crest But it later became a symbol for reconciliation. And how it came to be Maryland's official state flag is a fascinating story involving family heritage and brother fighting brother. George Calvert, the first Lord Baltimore We're talking 1580, born in 1580. King James Bible, if you happen to know, is 1611. So that's the kind of the time period we're talking about. Um but he was knighted by King James I of England in sixteen twenty five, and for his family crest Calvert chose his father's family colors, black and gold, with the bold heraldic imagery of a s of a sword uh bearing um a sword bearing sash, crossing palisades like a fort. Um and because he had battled politically, faithfully for his king. And then he chose, as I said before, the red and white cross botany of his mother's cross and family colors and the trayfoil, that's what this these buttons are kind of called, the trayfoil buttons are symbolic of the Trinity. And uh then the four crosses symbolize the four gospels going to the four corners of the earth, as I said. Calvert's crest gives honors to his bravery in battle and his Christian faith. And that's the message for us today. Wherever you are, we're always, if we could see spiritually what was going on around us all the time, it would probably frighten us pretty bad because there's a spiritual battle going on all around us all the time, right now And so uh God gives us enough understanding to move forward in faith. So the spiritual battles going on all around us and and the reliance on our Christian faith is part of it. Uh is is the big deal. But in the run-up to and then the beginning of the American Civil War, the the regiments from Maryland that fought for the North used the black and gold. The regiments from the South used the used the uh the red and white And those are the colors. These are called the secessionist colors, the red and white. In fact, in the state of Maryland, if you were seen, and uh well, this happened to uh Francis Scott Key's grandson and the chief of police in Baltimore, they were known to be southern sympathizers because they would wear a red and white scarf or s the secessionist colors. And so the President of the United States had his secret agents. This is really kind of wild stuff his secret agents sent to um arrest them and put him in prison at Fort McHenry. And Franciscaki's grandson okay, I'll tell this story. This uh because I read this at Fort McHenry. They had a plaque that described all this and I read it 'cause my mother told me, read the plaques and you learn stuff. And the plaque said that Francis Katske's grandson, in Fort McHenry, wrote in his diary on the anniversary of the writing of the Star Spangled Banner. He said, Here I sit. Under the same flag of which my grandfather wrote so gloriously about, and yet I under a worse tyrant than he ever imagined That's what Francisco Key's grandson. Now if you go to the Lincoln Memorial, um which I did yesterday as a matter of fact, it says in this temple, as in the hearts of the people, we honor the memory of Abraham Lincoln. I forget the latter bit, but it's the in this temple And Abraham Lincoln was a single-minded person when he was president. Keep this nation together. Maintain union But the nation broke apart terribly, so the need was reconciliation afterwards. So after the war uh former Civil War soldiers from both sides reformed the Maryland National Guard. And then there was a big old parade in Baltimore in 1888. So it was probably it was quite a while, a few decades after the Civil War And uh and they had the idea, let's make a flag. And let's put together the two flags that we fought against each other under, and now put it together as one flag and march in the parade celebrating the hundredth anniversary, 150th anniversary of the founding of Baltimore. So big parade in Baltimore, Maryland National Guard shows up and they're sporting a flag like this. Actually There was interestingly enough in the Maryland National Guard there was more Confederates than there were Union former guys. So they put the red on the first quadrant. It's supposed to be like equal, but the first quadrant where my finger's flicking over here where the grommet is was actually a little bit preeminent. So this is the flag as they flew it. They marched in the in this parade and the people of Maryland, Baltimore in particular, and others that had come, they saw it. And it resonated with people because they understood what it meant. It means reconciliation. We need that bad. After the war, I mean the war was bad, awful bad. People actually died. But after the war it was still bad because people were angry People were mad. People were there were disrupted in their hearts. So this resonated, this flag imagery resonated with the people in Maryland. And um it was fine as is often the case, the legislature followed the people's lead. It took an another about fifteen years, and in 1904 The legislature flipped it, made it like this, so the black square is in the air. You always have to make it right. The black square is in the air, and the Maryland legislature, 1904, made this the official flag of the state of Maryland And now the colors. And this is now we're going to give you some Bible verses. In fact, if you have a Bible, uh I want to hear uh 2 Corinthians 517 in multiple translations because it's kind of interesting. I'm going to lead up to that. It's going to be the fifth verse that I share, so I'm giving you a heads up because we're going to get to that And so the colors, uh black and gold. Um historically, in fact I just today came from a memorial service, so I put on my black jacket, black pants, and but a bright tie, because it's uh the Isaiah 40 tie, we will mount up with wings like eagles. So uh you know there's a glorious thing about uh a memorial service. This is for a man who was ninety-eight and what a life he lived. He finished well, he he was I I told Troy earlier he was a lawyer who did more to influence hundreds and hundreds of young people in youth ministry, probably than most youth ministers ever do. And so this is is a crowd of like a thousand people from a from young to old that he had influenced in his ninety eight um ninety-eight years. But here, black and gold, uh as I the way I f I fashioned it in my little flyer here, the sword sash The color black is historically associated with funerals, and uh the verse I put with that, or the phrase I put with that in the flyer is the first part of uh Romans 6. 23, which says, For the wages of sin is death So black symbolizes death. As I look at the colors here, like the like the wordless like the wordless booklet booklet booklet. But then gold, um some we call this yellow, but in heraldry they'll sometimes call it gold, but it's hard to get a gold color. that that's uh referred to as gold. And gold that reminds me of heaven. The streets of gold. So sin is where things start, but heaven, streets of gold is where things can end. Um and in uh let me get the reference right. In uh in Rev- Yeah, Revelation 21-21 is one of the places that describes, and the streets of that city were pure gold. So heaven comes after victory over sin and death But how? So so death and yet heaven in the black and gold? Well then we go to the red and white. It gets us right there. Uh red reminds me of blood, of course, reminds us of blood. And in Leviticus it says, it is the blood that makes atonement for the soul. So that's nice. Blood. Whose blood? Well that's that's a simple one. The second part of Romans 6. 23, the first part, for the wages of sin is death. But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus. So obviously it's Jesus' blood. And then the famous verse from Isaiah that I like, though your sins are as scarlet, they will be as white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they will be like wool. And how I ended this uh this flyer is uh like sometimes I've I found this out like we're on the streets giving out flyers. Sometimes people do the first thing they do when I hand it to them, they turn it over. Who's the phone? You know, they want to see the fine foot in the back Who who are you? What is this about? It's pretty rare, but it does happen enough. So I put on the front the greatest need in the universe and then on the back, if you just read the top it says, What is the greatest need in the universe? It's like if someone says, Well, what's the answer? What I don't want to read the whole thing, should be cut to the taste. What's the greatest need in the universe? Second Corinthians 5. 17 gives the answer. The verse I have it, the way I have it here, and I want to hear it from multiple translations. This one key verse. This is the last verse on the flag God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not counting their sins against them, and he has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Again, 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Someone else read that in your translation. I like to hear it in multiple translates. Go ahead. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Did you just read that? And 18, right? Oh eighteen. Yeah. It's a whole paragraph in there. I I would have put more in the flyer but I didn't have enough room. Th the one that I uh I read which was eighteen. I'm I'm I'm fairly certain. God was in Christ, reconciling the world himself. I'm looking for the way it says reconcile, uh the word of reconciliation, those kinds of things. There's different ways to say it. It's interesting. But all things are from God who through Jesus Christ reconciled us to himself, received us into favor, brought us into hope. harmony with themselves and gave to us the ministry of reconciliation that by word and deed we might aim to bring others into harmony Harmony. Okay, yeah. I like that implication. Harmony, because that that you know smacks right up in with reconciliation. Uh Ann, you want to E S V which is All this is from God who through Christ reconciled us to Himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Okay, that used the word ministry also, which is i interesting. Most of them do actually. I have a comparison with button. Well talk a little bit about that word ministry. I actually um On my uh it's not TikTok, but the shorts, YouTube shorts. Uh you know, if you if you hit a cup positive a few times it it figures out what you like. I get a boatload of Billy Graham clips And there's one where he's talking about the ministry of rec I can't quite do his voice, but uh he's he's booming in a stadium. I thought about playing it, but it's it's it's uh indoors it's it's too loud. But he's but he says The classic thing if you haven't heard the word. Ministry simply means job or task. In America, the um The w the president has the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, all these Secretaries, but almost all other count most other countries in the world, they would have the Minister of State, the Minister of of uh defense. The minister and you think, well wait a minute, is it a religious thing? No, it just means task, job. It's been up we've been applied and we think of it in a religious circle. Oh the minister does the job Whereas that's not the case. Every Christian is in ministry. We all have the job of being involved in reconciliation. So the keyverse is 2 Corinthians 5. 18. In fact, this is the handout I'm going to give you later. Not a lot of notes on it, but it's a key verse for the Maryland flag, 2 Corinthians 5. 18, which we just read there. And the key key word is reconciliation. We have the ministry of the task of reconciliation, and I love the the what Angela brought out in the Amplified with to be in harmony. That's very nice. Uh not pass those at that's kind of you know at the end so you've got the keyverse. So there's the Maryland flag. Now I do want to expand on this curious little thing of the Maryland State SEAL. Uh Maryland's one of the few states that um has a front and back. Um and uh 'cause sometimes a state seal goes on a state flag And if you have two things on different sides of the flag, when it flies and the sun shines, it doesn't work right, so that's why it's not done that often. So I think I'll go in reverse order. Um here's what's on the back. It's a guy y do you ever wonder why jousting is a big deal historically in Maryland? Um well apparently uh George Calvert was like into that. And so um Uh this is the uh let me let me get it right right here. Where did I put the the quote? You don't think I wrote it down. Uh but it's it's in Latin around it. Cecilus, absolute uh dominus as in lord or ruler of Terra Marie, which means land Marilyn, Land Mary, and Avalon, Baron of Baltimore. Do anybody know where Avalon is? Well it was a failed colony in Newfoundland. And if you ever now so that's all I'm gonna say about this. It's not that interesting. Well it's got its place. On this side, there's two men on both sides of George Calvert's First Lord Baltimore's family shield The one is a farmer and the other is a fisherman. And that really works for Maryland as farms and fishermen. But the farmer represents Maryland. The fisherman represents Avalon The other colony that Lord Baltimore tried to start up in Newfoundland and it failed and doesn't exist anymore. So uh it's just kind of funny that, well that's okay. Maryland's got plenty of of of fishing good things going on as well At the bottom it has uh the Maryland State Motto. And this is a funny one. Um I I've I've read through all the state mottoes and I I love the ones that mention God. This one doesn't. Um Fata mashi parole femine. And there's two ways to translate it. The old way was manly deeds, womanly words. And now it's strong deeds, gentle words. Because you know the whole manly, womanly thing is kind of you know out of favor. But they haven't changed the Latin. It's just they changed the translation of the Latin But now let's get to the Bible verse. Around the perimeter of the Mound State Seal is a Latin phrase And I think the ACLU doesn't know it, so watch it online. Don't um the ACL didn't know it, but it puts a Bible verse, for goodness sake. And well I'll read it to you in Latin. And you tell me if you hear a phrase or some syllables that can make you go, huh? Okay. Scuto Bonet Valantas TV Corona C Nas. Corona? Corona is in the Maryland State field It is. Um a crown. Yes. A round or crown. Uh you know there's I think uh there's a beer called Corona. It just means crown. Um and the literal translation I wrote it down because I I took I took a foreign language in school and I always loved when when we would do the literal translation and and recite it in English the way the word order that they had it in the foreign language. Uh so literally it's shield good will, you crown us. Which uh what does that mean? Um uh You cover him with favor as with a shield. And that's Psalm 5, the second half of verse 12. Whenever I would hear a speaker say the second half of a verse, my first question is, what's the first half of the verse? And then After that, what's the context? You know, like well, maybe what's the verse before that? So let me give you verses eleven and twelve. If you if you look at Psalm 5, you'll see that it's 12 verses. And I think when I was here last time, that was the song you were on, if I'm remembering right. So verses 11 and 12 kind of go together, uh. As the last two verses of Psalm 5. I'll give you a moment to turn there. And when you pack it together, suddenly you realize that this Positive, you will cover him with favor as with a shield, comes with conditions. And here it is, verse eleven. But let all who take refuge in you rejoice. Let them ever sing for joy, and spread your protection over them, that those who love your name may exalt in you. That was verse eleven. For you bless the righteous, O Lord. You cover him with favor as with a shield. Now I think it's a very proper and one beautiful thing that we have a Bible verse, and it's the second half of a Bible verse And it's a Bible verse that's kind of inviting or being grateful for God's blessing, God's protection surrounding us. That's the corona is actually translated here. uh surround, that's where the the corona comes from, uh or where how it's translated in here. But the the context gives you the condition conditions. The phrases would be all who take refuge in you That's who's going to get protected. The phrase would be, for you bless the righteous, O Lord. Now how many of you here are righteous? There is none righteous. Except in Christ. So this is a promise to the Christians on the Maryland State seal that God's going to protect us. Now we don't know what that means and how that means because ultimate protection is you get to go home to those streets of gold. The language I actually had took in high school was German. And I enjoyed watching uh war movies where they would have the German-speaking German. Um because then I would try to figure out what they were saying. But as a result, I would have nightmares. Uh bad Nazis. Uh on occasion. I mean not a lot, uh but you know, as a young teenager. Uh and um have you ever taken control in your dreams? That is a wild thing, because it's like what your brain um your brain, I like to say it's like your eyes. When you close your eyelids, you've covered your eyes, but your eyes are still working. You can't actually turn your eyes off You just cover them. Your brain is the same way. You are sleeping, but your brain is still s synapsing and doing stuff. So I had this dream in high school. I was on a bus and there's the Nazis outside and we're getting off the bus and they're about to shoot us all, you know, in the dream As I'm getting off the bus, the first Nazi there of the machine gun, I say to him, You can't hurt me. I'm going to heaven. And then I woke up. So, when I you know, let all who take refuge in you rejoice. Uh you bless the righteous. Uh and uh and sh and shockingly, and I know this is going on on online, so I I I I almost hesitate, but hey, truth is a good thing. Oh well I'm gonna get it to it when I get to the the next item, so I'll I'll save that thought. I was gonna do it anyway. So key verse number two Psalm 512, key word number two, shield. God provides a shield. The ultimate shield is only coming from God Himself for those who are in His righteousness, not in our own righteousness. We take refuge in Christ. The Old Testament is pointing us to that from the book of Psalm. But now we're going to go to the New Testament. And this time, there's two emblems Before I tell you what this is, can you see two emblems barely? What do you think that is? Uh what is it specifically? Yep, it's an arc and um this is a caption. Oh um When they were building the Washington Monument, literally every state and many other organizations, Sunday schools, cities, a few a number of cities, not every city, Baltimore, New York, Frederick, Maryland, gave commemorative stones to honor George Washington and they had to give some money to you know to help build the monument kind of a thing. Um a host just so you know a host of Masonic organizations did as well. So if you ever go look up, tell me about the stones Depending on who's going to tell you or what the list is, you might notice there's a lot of Mason stuff in here. Um and I don't want to talk much about that. But at the bottom, it you can't really read the words, and so I typed it all up and so you can see it here And what this says is, from the city of Frederick, Maryland, uh so this is to honor George Washington, civil and religious liberty first proclaimed by the Pilgrim Fathers of Maryland. Now it's not a period there, we're going to stop there for a moment. You may not be aware of this, but every colony was founded well I'll say it this way, after the pilgrims, the Puritans came to Massachusetts, and they said, We want religious liberty and we're going to make everybody who comes here to worship God the way we do So that's kind of a religious liberty for us, but nobody else. However, the people who came to Maryland did in hindsight for us were like, wow, that was like pretty nice. Um, it was founded by Catholics and they said anybody. In other words, Protestants could be here, because the Catholics couldn't be in any of the other colonies quite yet. So that's why civil and religious liberty first proclaimed by the Pilgrim Fathers of Maryland as emblemed in the Ark of the Covenant of Freedom and the Dove, the Harbinger of Peace and Fellowship that guided them through dangers of the deep has been secured as the birthright of the nation by the enduring seal of the minister there's that word again the minister of justice George Washington. In other words, they're making a a proclaim it's it's kinda like they d the they do at the National Political Conventions of the Great State of Maryland The place where people wanna be, we vote for you know, that kind of you know, they're they're they're honoring George Washington by honoring themselves is really kind of what it comes down to. Uh you we uh we see what they're doing there. Um but th they're they're pointing out that George Washington is the one who secured the religious liberty and the peace that we have now as a nation. And the honoring him, so this is the stone, a a picture of the stone that's in the Washington Monument. And then I I put the notation, Frederick City's Washington Monument, commemorative stone Tenth Landing, 120 feet, placed in the 1850s, so pre-Civil War. Um I think I'll just put that there so you can kind of glance at it Um it won't be like they said this the other thing they said to me in college, read it, memorize it, you'll be tested on it later. Instead it's uh read it, enjoy it, there's no test But here's the Bible verses that go with this one. On the paper here I put John 14, 27, so I'm going to end with that one. But leading up to it, the dove. The um the Ark and the Dove were the names of the ships that the first pilgrim fathers settled Maryland. They didn't call themselves pilgrims, it's just kind of a a term to say they were the first the first people to actually settle here from England Um the names of their ships was Ark and the Dove. And so there is a speculation, we don't know this historically, but there is a sp speculation that their theme verse Let me let me rephrase it this way. I would like to think their theme verse was Psalm 139, verse 10, which or verse 9 and 10, which talks about a dove. And it says this If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me We in other words, we don't know why they chose to name their two ships, the Ark and the Dove, but that verse certainly plays into when the people in those days they were crossing the Atlantic uh from England. I mean that was like they're going to the other side of the world. They're not going back. And so if I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me and your right hand shall hold me Now I want to think about the Ark a little bit. The biblical Genesis chapter 6, 7, and 8 is the story of Noah and the Ark. And in chapter 8 is where it ends. Uh Chapter 8 verse 1. But God remembered Noah and all the beasts and the livestock that were with him in the ark, and God made a wind blow over the earth And the water subsided. In verse four, the ark came to rest on the mountains of Arrat. Verse seven Noah sent forth a raven. And he sent and then in verse eight, nine, and ten, I'm going to read it more fully. Then he sent forth a dove Oh I'm gonna in verse nine. But the dove found no place to set her feet in verses ten and eleven in their entirety. He waited another seven days, and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark And the dove came back to him in the evening, and behold, in her mouth was a freshly plucked olive leaf. So Noah knew that the waters had subsided from the earth. So a dove, olive branch, today those are emblems. I I don't know if it's universally worldwide, but it's you know around the world. You say olive you know, give a an olive branch and you know the dove represents peace And this goes back to the Bible. And I'm going to end with what Jesus had to say about peace. But before before I get there, there's something else. This is what I was alluding to earlier. I'm thinking, should I say this? Will it? You know, it's in the Bible There's one other emblem that I didn't get to that that comes later, and that's a rainbow. The rainbow is God's promise not to judge the world with water again. It is not God's promise not to judge the world. It is God's promise not to judge the world with water. Which is a subtle way of saying God's promising to judge the world, just not with water next time. And so I find it interesting that we put rainbows and little arcs on the on the decorations for children, because the rainbow is a nice promise. But what's behind the promise is the promise of judgment is coming. And some people use the rainbow and they think this is a beautiful thing. And I see the rainbow and I go, oh wait a minute now. You realize biblically that's God's promise, judgment's coming. So just want to mention that, but I do like the peace part much better, don't you? And Jesus had a remarkable thing to say about peace. And um uh what's sometimes called the upper room discourse, the the last big chapters of if you turn in your When I think I was in the third grade, I was given my first Bible to own uh in Sunday school class and it was a red letter edition. It was what was in Jesus' words were in red. And so like I I turned, where's it like all red? You know. And I I found okay, Sermon on the Mount. Found that oh that's really a lot of red there Pages, you know, several chapters are read. And also in John uh 14, I forget w where it starts, but there's a whole lot in there. But one key verse talks about peace. And I'm thinking about the dove here right now. And that's John 14, 27 In fact, yeah, let's hear that. That's since that's kind of the key verse. Let's hear that in multiple translations. I have one in my head. It goes like this. Peace I give to you, not as the world gives, but my peace I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled. John 14, 27. So some yeah, I should have given you enough moment to look it up. Uh so have to look okay. You're Anthony and he's Ray. Got it. Okay. And this is where I'll be wrapping up. Yeah, you you ha you don't have a clock in here, Troy, so that's uh that's a good or risk. Well I can't see it. Yeah, okay. What and you have NIV? Okay. So pe peace I leave with you, my peace I give give you. I do not give you as the world gives, do Do not let your heart be troubled and do not be afraid. Another translation? Someone else, yes? I have ESV. Yes. Peace I leave with you. My peace I Okay, very good. Is there one more translation that was different than those? Oh, Angela. Man, we gotta have the amplified. Yeah, John fourteen, verse twenty-seven. Anne's got all the translations. Now he disclosed the E S V M. Peace I leave with you. My own peace. I now give and bequeath to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Do not let your hearts be troubled, neither let Let them be afraid. Stop allowing yourselves to be agitated and disturbed, and do not permit yourselves to be fearful and intimidated and cowardly. Wow, that should go on a poster on the wall in the kitchen. There's two kinds of peace described in that verse. Jesus talks about he says, My peace Not the world's peace. And now I want to do kind of the classic three-point outline from a preacher. Just three thoughts, not a whole thing. So the world's peace, think of it like this. The world's peace is external. It's when people uh uh when armies stop shooting at one another, they say, okay, we got peace, so it's external. And the world's peace is temporal. It doesn't last. There's never been a a peace treaty that lasted forever. The world's peace is based on man's ability to keep it. So that's the world's peace. External, temporal, and man-centered. Now think of what the peace Jesus offered The peace Jesus offers is internal in the heart. The peace Jesus offered is eternal. It lasts forever. And the peace Jesus offered is based on God's ability to keep it They say on the Oregon Trail there was a sign that said, choose your rut carefully, you'll be in it for the next 500 miles. So I say, two kinds of peace. Choose your peace carefully. You're going to be in it For all eternity. The world's peace, temporal, external, man-centered, or God's peace, or the peace that Jesus offers, internal, eternal, and God-centered And that's what I think of whenever I see a dove, because that's representing peace. Um so that's the verse I'll um I'm I think I'm going to close in prayer and then I'll come around and then you turn the video up and turn around and pass these around kind of a thing. Because I just want you to have something to take home that has the key verses and the key words. Key words reconciliation, shield, and peace And the key verses for the Maryland flag, the Maryland SEAL, and the Frederick Memorial Stone. FDK, if you didn't happen to know, that's the three-letter code for the airport here. And uh I got long ago for one summer I I uh took flying lessons there But let's pray. Lord God, thank you that you provided everything we need, that we don't claim righteousness in ourselves. We cling to the righteousness that is in Christ. We don't claim to be the ones who can bring peace in this world, but we can cling to the one who can bring peace in our heart and the heart of every person we touch. um it by the power of your Holy Spirit. So I pray that this fellowship, this church, this gathering, um, we would be one of the many, many Embassies where ambassadors for light and truth for the message of the gospel. We have the four gospels going to the four corners of the earth This would be one of the places where it's going out. So help us be that in our area here in Frederick, Maryland, and wherever you take us in the world. So bless us one another as we continue to fellowship together this evening. And um uh use this week, uh give us eyes of faith. Not fear, but to fa faith to know what you want us to do, what you want us to say, where you want us to go. And we want to be who you want us to be in this uh in this fallen world. And we look forward to the streets of gold in your perfect timing. And this we all pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Sag that for me for a minute. There you go. And we're going to bid our streaming friends adieu. And uh I figure since we're bidding you adieu, I'm going to leave you with a benediction. I was gifted a book of benedictions. So I'm making use of that gift. May the Lord guide you always. May you be like a well-watered garden, like a spring whose waters never fail. When you cry for help, may the Lord always say, Here am I. Till next week, approximately 167 and a half or so hours from now. Actually more than that, because we're going to be doing on Sunday instead. So add twenty-four hours to that. God bless.