Yeah, hello, we are uh live and believe it or not, there are other people in the room, you just can't see them right now. Welcome to the live stream portion of the Household of Faith in Christ. Weekly gathering normally we would gather you know around six, six thirty for the live stream on Saturdays, but we're doing it on Sunday this week. If you're not familiar with us, I'm Troy Skinner. I'm a pastor of Houseful of Faith in Christ. If you would like to um learn more about us, visit our website. Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Revelation chapter thirteen today. So if you want to follow along in your Bibles, I'd encourage you to do so. Revelation thirteen, verses five through ten are the primary text We'll also be uh in James chapter two and three and uh a little bit of Jeremiah and Matthew. I just mentioned that now if you want to reference it later. I'll be hitting those relatively quickly. I'm not sure if you'll turn them there there that quickly, but if you want to try to bookmark at least James chapter two and three. uh you you might think about doing that. The message tonight is titled The Foes of God. And um we've got uh even though it are people moving beside me, trust me, uh we have a a good block of our typical congregation not here, so I might actually play to the uh camera a little more than I typically do because I'm going to share the link later for those who missed this so they can watch it later. So it's for you guys too who are watching this later. Those who uh were forced to play some hooky today Without further ado, let's start our sermon today. On January 6th of last year, I was in Washington, D. C. I went with a bus group, bunch of people who all went together, including uh my friend Angela. And there was hope among many of us that day for a literally last-minute effort to rescue. the legitimacy of American elections. But fired up enthusiasm was slowly replaced as the do day wore on by the icy reality. That was just as cold as that day's windy wintry air. The belief of something good could come from that day turned to suspicion that a lukewarm civil war that was beginning to brew could turn hot in a hurry. As uniformed officers of the people's government fired upon the people. Flashbangs, tear gas. And then real bullets. People died that day, all of them unarmed All of them standing up for peace and prosperity against theft and violence Now, is it true that each individual among the hundreds of thousands who were gathered there that day were all perfectly well behaved? Well, of course not. No more than it's true that the hundreds of thousands of people currently scattered across Frederick and Carroll counties are right now at this moment being perfectly well behaved. But honestly, I have to say as a group It was inspiring to see how friendly and and positive and lovely and and articulate and devoted and intelligent and informed all the people there were, at least all the people I talked to. And there are people from west, way up north, deep down from the south, people from other countries even were there. It is a day I will likely never forget. Today, our republic's brain waves went flat. As Patriots still today are trying to slap the paddles to the heart, trying to get this nation to once again bleed red, white, and blue. On that dramatic day, Angela and I we spent almost all of our time at or near the Washington Monument. That's where all of the speeches were taking place and staged. And when the speeches ended, we did eventually try to migrate over to the Capitol building. But we ended up turning around as Flashing lights and blaring sirens uh shot past us on what were otherwise nearly trafficless streets. So we didn't personally see what happened at the Capitol building. But we heard about what happened at the Capitol. We did our best to bring what we could in the moment from electronic media reports and we also talked to other people To get some first hand testimony of what exactly had happened, particularly on the bus, I had a chance to talk with a number of people who experienced physical assault. From the men and women who supposedly took an oath to protect and serve them. It was a wild day. On our way back home, I called a row to share with them what I had seen, what I had heard, figured they would like a first-hand account, as best as I could give it to, and this showed us two hosts. And one of these two hosts is uh well let's just say he was a ghast. He was shocked that citizens would uh to overthrow the government in uh some sort of a wild coup attempt. And I tried to explain to them from what I heard, the civilians, they were mostly invited into the Capitol. And their motives, yeah, I guess they were tad-mixed, but generally speaking, the goal wasn't to throw off the government, the goal was to preserve it. If anyone was conducting a coup that day, it was the bureaucratic machine itself. I also shared on the radio that uh unlike the fires that ripped through our cities following the infamous George Floyd to death the summer before. In this case, what happened on January 6th, it was truly a mostly peaceful protest. The violence in the streets during the summer of 2020 is far, far worse than what happened that day in January of 2021. But the radio host disagreed. He actually said that the people's neighborhoods and their homes and their places of business that had been torched And looted that these things were important. Things that happened during the DLM riots that was way than the damage the minimal damage, by the way, that was done to the United States Congressional Building. And I must say, when I heard him say these things, I was shocked Now I knew this radio personality was extremely far left. But still I did not expect the doctrinal position he was taking. And that was a turning point for me. That is when it firmly settled in. I already knew leftism was a religion. But until then I had failed to see that this religion has temples The White House. The Supreme Court building. The United States Capitol. These are shrines to the secular humanist faith. The draft of the beast And this real do this awake is actually confirmed Just I think we near people also strip, mystical, religious uh virtue signal face coverings that they wear. And she said to be sworn in as speaker and to present a ritual of renewal As we gathered under the stone of this temple of democracy, to those who engage of this, our temple of democracy, American democracy, justice will be done. Today of epiphany. On this day of Revelation, let us pray that this instigation to violence will provide an epiphany for our country to heal. In that spirit of healing I invoke the song of Saint Francis, the patron saint of my city of San Francisco, and his song is our anthem. With this providing the present-day context, here are words that were written approximately 1950 years ago. And was given a mouth uttering haughty and blasphemous words. And it was allowed to exercise authority for 42 months. It opened its mouth To utter blasphemies against God, blasphemies, that is, those who dwell in heaven. Also it was allowed to make war on the saints and to conquer them. And authority was given it over every tribe and people, and language and nation, and all who dwell on earth will worship it. Everyone whose name has not been written before the foundation of the world in the book of life of the Lamb who was slain. If anyone has an ear, let him hear. If anyone is to be taken captive to captivity, he goes. If anyone is to be slain with the sword, with the sword he must be slain. Here is a call for the endurance and faith of the saints. This is the very word of God It's breathed out by God. We refer to this in our vernacular as inspired of God. It is authoritative. It is without error. I encourage and invite everyone who hears my voice to receive it as such. There is a fearsomely powerful tyranny running the world today A vacilation marvels at the wonders of this beast. And these simps admire this devil. And they worship Satan's henchmen and henchwomen. When I was a kid in school, I read the stories about Augustus and the other emperors and how they uh demanded worship. And the masses he's strange. And the teachers they they talking that the people b Have to be killing Sit down and others like them, and I just couldn't get my head around it. I mean, Nikolai Carpe because, well, that group and the Left Behind theories. Or so I thought. I was young then, naive. Pampered as a youth by images of John Wayne and Mr. Smith Goes to Washington and Sheriff Andy Taylor from Mayberry. Well now I'm old. Or older anyway. And I have grown more austere. Hardened by images of Alec Baldwin. Broke back mountain. Pretty much anyone who's trying to keep up with the Kardashians. So now I know. Nikolai Carpathia, he is all too real. He simply goes by different names in real life. Names like Klaus, Kamala, or Gates, Zuckerberg And the human race is power power less. I wish we were powerful. Power Let's the beginning beast. No one stand up to it without God intervening It is why Christ's followers need not lean upon their own understanding and instead trust the Holy Spirit as He illuminates and renews your mind by His Word. This is the reality. We have the word And his church, what he has instituted, what he reveals as truth, and they have The Antichrist and his synagogues of Satan and all those wicked eyes that they catch try to force you to embrace. But Christians don't embrace it, do we? But don't go getting yourself all full of yourself thinking, uh, you know, boy, I would embrace those lives, so boy, man, I uh die smoke No. You're not. The men of the world pretty much are universally doing what Jesus Christ refused to do when he was tested in the wilderness. Remember he refused to bow to Satan? He refused to allow the twist in the Scripture to go unchecked He refused in a holy and righteous manner. We don't do that perfectly well, do we? It's true only for Jesus. Christ is unique. And it's only by the grace of God that you, if you are a Christian, find yourself in Christ. And so rescued from the beast, who is related to and under the control of Satan God's grace is the only reason. The fact that God has had mercy on your soul It's the only reason. So you have no pretext for getting all high and low and on your knees and humble Well do you think we know it's best? Stand up and defend our character in this way? Would they say, oh, you know, yeah, it's work in progress, to be sure, but On the whole, I'd have to say yeah, he's humble. He is, and he's not all high and mighty. He's not all full of himself. Would people say that about you? We can't be haughty. Being haughty is blasphemous. It is as it makes war. Hmm. There's not a good self-check question. With the people who know you best We both say, well, that's a work in progress, I gotta say, but you know yeah, you know, she is working to edify the body of Christ. She's she's not doing things to tear down those of the bride of Christ. Would people say that about you? Does your mouth utter words that sound like the words of the beast? If so, stop it. As a Christian, you are called you better than that. Unless you haven't been called at all. So in the sermon I think it was I don't know, maybe a year and a half ago thereabouts. That I am convinced in part because of other letters written by the Apostle John, who's the author of the Revelation I said back then that I'm convinced that if you are once saved, as the common vernacular puts it, then you are always saved. Not a huge fan of that phrase because it's misapplied and misunderstood in so many ways, but if lightly understood, then I I think that is biblical teaching. However, anybody who might remember when I said that in that sermon over a year ago, you might recall that I added a kicker. And that kicker is you have to ask yourself Am I once saved? If you have a hand controlling your tongue If you point that as a rule, the vast majority of the time your speech is filled with uplifting praise, uplifting joy, Case for you problem. You're not really any different than those described in Revelation chapter 13, verses 5 through 7. And that might make one wonder if you're any different than those who are addressed in verse 8, where we find the comment about the book of life. Is your name written in the book of life? You think so? Could you prove it to James? Remember James, don't you? He would have wrote these words in chapter 3 of his epistle. The term is a small member yet it boasts of great things. How great a force to set ablaze by such a small fire. And the tongue is a fire, a world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members, staining the whole body, setting on fire the entire course of life, and set on fire by hell. This is the same dial about one paragraph earlier had written these words What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? Faith by itself? If it does not have works, is dead But someone will say, you have faith, and I was a pop I faith. For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith, apart from works, is dead. We are not saved by our works, we are saved by faith But if we do not have works that accompany that faith as a demonstration and a proof of that faith, we've got to ask ourselves some hard questions. Personal Revelation, we're examining today. It is not a rah-rah shish kumba kind of a passage, is it? It's a warning passage. The allure of the beast and its power, it's so alluring, you know? It can become a j The beast engages in a lot of trash talk too. You ever notice? A lot of trash talk in our culture. Especially within the month among the men, I must say. A lot of trash talk. But is the trash talk that we engage in, because that might be a place, it's going to be fun sometimes to playfully do a little trash talk, I guess, but is the trash talk ever directed aimed at God Is that ever aimed at God's beloved? Is any of your trash talk aimed at God? Well, of course not, you say. I'll take you at your word on that. Let me ask you the follow-up question. Can you give the same reply to this next question? Is any of your trash talk aimed at God's beloved? If you're guilty of this, you need to perform an about face immediately. Immediately The beast has a mouth of haughtiness, a mouth of daggers, directed not only at home and heaven With the hore on the saints and conquers the saints, it says Is your mouth making war with the saints and making alien words? If this is true for you, then you need to realize you are little more than a puppet of the beast. You are doing his bidding. You have been conditioned by him, groomed by him to do the dirty work of his system. And you're being warned against this. Therefore, as it says in verse nine, if anyone has an ear, let him hear. There's also faithful believers, not just the unfaithful believers, but the faithful believers. You, my friend, my faithful friend, you are up against it. Navigating the world dominated by the system of the beast is immensely hard work. Like too many of our neighbors arrested after the events of January 6th, which I opened with, mentioned at the start. Too many of those neighbors, like them, you might be taken captive. By the beast. It could happen. Happened to them. Like the slain Astro Babbitt murdered on that day in January. And like all the people who refused appropriate medical care once they were infected by a man-made virus And like all those poor people who were misled, therefore poisoned by an experimental technology jabbed into their arm. Like all those people who died, you might have your life taken. By the beast. Could happen. Happened to them. So you're called to endure. And we must not cease to be vigilant. We must endure in the faith of the saints. And that is the primary application for the message today to endure. There are a few textual items I want to address before we uh we wrap up the message today. In verse six, there is a phrase about the beast blaspheming God's name and God's dwelling. You might recall how in the past I have uh emphasized that there's a power of God. And to this the beast goes, Oh yeah, sure. Powerschmaur. But discussing God's name, we are discussing his attributes, what it what it means to be God. And when we are Discoveria presence and personally I mean imagine someone visits some friend's man cave, drove down to the basement, and he says to his friend, This is your place? Sounds like broadworth and old cheese That's insulting to the space, but it's insulting to the Well man visits and tells the woman of the house. You uh decorated this yourself? Huh. Insulting the dwelling. And with God, there's something additional to remember. Wherever he is, in his blessed presence, in a sense, that's heaven. A piece of heaven. The unfavorable presence of God, that's hell. The That's heaven. So the beast disparages God and heaven and the saints All that's good and true about the gospel message is denigrated by the beast. And we do not want to sound and act like the beast, do we It's quite Greek there is saying the names were written in the book of life before the foundation of the world, or If it's saying, the Lamb was slain before the foundation of the world. Depending on your translation, you might have one or the other. I think it's better to say that the names were written before rather than the lamb was slain before the foundation of the world, but really Either way, it turns out the message is the same. The point here is that God He knows those who are his. He has an eternal plan. But he's executing in his perfect time. And compare this eternal time frame for God to the beast's very limited time frame of just 42 months. I mean 42 months isn't even a blink of an eye compared to eternity. Also, we've got a verse eight. I want to engage in debate with people about the book of life. And one of the arguments I have faced had to do with a very similar sounding phrase in Psalm 69 and verse 28 of that Psalm, where it says, Let them be blotted out of the book of the living. You'll note that one says the book of life, that's in Revelation, and one says the book of the living, that's Psalm 69. They're not exactly the same, are they? Not exactly the same in the English and even in the Greek, they're not exactly the same. Now the Old Testament was written, of course, in Hebrew. But the sacred text of the first century church was also what's called the Septuagint, that is the Greek translation of the Old Testament. And the Greek in the Psalm, it clearly says the living. There is a particular Greek word for that. And the Greek in the Revelation, it clearly says life. There is a different particular Greek word for that. The psalmist would have known the word for life but chose living. John would have known the word for living and chose life. That's done on purpose. They're not the same thing. And the context helps reinforce the point. So we have one. The Psalm is talking about living on earth. And one in Revelation is talking about life in heaven. Everyone breathing on the planet right now, and this includes us, we are in the Book of Living, because we are presently alive on planet Earth. And all of us, unless Jesus returns first, we will have our names blotted from this book. But the book of life does not include everyone who is breathing on the planet right now, and actually it includes a whole bunch of people who stopped breathing ages ago. And no one's name is blotted from that book. One book is addressing temporary physical living, and the other book is addressing eternal spiritual life. For verse 10, you're going to find a number of commentators who understand the text there to be preaching pacifism. For instance, there was a well if you take prisoners, well then you should expect yourself to be placed in prison. If you use a weapon to have a weapon used against you, that sort of thing. Those who teach this kind of interpretation, in my experience, they should be motivated to do so by forcing, in my estimation. Matthew 26, verse 52. Into the context of the book of Revelation. The verse in question in Matthew it says, Then Jesus said to him, Put your sword, for all who take the sword will perish by the sword. But we have to remember this is said in the context of Jesus being arrested. And why was he being arrested? Because that was how he was going to be able to fulfill his mission of going to the cross. That mission could not be stopped. And so Jesus says, in effect, drop your weapon. But elsewhere, let's recall, Jesus instructs his disciples. to purchase swords. And he even ensures they have enough swords. So we have to be very careful here. The pacifist angle of Revelation 13, it can work, but in my view, it really only works best if we're okay with jamming a square peg into a round hole. And I'm no fan of that. I think it's much better to understand what's being said here in Revelation by Jeremiah. And I think that's what John actually has in mind. In Jeremiah chapter 15, we read And when they are you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord, those who are for pestilence to pestilence, and those who are for the sword to the sword, Those who are for famine to famine, and those who are for captivity to captivity. And in chapter forty three of Jeremiah we read He shall come and strike the land of Egypt, giving over to the pestilence those who are doomed to the pestilence, to captivity those who are doomed to captivity And to the sword those who are doomed to the sword. You see the point of these passages plan is sovereign. He has a plan. And that plan will be executed. And if that's destruction, it's because that's what's best in God's perfect plan playing out in his perfect timing. In ways that are higher than our ways, and we can't always quite understand exactly what's going on. If you send someone through a refining a refining fire, we have to trust that it's because that's what is best. So as you are chased down by the beast, you might be captured. You might see some of your brothers and sisters in Christ die And when these horrible things happen, you might be tempted to ask, What's going on? Like on January sixth. What's going on? Is God in control? Even when the beast does such bad things, even to believers Well, the answer is yes. God is always in control. God is never out of control. So we just need to hang in there. Trust his plan as best as we know it, and trust the parts that we don't know that he knows it. And endure. And to endure means to be faithful and obedient, not behaving like the beast, but behaving like the bride of Christ. Let's pray. That he was such a good God. We're reminded of this truth today. That you have a people you've called your own, and that we are secure. spiritually, eternally secure by the blood of Christ. And we also know that evil and injustice in this world, the wily ways of the beast, that they are dealt with. Sometimes they're dealt with in ways that we can see very quickly, but we know that even if we have to wait until the second coming of our Lord and Savior. that these evils will be dealt with ultimately. We thank you for the truth of your word. We ask that you would help us to to live it out, to to heed the warnings. We pray, Lord, that we are those who have ears to hear. And that we hear. We ask your blessing upon the conversation that is to follow. And upon the lives of all who have heard this sermon today. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. All right, I'm going to shut down the stream. Again, I encourage you to visit us online if you're curious to learn more about us. You can connect to all the social media. You can connect to the Faith Debate Radio Show. You can connect to any and all other ministries that I and the church are involved with. You can learn more about our partner churches. We've got a network of three churches in the in the area that kind of do some things and work together so you can check all of that out. Anyway, till uh next week, and it should be on Saturday this coming week instead of uh our typical Saturday instead of uh today's Sunday. Until then, God bless