Oh that we try to do that. I guess I should make sure it's rolling. I usually do that. And it says we're live, so I'm assuming that's good. Welcome to the live stream portion of the weekly gathering of the Household of the Faith in Christ. We just finished up a nice session season of a session of prayer and scripture reading and praise and worship singing and It was all very good. If you uh suffered through last week's uh stream, I apologize the audio. Uh there were portions that were were not so great. I think I've learned Two things. One, if the uh remote microphone gets low the battery starts to go low, the audio quality seems to go down for some reason. So I'm making sure we're fully charged from now on. And uh the mic I think was a little bit too close through my mouth and so it was overmodulating. Hopefully we fixed that. So hopefully it's good moving forward. If not, well then We'll figure it out for next time. Today we're going to be Revelation chapter 13. So you probably want to get your Bibles ready for that. We'll be looking particularly at verses eleven through eighteen Uh for those who are interested, I'll be reading from the ESV today. The message today is titled The Beast of the Earth. And I'm just going to make note of it. You know, I've got time probably to turn there quickly enough, but I'm also going to uh take a real quick Very short pit stop in Exodus chapter fifteen, verse eleven. So if you want to look that up later and and and see how it all connects, you're more than encouraged. So if you didn't know before we began our now lengthy series in the Book of Revelation, well you know it now. There are a variety of thematic features that unify this book, including the use of symbolic numbers. Like Sequences of four signifying the entire world, and multiples of twelve signifying the people of God, and the number seven representing holy fullness. And in today's passage, there's a very famous number. It's a number of unholy emptiness. Number 666. The number of the infamous beast. It's interesting that we hear people so often talk about the beast, as if there's only one. But We see here in the last half of chapter 13 of the book of Revelation that there is more than one. So picking up with verse 11. Then I saw another beast rising out of the earth. They had two horns like a lamb, and it spoke like a dragon. It exercises all the authority of the first beast in its presence and makes the earth and its inhabitants worship the first beast, whose mortal wound was healed. It performs great signs, even making fire come down from heaven to earth in front of people. And by the signs that is allowed to work in the presence of the beast, it deceives those who dwell on the earth Telling them to make an image for the beast that was wounded by the sword and that yet lived. And it was allowed to give breath to the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast might even speak and might cause those who would not worship the image of the beast to be slain. Also it causes all, both small and great, both rich and poor, both free and slave, to be marked on the right hand or the forehead. So that no one can buy or sell unless he has the mark, that is the name of the beast or the number of its name. This calls for wisdom Let the one who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man, and his number is 666. This is the Word of God written by the Apostle John as he was carried along by the Holy Spirit. This is the inspiration process. This is why we can say that it is infallible, it is inerrant. This is the word of God. And so I invite and encourage all who are hearing my voice to receive it as such, those with ears to hear. Let them hear. So there's praise throughout the book of Revelation for the Lamb of God, and rightfully so. In verse 11 of chapter 13, we are shown a lamb-like beast. It's lamb-like, so followers of Jesus must beware. And we must warn others of this false look-alike. The beast is sort of a transvestite. Trying to appear as something that it is not. Earlier in this chapter, we we saw that the first beast is, if you remember, an imperfect image of Satan. Compare this with Christ, the exact image of God. Satan, in a sense, brings forth the beast, trying to mimic what God the Father does, the Father who begets God the Son. The beast has ten crowns to go, along with ten blasphemous names. Well, Christ has many, many crowns that he shares with his co-heirs, and he has countless Beautiful names. The beast has power and a throne and a throne dragon Just as Christ has power, a throne, authority from the Father. The beast has what it seems to be, it seems to be a fatal wound from which it has recovered, and thus it gains lots of followers. This is an attempt to copy Christ's resurrection following his crucifixion, which led him, of course, to having many followers. So there's worship from all around the world that's directed to the dragon and the beast, just as the Father and the Son they receive Christian worship from all around the world. And while the beast speaks heretical lies, Christ speaks praise-filled truth And the beast makes war against Christ, or attempts to anyway. Well Christ makes war against the beast, crushing it in the end. There's a song of praise that is sung to the imposter in Revelation 13, verse 4. Might remember that wasn't so long ago we talked about that. Who is like the beast and who can fight against it? And there are songs, true songs like this of praise throughout Revelation that actually echo the song that we find in Exodus 15, verse 11, which I mentioned at the start And that song says, Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods? Who was like you, majestic in holiness? Awesome and glorious deeds doing wonders. This juxtaposition between the beast, this lamb-like beast, and the true lamb of God, it's going to continue in the upcoming pages of this book, most notably in chapter 19. Make no mistake. The beast is a warrior. But Christ is the victorious divine warrior. This compare and contrast is kind of fascinating, isn't it? It's like Satan is singing a very old song, at least in our context, we think of it as being very old. But he changes the lyrics. He's singing, anything you can do, I can do. Worse Satan engages in a mock creation. He brings forth his horrifying image-bearer out of chaotic waters. This is kind of similar to what God is said to have done in the creation account that we read in Genesis chapter 1. You know, and so far as we do this compare and contrast, we have been focusing almost exclusively on the Father and the Son, but the Holy Spirit is counterfeited too by the false prophet, the beast of the earth that is described in the passage that we read just minutes ago. The second beast, it's trying to get people to worship the first beast, and it's using fake miracles if necessary. This is something like the Holy Spirit pointing people to worship Jesus and often moving people through real-deal miraculous signs. The beast also forces a mark on its subjects, trying to, in a sense, seal them. And as we know, those who are given to the Son by the Father, they are sealed in Christ with the Holy Spirit. That's the Trinity right there, right? The Son, the Father, the Spirit. Satan tries to impersonate this as well. There's the dragon, the beast, the false prophet. And the Godhead is so legitimately attractive. And this threefold evil is so legitimately, painfully horrendous. Try as he might, Satan is not creative He's merely a copycat. And his photocopies, they're always degenerate. They're always bestial. Like he is himself. And yet he is the prince of this world. Which explains why the world has so many problems. But his chicanery doesn't only affect the secular. It also affects the religious. In a few more chapters, we are going to meet the Babylon the harlot, a poor substitute for the bride of Christ. The true worshipers of the true God, we are faithful witnesses. And the faithful witnesses, they are badgered for it. And these attacks they come in the form of persecuting power. And it comes in the form of propagandizing persuasion. That's what's going on. That's what we see here in the last half of chapter 13. People are seduced. But now let's drill down. Verse or so at a time. Verse by verse, here are some notes for you. Verse eleven again says, Then I saw another beast rising out of the earth, had two horns like a lamb, and it spoke like a dragon. This another beast is the false prophet, a kind of satanic religious leader Speaking the lies of the devil. It is a fraudulent Elijah, a fraudulent John the Baptist, making way for the path of the first beast And it does so by perpetuating an environment where people are prone to self-deceit. Why do so many people mindlessly virtue signal the latest fat of the puppet masters today? They're even wearing face coverings they hate, wearing face coverings that they know in their hearts do not work, and yet they wear them religiously. Why? It's because of these unbiblical narratives that are pushed out by the second beast. And this beast, as it says in verse 12, it exercises all the authority of the first beast in its presence and makes the earth and its inhabitants worship the first beast whose mortal wound was healed. This beast, it it it comes up out of the earth. Now we know this from other parts of the chapter. It might mean that it's coming up out of the abyss, actually. So there could be a bit of a connection to a beast that we saw introduced to us in chapter 11. And the similar sounding beast of Daniel chapter seven, they come up out of the sea, but they Represent kingdoms that are arising from the earth. And so that is part of the symbolism here, too, in all likelihood, anyway There's a controlling entity over the earth. And it's able to use its great earthly platform to pull the wool over people's eyes To pick up on that bit of a pun there, the wool, given the two horns on what looks like a lamb. And this is similar to the male lamb that we see in Daniel chapter 7. If you want to look that up later, verses 2 through 4, is what you want to look at. But let's not go there. We don't spend time there. We always say in our text here today. So Revelation chapter 13, verse 13 says, It performs great signs, even making fire come down from heaven to earth in front of people. So it makes or it it causes great sign to manifest. The fact that the false prophet is is able to cause something to happen in this kind of a way, it is said of this propagandist eight different times in Revelation. So this is not a one-off occurrence There's the illusion the beast can even do some of the things that the Old Testament prophets could do, like uh rain fire from the sky. But always remember he looks impressive. Even looks reminiscent of the real thing. Like a lamb. Appearing to be non-threatening, appearing to be gentle. Those two little horns. They don't look so imposing on the head of a sweet little lamb, do they I mean that grandmotherly scarf lady, Deborah Burks, she would never lie to us, would she? That tiny little spectacle wearing man, Anthony Fauci, he wouldn't ever fib to us leading to the death of millions, would he? That cute former comedic actor from Eastern Europe, Vladimir Zelensky He would never be a tool used to mislead us. Would he How about the organization that defends what they call the right to choose and speak about planned parenthood? Parenthood! They wouldn't be playing word games to murder babies, now would they? Oh, maybe they would. With the help of the magical media members who cast their spells of warlock wit wizardry. Verse 14, and by the signs that is allowed to work in the presence of the beast, it deceives those who dwell on the earth, telling them to make an image for the beast. That was wounded by the sword and yet lived. The false prophet, it counterfeits the signs of Christ rather effectively, unfortunately. These signs are meant to be understood as apparent miracles. You've heard about the miracles of modern science, the miracles of new technology. John he uses the word sign in his gospel to describe the seven miracles that are performed by Jesus before his death and resurrection. And great sign, that's a phrase that we see also used in Exodus in chapter seven and also in 2 Timothy chapter 3. And this fire from the sky idea here, this is definitely meant to be an imitation of the two witnesses that we read about in Revelation chapter 11. So there's all these interconnections with the Old Testament and other parts of the New Testament and other parts of this particular book. Lots of intertwining interconnections here. Verse 15, it was allowed to give breath to the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast might even speak and might cause those who would not worship the image of the beast to be slain. I'm not sure if you're picking up on this here, but what we have going on in this chapter of Revelation is that it's an example of good cop, bad cop. I mean both of these cops are both trying to entrap. The second beast softens things up with some light pokes, some pretense of meekness. And then the first beast, well the first beast can then come in and bring down the boom. So the second beast is jab, jab, jab. And then it's right cross, uppercut from the first beast. The second beast, the false prophet. That's kind of like um it's like Fox News calling Arizona for Biden on the night of the 2020 election. That's the second beast. The first beast is just pure brute force. It's might overright First Beast says things like, you know, wants to remind everybody who owns a gun. You have a gun? I have F-16s. That's the first beast. Verse 16, also it causes all, both small and great, both rich and poor, both free and slave, to be marked on the right hand or the forehead. Many moons ago, such a mark might have been uh a symbol that was used by the Roman Empire for slaves and for the soldiers too, so they wouldn't go away well. Often it was applied in those situations with a branding iron. In the ancient mystical cults, they would use tattoos to identify their pagan worshippers. And way back then, you know, refusal to take the mark, that was bad news. And we see here in Revelation 13, refusal to take the mark would mean death. There's an irony in that for Christians though, because for a Christian who's threatened with death, I mean that's actually threatening them with a transfer pass to heaven. Not much of a threat, really, when you think about it. For those who have been given eternal life in Christ, well, yeah, to live is Christ, but to die is gain. Verse seventeen, so that no one can buy or sell unless he has the mark, that is the name of the beast or the number of its name. Now we might Normally, especially in today's political climate, we might think of wild-eyed leftists who make everyone's life miserable in this way. You can't have your job unless you take the mark You can't shop unless you're willing to show evidence of having taken the mark. So we think about these wild-eyed leftists with good reason. But you know there are wild-eyed uh hyper-conservatives too. They're so hyper-conservatives, so hyper to the right they swing around to the left actually. And they can also beguile and entrap with their unbiblical ideology. You know, not too long ago as an example. Uh Dina and I we we stumbled upon uh I think it's a couple that live somewhere nearby, but they they have an online presence and they use their online platform to advocate for all sorts of imprisoning ideas from the so-called right. And these ideas they can undercut a believer's confidence in Scripture, because one of the things they say is they claim that, by the way, with no evidence to support it, but they say that we have the wrong Bibles. Because the Old and New Testaments both were written in Hebrew. There's no Greek text. Again, there's no evidence to support this, but they they make the claim they can really shake somebody's confidence in the sufficiency of Scripture. And because they got these weird ideas that are rooted in a misunderstanding of what scripture is all about, they have illegalism, and it causes them to overreact against feminism. Now Reacting against what Rush Limbaugh used to call the feminazis, that's a good thing, right? This out-of-control feminist kind of nonsense it should be reacted against, but they overreact, and so they end up saying that women are always at fault It's always the women who are to blame. That's just the way it is. And they say that dads should always pick their daughters' husbands, and that people should be married at puberty. And they say that we have a God who is Unitarian, not Trinitarian. And as if that's not all bad enough, they also say that only Jews are saved. And so everyone needs to become a Jew by following each and every law in the Torah, whether it is a moral law, civil law, or ceremonial law. Again, they've gone so far to the right they swung around to the left, actually. But we have to read and apply the Bible accurately. So I'm not advocating for a third way, I'm advocating for the way. Because the lies of the beast, they can come at us from what appears to be the right or the left. Verse 18 This calls for wisdom. Let the one who has understanding calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number of a man, and his number is 666. In our sermon series, perhaps to the point of being ad nauseum, I have been pointing out some of the key textual variants in the manuscripts that we have for the revelation. And there's then an quite a few of those because we actually have more variants for the book of Revelation than arguably maybe for the whole rest of the Bible combined. There's a lot of Uh it was late to be added to the canon. We don't have as as much manuscript evidence and so there are some some variants and lots of debates about what to do with those variants, more so in Revelation than in other places. That's not the reason I bring it up. I mean I want you to be informed, but the real reason I bring you up is because there are a lot of naysayers out there who, honestly, they know most of the time next to nothing about God And yet, I'll be darned if they haven't memorized a handful of these supposed contradictions or supposed inaccuracies, and they use these to then bludgeon and blindside blindside believers with these Problems. And so if you enter into conversations about the Bible, about your faith with enough people, eventually you'll run into one of these naysayers. And I want you to at least not be caught completely unaware and completely flat-footed Now you might not remember some of the details we talk about in in this kind of a setting, but I want you to at least be able to say, you know what? Interesting you bring up that issue because I I've heard about that before. I'm familiar that this issue exists, and you know what I can't off the top of my head remember the exact answer to your question right now, but I know there is one And I know it is one because I got this goofy pastor who he points out this stuff to us all the time he preaches, particularly who's preaching through the book of Revelation. And so, you know what? I'm going to do my homework. And I'm going to get back to you tomorrow with the answer or the next time I see you or whatever. I want you to at least be able to do something like that, instead of being completely caught blindsided, like, what? There are mistakes in the Bible? No, there are no mistakes in the Bible But if you don't know where they're coming from, you could be misled in the moment to think that maybe perhaps there are. Anyway, why am I saying this? Because, believe it or not, as famous as the number is, there are textual variants regarding the number 666 There are some old documents out there that would suggest that this number is 616 Or six six five. Four six four six. I don't want us to lose any Sleep over this because we never claim that each and every copy of the first edition is perfect. That is never our claim. What we understand is that the original texts, what are called the original autographs, that the authors are carried along by the Holy Spirit and their pen, met paper, that these are perfect. And we can see pretty clearly when we gather together all of the thousands of ancient documents, the ancient copies. We can assemble them, we can compare them, we can contrast them, we can examine them with diligence, and through this extremely careful examination, we can in fact see our way clear to identify what the author did, in fact, first right. This textual criticism, the men who do this that I'm familiar with, they're among the most brilliant men on the planet. They're so smart. They're so good at this. So when we read our English Bibles, we are reading the Word of God. We have confidence in that. Now, is there an occasional sliver of doubt meaning there's like some reason for some disagreement among true believers about how to best translate a very, very, very small, very tiny percentage of words? Well yeah the That happens. There are examples of this, but they are so few and far between. They are far, far less frequent than any of the critics would want to have us believe, and they would claim to be true. And here's the thing, that I really want to make sure if you hear nothing else about this particular point, never are these differences, if you will, doctrinally significant. Never. They do not affect our theology, our idea of who Christ is, what it means to be a believer, the nature of the church. Nothing of importance is ever put at risk by any of these minor little differences. So that said, ask for the number of the man in verse 18. It is 666. Of this I am very darn sure. But what's it mean? Well some say there's a way to look at the the name of Emperor Nero so that his name you can count up the letters and stuff and you can make his name add up to 666 and you know what? I think that's interesting Might be something there. But you know, equally compelling cases can actually be made for Caligula and Trajan and Julian the apostate and Genseric the Vandal, I think that's how you say his name. And Benedict the Ninth and Pope Paul V and Muhammad and Napoleon And believe it or not, even John Calvin, Beza, and Martin Luther. So is one of these men the man referenced in verse 18? Well, that's possible. It's also possible it's none of them. And it's possible, I guess, that it's all of them, maybe. It's possible, anything's possible. It's possible it's a combination of some, but not all. Given the symbolism in the book of Revelation, particularly the way that John uses numbers throughout the book, and how these numbers they so often represent groups and categories, I think we would do well. To take a step back, to step away from the painting on the wall for a second, instead of pressing her noses up against it, to Go grab a telescope instead of a microscope. Although think about a microscope and telescope, they both bring things closer, don't they? So instead of a microscope, let's use a macroscope. And when we do this, we can uh we can maybe better understand or at least get an additional insight into how to understand the 666, you know, looking at it from a 30,000-foot view. So if we instead of trying to focus all of our energy on trying to identify who is the one man from history, what else could the three successive sixes mean? Well how about if we start with the number seven? And this shows up all over the place in the Revelation. I mean it's crazy how many times sevens are prominent in the Revelation. I mean, John is employing this number almost every page, it seems. And then here he is using the number six, right in the midst of all these sevens. That feels like a clue. Well, seven is God's number. It's the number of perfection, completeness, holiness. The number six, it falls short of this. The number six is not the number of God. It is the number of man who was created on the sixth day. Man is not perfect. Man misses the mark. It's like aiming for seven, hitting six. If seven is complete, then six is incomplete. Something more is needed who falls short. Of seven we just food. Man, kind we're under the attack from the enemy here, but we survived it. And in all the demons, they are an unholy six is the point. They're not a holy seven. And I've become increasingly, rather deeply, convinced actually over time, that this is, I think, the main point of the numerology here. It's about the six not being a seven. But why are the three? Three successive sixes. Well, some might remember that I've talked about in this sermon series about the importance of repetition in the Bible. Right? There were no punctuation marks in the ancient biblical languages, so if you wanted to bring some emphasis to something, you had to write it twice. Today we bring emphasis to something by adding an exclamation point, underlining a word, something like that. They didn't do this back then. In the ancient world, if you really wanted to emphasize something You wouldn't just repeat it once, you'd repeat it three times. Today, if we want to really emphasize another point You've seen these images. You know, like a a black square is someone's profile picture on social media You've seen that. Only they then have that black square replaced just a couple of years later with an image of a Ukrainian flag. Because the beast suggested to them that they should do so. You know what I'm talking about. Probably drives you crazy sometimes. It's like making an image of a BLM logo and placing it in your storefront to hold the beast at bay so the cultists won't destroy your place of business. It's like having a church fly a rainbow flag as an image of perversity right next to or even instead of a Christian flag. Have you seen this? I have. It's like carving an image of Saint Joseph, bearing it upside down in your yard, so your house is self-astered. You ever hear about that one? It's pretty big in Roman Catholic circles It's like taking the foot off of a no a not so lucky bunny and making it into a keychain. So called lucky rabbit's foot. That was a pretty big deal when I was a kid, I don't know if it's still a thing. We've all seen these pagan things, right? They're all around us. Well, if you've ever done any of them, or if you're still God forbid doing any of them, well then You need to cease and desist. You need to repent and faithfully follow Jesus and not follow the beast. Now I have to say, in the interest of time we're going to wrap up, but there's so much more I want to share with you that's related to chapter 13 of the Revelation. And so Plan is that next week we're going to work uh to tie together any remain any remaining loose ends related to this chapter, and that we're gonna hammer home the key points in this chapter, and then hopefully if I Do a decent enough job, you will be equipped with applications that will aid you uh in your walk with the Lord. So that's the plan for next week. Hope that sounds good. But for now, let's pray. Father, you are a perfect God. And yet even those who worship you sometimes can lose sight of your perfection and be drawn towards imperfection. We still wrestle against sin. We still allow the world to influence us. We still can fall prey to the schemes of the beast. We ask that through what we learn here in this portion of the last book of our canon, that we be better equipped to recognize the lies, the devices of the devil. That we would not fall prey to these lies, that we would devote our entirety of our lives, our full devotion of worship to the true Lamb. We thank you that you have called us to yourself, that you have given us eyes to see, ears to hear. You have given us a discerning spirit, the indwelling spirit of Christ, dwelling within the hearts of your people. We ask that you would bless us during our upcoming conversation about this passage, about the message preached today. And Lord, we look forward to the day that the beast is utterly, permanently destroyed. Come, Lord Jesus, come. It's in the name of the Son of God, our Lord, our Savior, our King that we pray. Amen. All right. And I'm not sure if I'm gonna remember to mention it next week, but we are gonna do this next week, the stream, God willing, freaks don't rise and all that. And then the week after that we will be taking a one-week respite from doing the stream. So next week, yes. The following week no. The next week after that, yes. So just FY, you can plan your schedule accordingly. Till next to time, dope blast.