Looks like we are rolling. Welcome to the live stream portion of the weekly gathering of the Household of Faith in Christ. I'm going to uh start here instead of where I normally start. That's kind of a throwback when we first started. I used to start here every week, as it turns out. And the reason I'm doing this is the sermon's going to start in a minute. We'll be in Revelation chapter 14 if you want to get your Bibles ready. But um Before we go there, I wanted to open with something that's really addressed to the stream because I pretty much feel like I know the hearts and attitudes of those that are part of Household of Faith in Christ, but I know we have a number of people that capture us on the stream either live or or later via podcast. Two years ago, uh I dedicated an entire message the weekend before the election to the election, kind of giving us a Christian voter guide, if you will. Um, didn't do that last year because one, it wasn't as big of an election, but also we had some weird things going on this time last year as a church So uh interrupted some of those kinds of things. I'm not going to do a full message on it this year, but I do feel it's important to say some things that need to be heard that not enough people are willing to say. Everything I said two years ago, you can look up that message if you want. It is still true, only more so. And so here's the deal. I'm not going to get in all the minutiae stuff. If you'd like to challenge me on any of this or ask for my thinking behind any of this, reach out to me at our website. All my contact information is there, household of faith in Christ dot com. It's household of faith in Christ dot com. I'm more than happy to engage with you and share with you where I'm coming from and where I am firmly persuaded the Bible comes down on these things. So here's the deal. On Tuesday, a lot of people will be making a vote. Some people already voted. I'll talk about that in a second. On Tuesday you'll have to make a decision if you haven't voted already, if you're going to go vote. And I'm not saying that you must vote for anybody who's a Republican with an R behind their name. There's no requirement you vote Republican There's no necessity that you vote for a Republican, that you vote at all, really. There's no necessity, biblically speaking, that you do that. So vote for whoever you want as far as that goes. However A Christian cannot vote for anyone with a D next to the name. He cannot do it. It is a sin to vote Democrat at this stage. This wasn't always true. Historically that has not always been true. In my view. But it is a sin now. It is something other what's going on with the Democrat Party. And this is going to seem like rhetorical flourish when I say this, but we really need to think in terms of stopping calling them the Democrat Party and thinking of them in terms of the Democrat Party. Because they have given themselves over completely to the spirit of the age. They are utterly lost from a biblical world world perspective, worldview perspective. They do not have the truth, and they are horrible rejection of it, fighting against it, militantly opposed to it. Their rebellion is palpable. They want to kill babies. They want to mutilate children. They want to steal one person so that they can give it to somebody else who didn't earn it. And the list goes on and on and on. But they want to murder babies should be enough. And if you cast your vote for somebody who's running on the Democratic ticket You are in league with baby murderers, and that is not something that Christians can do. And most churches will not say this out loud for whatever reason. They have the reasons. I don't share those reasons, Frank, apparently. You cannot. What should happen is that people who vote Democrats should face church discipline. And that doesn't mean kicking them out. That means bringing them to their senses, working to try to bring them to their senses. And if they won't come to their senses. After following the pattern exemplified force in Matthew 18. Well then they need to be treated as an unbeliever because you're voting as an unbeliever It's as simple as that. I don't want to belabor it too much more. I do want to say this, somebody might be hearing this. They already voted. They voted early. They didn't drop box or they did mail in or whatever. And they already voted for a Democrat. What do you do? The grace of God abounds. There is forgiveness in Jesus Christ. But you must repent. You must make a commitment that you're not going to do that anymore and you're going to do better in the future. You can't take back your vote. You already voted if that's the case. But if you walk in on into that booth on Tuesday and knowingly vote for baby murderers, I don't know what to tell you other than you are not square with the God of the Bible And somebody needs to say it. And if you're that person who needs to hear it, now you've heard it. You are without excuse. So anyway, I'm going to transition into the sermon. Again, it's on Revelation chapter 14, verses 1 through 5. Let me grab my water because I'm a little bit raspy today. I might have to take a few swigs. All right. So the next sermon that we do on our series in the book of Revelation is going to be our fiftieth. Believe it or not. So that makes this message number 49. When we started the series back in May of 2021. We uh, by the way, did play hookie from the series a little bit here and there during the last year and a half, so the nearly years worth of sermons they played out over about 18 months. Um We said some things back then that I'm going to refresh your memory on today real briefly. And I gotta say, as long as it's been to get through this book I think it's been fruitful. I've heard from some people, well, via online, even people who are worshiping here with us in person, that it's been a rewarding series for many of us in many ways because we've been taking our time Going through the complexities and the and the challenges and the difficulties that face the church with this book and trying to do it very carefully. I think that that's again has been fruitful and rewarding. But I want to remind you, the purpose of the revelation. is to unveil. The purpose is not to confuse, at least not for those with ears to hear. This apocalypse, it communicates through visions, signifying through the Lord's messengers what God makes known. To the word apocalypse, it means uncovered. It means unveiled, revealed. That's why we call it the apocalypse the revelation. And this prophecy, it is both prediction and proclamation. It is both foretelling and forthelling. It's a book about the future, and about the past, and about the present. And it offers hope. For those who suffer, and guidance for how we are to live our lives with wisdom. It's a book that's about who God is, what he does. And how we are to respond. Jesus is the faithful witness. And so should we be. As a believer of the gospel, I think some of us need to hear this, as a believer of the gospel, you are qualified as a witness of Christ. Because of what he has done, not because of anything you've done for him. You're qualified. So our work for God it it must needs be motivated by love for God out of gratitude for what he has done for us must be motivated by love or else it will not last There's so many converts, I'm sure you've seen them. They enter a season in the very first steps of their Christian life and people remark about them, wow. They're on fire for the Lord. She's really on fire for the Lord. Man, you are still on fire for the Lord. Have you ever heard that scene, a situation like that? They have loads of enthusiasm, even without the benefit of a whole lot of knowledge at that point. And then too often, they enter a season after they've gained much knowledge, ironically. In which they appear to lack enthusiasm. Do you have knowledge? But no enthusiasm? Enthusiasm but no knowledge? How about both? Both little knowledge and little enthusiasm. Well we do well to strive for both. Our day-by-day question should be: how can what I do right now? Help me to become a better follower of Jesus today. That should be our question. How can I be a better follower of Jesus? Today. He's the Alpha and the Omega. The Lord God, the Almighty, Son of Man, the first and the last, the Living One. Son of God, the witness, creator, lion of the lamb of the tribe of Judah. The root of David, Lamb and Shepherd, the Christ Faithful and true, the Word of God, King of Kings, Lord of Lords, the Morning Star These are all the names and titles of Jesus that are found in the pages of the Revelation. Do you know him? Do you love him? Do you talk to him? You talk about him singing his praises. If we fail to share the gospel of truth when circumstances, let's be honest, when circumstances are comparatively easy. How can we expect to do so when circumstances are comparatively hard? These are the kinds of ideas that are good for us to have in mind when we read the opening portion of Revelation 14. Then I looked, and there before me was the lamb standing on Mount Zion And with him one hundred and forty-four thousand who had his name and his father's name written on their foreheads. And I heard a sound from heaven like the roar of rushing waters, and like a loud peal of thunder. The sound I heard was like that of harpists playing their harps, and they sang a new song. before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders. No one could learn the song except the one hundred forty-four thousand who had been redeemed from the earth. These are those who did not defile themselves of women, for they kept themselves pure. They follow the Lamb wherever he goes. They were purchased from among men and offered his first fruits to God and the Lamb. No lie was found in their mouths, they are blameless. This is the word of God written by John as he's carried along by the Spirit, so it is infallible. It is inerrant. It is the soul. authoritative guide, fully authoritative guide that we have available to us as God's people. So I invite and encourage everyone to receive it as such and for those with the ears to hear, to actually hear. What we just read. is a paragraph that is loaded with military imagery. As the conquering hero, the lamb stands in the position of power. Mount Zion represents the political and religious center of ancient Judaism. It's a location of the city of Jerusalem. It's the place where the temple stood, where the Ark of the Covenant symbolized the very footstool of God. This is the seventh and final time that mention of Zion appears in the New Testament. So let's not move on too quickly. This is our last chance in the New Testament canon to think about these things. Let's submerge ourselves in the import of this visual. Mount Zion. It's where we find our king's saving presence. It's where our strong tower dwells among his people. Mount Zion is in the midst of the navel of the earth, the nadir of the land, as we're told in Judges chapter 9 and Ezekiel 38. This is in contrast with the desert locale of Mount Sinai, where the law was given. Mount Zion represents where we are gathered right now. If you thought about that, it represents every place where God's sacraments are administered. Where God's word is proclaimed, where God's worship is practiced, where we learn to join in the singing of the new song. As God's standing army. Christ's bride, his church militant, it gathers round the Lord here, having been sealed by him with eternal security. This is the meaning of bearing his name on our foreheads. The Father's name is the seal. And most translations, like the NIV. They get it right. They tell us that we are sealed also by the Son's name, and we're sealed by God's Spirit. This is the exact opposite of the mark of the beast we talked about at the end of chapter 13. That mark of 666 is the mark of belonging to the unholy trinity of Satan. The sealed holy saints of the true Trinitarian God have assurance of victory. And the song we sing celebrates this astounding military conquest and what a battle it is. And we are allowed the privilege. of participating in the spiritual battle. It may be suffered. We're at war and we have the privilege of participating in the war. I mean are you noticing all the illusions to combat in today's passage? The regiment of one hundred forty-four thousand that calls to mind the practice of Taking a census in the Old Testament as the kings measured their military strength before then aligning their soldiers and companies of men to go out for battle. And these men, when they went out to war, they abstained from sexual relations with their wives while the war raged. You might recall it with the famous story in the Old Testament. You recall the attitude of Uriah the Hittite Remember, he resisted spending the night with his wife Bathsheba because there was a war taking place. All his fellow soldiers soldiers were out there fighting, and they weren't with their wives. He wasn't gonna go back on that practice. And King David knew this. He knew what the practice was. Even he himself, even though he tried persuading Uriah to go be with Bathsheba. He knew, ironically, this is the same King David who imposed sexual ceremonial purity on his men when he was on the run, when they were being pursued by Saul. All these things I've just mentioned here, this absence from marital relations. It was also demanded of the uh Israelites when they waited on God. When he gave them the covenant through Moses. It was a ceremonial symbol of the purity that was needed when experiencing the holy awesomeness of God. of God. You see, all of this here is the meaning undergirding verse 4. The verse that says, These are those who did not defile themselves with women, for they kept themselves pure. They follow the Lamb, their commander, wherever he goes. In the levels of in the layers to the revelation, the symbolism, boy, it's so abundant. We are given a cornucopia of spiritual nourishment upon which to feast our imaginations. Just as is the expanse of the starry skies before all the light pollution came into being anyway. Plumbing the depth of God's written word, it is, in a word, spectacular. And it should bring us to a place of humble, exuberant worship. May the Lord forgive us if this isn't always and consistently the case in our experience. When we uh don't always sing his praises, do we? I mean some of us perhaps almost never sing his praises. Not figuratively, nor literally. Why not? We have been purchased from among all the sinners of the world and offered as first fruits of God. To God. It's written in 1 Corinthians that Christ is the first fruits. And as co-heirs, we share in what is his. And so we are offered as first fruits too. What a privilege. And part of what it means to be the first fruits is to be obedient. We're to be truth-tellers. We are to live upright lives and we are to sing. We're told to sing. The Apostle Paul instructed believers to sing and make music in your heart to the Lord. That's Ephesians chapter 5. We're admonished in the Psalms to sing to the Lord a new song, Psalm ninety-six for instance. We are commanded in Colossians that when we gather together we are to sing. Psalms, hymns, songs from the Spirit, spiritual songs. Singing to God with gratitude in our hearts. That's Colossians chapter 3. And so singing is a matter of obedience. It's also a matter of blessing. Because all of God's commands, they are for our blessing. And we sing with gratitude because God has made the body of Christ to be without fault, we're told here. He's made us blameless, as it says in verse 5 of the NIV. See singing is a pretty big deal in the Bible. There's an entire book of the Old Testament that contains 150 songs. And it's not even the only song book in the Bible. We also have Song of Songs and Lamentations, and you know, some of the songs in the Bible are really long, like Psalm 119. Some of the songs are really short, like the two songs that are seven words long that we find in 2 Chronicles in chapters 5 and 20. The very first song ever sung comes from Adam, the very first man, in Genesis chapter 2, when he praises God for creating Eve. And Moses he s sings in Exodus 15, and then immediately almost his sister Miriam responds with a song of her own. So from the start of the human race, from the beginning of Yahweh calling a people to himself, from the establishment of the church, there has been Singing of praise and thanksgiving to the Lord. And we know from the book of Revelation that there is singing in heaven. We will sing of God's greatness for all eternity. Think of it. For all eternity we will sing. Do we sing now? Do we sing to him now? We should. We must. He is worthy of our singing. Even if, especially if perhaps our efforts at singing are a little more than noise, a joyful noise. This doesn't mean we shouldn't try to sing well. We absolutely should try to be excellent. But until we become excellent, we sing the best that we can, and over time we can improve. But regardless, I want to encourage you that praises directed to God, they are always beautiful. This is why the singing is described in verse 2 of Revelation 14 as a sound like that of harpists harping their harps. The NIV says harpists playing their harps, but other translations they're better here. They say harpists harping their harps, as if to emphasize and amplify the beauty, the harp. It is said to have been the most beautiful instrument of the ancient world. I saw it written somewhere once that the harp was a national symbol for Judah, way back when. This makes sense, 'cause King David, of course, is remembered as a rather noted harpist. When we sing to God, about God, filled with the Spirit of God Surrounded by the people of God. We join our voices to the panoply of the redeemed decked out in the full armor of God. Let's self-consciously work at doing this better. Our God deserves this from us. And he desires to hear the song he taught us. It's a song only the redeemed can learn. It's a song of the gospel, the song of our deliverance from sin and death. It's a song taught to us by our eternal emancipation. So it's not merely a song from the lips, it is also a song from the heart. A new song. For new hearts. Hearts of flesh that have replaced our old hearts of stone I probably should take a moment, back up just a bit, and address a translational issue. There's been quite a few of those in Revelation. There are more in Revelation than other books of the Bible, in case you're wondering. Many of the Bibles in this room, perhaps even, likely include the word virgins in Revelation 14, verse 4. Now, as I read from the nineteen eighty-four edition of the New International Version today, then you did not hear the word virgins come out of my mouth, did you? It's interesting. Later editions of the NIV actually do opt for versions in this verse. So the later versions are better on this particular verse than the 1984 edition, which is a little weird. Because the word for virginity or celibacy, that's actually the more exact translation of the Greek word in the original. But staying away from physical copulation is not precisely the point. The point has more to do with avoiding spiritual copulation. The Bride of Christ is to remain fully devoted to her bridegroom and not behave like those adulterers who follow after the harlot of Babylon, the false prophet. The faithful heed the words of Paul in his second letter to the church at Corinth. For I am jealous for you with godly jealousy, because I promised you in marriage to one husband. To present you as a pure virgin to Christ. But I'm afraid that just as the serpent deceived Eve by his treachery, your minds may be led astray from a Sincere and pure devotion to Christ. That is 2 Corinthians chapter 11, by the way. Let's not be led astray from our sincere pure devotion to Jesus. We should live lives that are worthy of who we are. And who is that? We're the ones washed clean, made white in Christ's blood. We're the true believers rescued from the clutches of the pagan world system. We're the ones awaiting our full reward for following the God of the Bible exclusively. We're free. As the contemporary Christian song announces, we're free to run, free to dance, free to live for God. Through our Savior, the blind see. Through the Spirit, the mute will sing. Through the Lamb The dead will rise. Through him all hearts praise. Because through the Prince of Peace, darkness flees. And because of this our hearts scream out, we are free. Yes, we are free. Through Messiah, the kingdom comes. Through Christ, the battle's won. Through Jesus we need not be afraid. Through the Son the price is paid. Through the Good Shepherd, there's victory. And due to all of this, because of our wonderful counselor, our hearts say, We're free Who the sun sets free is free indeed. And this is the song we gladly and joyously sing. And as you notice from the passage that our voices are joined to the vast immenseness of both heaven and earth. The song is sung before the throne and before the four living creatures and before the elders and it's loud and magnificent When we sing, we never sing alone You ever thought about that? And the sound of this choir that we join our voices to, it's like the roar of rushing waters, like a loud peal of thunder. Have you ever been to Niagara Falls? Have you ever swam at the foot of a even much smaller waterfall? You ever had a lightning bolt hit right next to where you were standing? I have, actually. I've experienced all three. And I can tell you, it's loud. Like, really loud. Very, very loud and it'll be even louder and thus more glorifying to God when you add your voice to the singing. Why rob your king of this glory? Thinking about the loudness of the thunderclap, I'm reminded of Martin Luther. He was famously set on the path to pursuing godly things by a lightning storm. Maybe you've heard the story. Luther's father, he wanted to become a lawyer. And so young Martin, he pursued that path. But the course of his life changed when a lightning bolt struck near him while he was atop a horse on his way back to university. Terrified himself, he cried out, Help, Saint Anna, I will become a monk. Now this was not his Christian conversion, but it did cause him to leave law school and to enter the monastery. And while he was there, he became expert in the scriptures, and one thing led to another, and the rest is quite literally history. All triggered by a lightning strike and the accompanying loud peal of thunder. God used this one man to change the course of history by proclaiming the gospel, the true biblical gospel. And now there's an entire theological tradition that's named after him. It's called Lutheranism. And he has become one of the most quoted theologians of all time. He's largely credited with sparking the Reformation, which returned the Christian church to scriptural fidelity. Now he wasn't perfect, not by a long stretch. But God used him. God chooses to use means to accomplish his aims. And he used Luther in mighty ways. And he'll use you in mighty ways too. And as God uses you in mighty ways, you know, maybe history will record how God's using you. Could happen. Or maybe historians will choose to just ignore your contributions. That could happen too. But either way, God remembers. He remembers forever. And he rewards you for your faithfulness. As your voice joins the chorus of praise. And by the way, one of the ways God worked through Martin Luther has a very direct connection to our theme today. This controversial former monk, he was a prolific hymnist. Martin Luther penned dozens of hymns. Many of them are still sung today. Most notably among them would include From Heaven Above to Earth I Come. And, of course, A Mighty Fortress is our God. I'm going to end the sermon today with the four stanzas from this composition because, well, one, it's great. And two, it really fits nicely with the themes in the portion of Revelation we have been studying of late. And there's a word in this song that isn't in very common usage anymore, so not to throw you off, the word is Sabaoth. Some of the people think that means Sabbath. That's not what it means. It's an old way of saying multitude, hosts, armies. Okay, so when we get to that word, you'll know what it means. A mighty fortress is our God, a bulwark, never failing. Our helper he amid the flood of mortal ills prevailing. For still our ancient foe doth seek to work us woe. His craft and power are great. And armed with cruel hate on earth is not his equal. Did we in our own strength confide, our striving would be losing. We're not the right man on our side, the man of God's own choosing. Dost ask who that may be? Christ Jesus. It is He. Lord Savaith, his name. From age to age the same. And he must win the battle. And though this world with devils filled should threaten to undo us, we will not fear. For God hath willed his truth to triumph through us. The Prince of Darkness, Grim, we tremble not for him His rage we can endure, for lo, his doom is sure. One little word shall fell him. And that word, above all earthly powers, no thanks to them, abideth. The spirit and the gifts are ours through him who with us sideth. Let goods and kindred go. This mortal life also, the body they may kill. God's truth abideth still. His kingdom is forever. Father, we thank you that your kingdom is forever and that your truth abideth still. You are a great and glorious God. deserving of all of our praises and more so. We ask that you would forgive us for not singing your praises more regularly, for not sharing the truth of who you are, what you have done with others who need to hear this truth. Help us to be obedient to our commander, to be a faithful regiment of soldiers and the church militant You are a glorious God. Christ is our glorious King, and you have made us to be a glorious people by the power of your Spirit. May we be humble enough to rest upon your strengths Not trusting in our own strength and therefore getting battered about by the lies and devices of the world. But help us to stand in your strength, knowing that your strength never fails. We ask your blessing upon our upcoming conversation, and may you guide and bless us throughout the coming week, as we are soldiers fighting the good fight in the spiritual war. Yes, in Christ's name we pray. Amen. I am going to shut down the stream. My voice is just about to give out here, so I timed out okay. Again, if you're curious to learn more about us, we need prayer, you have answers, you need answers to theological questions, anything like that, you can always find us online, household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week. God bless.