Well, welcome to the live stream portion of the weekly gathering of the Household of Faith in Christ. Thank you for joining us on the stream or the podcast or whatever it is you're doing to consume this content over the internet. If you're not familiar with who we are or what we're all about, I would welcome you to find our website at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's Household of FaithInChrist. com. We've been working our way through the book of Revelation here in recent months, and so now we find ourselves in Revelation chapter 14. And so you might want to get your Bibles ready because we turn there actually pretty quickly. Revelation 14 verses 6 through 8, a message they have titled uh Bad News, Good News. And uh we certainly have a lot of bad news in the world swirling around us. You have to be paying absolutely no attention whatsoever to the news to not see some bad news. But there is always the good news. And so hopefully you'll be reminded of that uh today. If you're new to this, by the way, I should introduce myself. I'm Troy Skinner, the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. And if you're interested in ever welcome uh joining us, we welcome you. If you need prayer requests attended to, we're glad to help there. If you have a theological question or you're looking for a good church that's not in the Frederick area, I'm glad to try to help people find a good church home. All right, so the second portion of Revelation chapter 14, verses six through eight reads Then I saw another angel flying in mid-air, and he had the eternal gospel to proclaim to those who live on the earth, to every nation, tribe, language, and people. He said in a loud voice, Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come. Worship him who made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs of water. A second angel followed and said, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great, which made all the nations drink the maddening wine of her adulteries. This is the Word of God written by the Apostle John as he was carried along by the Holy Spirit. God does not make mistakes, and so this word is inerrant, infallible. and the entirety of the canon together, the total of our scriptures, are a fully sufficient rule and guide for our faith in life practice. I encourage you to always receive it as such. Those with ears to hear, let them hear. Sometimes as I prepare sermon messages for the book of Revelation, I get concerned that some people might get a little confused. Caught up in the blur of the spin cycle as we work to wash away the confusion that plagues so many. I'm going to pause for a second. Because it can be confusing as we seek to comprehend the various images that are within this epistle. It's like one of my favorite scenes from the many adventures of Winnie the Pooh. We traveled for a long time thinking we were on the path to catching a woozle. Only to be informed by Christopher Robin that we are walking in circles. Keep walking around the same path repeatedly. And Pooh Bear in the story feels as though he is a bear with no brain at all. But if our stuffed friend were tracking a woozel through the pages of the Revelation, well then he'd have been on exactly the right path, and so certainly not a silly old bear. The final book of the Bible, it uses what is called parallel recapitulation. There's a fancy term for you, parallel recapitulation. See lots of the same things over and over again, but from different angles, different perspectives. Like if your memory is strong, you might remember. Way back in chapter 4 and 5, we were shown a view of heaven And we're going to see other heavenly visions later, but very early in the book, we were brought to heaven. And this is right before we were shown all sorts of events on earth that really weren't all that great, right? Now part of this could be so that as we continue to read, we won't be so overly frightened, having seen heaven, by the devastating future events that are described. And part of what's going on could also be, well, because this is John's style. It's the flow, is the outline for the book that we call the Revelation. The Apostle John, he saw Jesus in the throne room in chapter 5. And then here in this chapter in chapter 14, remember last week's message, he sees Jesus standing where the temple altar had stood. As Jesus leads his church militant in spiritual warfare, leading them to victory. And so the church militant will join the church triumphant. Did you note that in chapter 7, the church militant stands 144,000 strong? In chapter 14, that number is still 144,000. All Christ's followers, all who the Father has given to the Son, are still standing with Christ. He loses not a single one. All the elect make it to the end as part of the church triumphant. But right after this beautiful reminder, at the start of chapter 14, comes a slew. Of pronouncements, judgment pronouncements. As with the previous judgment word pictures that we have studied thus far in the first 13 chapters, the judgments we're beginning to examine today They're also not the final judgment and all judgments. The passage here is a warning. That God is judging. Even now. All of us stand in God's judgment and face his wrath, apart from the gospel. So the events represented in the middle section of chapter 14, these are not once and for all events, not here, not in this part of the book anyway. But the three angels in this section, they represent what is continually, repeatedly going on until our Lord returns. So with this foundation re-established, let's examine the details of the three verses here, starting with verse 6. Then I saw another angel flying in mid-air, and he had the eternal gospel to proclaim to those who live on the earth, to every nation, tribe, language, and people. Now, whenever we read John saying, and I saw something, or I looked and saw something, this is our cue to recognize that there's a new vision. Even maybe an entirely new section in the narrative that's being presented to us. It's being introduced. It's a key for helping to understand the breaks in the letter. So there's a shifting of the gears here in today's passage, a shifting from what came just before. And with this gear shift, we're told that there is yet another angel appearing. Now there are some who do not acknowledge, they don't recognize this scene shift, and so they get off track. And they they think that this is, well, another angel. And so what came right before the lamb in verse one, that must have been also just a mere angel. No, the Lamb is the Son of God, not a mere angel. When verse six speaks of another angel, It is referencing back to all the other angels we've already been exposed to throughout the other visions, especially the seven trumpet angels, I would suggest. The angel in verse 6, it's not one of those angels, and yet the angels in this chapter, they are linked to those other angels in a certain respect, particularly the first four trumpet angels. But once more I want us to remember the parallel recapitulation, the phrase I introduced to you a few minutes ago. This is employed by John, and so the images here are they are they are distinct. But they do overlap. Now this messenger angel in verse 6, it's flying in mid-air, that's what it says in the NIV. Now this phrase should tickle your memory banks just a little bit. We saw it before in chapter 8, where the messenger in mid-air was described as a great bird, which most of our English translations translate as an eagle. And we're going to see this mid-air phrase one more time in chapter 19. There we're talking about all the birds flying in mid-air. And in all three instances. In chapter 8, in chapter 19, and here in chapter 14, these mid-air messengers bring announcements of judgment being executed by God. And I don't think it's an accident that we have three of these instances. Three, triune God, three is a number of divinity, it's a divine kind of a number. So these are three instances of judgment being executed by God, being announced. Now the word mid-air, some of your English translations might say mid-heaven. And heaven is actually a more exact translation. Some experts, uh quote unquote experts they think that John is pause a second here. It's alright, trying to make sure everybody can pay attention, that's all. So there are some uh quote unquote experts. They think that John here is using the mid-heaven symbol as a nod to the constellation we call Pegasus. This is because ancient Roman lore anticipated what they called a great year, not the great reset, but the great year. It would arrive in the future, they thought And at that time, all the constellations in the night sky, they would end up being returned to exactly where they were at the very beginning, the very start of the universe. Now as you can imagine I think that that sort of an application is quite a stretch. I don't think John has that in mind, but it does at least capture somewhat the idea of the new creation, right? Where God is Putting everything back to the way it was supposed to be at the beginning. So at least they have that going for it. But it's far more likely that John he's making the point that no one has excuse for missing the announcement Because it comes directly in the line of sight of the sun. When it's at its zenith at noontime, when the heat is at its most penetrating. Now if John is alluding to something that is beyond what he personally sees in the vision, what he saw in the vision, Well, it's probably not Pegasus. But it could be something like maybe the conversion of the Apostle Paul. You might remember that story Right. Paul had Christ appear to him at midday on the road to Damascus. So if he's alluding to anything, maybe he's alluding to something like that. Now, this messenger in verse 6 brings the gospel. And it's not a Plan B gospel, I want you to note. It's not an afterthought gospel. This is an eternal gospel, it says. God's plan has been in place since before the foundation of the world. It's eternal. It's before the creation of that burning ball, the center of our solar system. Before the existence of the angels who pronounce God's glorious good news. And this eternal good news, it is for the whole world. Notice the fourfold description, every nation, tribe, language, and people Whenever we see the fourfold expressions like this, we should consider that John is providing a clue that all of the Homo sapiens on the planet, all groups of them, are described So now what is the nature of this good news? Well, verse 7. He said in a loud voice, Fear God and give him glory because the hour of his Judgment has come. Worship him who made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs of water. Judgment is coming. That's the good news. No. Doesn't sound so good. Maybe verse eight will bring better news. A second angel followed and said, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great, which made all the nations drink the maddening wine of her adulteries. Well, that's not bad at all. Not even a little bit. Or is it You know, there are theologians, they refer to this portion of the Bible, this portion that we're studying today as a heavenly benediction. Benediction means good word. This is a good word from God, they say. How's that? Do you recall what was said in chapter six by the martyrs? They wanted to know when they'd be avenged. Remember that scene? Here comes the answer. Vengeance is mine, says the Lord. What we read here in chapter 14 is punishment for crime. Now sadly in our culture, punishing criminals, it's so very disagreeable. We shouldn't even arrest the wicked evildoers. And if we should somehow accidentally arrest them, well we should at least let them go right away. And if someone else should happen to arrest and imprison them or want to ship them back to where they came from, where some would argue they belong, well then there's no option but for us to What do you need, Booba? Anyway, no option for us to but to offer them sanctuary and shield them from receiving justice. This is kind of the tenor of the day, the times that we live in, and it's maddening to reasonable, rational people And why? Well, because it's madness. That's why. So praise God, our sovereign king, he's not mad. He is the perfection of sanity. And so he judges unrepentant cosmic treason. It's common today for individuals to think that people are basically good. We do have value as image bearers of our Maker, there's no doubt about that. But because of original sin, we must admit all people are not. basically good. All people are basically in rebellion. And many of these rebels are so hard-hearted that nothing drives them to God. Not plagues, not being faced by their own mortality, not the evil that is done to them by other evil people, none of it. So they They slipped one misstep at a time until they might hardly realize how mired in sin they have become. And God eventually removes the sustaining hand and he allows them to be turned over to their wicked ways, and they end up completely given over. And they do despicable things. To the body of Christ. And God avenges the wrongs done to his people, because he is the protector, the provider, and the avenger for his flock. And for his people, this is good news. An eternal gospel. And the eternal gospel is proclaimed by an angel. Angel. Angolos. The word also means messenger. So it's possibly giving us an image of an ideal preacher even on earth. Not merely some heaven-spirit being, not discounting the possibility of a heaven-spirit being, but we're not bound necessarily by that given the the language in the Greek. And so by extension, perhaps. It could even be an ideal that's held up for you. Share the good news. It is for all people of all colors, all countries, all backgrounds, all languages. So share it with all of the people you possibly can. Take this truth everywhere, announcing the majesty of the one who made everything. All that is. He made it. And he is Lord over it. The angelic messenger in mid-heaven reminds us to be heaven-minded. Being heavenly-minded is the only way to truly do any earthly good. You know, there's an old disparagement. Perhaps you've heard it. Perhaps it's been directed at you. Because it gets directed at holy people sometimes. It accuses people of being so heavenly-minded that they do no earthly good. This is a lie. The people who are pushing this lie are tools, whether they know it or not, in the hands of the devil. So if you hear somebody use that line, correct them. And if they refuse corrections, steer clear of them. Shake the dust off your sandals. They've been drinking adulterous maddening wine If we're not heavenly minded, we won't properly worship. And we all have likely faced a time or two. Or three or four. When our prayer life felt dry. Not heavenly minded enough. Many people are so self-conscious that they won't sing praises aloud to their Savior, not heavenly-minded enough. An entire generation is growing up today saying, I don't need to gather with other believers in a church service. I can get what I need on my own. Not heavenly minded enough. If we're among the faithful Then there is no getting around it. We must, as it says, fear God and give Him glory. There is no other choice. Nor should we want any other choice. But to worship him who made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs of water. And those who disagree, they're not behaving as citizens of Christ's kingdom No, they're behaving as citizens of Babylon. And if that is you, be forewarned. Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great. The uninitiated might wonder at the use of the word Babylon. I'm a citizen of the United States of America, they might say. Babylon, that's now a defunct ancient empire. It's clearly of no relevance today. And you know what? I actually have some sympathy for the person who's new to the Bible, new to the study of history. You know, it can be confusing. Um and I'm not being patronizing here or even sarcastic. You know, it can be confusing enough with messengers who are described as angels and God described as a lamb And adultery apparently mixed and matched with wine. And now introduced to a nation long dead as though it is still alive. And well. It can be hard to understand. I can appreciate that. It truly can be hard. You know, the phrase Babylon the Great, it isn't unique to the book of Revelation. Babylon the Great is a phrase we also find in the book of Daniel in the Old Testament. It was the archenemy of God's people. They destroyed Judah. They sacked Jerusalem. They carried the Jews off into captivity. And because of this, the name Babylon, it became synonymous with enemy of God and his people. We see this in the writing of the prophets, Isaiah and Jeremiah, for example. And in this final book of the Christian canon, we see it here used again and with multiple applications. In the first century, the Babylon of the Age, then, was the Roman Empire. I mean, just think of all of the gruesome atrocities committed by Rome against Christians, against Christ himself. When John penned at the apocalypse, it is fair to say that the powers of the city of Jerusalem were, in a sense, behaving as Babylon. Again, think of the persecuting atrocities that even saw before he became the Apostle Paul, things he participated in against Christians, against Christ himself. And ever since then, numerous Babylons have arisen. I mean, think of the plight even today of believers in China and Islamic nation-states Think of Arthur Pulowski and James Coates and other faithful men of God in Canada like them who were arrested and placed in jail. Why? For leading a church service. Think of Mark Hauk. Dozens of others. Many of them might not even all be Christians as far as we know, but they were raided by FBI agents for deigning to stand up for godly principles Defending defenseless lives against the murderous Babylonians. This is the first mention, by the way, of Babylon in the book of Revelation. It is the first of six mentions. I don't think the six is by accident. We've talked about this, right? Six is the number that falls just short of seven. Seven, the number of holiness, six, the number of evil. This is evil. The system of the beast and it will fall. Actually we read in verse 8 that it has already fallen. It is fait accompli It's kind of weird, really, right? Babylon is only now mentioned for the very first time in the book of Revelation, and immediately upon its introduction, we are told emphatically that it is fallen. Fallen! Twice we're told This is like sending a text and using all caps. Babylon is capital F, capital A, capital L, capital L, capital E, capital N, fall it, I tell you. This is foreshadowing of what's to be spelled out more explicitly. You know, five chapters earlier we saw the Holy City trampled. Remember that? This set us up for her beautiful reappearance ten chapters later. Well here in chapter fourteen we are being prepared once more With some foreshadowing. I mean wait until we get to chapters 17 and 18 and just watch how high are the heights from which Babylon falls. From history we know that the original Babylon fell. We know that Rome fell too as an incarnation of Babylon. The spirit of Babylon anyway. From the Bible we know that all present and future Babylons fall too. And this fall is a function of having broken the law. Too many today they put forward the law as though it is the gospel. And this is a gross error. It's the error of the postmodern neo-Marxists who are pushing the social justice agenda. They say that Christians they must do things to work off their guilt as if Christ's sacrifice is insufficient. All stand guilty under the law And God's righteousness character demands justice be done. And for the follower of Jesus, justice has been done on the back and through the blood of the perfect Lamb of God. In response to this gracious call to salvation, We acknowledge and accept the invitation to worship the one true God. And the trouble for Babylon is that they viscerally reject the truth. From other portions of Revelation, we see that this affects the sociopolitical sphere and the religious sphere. From our own experience, we see this as well, don't we? The sociopolitical sphere, that's the uh the crony economic interests, right? The top-down government that affects the arts, entertainment. Communications, fashion, energy, big commerce, transhuman technology It's all affected. It's all in on it. In large measure. The so-called elected officials, the judges, the legislators, the international dignitaries, the big banks The Fed's all affected. And in on it You know, the one leg of the stool that kind of holds everything in our society together that's not completely riddled with great reset termites would be the church. Education and faith are usually put together into one leg of a stool. It's said to be the third and final leg of the stool that holds our society together. The other two legs are commerce. and government. You've got commerce, government, and religion. As the three broad categories. And commerce and government don't get me started. And honestly, that final leg isn't looking so good either. M most of the seminaries have woke leadership. Just about all the other educational institutions are completely given over to the spirit of the age. And for every church that happens to be blessed with a biblically faithful pastor, there are scores, dare I say, perhaps even hundreds, of churches that are led by pagans. Or apostates. Or both. But this will fall In the schema of God, it's already a done deal. It is fallen, fallen. And the bride of Christ is preserved until that day is seen in history. Now hopefully you remember last week's sermon. Faithful are standing, the faithful and pure, they're standing with Christ as he's standing at the head of his troops. Remember the image. Well, my brothers and sisters, that's you. Standing there with your king. Now some give an inordinately high focused on the idea of virginity that you see in the opening portion of chapter 14, but nowhere in scripture does it indicate that only chaste virgins, much less uh male virgins only are members of the church militant so you uh can take courage. This is a word from God that's for you. And those in the church My sign that we are hunted and torn by the dragon, tempted and besmirched along the way. Nevertheless, the righteous life and death of Christ makes the Lord's people holy. Makes us to be without blemish in the eyes of the Father. Because when he looks at us, he sees his Son. Our identity is in Christ. And as such, we recognize that we get to share in his identity as the first fruits. And if we're firstfruits, then we are an offering to God. It means we die to self, live for Christ as an offering for the sake of the kingdom and its mission. And so I close for the believer in Christ with an exhortation for us to remain on mission Through the mercies and deep compassion of God, offer your body as a living, holy sacrifice as acceptable to the Lord of Lords. To do so is an act of worship. Honor your Redeemer with your whole being and all that you do in your existence. As a church member, as a citizen, as a father, as a husband, as a wife, as an employee. All that you do offer to God as an act of worship, your whole being. We all have gifts and talents from our Creator. Let's use them consistently, day in, day out, moment by moment, to his glory. Always. Because once more, as we are commanded in the very center of today's passage, fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment is come. Worship him. Who made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs of water? Worship him Now I close for the unbeliever. With dire words There are some who believe that this section of the Bible that we've exposited today represents a final worldwide appeal To everyone to properly acknowledge the Trinitarian God of Scripture, no one will have any excuse on Judgment Day. And I must say, you having heard today's words, you cannot say now that you have never heard the truth. So repent. Confess your sins and trust Jesus as your Savior and Lord. You know, there are others, they don't see this section of the Bible so much as an appeal, but more as an announcement of judgment. The final judgment is coming. It is not going to be put off forever. I wouldn't be counting on that. And for you personally I would like to suggest that you take to heart the fact that tomorrow is promised to no one, so your day of judgment might come quicker than you think. If you die today, you have nothing to fear. If you'll surrender trust in yourself or trust in institutions for trust in God. Make today the day you recognize what the eternal God has done for his elect in his eternal gospel. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the truth of your word, for having preserved it for your people all this time. We ask that you would help us to apply it into our lives, that we would worship you as your people well. We would recognize the areas where we need to repent and live lives that are more obedient. It feels as though time is growing short every day. We do know your word tells us Christ returns soon. He returns soon. How we look for that day, pine for that day, but in the meantime we ask that you would help us to be obedient to be obedient and to maintain an attitude of perseverance that we would endure. And not merely that we would survive to the end, but we would thrive by living lives of obedience to you and your word. Forgive us for not doing so more regularly. We ask that you'll bless our conversation that we're about to endeavor on. You would bless it. Any in all ears who happen to hear this message that it would be used to uh to edify your people and to call to repentance those who need to, perhaps for the first time, respond to your voice. It's in the name of the Lamb of God, our Lord, our Savior, our King, Jesus Christ, that we pray. Amen I'm going to shut down the uh the stream. I made it without needing the water. It was getting a little raspy there at the end, but we hung on. If you would like to learn more about us, you can do so online at household of faith in Christ. com. That's household of faithinchrist. com. Till next week, God bless.