Looks like we are live. Welcome to the weekly gathering of the household of faith in Christ. As you join us now for the live stream portion of what we Do together every week. If you're looking for a church, looking for answers, have a theological question, in need of prayer, you're hoping to find a good body to uh to meet with and you're not anywhere near Frederick and you'd like somebody to help you in that search Any and all of the above, reach out to me. I'm more than happy to help you as best as I am able. All my contact information is at our website, Household of Faith in Christ. We are in the book of Revelation. We are continuing our series there. We'll be in chapter 14 today, so you might want to get your Bibles ready. Today's message I have given a rather ear-catching title, I think. I've titled this message, Three Sheets to the Wind, Wasted and Wrecked. So start the sermon. As John is elsewhere in the book. He is in many ways reading Daniel chapter 7 through the lens of Jesus. Like last chapter of Revelation had told us about a beast. It represented political government. And there was a second beast representing religious systems. And soon we're going to learn of a harlot. Representing in some fashion, among other things, an ungodly devotion to prosperity and materialism and The point of all of this is that there are false voices out there. And many of these people with false voices, they are performing what appear To be miraculous signs, even. And so we must test. You're crazy! Speaking of testing. I'm sorry I didn't mean it. Because of these false voices that are out there, we must test everything. Everything that is done, everything that is said must be tested by the Word of God. This is true for each and every generation of the church. And so of course our generation is no different. And so I encourage you to always, I don't want you to misunderstand anything I say tonight, always I encourage you to support and get behind what is good and healthy about our culture. But as you do this, maintain a healthy skepticism about society's values, whether they be pleasure. or politics, economics, or education, secular civics, or ecclesiastical structures. Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater, but be discerning. Always measure everything against the Word of God. It's important because those who are willing to cooperate within the beastly system, they just might end up being given over to Satan. And bear the mark of Antichrist. What was described in chapter 13 is a counterfeit. What we see here at the start of chapter 14 is the truth. The one true Lamb of God. Standing at the head of his faithful, those bearing God's seal by the power of the Holy Spirit. And this is where we pick up our reading today. I'm going to pick up the reading in chapter 14, verse 1. The sermon is going to focus primarily on verses 9 through 13, but for context, we're going to read both the opening and middle passages of the chapter. Go down. God's Word says to us Then I looked, and there before me was the Lamb standing on the Mount Zion. And with him 144,000 who had his name and the father's name written on their foreheads. And I heard a sound from heaven, like the roar of rushing waters, and like a loud peal of thunder. The sound I heard was like that of harpists playing their harps. And they sang a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders. No one could learn the song except the one hundred and forty-four thousand who had been redeemed from the earth. These are those who did not defile themselves with women, for they kept themselves pure. They follow the Lamb wherever he goes. They were purchased from among men and offered as first fruits to God and the Lamb. No lie was found in their mouth. They are blameless. Then he saw another angel flying in mid-air, and he had the eternal gospel to proclaim to those who live on the earth, to every nation, tribe, language, and people. He said in a loud voice, Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come. Worship him who made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs of water. The second angel followed and said, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great. which made all the nations drink the maddening wine of her adulteries. A third angel followed them and said in a loud voice, If anyone worships the beast and his image and receives his mark on the forehead or on the hand, he too will drink the wine of God's fury. Which has been poured full strength into the cup of his wrath. He will be tormented with burning sulphur. In the presence of the holy angels and of the Lamb, and the smoke of their torment rises forever and ever. There is no rest Day or night for those who worship the beast and his image, or for anyone who receives the mark of his name. This calls for patient endurance on the part of the saints who obey God's commandments and remain faithful to Jesus. Then I heard a voice from heaven say, Write Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit. They will rest from their labor, for their deeds will follow them. This passage is an important section of one of the books of the Bible, one of the 66. These 66 books of our Christian Bible are what we call our canon. Canon is from the Hebrew word kenna, and it means a reed A rod, a measuring stick, a standard. God's word is the standard. It is the rod by which everything is measured. It is fully sufficient. It is up to that task So I encourage you to read receive it as such. For those who have ears to hear, I'm sure, you will hear Well we just read, it opens with a glorious scene. Priestly company of the saints gathered as the church militant around their fearless leader, the Lamb of God, who is, of course. Jesus Christ. Now I do understand not everyone automatically agrees with me how I understand the 144,000 as the picture of Christ's church militant. There are some dispensationalist believers who think more along the lines of a specific end-time army of evangelizing Jews. Um but I'd like to note that there even there are some dispensationalists even who do allow for the possibility of the symbolism here being of something that's different than what their theological system is expecting the first fruits to be. So I mentioned that to you for what it's worth. Anyway, as the Apostle John takes in this vision, he hears an astounding sound of praise from above. This sound from heaven, it's likely the voices of the church triumphant. Possibly the angels, maybe all of creation, singing in full-throated fashion You know, the visions of the dastardly dragon and his big bad beasts, they can sometimes tempt us to focus our attention over there. But the arrival of the Son of Man here reminds us that our focus isn't to be upon the demonic. Our focus rather is to be upon the Holy One of God. And this is why a new song is sung. This is why this section of Revelation ends with a blessed beatitude. Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit, they will rest from their labor, for their deeds will follow them. What a wondrous thought! This is the second of seven Beatitudes in the Apocalypse. For the inquiring minds who want to know among us, the first Beatitude came almost at the very start of the book, back in chapter 1, verse 3. The next three that will come after the one we just read, they're found in chapters 16, 19, and 20, and then the final two are located in the final chapter. There is much blessing to be found in the book of Revelation. Because the gospel, it is the glorious good news of God. Of grace, of Christ, of peace, of the kingdom It's a new song of redemption, a new day of victory for God, just like those old songs in the Old Testament. Where we also hear victory songs sung. So what's old is what's new again. This exuberant heartfelt singing of songs. It is a recurring theme in this final book of our Bible. The very first chapter. John praises the God who saves us and made us a kingdom of priests. In chapter 4, the four living creatures they praise God's holiness. Shortly thereafter, the 24 elders sing that God is worthy because he's the creator. And then the elders and the living creatures, they say the Lamb is worthy because He's the Redeemer. In chapter 5, the angels and elders and living creatures they all exclaim, The Lamb is worthy. Every single creature praises God and the Lamb. Every creature says, Yea, and Amen. Do you recall chapters seven and eleven? Great multitudes things that salvation belongs to God and the Lamb and The angels ascribe praise and glory to God. Heavenly voices say that the kingdom is passed to God and his Messiah. The twenty-four elders they thank God for reigning and for beginning to judge. And then in the next several chapters, we hear a heavenly voice call the heavens to rejoice, because the dragon has been thrown from heaven to earth. And the 144,000, they receive a new song that only they know. These ones who conquer, they sing about the works of God. And still to come will be an angel and the martyrs singing that God is righteous for judging the persecutors of the saints. They sing that Babylon has fallen. Encouraging people to flee Babylon. As the kings and the merchants and the sea travelers, they sing a lament for Babylon. Oh well the saints are called to rejoice over Babylon having fallen. The great multitude praises God for condemning Babylon. And the elders and living creatures, they sing, Amen, hallelujah. Toward the end of the book, a voice from the throne calls God's servants to praise Him. And the great multitude sings praises. Because God reigns. And the wedding supper of the Lamb has arrived Singing. Singing is a central theme of revelation. It is a central theme of Christian living. And of Christian worship. This is why we sing when we gather together every single week. Heaven and earth, all of creation, they testify of God, and we join in that chorus And this all comes in the context of judgment Verse 7 of chapter 14 is actually the very first use of the word judgment in the book of Revelation. Now don't read too much into that because judgment essentially means the same thing as wrath, and we have been reading about God's wrath throughout the pages of Revelation. But interestingly, the word judgment It first appears as the first angel of this scene that we're looking at here today is basically announcing the gospel. Angel number one says, There's good news. Repent And then Angel number two pronounces judgment, saying, There's bad news, you idolaters, you Fools have made an idol of your drunkenness, your confusion, your foolishness, your shame, your disgrace. You've made an idol of it all. Have you heard the description of the slow slide of society into serving the serpent? There are variations, but generally it goes like this. First, we are asked to tolerate the drunkenness, and then we are encouraged to accept the confusion. And next we are expected to celebrate the foolishness. And then last, we are told that we must participate in the shame and disgrace. And that's where the world is today. The world slid from tolerance to acceptance. To celebration to participation I remember when I was a uh very young man, or perhaps better put, a Very old boy. I say that because I had a lot of maturing to do. I was at a big house party. And there were dozens of people there at this party. Lots of the people there I knew, but lots of them I had never seen before. And a party got out of control. Now back in the day, this sort of thing, it was it's called a kegger. I don't know if they still call these things keggers or not. Kegger Riches Elves! Woohoo! No, you still number of people were there doing shots of vodka and tequila. There were pills being popped and Lines of cocaine disappearing up people's noses. And there were slow lines of people who were Tearing off. Heading to a bedroom. Or a bathroom. Or a closet or wherever they could find to go get naked together This wasn't my scene at all. It's very uncomfortable. And I was nursing a very nasty headache that was left over from the effect of the previous night's activities. When a much smaller group of friends had gathered together to down a bunch of pizza, down a bunch of beer, and I had too much pizza and too much beer and So much so that the tidy bowl man and I became very close friends by dawn. That was Friday night into Saturday morning. And now on Saturday night, I was expected to get drunk with all these same guys and all these newbies I had never butt before in my life. All while my temples pounded and my mouth fell to be filled with cotton. There was no way I was joining in the rubbery, revelry that night. Honestly, I was exhausted. I was super weary from the lack of sleep that comes on a Saturday from having been an idiot on Friday I wasn't even sure I wanted to be at the party. But I was cajoled. Ah, come on, it'll be fun. So I tried holding myself together, keeping my mind focused. Did so by nibbling on the pretzels and drinking lots of jolt cola. Choke cola, all the sugar, twice the caffeine. They still make that garbage? I don't know. Tastes like turpentine Anyway, I'm sharing the story because this was the very last time that I ever attended a sophomore bash like this. And several of my so-called friendships ended that night as well. Because you see, everyone else was getting wasted I mean, some of my best buddies were experimenting with new behaviors that night that were brand new to all of us. And there I was. Standing off to the side, you know, minding my own business, drinking a toxic soda pop and eating stale pretzels And this was unacceptable to my so called friends. Why wasn't I joining them in getting drunk? Why wasn't I trying cocaine for the very first time? Why wasn't I shagging some tramp in a back room somewhere? Well I told them it's because I wasn't feeling well. Which was true. I told him, you know what, I might have to duck out early, because I mean even with this Jolt Cola, I can barely keep my eyes open. That was also true. But you know, I said nothing about their boorish, dangerous, insane behavior that they had committed themselves to. Said nothing. Today I'd say something. Back then? I said nothing at all. Live and let live. To each his own. Yeah. You do you, I'll do me. You know, no judgment, just tolerance, even acceptance. Not good enough I was even at this wild party with them. So basically you could say I was even celebrating the debauchery with them. Not good enough. They demanded my participation in their shame and disgrace. And upon reflection, it occurred to me that part of the reason for this might have been their guilt. They were behaving as demented wild beasts. And when they looked at one another, what they saw were other demented wild beasts. It was like looking in a mirror. Right what they saw was an image of themselves reflected back as they were in that moment. But when they looked at me in my direction, they they saw the only sober and sane person on the entire property. And again, it was like looking in the mirror. But what they saw was an image of them as they should have been. They looked at me and their conscience condemned them. Will owe me. Far from perfect. Lots of warts in my past, even my present. Nothing much that should intimidate anyone. But they were convicted and ashamed nonetheless. In spite of themselves. And so they tried to mock and ridicule me, to diminish me somehow, to reject the hired standard that somehow, by providence, I happened to in that moment represent to them. Well now consider the population as a whole. Looking at Christ. Oh, yes. Christ is the sinless king, the spotless lamb. He is The impeccably perfect son of God. We talk about intimidating And so the members of this world's death cult, they are convicted and ashamed in spite of themselves. Deep down where there is no excuse behind which they can hide. They are convicted and ashamed. So they mock. And ridicule Jesus. And they tried to diminish his followers somehow, rejecting the high standard that our Creator has called everyone to. And the choice becomes very binary. Repent. Or double down on depravity. And this is where we meet Angel No. Three. He brings a message of judgment as the rebels against righteousness face God's wrath. In addition to this message of wrath, this angel he also brings a message of encouragement as well. This message of encouragement is for the encouragement is for the repentant who are pushed to persevere. Push to persevere. Seems relevant to this exact moment. Reformed theologians, they like to point to verse twelve of chapter fourteen as an example of the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints exemplified. That's a good verse for that. Our perseverance, our patience, it's not to be confused with stoicism or indifference. Because we have things to do, man. This is why today, by at that kind of a party that I was described, I would say something to my former friends at that wild party. Today, absolutely I would. I'd call them to righteousness. And I would share with them their need for repentance Because you see, the habits of evil they can be altered. It's not a lost cause. But for this to happen, the spirit of evil must be destroyed. And what does this The gospel does this. My friends of decades ago on that Saturday night, they were drinking the wine of idolatry. Now I can only try to imagine the hangovers that they felt on Sunday morning. Well, the world is now drinking the wine of idolatry as though through a feeding tube. You don't want to try to imagine the eternal hangover that awaits the reprobate. Soul prostitution never ends well. It comes with a cost. And those fully sold out to eating and drinking and being merry as the world prescribes, boy, they have a nightcap coming on the horizon. They will drink the wine of God's fury, full strength, to the taste of his cup of wrath that torments forever. The forever and ever of verse eleven is liter literally there for ages of ages. How long is that? For ages of ages? I can tell you. It's a mighty long time. That's how long. Mighty long time. I was having a hard time the day after my Friday night escapades in part because, as I mentioned, I was sleep deprived And what is it like to have no rest, day or night, for eternity? What must that be like? And contrast this with the promised rest, the faithful follower of Jesus. God's Spirit promises that his church, his body will rest from this age's hard labor. And the blessings of our deeds from the labor that we do in this age they will travel with us into heaven But the stage isn't easy, is it? As we engage in spiritual battle with the beasts, we must be Wise as serpents, and gentle as doves We must tell the truth. But be clever. Don't back down. But don't be foolhardy either. We actually see John following this kind of advice in today's passage. When he writes of Babylon, He is alluding to what is sometimes called the birthplace of idolatry, right? It's where the Tower of Babel was constructed. But indirectly, John, he's talking about the Roman government. And he is also talking about the apostate Jerusalem. And for us today, he's talking about any and all centers of false worship. Well, if he's talking about Rome, if he's talking about Jerusalem, why doesn't John simply call out these evil leaders by name? Why not? Just directly remove any ambiguity and say you think I'm talking about you, do you? Well I am. Why doesn't he do that? Well, I suggest that perhaps he's a bit more circumspect for a couple of reasons. And one, it's artistically cool to do it the way that he has done it, right? Speaking in code. Very cool. And of course he's doing it in the way that the Holy Spirit carried him along to do it. Can't forget that. And I think that maybe the Holy Spirit carried him along in this way as a means of helping John to get around that day's version of cancel culture. The Christians of the first century they knew what John was getting at. They knew. But why should the emperor need to know too before it was time for him to know? Plus, like we've been saying throughout the Revelation Sermon series, these symbols they speak to situations that are present throughout the church age. And so, in that sense, Babylon represents an aggregation. of all evil that has ever existed and the evil it must fall. And when it does, it's a game changer. And I don't think everyone really understands the dramatic, radical, unalterable change in situation that this brings. So I invite you to listen up When the Lamb of God returns, the second coming brings the end of any chance at repentance. And it brings a permanent separation between good and evil. Now there's a separation of the quote unquote good people, right? The ones who are faithful to Christ and the quote unquote bad people, those who are faithful to the beast, but there's also a separation between the good and evil within each individual. The repentant, patient, enduring people of God have every last vestige of evil removed from their person forever. And have you ever thought about this before? Those bearing the mark of the beast, worshiping the beast's image, who defile themselves with secular whoredom, they will have every last vestige of good. Removed from their person forever. There's the choice. Choose the consolation prize of burning sulfur, fire and brimstone. Brimstone's basically fiery sulfur, by the way. Drinking the wine of wrath, full strength, forever. There's no watered down wine, there's nothing diluted with spices and mixed together like was the practice in ancient times. Nothing like that. Nope. None of that. Nothing will abet to the drinking down of the fullness of smoke. And torment from God. It's funny, that's what I just identified as the consolation prize Not a very good play on words, is it? Because there is no consolation in this choice The other choice is glory. Glory where all flowers come to full bloom, where the sun opens the petals, all of the petals Even if you notice that the number of your petals, they're only partially open now. In the end, even your immature petals, they will come to full bloom in the dazzling light. and warmth of the majestic Son of God Never will options stand in clearer contrast than this. It is one or the other There is no middle ground. Which side holds your allegiance? And if you say you're on the side of the lamb, could you prove it by your works? Could you prove it by the fruit others see in your life? By the actions and attitudes of your heart Because look, you are in league with Christ or you are in league with the devil. And if you've got areas to shore up, we have a gracious, merciful God. Repent. Turn to Him. Trust Him. There is forgiveness to be had. But if you reject that, again it is simple and stark Father, we thank you that you have preserved these words for us all these years. If you have a plan, you have a purpose. Even all the evil that has our heads spinning sometimes, we know that all of it has a purpose. In the grand scheme of things. Nothing happens by accident. Everything happens to your glory, and everything is used by you for the good of your people. I ask that you would give us courage to share the truth of this dark choice with the people around us. That we would live lives that each and every day better exemplify and represent what awaits when All the last vestiges of evil were removed from us. May that be more and more true for us even now. We thank you for this time to press into your word. Thank you for this gathering. As you would bless our conversation, that it would be edifying and strengthening. In new and wondrous ways for your people. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. I'm going to uh shut off the stream. Again, if you'd like to uh learn more about us or catch up on the sermon series or anything like that, go to our website, Household of FaithInChrist. com. That's household of faith in Christ. Adcom sublas com.