Okay. I believe we're live. Let me check that counter. Says we're live. I'll take that as a yes. My ladies will tell me if I'm wrong. So if you read the description the description line uh on this video, it's the biblical understanding of race is what we're going to be tackling today. Uh we were gonna do this last week, but because the schedule We're doing it this week instead. If you have questions or particular things you want to make sure we cover, because there will be an extensive uh discussion portion towards the latter part of what we're doing this evening, uh put it in the comments. section and we'll do the best we can to address particular questions, concerns, thoughts that you have. I'm going to outline things and we'll have a a prayer to get us started and a joke and then we'll get uh And then we'll get moving. So I'm going to uh there's a ton that could be said, so I'm gonna try to outline it first uh as concisely as I can can think of by actually reading a short um relatively short Facebook post from a few weeks ago that I wrote that helps to encapsulate and frame some of the the bigger issues. And then we're going to have an academic schoolhouse experience where I'm going to share some important terms. Hopefully these terms Will resonate with you in a way that's understandable. If they don't stick, the terms themselves don't stick, at least hopefully the concepts uh and what they represent will, and it'll help you to understand interpret what's going on a uh around you in the world and in the news reports and and that sort of thing better. And then we're gonna transition and talk about black lives Matter uh particularly I mean the movement but also the organization and what is going on there and you'll see how all of this ends up relating together. And then we'll finally transition into speaking specifically about what the biblical understanding about race is in contrast to all the other things that we'll talk about leading up to that. that and then we'll have a time for discussion. Alright, so that's the plan. So I guess before we get started with that part, I'm going to ask Angela if she'll open us in prayer and then we'll have our jokes and then we'll we'll jump in. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for your Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Truth. Your word says he leads us into all the truth. We just invite his presence to be with us, Lord. We invite him to speak through Pastor Troy and through me and Dinah. Because we want the truth, Lord God, to be shared in this time together. Lord God, we um are reminded that your word says that it is the truth That sets men free. If we will receive that truth and walk in it in integrity, we will be set free from all of the misconceptions and and the deception that is out there. And that is our goal, Lord. Our goal is to be set free, to be an instrument for others to be set free. Our goal is to be kind, Lord, but not politically correct. to be biblically correct and to be instruments of your righteousness. And we just invite you to move mightily in us and through us. And we ask that every ear that is listening, Lord, would um be taught of and by your spirit, Lord, that they would receive this truth in their hearts and only the truth that you would present through us this evening. We thank you for this time together in advance. We believe that you've already blessed it and we are grateful for that. In Jesus Do you got any jokes? I do. Courtesy of my mother-in-law in Florida. Hello. Okay. You know, a lot of gyms are finally opening up. Finally opening up. We're all very happy. Limited schedules, but for class schedules, yoga instructors are most. flexible. I added a little bit. Trust your calculator because you can really count on it. The karate school cafeteria specializes in chops, of course. And card sharks like to swim around the bottom of the deck. It's funny. They're coming from a different source, they're not any better than they were before. Alright, so the Apostle Paul he warns us in his letter to the Colossians, see to it that no one takes you captive. Verse 8. There is a lot of dialogue going on right now, have you noticed? About black and white relations. Is this conversation that we all are seeming to have now, is it being driven by human tradition and by the elemental spirits of the world Or is it being driven by the scriptures and the Spirit of God according to Christ? So that is the question that Christians, Bible-believing, biblically faithful Christians, need to be asking about everything Particularly something as important as what's happening in our society and our culture right now. So a quick way to try to encapsulate this uh as briefly as possible is for me to take thoughts that have already kind of edited down for a Facebook post and just share them. It's going to take me a minute or two to read this. What's happening now is different. There's been a worldwide philosophical worldview shift of Titanic proportions and it's happened so fast that our common discourse has failed to keep up. The terms of not so long ago were focused on distinguishing between classical liberalism and the modern left, Marxism, socialism, communism, progressivism, feminism During our lifetimes we added to our lexicon radical feminism, liberation theology, neo-Marxism, climate change activism, identity politics, political correctness. LGBTQ plus rights and social justice. And then seemingly, overnight, the world is on fire. And disorder is the order of the day. What happened? Postmodernism and cultural Marxism happened This historic philosophical worldview shift has been going mostly unnoticed by most of us in recent years. This shift has been a decades-long slip and slide that has now turned Certain members of the left have become increasingly radicalized with little opposition from others on the mainstream Left, perhaps because many high-profile lefties were busy only examining the radicalized right, such as skinheads, white supremacists, the alt-right, neo-fascists, etc. To help help illustrate that what's going on now is not your grandfather's traditionalist progressivist debate. Here's an article by a self-professed member of the old school left. And then I provided a link, which I will put in the comment section of the Facebook post, either later tonight or sometime tomorrow. Now whether all the people on the right and the left realize it or not Everyone who is not a radical, everyone who believes that there is material reality and objective truth, everyone, even among the wild radicals themselves, in an Odd twist has a common enemy. We will do well to recognize and understand the movement of the new left, which has emerged from The activist left that is currently running roughshod over society. You've surely or possibly heard of wokeness, cancel culture, language policing, deplatforming. And being on the right side of history, perhaps only recently coming to grips with what they mean. Well, have you heard of collectivism, critical theory, critical race theory, radical liberationist activism? Post-structuralist theory and intersectionalism. Look them up. Don't let the dog eat your homework on this It feels nearly impossible to keep pace with the rapidity of forming factions and their labels. Maintaining a firm grasp is immensely challenging because postmodernists embrace subjectivism and proudly reject reason and rationality. For them, words have no real meaning. The meaning doesn't merely change over time, but interpretations holding to absolutely opposite understandings can both be equally valid. So helpful debate, fruitful communication, and the defining of agreed-upon terms is essentially impossible. The reality is that postmodernism is an Unlivable philosophy. And yet in real time, we're watching people attempt to live it in cities all across the nation and the world. As seen on news reports, this worldview is unsustainable when placed into practice, and so it will burn itself out. A legitimate concern is that In the process of burning itself out, it will burn everything else down. As the solution, the Christian church is called to stand in with unabashed boldness at this time, announcing the fullness of the biblical gospel to a world in desperate need of hearing the truth. Will it, will the church answer its call, or will it, as the majority of professing uh churchgoers have done until now, continue to let Christ's message go to voicemail. In the end, we know from Scripture that there is always a faithful remnant of the believers. One can't help but wonder how large or small is this remnant? So I threw out a bunch of terms there and I was encouraging you to not let the dog eat your homework. and to learn what these terms mean. I'm gonna help to get you started along those lines by defining some of those terms so that they'll begin to mean something to you. Even if the terms don't When you're watching the news, reading the news, paying attention to what people around you are saying, maybe even what your pastors are preaching from the pulpit, God forbid, uh you're gonna maybe pick up on some things that wait a minute I forget what label goes to that, but I remember we were talking about that on Facebook Live just the other day. Postmodernism, what is that? Postmodernism is a departure from modernism. It's part of our everyday vernacular, right? It's modern design, modern style, it's the modern way of doing things. By that. Typically, it's shorthand for the here and the now. And we've been able to get away with using that kind of shorthand because our entire lives up until now have been lived in what's called the modern era But we've now transitioned from the modern era into post-modern, so we can't say what it's like to live in modern times. We don't live in modern times right now. We're living in in postmodern times. Postmodernism departs from modernism and it has at its heart a general distrust postmodernism. modernism does of all that came before it. They don't trust anything. Nothing is really real, nothing is really true. You can't trust that it is anyway. So to help you understand the framework of and put this in a broader context, you understand what I'm meaning by these transitions and worldview shifts through ages. Over the past 500 years or so of history, and these are terms and phrases and labels that hopefully you're a little bit familiar with. The Enlightenment, I imagine you've of the Enlightenment. The Enlightenment of the 17th century. What was the defining characteristic of the Enlightenment? The Enlightenment sought truth through reason, through intellect. That was followed by romanticism. Romanticism primarily the 18th century sought truth through feelings and and emotion. And then that was followed by realism in the 19th century. century and the idea there was to seek truth in nature. And realism was followed by modernism, the modern age. Of the 20th century, which sought truth through advances in technology and quote-unquote science. And now we have postmodernism here in the 21st century. And it says there is no truth. So all the ages leading up to this were seeking truth, I don't think, in inadequate ways, because the truth is found from God Himself revealed to us in His Word. The personal word of Jesus Christ. and his written word, the scriptures. And so that's where the ultimate foundational truth is found, but at least the enlightenment and remote romanticism and and the realists and the modernists, at least they all agreed that there was some sort of truth to be found. They were trying to find it maybe without God in a lot of cases. Believe they're trying to find the truth. And the postmodernists don't trust any of that. They throw it all away and say, there is no truth. The closest thing we can get to truth is that what's truthful for you is true for you. What's true for me is true for me. However, what's true for me at this point might change tomorrow. Might change in the very next instant. Today I might identify as this, but tomorrow I'm going to identify as this As that, and they're gonna be polar opposites, and yet somehow they're both temporarily in some sort of squishy way true, but not really true, because I can't even trust my own self-perceptions about those things You can see why it's unsustainable. You can't live your life that way. It will not last. It cannot sustain. But again, as it burns itself out, how much is going to get burned out? down. So another uh phrase that I use, cultural Marxism. What is that? This is a spin on classical Marxism. Karl Marx, 1800s, famously, you know advanced socialist communist ideas, right? And it was basically an economic theory. And now this economic theory has been applied to all aspects of culture and society So it's not just economics, it's everything in the world is seen through this Marxist lens. And this this new cultural Marxism, it pits identity groups, identity politics, or you've heard About these sorts of phrases before, it pits these identity groups against each other. And in the process of creating these identity groups, it creates bondage for individuals to the collective. And so Angela isn't a black woman. She's part of the oppressed black community group. I'm not a white man of European descent. I am a I am a Caucasian, I'm a part of the Caucasian oppressor class. And no matter what I do, no matter what Angela does, we can't separate from the collective group. And our collective groups, my group and Angelo's group, according to this system, must go to battle with one another. Because one is an oppressor and one is the oppressed. And what's the oppressed supposed to do against the oppressor? but try to fight back and what the oppressed are supposed to do, but try to hold them down. And so there's no way to escape. We become prisoners of the collectives in collectivism. Critical theory. What is this? Critical theory is an offshoot that's rooted in the thought of Karl Marx. And Sigmund Freud. It takes Freud and Marx and kind of blends them together. And adherents of critical theory maintain that our primary goal is to understand and to help overcome the social structures and systems through which people are dominated and oppressed. Does this ring a bell? The structures and systems, systemic racism, for example, this is rooted in critical theory. Now what is critical race theory? Well, that's a subdivision of critical theory. It's a view that the law And the legal institutions are inherently, quote-unquote, racist, and that race itself, instead of being biologically grounded and natural These ethnic groups, they're not based in biology. They're all social constructs. They are socially constructive concepts that have been invented by and are used by white people To further the white person's economic and political interests at the expense of black and brown people. And so the social, the economic, the legal system Are created by whites, particularly older white men, to maintain elite white advantages in the economy and And in politics. And thus, blacks, according to this critical race theory view of the world, blacks are trapped forever in poverty and criminality unless the oppressors, the whites, can be somehow toppled from power. And then you have radical liberationist activism, which I mentioned. Radical liberation activists believe that we should end all wars and we should disarm all militaries and we should eliminate all nuclear weapons. And if we do so, we will we will end up bringing about a racial equality and international cooperation and economic progress, and they shout about the end of imperialism and colonialism and the eradication of capitalism and the death of the United States as the world's police force You've heard about all these ideas and teachings in the news, I'm sure, for years now. What was it? It was radical liberationist activism at play. It's kind of like a Star Trek universe here. Future. Right? Where the the the Federation and Star Trek and the Earthlings and Star Trek, yeah, they're doing battle with a bunch of aliens out there, but as far as Earth itself is concerned, everybody on Earth gets along. There's world peace, there's no me for any sort of weapons, there's no need for money. They never pay for anything in Star Trek. Everything's free. And that's the ideal that the radical liberationists, these activists have in mind. I'll just give you a couple more. I could go on, there's probably a dozen maybe a dozen and a half labels. I'll just give you two more that will help provide the framework and structure of what's happening. in our world today. Post-structuralist theory. You might not know what it is, but as soon as I define it, you will recognize that you've been exposed to it. Post structuralist theory holds that language is not a transparent medium. In other words Language doesn't directly connect with truth or with reality. So what this means is everything is subjective When I write or you write or I speak or you speak, the intent of our words, the words themselves, that's not what matters. And since the intent of the words isn't what really matters, everyone can then twist or reapply those words that we use to mean whatever the other person wants them to mean And that's not even the worst of it, because what's at what's said or what's written actually isn't what's necessarily most important, but rather what's What's most important is what isn't said. And this is why you can run into a situation where somebody says, Boy, I love bananas. And somebody says accusingly, Well, why do you hate apples? You say, well, I didn't say anything about apples. Exactly. If you loved apples, you would have mentioned them along with the bananas, but obviously you're a apple hater. I didn't say anything like that. Ah, you can't fool me They twist it. Or they're going to change it and say, ah, by bananas you really mean this. And so what you're saying is that and you've got a prejudice and a bias. They take your words, they feel it out of context. They change the meaning. Definitions of words on you. And you're like, this makes no sense. You're being mean. No, they're not meaning to be mean. They are applying their pro post-structuralist theory, whether or not they studied about post-structuralists. post-structuralist theories and are trying to purposely apply it or not is not the point. We've been immersed in these things, particularly those that have gone to college. This is what the colleges are teaching. They might not be telling their students, we're going to spend this semester in Ingraining into you post-structural theories. Not usually as overt as that. It happens through osmosis by accident. This is the air that gets breathed, and after a while you don't even know you're breathing it anymore. One more. Intersectionalism or intersectional inter This highlights the overlap of social categories. When we're talking about those groups, how everything gets subdivided into these groups, and it's not about the individuals, but the group That one belongs to. And it focuses on the disadvantages that these oppressed groups have uh by virtue of what's called their minority status. But really, minority is a misnomer because women are considered to be minorities and have this this classification even though they're the majority. So it's not about numbers, raw numbers, it's about whether you're oppressed or not. And if you're an oppressed group, you're in the minority. according to these kinds of things. So they it takes these minorities categorized by race and categorized by by class, you know uh economic class, uh sexual identity. Uh what they call gender, uh professed gender identity, those sorts of things. And the more overlapping the groups to which one belongs the more uh that person or group is affected by the systems of discrimination and oppression that we talked about like five minutes ago. So me as a adult male Caucasian of Northern European descent I don't have any disadvantage. I have all the advantages. I cannot be, by definition, I can't be a press. But if I were black, I'd have that group. If I were a homosexual black, I'd be doubly oppressed. Or that group that identifies as so if somebody identifies as a Black, lesbian, transgender woman, they are that group is quadruplely oppressed. And so we need to feel really sorry for them, and the systems need to somehow somehow make amends for the quadruple oppression that those intersections, that intersectionality is experiencing. It's not about individuals. It's not that the individual uh black, lesbian, transgender gender woman. Not it's not what that person individually is going through. I mean they'll use those an stories to prove their point, but it's not about the individual. It's about them the group. It's like a class warfare idea. Okay? So I would imagine that some of what I just said, the the labels and the academic nature of this might not be quite hitting many of you. But I would imagine it's ringing a few bells. Like, yeah, I didn't know what to call before, but yeah, I've I've seen that happen. I've I've wa I've witnessed it. I've watched people have these discussions. interact with me this way on social media or the newscasters portray things a particular way. It should be ringing some bells, I would think. So now, what does any of this have to do with a biblical understanding of race. And what's dominating the news cycle right now, Black Lives Matter. What does any of this have to do with that? I talk about all these other things, you know, the uh gay rights and transgender rights and and uh different What does all that have to do with Black Lives Matter? Well, let me quote directly from the Black Lives Matter Matter website, the Foundation's website. This is uh three paragraphs directly from their website Quote, the Black Lives Matter Global Network is as powerful as it is because of our membership, our partners, our supporters, our staff. and you. Our continued commitment to liberation for all black people means we are continuing the work of our ancestors and Fighting for our collective freedom because it is our duty. Every day we recommit to healing ourselves and each other and to co-creating alongside comrades Allies and family a culture where each person feels seen, heard, and supported. Now I'm going to pause. idea, comrade, which is a very Marxist word, so you can kind of already get a flavor. Next paragraph. We are guided by the fact that all black lives matter regardless of actual or perceived Perceived sexual identity, gender identity, gender expression, economic status, ability, disability, religious beliefs or disbeliefs, immigration status, or location We make space for transgender brothers and sisters to participate and lead. We are self-reflective and do the work required to dismantle cisgender privilege and uplift black transgender. Especially black trans women who continue to be disproportionately impacted by trans antagonistic violence. We practice empathy, we engage comrades, there's that word again, with the intent to learn about and connect the with their context. Did you see all those groups? All those identity groups? All the intersectionality groups that were mentioned in that paragraph? One more paragraph. We dismantle the patriarchal practice that requires mothers to work double shifts so that they can mother in private even as they participate in public. Public justice work. We disrupt the Western prescribed nuclear family structure requirement by supporting each other as extended families and villages that collectively Care for one another, especially our children, to the degree that mothers, parents, and children are comfortable. We foster a queer affirming network. When we gather, we do so with the intention of freeing ourselves from the tight grip of heteronormative thinking, or rather the belief that all in the world are heterosexual unless she, he, or they They disclose otherwise. We embody the practice of justice, liberation, and peace in our engagements with one another. What does most of that have to do with black lives mattering? I don't want to fall prey to arguing on their turf, but generally speaking, polling data has strongly suggested that the black community in this country is socially rather conservative when it comes to these sorts of things that they're not all about being against heteronormative thinking, that they're not all about queer affirming. Some of them are, but as a group, not necessarily necessarily. And so if I if I were a black person and I'm going to this website to see how they're gonna help me and make my life matter, and I'm reading things about gender expression and gender identity and sexual identity and change Tran transgenderism and looking at cisgender negatively as a privilege and sexism, misogyny. What does any of that have to do with my black life matter? see that Black Lives Matter the organization has a bigger worldview movement that they are advocating pushing for. And they're using the Black Lives Matter label and the issue that's so prominent in the news cycle right now as a shoehorn to get in to advance the larger agenda. And I can't prove this. It's just an assumption and a and a suspicion, maybe, that I have. Once they've accomplished what they hope to accomplish by making use of the Black Lives Matter moniker, they're going to kick Black Lives to the curb because they don't really ultimately care about that They care about establishing cultural Marxism worldwide. So all of that said What is race? What is race according to the world? How does the world understand race? And what Why? The present-day conception of race really has its beginnings. It's not that long ago, historically speaking, it's not that long. It's like the early 1800s. There was this uh crane craniologist named Samuel Morton, uh, and he collected a whole bunch of human skulls and he measured them. And he attempted to compare the the brain size of of uh human groups as he categorized them into five human ethnic groups, which we have now come to call these ethnic groups races. And he believed that the bigger the skull, the bigger the brain, and the bigger the brain, the more more intelligent the group. First of all, that's horrible pseudoscience. That's not true. Uh two humans, one has a larger brain than the other can be dumber than a box of rocks and the one with a smaller brain can be brother. Like the brain size doesn't correlate automatically to intelligence. So it's it's a bad assumption to begin with. And now what were his groups, one might wonder? Well, he categorized them as Ethiopian or African, Native American, Caucasian, Malay or Malaysian, Indonesian, and Mongolian, Asian. Now let me put those into the categories. Five categories under the labels we typically use today. Ethiopian or African, black. Native American, red, Caucasian, white. uh Malay brown and Mongolian yellow. Sound familiar? Are those the racial categories we use today in the world? Those are the racial categories, quote unquote, that Morton used. And Morton claimed that whites as a group had bigger brains than blacks as a group, and he used this as justification for guess what? Chattel slavery So these racial, quote unquote, categorizations that we've all we've grown up with and we use without thinking have their roots in a racist quote-unquote system, in a prejudice system. We need to be more careful about the language that we use. So now let's compare that to what the Bible says about race. What is race according to the Bible? The Bible, you could make an argument that the Bible says that there are two races. One of these would be the human race. Connected by the blood of Adam. Race has to do with progenitorship and the genome, our DNA, our bloodline. So me and my Parents and their parents and their parents and their parents and their parents would go all the way back until you run out of parents until you get all the way down to Adam, because all of us derive from Adam. We all had the bloodline of Adam, even Eve springs from Adam, so we all have Adam's blood. We're all part of the same race, the same line, the human race. We're all connected. Through the blood of Adam. We all share in the blood of Adam. So what's the second race? Well, 1 Peter 2, verse 9. But you, talking to Christians, you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may be Proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. So Peter here is saying In a sense, you could argue that Christians are a new race. You can make it argue that Christians are biracial. We don't surrender belonging to the human race. We're still part again connected through Adam's blood. We're still part of the human race through Adam's blood, but now we're part of the body of Christ. We are the bride of Christ. Through Christ's blood, it's still a bloodline. And so you can make an argument that in the physical, material realm, we're all connected to Adam, all one race. In the spiritual realm, we all belong to Christ. And you can make an argument that in the spiritual realm, uh, if you don't belong to Christ, you belong to the devil. and uh maybe everybody biracial in that sense. So, and it's interesting, we're born from and we're born into the human race. Right? We're when when our mothers gave birth to us, we were born into the line of Adam. We were born into the human race. And it's interesting that for Christians, we are born again. And we were born into the bloodline of Christ, the spiritual bloodline of Christ. So that would be the biblical understanding of what race. In a physical universe concept, there is but one race biblically. And if we start talking about blacks are one race and whites are another race and browns are another race And yellows are another race and reds are another race. We are speaking unbiblically, we are speaking the way that the quote unquote racists who were advocating advocating for slavery in the 1800s spoke about it. So I'm trying to retrain myself. I'll be honest, I'm catching myself and I'm working hard at it. I can still slip up. I'm trying not to use the words the way the world is used. I'm not going to talk about racism unless I say quote unquote anymore. I want to talk about prejudices and biases and those things are true, but I don't want to talk about racism because there's only one race. And I'm borrowing upon their intellectual capital to use their words. And it just reinforces this falsehood, this, this, this lie that we've all bought into So uh we've got about I don't know, well, we've got as much time as we want, but is to stay within the confines of how long we usually try to keep these things, we've got anywhere between twenty and thirty minutes for some of the discussion and conversation. So I'm going to transition into doing that. And there's so much more I could say, so much more I want to say, but um it might come up in the conversation. And I'm sure there's a bunch that Angela might want to want to say and certainly would benefit from hearing that Dina might want to say and we benefit from hearing. And you might have some things that you said in the comment section. So Jerry's watching Derry Juman and he says, you know, thank God. Our Lord is the same yesterday, today, and forever. He goes on to say that he thinks he says true about something you were talking about. He thinks that a lot of what's going on is about the election and he says the media has destroyed our language. Yeah so let me let me address that with then you can give your thoughts too but real quickly um There are people who have political agendas in mind that are capitalizing on the moment to advance their ends, to get us to their end. There are people um who absolutely hate President Trump and populism because not just Trump, but the movement that's bigger than Trump. I mean the Brexit movement is an example of that. There's a pop Bernie Sanders for crying out loud as a populist. So there's a there's a populist undercurrent going on and uh Uh the the established bureaucracies and uh credentialed class, those who have been rich and famous and powerful for a long time, don't like the populist wave and so they're they're fighting for their political lives to fight back against that. And so there's definitely, I think, a lot of proof in what Jerry wrote in the comment section However, I would like to add, they're making use of the tools available to them to advance their fight, this worldview shift from modernism into postmodernism and all these different theories and and labels I provided the definitions to. This has been brewing for decades. It's coming to a head now, but it's been brewing Brewing for decades and no matter what happens in November, we're gonna be dealing with this sort of worldview shift for a while. And there have only been a handful of people paying, you know who's been the best on this in the We don't want to write this name down uh if you uh maybe if you need to spell it for you. For at least the last ten, maybe fifteen, twenty years, uh Pastor Bodhi Bakum has been all over He has been talking about it, writing about it, teaching about it, preaching about it consistently and well for a long time. And I think for a long time he probably felt like a voice in the wilderness, you know, like nobody paying attention to him. In fact, he got a lot of pushback and criticism from other evangelicals, which is kind of sad to know. In fact, he got so I don't I don't want to put words in I don't know how he would say it. From my perspective he got so discouraged but uh he ended up moving to Zambia. He couldn't even deal with what was going on here. The the attacks coming from fr friendly fire, it seems to me. And he went somewhere else where you wouldn't have to take on so much fire. So Buddy Bauckham is a guy that you should know. Todd Friel uh more recently has been pretty good on talking about this And I think it's because Todd is friends with voting. And I think voting had a lot of influence on Todd. And so those two have been really good on this. Um so anyway. Well I would add that I I definitely believe that um um people with political agendas are um driving these movements. I I agree with you that for instance to take a concrete example, Black Lives matter is not really about black lives at the end of the day. And the evidence of that is the fact that um you know the number one The the number one cause of the extinguishing of black lives is abortion and they don't protest abortion. In fact they are pro-abortion to the mass How does that work in their minds? Because they they in their mind I I I think that some people uh In in these movements I think you always probably always have a mix a bit of a mixed crowd. I think for some people they they really believe uh what's what's said on the surface that this is about black lives and so you know you you you you say a few things that appeal to those people and on the surface they just eat it. line thinker and they don't have a deeper understanding. But I think that there are other people who know exactly what they're doing. Okay. And so what they're doing is they are putting out a narrative that you know they're just it's just a front it i it it it's the front reason why they they you know um uh are are are seeing join this or organization but they have a more sinister um a more sinister um uh reason that they're hiding. And so um w when you look closely, that's why the Bible says examine everything Right. Hold fast of that which is good. When you examine what they stand for carefully, then you realize that if they if if Black lives, if if if that is the number one thing that they care about, they're going to go after the number one thing that's killing black people. Well that's abortion. Secondly, um when uh uh black lives are extinguished by other black people, they don't care. They don't protest the black on black violence. They only show up when there is a racial aspect in play. So again If you care about it black lives, if what really matters to you the most, then you're gonna go after what's taking the most black lives. First is abortion, and second is black on black violence and they don't go after either one of those things. So that that's what lets you know well um they probably have another agenda agenda. And then then when you get to you do your research and you read what they stand about stand for, you see every God has created a universe in which truth is going to come out regardless of how crazy a person sounds. Because this is God's universe at the end of the day. So they're going to tell on themselves. And so you go you go to their website and you see what they stand And you go, huh? They stand for a whole bunch of stuff that really doesn't have anything to do with black lives. Only if you have ears to hear and eyes to feel like It's interesting too, because you know, the sinister part of it there are people I I totally believe this is true, there are people holding up Black Lives Matter signs, marching on streets of protest peacefully, uh who their hearts in the right place and they're advocating for their black friends, neighbors, uh uh neighborhoods uh to be treated with respect and fairly and and for each individual black person to have a a a interaction that is just with police and with the legal system and that's where their heart is. But then the underbelly of who's really behind this and the movement, and you can see in parallel I mentioned that this whole categorization of of humans into these five races groups, quote unquote, uh is not biblical and at the same time that that's going on, it's used as a defense uh for slavery. What else is going on in the eighteen hundreds? The whole the precursors of eugenics And the abortion industry of Margaret Sanger overtly racist and looked at it as compassionate because these poor black people can't they got it hard enough. They're so disadvantaged. They have smaller brains. They're not as capable. They're they're c basically like mud people And the fewer of them, the better. The better for them if there's fewer of them. Like if somebody's struggling to get by, we don't want to give them another hungry mouth to feed, so we're doing them a favor By sterilizing their men or by murdering their children. And it's not an accident the overwhelming majority of abortion abortion clinics in this country are in black neighborhoods. Overwhelming. I think it's like eighty percent or something like that of the abortion clinics in the country country are in black neighborhoods. How'd that happen? They're thirteen or fourteen percent of the population as a as an ethnic group. It makes no sense and was the other oh the the uh um um black on black crime that is mostly happening in really disadvantaged economically speaking inner city environment where we have entire communities that have been that are absent of hope because they've been robbed of that hope. Well why have those communities lost so much hope? because the family structure doesn't exist anymore. Back in the late nineteen fifties um I think it's I think it's around eighty percent of uh black families in this country were intact nuclear families, meaning it was a husband, a wife, and their kids living together. I think this is pretty close, right? I think it's around eighty percent. And now it's about eighty percent in the reverse. It's only twenty percent of black Black families are intact nuclear families. And that has devastated the black family and the black community and the black neighborhood and has robbed them of hope. And men don't feel valued and important. In fact, people are penalized And punished if they have a husband in the home. They have the same economic struggles, but they can't get the same economic help and relief if they're married. So we set them up for failure. communities fall apart and then what does the Black Lives Matter Foundation say? They say they want to undercut traditional families. They don't want to have nuclear families. The very thing that is destroying black families is the very thing that Black Lives Matter Foundation wants more of. And so I because you know I I see things spiritually. What I see that's going on spiritually Is that you know it it's satanic, what's happening, it's definitely satanic. And so what has the devil learned? The devil has learned that you cannot give people poison You can't hand them a can of raid. What you do is you get some chocolate and you spray raid on the chocolate and then you give them the chocolates. So you have to present it as something of Appealing, that's naturally appealing to people, it looks good, it's beautiful, it's wrapped in a nice bow, but you poison it in some way way. And and and that's what I see the Black Lives Matter m movement being. I see it as a sinister movement because its ends are not for as you pointed out i it's not to pro it's not to promote black life, it's not to protect black life. When you look at what they want to do it is not pro black life. In fact it's not pro life. Period. And so it's it's you know it's spiritually it's sinister. It's it's wicked It's not of God, it's not of the Bible, and but but you know, you have to you do have to examine it because you know the the The devil has learned, you know, how to uh make things look appealing. You have to examine everything, which is exactly what the Bible says in First Corinthians. in chapter five. Examine all things carefully. Hold fast to that which is good. Yeah that's why abortion is is it's not, you know, killing a baby. It's pro choice. It's packaged positively. It's why the you know the uh the gas chambers were called showers. It's you know it's it's why you know in today's other context, you know, it's why people are told they have to wear masks And stay home, it's for their safety. It's you know, everything gets couched in these very positive terms. And you know, one last stat and then we'll get to the comments. A little more than one in ten uh Americans are black, and yet it's approximately four in ten abortions are black babies. That is that by a Okay, so Cindy says yes to many people. Yes, too many people are surface surfers. Read and believe headlines, no research, no homework, no education, and then she says no faith. Jerry says in Chicago almost every weekend the gangs are killing weekly and there are not pro protest. He says, and yet no one sees that. Good point, Angela. Um by the way, love you guys. I wish I were sitting there too. We love you too. He says the devil can't make us thin we have to do that on our own. Yeah, it's re I mean Chicago's a really interesting almost like case study. I mean hundreds and hundreds of of people are are murdered in Chicago. And it i I it's nine I think it's like ninety plus percent of uh same uh ethnic group on same ethnic group violence and the group most devastated by it is black on black crime. And Chicago is an interesting case study because it's approximately one-third white, one-third Hispanic, one-third black. So you'd expect the murder victims to be one-third white, one-third Hispanic, one-third black third black, but they're not, they're overwhelmingly black. And yeah, to our point, uh Angela said it, uh Jerry said it. Where are the protests about that? It yeah, it's devastating I get fired up about this because what we have done as a culture and a society to black families and individual black experiences in this country is is it's just it's devastating what we've done through policy and uh uh and the conse uh the the uh still love unintended consequences. That you know sometimes people mean well and bad things happen and they're blind to it. Sometimes many people don't even mean well and we'll and we give them the benefit of doubt when we shouldn't. More comments? No, those are those those are the comments that we have thus far. So um you and I were talking this you know, we talk a lot, which is good. We get to have really good conversations. And I said to you when all of this started because it was kind of an unsettling thought for me to have and I and I was like, okay Lord, search my heart if there's any offensive way I need you to show me. I noticed when all this started that I was white. And I said to you, for the first time, I realized that I'm white. And I never thought of myself as that Nor had I ever thought of you as not white. I thought of you as and still do my sister in Christ. I think of myself as hopefully a daughter a godly woman and that's how I identify myself. Um and I have to say growing up and and I used to think to myself, well maybe it's because I grew up in in New Jersey, near New York, where it was every rainbow shape and size that I was constantly around. So the concept of there being anything other than a variety just wasn't in your own wasn't in my but now all this is going on and all of a sudden I feel guilty Mm-hmm. And I'm like, or maybe I did something. And I don't I don't know how else to explain that. Right. Other than I have this and I know that that's not I know that's the device of the enemy. Mm-hmm. Because God does not condemn. There is no condemnation in Christ. So I but it was unsettling. Mm-hmm. God uses all things, so it caused me to press into him and say Okay, search my heart and because I'm a sinner. On my best days, I'm a sinner. Have I had thoughts that were not um generous? towards people that have been sin absolutely d was it based on uh category? Maybe but in a general sense I feel like our population is guilty because that's what they're making us feel. Right. Regardless of if that's your sin in the moment or in the Not. Exactly. And that's the whole point. And so what? I mean, well 'cause you kinda looked at me in that moment and you were like almost like I'm sorry. for you that you had that which I appreciate your empathy. And it's and it's it's interesting because when when Christ is your focus, you You do lose sight of the superficiality of other people. Yeah. Their their color and whatever. Your size. What they wear. Exactly. You can be in a group and and And you just you're focusing on the Lord and and He becomes the focus and then there's unity. But you know that actually that brings me to a point. Uh the Bible says um where unity is where God's people are unified, He commands the blessing. Right. So the enemy knows that to bring the curse you can't have unity And so you know, to make people super aware of our differences and to divide based upon the superficial differences Is a tactic of the enemy. They want you to be super aware that you're white. They want me to be super aware that I'm black. And they want us all to feel alienated because of Because these people with these uh globalist agendas, these one world satanic agendas, they know that as long as we are unified Especially in righteousness. Amen. I mean even even unity and wickedness have some power. But when you're unified in righteousness, you are super powerful. Well and the enemy you can bring heaven to earth. You can bring heaven to earth. And the enemy knows that. So that that's by design, you know, and so every offshoot of this globalist agenda, because it's a globalist agenda, I think A lot of people are waking up to that. It is totally whatever word they decide to put on, whatever label, whatever movement, Black Lives Matters, uh cultural extension, whatever whatever fancy rap philosophy they call it it's all satanic. And it's just satan it's just a different this is a different kind of I think a different kind of tactic for every kind of um sensibility. You know, we're gonna use Black Lives Matter, that'll rope the black people in. We're gonna use this, that'll rope these people, you know. I Are you comfortable sharing what happened when you were praying i in our capital in a broad sense just about because I don't think that people see that we're in spiritual war. Right Actually might be uncomfortable talking about it. Well I I did yes well How about if we give you a week to think about it? Okay. And if you want to share it we can talk about it next week. Yeah, I think my longer story might not provide contest if you're gonna share it at all. I I guess what I want to say um to to the body of Christ is we don't fight flesh and blood. There is a spiritual battle that is going on that is ever so rampant up. And I I my sense is the remnant is like, oh boy And perhaps we need to press into that area and collectively pray against the evil that is a spiritual thing because that's our weapon of destruction is fighting you know fighting by the power of Christ. And another word that I immediately zeroed in on is you And I do believe it is the remnant church. I believe that what what what what like you said, God is working through all things. What he's working through this curve current um manufacture crisis what he's what he's bringing to the surface I should say is who truly adheres to the word of God. Who truly stands for Christ? Who stands for biblical righteousness? Who will not compromise on biblical righteousness? Who will not put their culture, their gender, their this, their that above the word of God. That's the remnant church that is doing that. Everybody else is Culturally relevant and and um and and and and spouting you know these newfangled somewhat newfangled uh ideas. Um they're really just old ideas re repackaged for the modern era. That's that's what the devil does. He just repackages the same old lie over and over again. But um it's a remnant. And that's an important thing, you know, the the relevance thing That's been a big move in the church the last twenty years, a hyper focus on being culturally relevant. And again, I'm big on defining our terms and I think as a for us to understand that if what we mean by that is is meeting the cultural context where they are, to meet them where they are so that they hear us and they feel heard as well that's one thing. But contextualizing is different than relevancy because relevancy too often is about seeding ground so that you join in with them and become worldly and that's and that's a real problem and a danger. Um I'm gonna mention one last thought before we maybe look at some other comments here. But on the colorblind thing, I know there are some people that uh That look more like Angela than they look like me or Dina, who are offended when they hear, you know, somebody say that they're colorblind or I don't see color and stuff and and I get it because part of it might be they feel like you're being disingenuous, you're not being honest. Obviously you can see color. What do you And y you don't really mean that, so you're trying to virtue signal somehow and they're offended. But some people, like Dina, when she says that she's not virtuous signaling, she's saying that she's no respecter of person when it comes to that sort of thing. Sure she's gonna see that somebody has darker complexion skin than some somebody else, just like she's gonna see one person have has acne. Or one person has red hair, another person has blonde hair, another person has brown hair. But you're not making judgments, you're not using any sort of discernment on what to think about that person based on those things. And I think that is the biblical prescription for that is yeah we want to notice if somebody has a a a beautiful tanned complexion or somebody has a beautiful milky complexion, we're gonna maybe appreciate that. Wow what a beautiful complexion they have. We're not blind to it, but we're not making a judgment on who they are as a person. We're not making a judgment And certainly when God looks at us, he notices all that we are, you know, and all that is what we are, but he's judging us by our heart, by our character. character by our commitment to him and to his truth. And uh in that sense he's not seeing us for our color, even though God made all of the colors. I don't even like the word color to be honest So I'm trying to change that part of my language too. This is because of Louis Bakum, actually. He says we're all the same color. We're just different shades of the same color. You know, so uh skin tone and skin shade maybe is a better way to think about it than that we're completely different colors. I don't know, but So Cindy says, by the way, I love the biblical race theory, one human race and born again into spiritual Christian race. I don't judge or group people, I love all my neighbors. I have I've even learned in these older years of my life to forgive people who weren't so nice to me. We can't change the past, not even God can change the past. That is why God has taught us to Forgive through his son Jesus Christ. Yeah, there's so much more to be said. You know what? Next week I think we'll maybe we'll pick up on some issues still related to this and then we'll talk about the church more broadly because I got some things I might want to say about that And I'll give Angela time if she wants to share the story that Dina alluded to, she can. If not, we'll we'll fill the time. One one scripture verse that is popping into my head um that I think is helpful helpful for us is in Joel, the book of Joel, where it says the Lord restores the years to Locacy. And I think that that's encouraging for me because I feel like the locust have eaten the last six months of my life. With the pandemic and now all of this other unrest. It feels like oh my Oh my gosh, excuse me, oh my gosh. But the hope that we serve and the know that we serve of God who is able to redeem and then truly take the awfulness from our past, even even our sin life. He's the only one that can turn our ashes into something beautiful. So that's encouraging. So hopefully The book of Joel is um Joel two verse do you know off the top of your head? It's in the book of Joel. And I encourage you to meditate on that and to have hope from that. That this we know the end and we win. We've already won. Jesus is on Yeah, did the Kana specifically mention that she liked uh bib the biblical race theory is how she phrased it? I love the biblical race theory. Yeah, so anyway I want to give encourage you. Critical race theory is uh a secular humanist idea, it is a racist in its core idea, the racist The biblical idea isn't a theory at all. It is biblical truth. It is it is what God has revealed uh to us about no no no. Critical of how she said that, but I want to make sure that people understand kind of where I'm coming from. There is the truth, and then there's everything else. And the truth is found in God's Word, and God tells us that we are all part of one human race. And we don't have to we can debate it to defend that truth, but we don't have to debate it as though it's merely a theory up for debate. debate. We as Christians, Bible-believing Christians, can have ultimate confidence that that is the truth. And anybody who says otherwise, no matter how persuasive they might seem at first or seem on the surface, or how how many credentials they have after their name or how fancy their office is or how full their bookshelf is, it doesn't matter if they disagree with biblical truth, they're wrong. It's as simple as that. So we're a little past an hour, so we're gonna pause here. We'll have Angela close us in prayer and then we'll uh bid you ado until next week. Gracious Heavenly Father We believe that you are with us in this discussion and we are grateful. We just pray, Father, that every ear that needs to hear this discussion will hear it, Lord. And we pray, Lord, that That um they will be set free from any lie that they have believed. Lord, any lie of the enemy, any lie of the world. We thank you, Lord God, that no matter matter how many lies are out there, your truth is still is still available, Lord, to set us free. This is still your universe. No matter how much rebellion is going on And you are still on the throne to set men free. And we are grateful for that. Father, please release us in your care and everyone to sound my voice. For people who will listen to this later. Lord, um bless them with protection, with safety, Lord God, with provision, Lord God, and with hope in Jesus Christ. The only name under heaven by which a man must be saved. We thank you for it. We believe you've heard us. And we ask these things in the wonderful name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you both. Thank you in Facebook Land for your participation and your viewing. Feel free to share this if you like. And until next week. God bless.