I think that's what we should do. No, but you look at that behind. I wish they had a good camera to look behind you. That is the most amazing thing. And don't worry, we will go back to my street. You know, they wanted to uh get rid of the representative or just somebody else over there. I don't think that's gonna happen. If they have a lower administration, if this happens. Hey, we'll see if this works. Get my hand out of the way. There we go. I am uh standing at the base of the monument as you can see right now. Uh took the bus ride in with a group of uh Fellow Patriots, uh I don't know, 15200 of us, something like that, uh a number of buses uh came in. You can see people are milling around. Let me turn this around this way so I can see what you're saying So people are beginning to to gather still. Well this is on the the the outskirts. There are like four or five different places that are kind of meeting points, official gathering points. Those places are are packed. Some of them I think are ticketed, not that they cost anything. to get in but that they want to be able to get a sense of the the managing the crowd size and that sort of thing. So I'm checking to see kind of if this is gonna work today. Very blustery, very windy. Temperature I think is in the thirties and the wind chill makes it feel quite a bit uh colder. I almost didn't wear the hat that I have on my head, uh, but I decided that uh it would be a good idea to wear this hat and I am So glad that I did. Uh actually wearing a scarf around my neck and a couple of layers. It's a chilly one. And with this wind, Stays like this is gonna stay chilly. And uh things can be chilly in our country for a while. I hope they stay stay chilly uh and don't get hot. Um the mood here, the people I've been talking to so far are um you know, upbeat, positive, hopeful, uh still hoping the best, rooting for the best, uh counting on uh the right things happening from from uh their perspective of what the right things are and uh We'll see. We will see. Uh some people are beginning to s transition into more of a seely-eyed gaze about things, uh, and that's actually encouraging to see because we need to have serious thinking and serious people on this. Anyway, I'm gonna pause for now. There's Hey We're all live. There's been lots of sirens and emergency vehicles the last few minutes. I'm not sure why. So just figured I'd start shooting to see what's happening. See lots of food products being sold. Alright, now the sirens have stopped momentarily. I should have started the video a minute or two ago. Anyway, I'll turn this back around. So I shot a person to a live video a while back when I had service and then Facebook wasn't allowing live videos to go out. I don't know if the system was overloaded or if there was some other reason for that, but um so I was able to post some videos that were shot separate And they weren't wise, but they were posy, you can get a sense of the crowd. Trump has uh the president is done speaking and the crowd's dispersed from that. We just spent some time sitting in a bus to warm up because it is cold. Isn't it cold? It's cold. So the air temperature isn't really all that bad, but man, is it windy. So I'd be curious to know what the wind should. It's gotta be in the teens. Gotta be in the teens. So anyway, well the sirens have stopped. Well, the last I've heard is that uh they got to Arizona, third in line. And they objected and so now they're in the middle of their two hours of debate on that. And then the question is when they come back what's gonna happen Well, my wife just called me. She says, get your butt home. She says, Pence just announced he's not helping Trump and everyone is scoring the building now. Oh th oh so there's okay, I heard that there's some stuff going on. So I did hear that there was there was word that the Vice President has indicated that he is not going to do what the President was asking, which was to Send the uh votes back to the states, the legislatures. So two base owners or Trump supporters, they said we just heard that statement and he says Do you mind if you're on the Facebook or I don't want to I don't know that's what I And it surprised us then that he is doing something else. Was it a a written statement or a verbal statement they heard from Pence? Because I th I heard that the softness is video. Okay, because I heard that there was a uh a a a written statement released. Yeah, well So we're heading there now. Actually okay. Well thanks for that update. So we were yeah, I couldn't put him on camera. He wasn't comfortable uh being on camera, which that's understandable and fine. Let me turn this back around, darn it. Hit the wrong button, there we go. So we're heading to the Capitol now. We're s as I said, we were sitting on the bus to warm up a little bit and then we heard the bus driver had a local radio station on and the On Air Announcer made mention of there being some sort of issue at the Capitol building, which caught our attention. So We wanted to go kind of see that anyway before we left. Yep. But we won't get too close. If they're storming the Capitol building. Don't want to be stamped. But And one thing I want to say is there's been uh a lot of rumors and speculation about uh people who are not friendly to the rally, dressing up as those who are friendly to the rally, like antifa types and stuff. wearing MAGA gear and that sort of thing so that they can cause trouble and make it look like it's the Trump people causing trouble. But I gotta tell ya, I've had the opportunity to talk to now a whole bunch of people here from all over the country in uh Texas and in Utah and North Carolina and Kansas and Michigan and um people even from other countries. Uh I think one person might I think he might I remember correctly he said Nigeria and uh there was a Vietnamese family. So uh everybody's friendly. Um everybody's hopeful. Uh a lot of people are a little bit concerned, uh about what's going on. Like you heard that gentleman who came by and the first thing he says, Have you heard what's going on? There's a lot of that. Like do you know what's going on? What do you think's happening? Uh because things aren't being very transparent. We're not being told uh enough things Here comes the words sirens. Earlier, when we first heard the sirens, I turned it to Angela and they said, Angela, you think that they're just trying to get through the traffic or they're on on assignment here and there's enough of 'em now that they're definitely heading somewhere. Let's see if we can see 'em zoom by Now I wasn't thinking to count though, but we're at well over a dozen emergency vehicles now of Swung past us, we should say. So anyway, people were waving their uh were waving their their Trump flags and their anti-Biden flags and we saw some members that I believe were were members of the Proud Boy Organization were decked out with helmets and like they're ready for some serious business if it should come that way. Here's some folks with some flags coming at us. And there was a a group here that was distributing literature and stuff that's saying stop the C C P I'm talking about the uh you know the Chinese Communist Party and All right, let me turn this around again. Oh, yeah. All right, so that's another four or five. So it's gotta be well over twenty emergency vehicles now have shot past us on their way to the Capitol. Yeah, no idea. This reminds me of nine eleven when I happened to be in Manhattan or on in Manhattan any more specific, I guess. Uh and the planes had just hit it was first thing in the morning. Now there's some people going the opposite direction. What was that all about? There is a motorcycle police officer. Motorcycle police officer. It's like ten degrees out here. Motorcycle, I wouldn't want that job today. And here comes some more. Now that one means business. Military bill. So I have no idea exactly what's going on, but we've been treated to a uh a parade of DC's finest. And one of those I don't know if that was a military vehicle or a military style vehicle that belongs to the DC Police Department. I'm I'm not really sure. I wouldn't know how to tell the difference on that sort of thing So you can see the streets are quiet over here. So as I was saying before, I was starting to say before, everybody's been Friendly and nice and trying to figure out what's going on, but you know, asking a lot of questions and s you know, very positive and hopeful like something good's gonna come. But I gotta tell ya Most people are being calm, like you're seeing on the streets around me now, because they're hopeful that something good's gonna end up from this, from their perspective. Obviously others with a different perspective would see that as a bad thing. But the those who are in favor of uh you know free and fair elections and and transparency and exposing the fraud and then doing something about it when it's exposed and all that sort of stuff. They're like, of course this is gonna all work itself out and they're gonna do the right thing and they're beginning to wonder if maybe that's not really what's gonna happen. And in a couple of cases there were some people that you could tell during the course of the conversation uh when you start talking about well what happens if The nature of their gaze changed. They got a little more steely-eyed, a little bit more, well, we're ready. And uh I've I've I'd be thivin' if I didn't tell you that people were talking about, you know, whether or not you want a gun or not and talking about their gun collection. So that's out there for what it's worth. Now they're not threatening. I don't give the inc impr uh the impression, but basically they're saying they're ready And they don't want to lose uh the liberties and freedoms that we've enjoyed in this country. They want to lose that for their you know, the generations that are gonna follow them, their kids and grandkids and that sort of thing. So Oh now there's no more sirens. It seems surreal. Oh starting did I finish talking about nine eleven? I started to. I think I might have just reacted myself. The point on that was what s reminding me of that is walking around and there's stuff going on all around me but we didn't know what was happening. The planes had just hit and we just didn't know the fullness of it until later. Actually one of the worst places to be was on Manhattan that day because you weren't getting the news information that the rest of the world was getting. You're kinda i insulating a cocoon. It's kinda how it feels Here, we're here, but if we didn't know that something was going on, we wouldn't know So and of course here's more evidence of uh entrepreneurship and uh and capitalism uh at work. Part of what we're fighting for. I haven't seen estimates on the size of the crowd, but I gotta tell you that's prob it's gotta be the largest gathering of people I've ever uh been around. Hundreds of thousands of people easily. Uh how many more than that I don't know. Here comes some more source. I'm gonna keep this rolling just in case anything should pop up of interest. Just one lonely police officer truck at that time. He was taking a nap. He just woke up. He got ketchup. Hey, wait for me He's like the little brother, short legs. My legs are too short, I can't keep up. Alright, well now it's uh Now it's quiet. So I'll pause the video now. If anything else should happen in the meantime I will pop the video back up and try to Bring it to you can see what's going on. So all that's all there is for right now. Till next time Well, I'm back. I just left a live video moments ago, but it seemed like it was quiet, and then all of a sudden, there's more emergency personnel. Again, more personnel. Police officers. I mean, holy cow. It's they gotta be freezing. Alright. So I don't know what's going on. I just overheard that woman As you walk past me, utter the words Judah. They had some what I'm being so there were a couple of people that stormed in front of the Capitol, but the proud boys went around the back side 'Cause they were chanting this is our house, this is our house So they killed us and Gotcha Okay. Yeah, so they're all leaving. All right, so the word on the street, the rumor is that there was protest and stuff and then the and then the people were kept were were blockaded out. Oh defometer what's going on. That's just not my day. Shot in the knee, I get shot with rubber bullets, and I got a bomb. It's not my day. Well you part of that. I don't know what you think. You want to go that way and get away from this car as fast as possible? I wanna go this way. Oh my gosh. Yeah. So what exactly is going on? Um, a million people and they're starting to get really antsy. of shooting paintball at people and tear gas and the people just keep packing in. So I'm Robin by the way. Hi Robin, I'm Troy. Nice to meet you Troy. Hi I'm I'm not putting on camera because I wasn't sure if you'd want to be but you have money for voice. I don't mind. I met my my sister of the bus and we're we're one of the spirit in the Chinese. Oh okay. Actually I'm really a mismatch of miscellaneous though. So we were walking towards the Capitol and seeing all these vehicles storing by so I started shooting the video, not knowing what was going on. Well, it there's probably just a lot of people and there's stuff going on up there. People's tempers are flaring now. The end of the day and that's when stuff's starting to get a little crazy. Well, and if things don't go the way people are hoping it's gonna go, the crazy this is just the beginning of crazy on the way. I know and there are a lot of really nice people of all ages up there and they could get hurt. And that's human nature to just pack in there no matter what without any And it's it's interesting that you mentioned the all ages. I shouldn't I should have mentioned that. I I talked about how there was a diversity of people from different states and even different nationalities that I was able to talk to today. But yeah, the c the the the age range is all over the place. It is. From I complain and then a lady watch find me eighty years old when I came. Wow. And then uh all the way up to uh you know, people that it's hard to guess their ages, but I'm gonna guess might have been right around eighty ish or so. And twenty eight, twenty three. And all ages in between. I've seen uh I'd say probably the the average or median age is probably some Oh okay. Yeah mine was completely full. Yeah, we have some extra seats. that what triggered all of the nonsense with the uh tear gas and all that sort of stuff was at the Proud Boys storm at the Capitol. Do you know anything about that? No I don't but So I I'd want to get some verification on on that 'cause there's all sorts of Yeah. I I that doesn't feel like that's their form. Well the lady was saying in the past there was some people they were agitated. to that. Oh so okay so they wasn't that they initiate and all you need is a few agitators and room for everybody. Did they say yet how big they think the crowd is no, but it it was huge. Did you see some of the aerial photos? No, not yet. Pretty huge. I don't Somebody said it's the bigger the biggest protest it's Vietnam. No, I don't know what uh what those protest sizes were, but hundreds of th it was hundreds of thousands of people easy. It might have been I just don't like it when I can't move in the midst It might have been uh not even over a million, two million. I I mean I I don't know. I don't know how to gauge that. A few hundred people are gathering it now. A few hundred thousand times ten. A few hundred Seriously? There were more people gathered In the uh area between the ellipse where the president was speaking and the Washington Monument, that area there were more people gathered there than there are residents in probably twenty states. Seriously. Seriously. Some of the smaller populated states. Uh there were more people in that small area than those hu some of those huge western states have total bodies. So anyway, all right. Well it seems like the sirens have subsided. Everybody's beginning to walk away from the capital. head back see we can find the bus and not you or dress the right way. We don't want to get left behind. Oh my goodness There's somebody who did not dress for the weather today. Oh my goodness. Poor really poor guy. No coat, no gloves, no hat. Poor guy. Alright, so that's it for now. If anything else dramatic happens, I will try to pop back up. Here comes some at us. Wow, and they keep swimming up with the capital, where are they going? Well I'm not sure how many police vehicles they have, but however many they have, they're all at the Capitol right now. So if you were gonna rob a bank this would be the sign. Not that we're recommending it. This is like one of those movies where they you know, the bad guys created diversion to get all the police in one area and meanwhile they're they're robbing everybody of everything they've got. So Anyway. Alright, so I that might have been our last bit of excitement for a little while, so I'm gonna uh stop the the video from rolling and if you've been watching, uh appreciate you watching. And uh if you're curious or anything else is gonna happen, just keep checking back to my Facebook stage and I'm sorry that I'm using Facebook for those that are mad at Facebook. Nobody else has a live app that's even close to what Facebook Live has, so somebody else has to embed I hate it You know, they need a a Parlor Live or a Mi We Live or a Gab Live or somebody's gotta give a live option so we don't have to use Facebook for crying out loud. Alright? Anyway. God bless everybody. God bless. Alright, we're rolling again. I'm back. I was only gone for a minute or two, sorry, but right after I ended my last Facebook Live video, we've got uh these those annoying loud scare you half to death alerts on your phone. Allergis emergency alert system and they are um putting in a mandatory curfew for DC Uh at six o'clock, it's coming up. It's right around three o'clock, right? It's right around it's right around three o'clock, so they everybody's That three hours to get out of dodge You didn't realize that DC stood for Dodge City? That was it. Oh yeah, it's not one that wasn't that clever. My brain has frozen. Anyway, uh there's still some sirens in the background, I'm not sure if those are making it through onto the video or not There are emergency vehicles where there weren't before with lights flashing that weren't flashing before. Uh again, the nature of this update just lets you know that We've been told to get out. You know, you don't have to go home but you can't stay here. Six o'clock, get out of DC or we're locking you in. That's it. Well I don't know if that's the case, but this curfew That's where a curfew would mean. Gotta be inside somewhere. Gotta be inside somewhere. All right, so my understanding there aren't too many hotels open down here either, so you can And I'll be honest, if it's I mean that's after dark. It's already cold as it is. You know how cold it's gonna be at six o'clock at night? You wanna be inside anyway, so they're doing us all a favor. Lemon bean kind of thing over there. This like this expanded. This one here? God will destroy the CPP, that one? No, no. Um see see this the white band it's blocking it. If you back Oh, way over there? Yeah, it has tr uh. Let me see if I can uh trump hits on it. Might have to go over closer to that. I don't know how I don't know how to zoom in on the video. Is there a way to zoom in on these videos? On Facebook Live. I have no idea. We can go across the street and get a closer shot of that? Yeah. No, I think it's a little bit more than a little bit. Anyway, one of the good things about me just doing this random Facebook Live is you can see that everybody's fine, everybody's being calm. Friendly, nice, no worries, friendly people. So, you know you're here and there everybody's haters and vicious and you know. Now the only vicious thing we've heard all day actually was like two minutes ago some some lady hung her head out the window to say some nasty things to us assuming that we were politic politically different in our ideology. So here's the uh vehicle that Angela noticed that I would not have noticed. What were she done? Where are you at now? Let's see. It says we the people, and so you can read that. We the people, Trump, Pence, 2020, keep America great. Promises made, promises kept, country, law and order. That's pretty cool. That was a heck of a thing to try to drive. As you can tell, well if you can tell in the video, hopefully it shows up well. That thing's bashed into a few things over the years on the side. Hard to make the corners. Do you notice all the side slice on that thing? I don't think it can make corners all that easily. I think it hits things all the time. It's like a battering ram. Anyway, you can see that flag. I mean that's straight out. And it the wind's actually not quite as bad right now as it has been, but it has been This is this is a breeze compared to what it's been like today, and this you can tell it's a stiff wind. Just from the way these flags are going So I notice you delayed over here looking at the flags and merchandise or something or? Oh you want you want to have a lot of things. No no no, I just I just thought I lost things kinda fell behind on me. I just thought um Alright. Well, the status of the update is and I'm gonna wrap this up. We are heading back to the bus, which is scheduled to leave DC. We were scheduled to leave within like a half hour or so from now anyway, so we're heading back to the bus. so that we can don't miss it and we can get back home. But uh those of us here today that were planning to stay longer, they have uh they have been told that they have to leave. There's a mandatory curfew of six o'clock. Everybody got alerts on their Phones that get out uh worse that effect. So uh apparently there's been some uh indiscretions at the Capitol. I don't know the nature of it. Apparently some tear gas was fired and uh all sorts of commotion, maybe some rubber bullets or something, somebody I think said. Proud boys uh are rumored to have been involved in some way, don't really know. I'm not trusting a whole lot of that, just telling you what I've heard. I'll try to confirm it. through other w witness information later. Woo Oh you hear that wind? I can feel that wind. Man, that one cuts right through. Cuts right through. I don't care what you're wearing, it goes right through those clothes. This is like being in Chicago. Man. Alright, so anyway, I'm gonna turn this around, give you one last little scenic pan around view before we Close this up. So this is the Department of Agriculture building apparently. We got some big fancy buildings In need of a power washing, that's for sure. There's the Washington Monument. It was at the base of that monument where all the people were gathered earlier today. And it was a sea of people. I don't know what the estimate crowd estimates are gonna end. up being but it would had to be hundreds of thousands of people. I wouldn't be surprised it was over a million. I I don't know. Two million. I don't know how to gauge that. It was just people everywhere. Uh all ages. Uh mostly white, I will say. But but mixed. It wasn't exclusively white. No. Black people, Asians, Hispanic. And I saw a sign that somebody I think had been wearing on their shirt that it's like sell off or something. And it said it's okay to be white. Which is good to know 'cause I wasn't sure. By the way, when it comes to the mixture of crowds, I think there's more white people in the country generally That's it. I think generally anywhere you go where there's a crowd seem mostly white. It could be mostly white because the country is majority Caucasian. So I don't see that as negative then um the crowd is enjoying caucasians with a mixture of other ethnicities because that's the way it generally is anyway. I think you can get the key cap in the buttons. Like this. Um, the agent and the standard idea. Short is Uh and over the big deal. I think that might have been our bus. But he's going around the block, I think. Right, right, right. No, I think he's gonna 'cause that's all one way streets and stuff in DC's. I think he's going around the block. So so yeah, the the only other thing I mentioned in another video that I haven't included as a wrap up here is there there was a vehicle had a strange weird wire connected from the engine to the back like where the gas tank is and some guy was convinced it was a bomb. And you I don't think it was a bomb, but you never can't be too careful, so uh particularly with what happened uh on Christmas. So anyway, yes, our bus is gonna be over here. So anyway, I'm gonna sign off now so we can get on the bus without any incident and then head on our way home. For those of you who are rooting for other outcomes, we are gonna make it home safe, sorry to disappoint. For those that were wanted to see us get home safe. Glad to report. Looks like it's gonna happen. God bless. And I'm back and the reason I'm back is we've got a couple of patriots here who were shot at with rubber bullets and pepper sprayed. So let me uh I'm gonna turn this around. So you were explaining before what happened. So a bunch of people decided that that there was an opportunity to that triggered rushing the capital s what how how does how to start? Wait, we started before just talking Right, okay, yeah, as people begin to disperse while he's talking. I don't know, we would uh interpret man who's house is it? It's our house. And it is our house. Yeah it's our house. Right. The barriers come down and we went with the flow. So so so a number of people started to rush forward and you went with 'em? Yeah. And so then they sprayed you with pepper spray? Oh yeah. Once we got up there against the wall. And so you I see you're rubbing well don't rub your eyes, but y it looked like you were trying to rub your eyes before and so you're still stinging from it? A little bit, yeah. It wasn't bad. No. It wasn't as bad as what they got. Rubber bullets had more than you had one, right? You have a rubber bullet that you can show? Oh yeah. I think two actually. How many people do you think it was that's that uh that that were involved with rushing forward with? And and that hit ya. Oh yeah. Yeah? What's that feel like? Not bad. I mean it takes for a second. Yeah. Get your attention. Wow. So your motivation for doing that was what? I don't know it's just pretty much the spring happening. It's my third time down here and uh everybody's nice. Everybody's working people, just plain normal country, cities, just working people that work for a living. You feel like we've we've reached a break? Breaking point, like a pivot point? Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. We have. We have reached it. I think it's today started. So when you got sprayed and then hit with the rubber bullets, is that when you're like, okay, it's time to turn around and be done? Uh we just we stared for a while. It just wasn't that bad really. Now some people got inside, right? Yeah. Yeah. They w we were down there with the the peasants and they were the bunch had their attention on us. And then a group went around the side and went on and that was awful. No, I don't think So, I think that's a good thing. They went back. They they all turned around and said they were going back. Huh. Because they were It was just normal baby wife. It was just spontaneous? Was there anything that triggered it? No. I think that was it. We was walking and we just it really never stopped walking. So we got there. I mean the ahead of us people took the railing there. I mean they went right through the barrier. So you were walking and you were kind of shaking the barrier a little bit and they got their gun out and pointed them at you and that's when everybody was like it's our house and ran forward, is that what happened? Yeah, we were there. Yeah. And they was up along the wall. Right, the snipers kind of thing? In their black outfits. Right. Right. Yeah. So what do you think was accomplished today or what do you hope was accomplished today? I just think they got their attention. The last two times they they downplayed everything And the American people just take it in transport. If people carry guys, don't tread on me. If they didn't tread on me it's time to Yeah yeah and I heard you talk before about them uh taking everybody's money and taking our grandkids' money Absolutely. Every time they're in that building, all they're doing, they don't do anything to help us. When they're in that building, all they're doing is spending our money, our grandkids' money, and lying in their pockets With kick kickback. That's all they do. If if uh it's one o'clock on January twentieth and Biden has been inaugurated well, what would you think would happen next? Well we think that's what it does. Uh I don't know. I don't think it's finished. And do you think there's still hope between now and January twentieth for something to happen? I'm hoping but uh Well one of the things I've noticed uh when we came in the in the bus uh this morning the the attitude was way more upbeat and this afternoon is Yeah, you are happy? Why so? Because we definitely got to do LD and I do some same thing. They can try. That's one of the reasons we're using social media too, right? So they know what actually happened, right? History happened today, right? Did you hear any estimates about the size of the crowd? No, I didn't. There's four to the first one. I knew there were a million people. I know. They estimated the first one at a million and this is bigger? Yeah, there's some aerial shots you can find that that keeps that other people have on social media and it's pretty impressive the sea of people. So back in uh two thousand when it was up there. There's our business when I came down here. Well thank you. Thank you. Appreciate you sharing your story. Alright, I'm gonna head back to my seat because I think we're gonna be departing in just a couple of minutes and I don't want to hold everybody up. So anyway, till next time. God bless.