Welcome to the uh Household of Faith in Christ livestream. If it looks a little cockeyed, but I don't know if I can fix it back quickly or not. I'll try, and if I can't, then we'll just be a little cockeyed. I'm not seeing it. That looks better. See if it stays there. Yeah, okay, do you have it? No? No, don't do that. Maybe something I'm doing. Well I don't want to move forward if it's not actually working. Oh now we're live, yes. I had a reset. All right. All right. Well, we are a little bit earlier on the live stream today than we have been in the past, so we're trying a couple of Different ideas here at Household of Faith in Christ. If you'd like to learn more about what we're all about, visit us online at householdfaithinchrist. com, Household of Faith in Christ We're in the book of Revelation, so if you want to get your Bibles ready, we're going to be jumping right in here in just a second. We'll be looking particularly at Revelation chapter 14. We're also going to have a uh A short pit stop in Jeremiah chapter 51, verses 7 and 8 specifically, and in Isaiah 63. So if you want to bookmark those or get there quickly in the sermon, you can. Verses 3 through 6 and Isaiah 63 specifically. So again, our primary text is in Revelation 14, also Jeremiah 51 and Isaiah. 63. The message tonight is titled The Universal Completeness of Judgment In our study of the book of Revelation, we have recently exited the sixth of seven symbolic histories in the books. Specifically, I am talking about verses 6 through 11 of chapters 14, but more broadly we can also speak about chapters 12 through 14. Uh the visions in this section, they're they're leading into what awaits in chapter 15 with the bull judgments. Those being poured out, and this sets the stage for the final cycle of seven. This cycle of seven provides the spine, the outline, the structure for the apocalypse. And we also see now the set stage is being set for the final of four explicit views of God's warnings and his wrath and all of this Concludes, of course, with a second advent, the return of the Lamb, our glorious King. This is where we are now. The start of the seventh and final symbolic history in the book of Revelation as we read the last portion of chapter 14, beginning with verse 14. I looked, and there before me was a white cloud, and seated on the cloud was one like a son of man with a crown of gold on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand. Then another angel came out of the temple and called in a loud voice to him who was sitting on the cloud, Take your sickle and reap, because the time to reap has come, for the harvest of the earth is ripe So he who was seated on the cloud swung his sickle over the earth, and the earth was harvested. Another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he he too had a sharp sickle. Still another angel, who had charge of the fire, came from the altar and called in a loud voice to him who had the sharpsickle, Take your sharpsickle and gather the clusters of grapes from the earth's vine, because its grapes are ripe. The angel swung his sickle on the earth, gathered its grapes, and threw them into the great winepress of God's wrath. They were trampled in the wine press outside the city. And blood flowed out of the press, rising as high as the horses' bridles for a distance of sixteen hundred stadia. This is the inspired and therefore inerrant infallible word of God. Fully sufficient rule and guide for our faith and our life practice. Those with ears to hear, let them hear. This part of the Bible sounds pretty nasty to some, but there is so much blessedness in this vision as well, and we're going to get to that. Mostly next week. But for this week, let's mostly take time to address address the nasty. The grim reaper. Swinging his sharp sickle, having charge over the fire, and squishing people under his feet like overripe grapes. Nasty. Why? Why so nasty All I really could say to somebody who asks a question like that is, have you already forgotten the passage that immediately precedes this one? The evil world and its evil power structures have been reveling in the consumption of their wine of fornication. Babylon is utterly intoxicated by her orgy of rebellion. She's shaking her fist in God's face. And she is doing what she can to get everyone, even you if possible, to shake your fist to. As in Old Testament times, when Jeremiah wrote in his 51st chapter, Babylon was a gold cup in the Lord's hand. She made the whole earth drunk. The nations drank her wine, therefore they have now gone mad. Babylon will suddenly fall and be broken. Wail over her. Get balm for her pain. Perhaps she can be healed Yeah, perhaps. She could have been healed from the venereal disease caused by her spiritual prostitution But she arrogantly refused the biblical balm of gospel truth. And even today, we can see a number of even secular Poet philosophers who seem to recognize the truth of the situation. We take Bruce Friedenstein, for example. Not everybody's a big fan of Bruce Springsteen, but for those who are, I think they they would appreciate these words from what I think are one of his best songs, in my opinion. Seems like I'm caught up in your trap again. Seems like I'll be wearing the same old chains. Seems like I've been playing your game way too long. Seems the game I've played has made you strong. Well now I'm trapped. Seems like I've been sleeping in your bed too long. Seems like you've been meaning to do me harm. Intuitively, we can all feel the tentacles of living a lie that that squeezes the life out of us. And this was true thousands of years ago as well. The children of Israel, they're a stiff-necked people. Wouldn't listen to Moses when he delivered to them the good news of deliverance. They were trapped in their bondage. Trapped not only by the Babylon of the day, which would have been Egypt and its Pharaoh, but trapped by their own attitudes and actions. They were afraid of the cruel slave master. They were more sinfully fearful of him than righteously fearful of God. And so they were immobilized by their submission to God's enemies. And in bondage to it. Now, in the case of God's chosen people, He rescues them in spite of themselves. He doesn't have to, which is why his grace is so amazing. But if he's not going to extend his mercy and grace for some people, well then for them he must execute judgment. If he is indeed a righteous judge, he must. And so this is what happens for those who have cast their lot with the devil. They receive the consequences of their corruption. They drink down the grapes of wrath. Sometimes we're tempted to water down this truth. But we have no freedom to do this. In verse 10 of chapter 14, we're explicitly told that God does not water down the wine of fury. It comes full strength The word that is used in verse 10 is thamos. It's very often translated as passion in other contexts. God's passion has been incited. He's hopping mad But I'm really wondering, is there a word that can truly in any human language capture totally the thrust of the meaning here? Now various English translations they try, they've attempted to do this in a variety of ways, which is why our English translations have different words in this verse. So you'll read words such as rage, anger, wrath Indignation? That's a good one. Indignation. God is indignant. He is beside himself with ire, acrimony, with vengeance. And what's with all the hostility? Well, let me remind us all of verse eight. The worldly harlot made all the nations drink the maddening wine of her adulteries. Part of this means that the harlot worked to intoxicate the masses, trying to get everyone to join the godless adultery. And in addition to this, with wine symbolizing blood Part of what this means is that the wine of her adulteries is talking about their rage directed at the saints. I want you to hear this. The wine in Babylon's cup is the blood of the saints. And now God turns around in a sense he's makes the harlot drink from her own cup. Every last drop. And this is why they feel the full weight and heat of the fiery sulfur and brimstone Just as had Sodom and Gomorrah, except this time it's on a cosmic scale. The beast The harlot, the attempt to mimic what the Lord does, to mimic who his bride is supposed to be. It's one gigantic fraud. All across the board. All the way down to trying to make demended little image bearers. This is what happens when the beast places his mark upon the pagans, the apostates. They become little lucifers. They're guilty of living life under the influence. The dragon's influence. Intoxicated, drunkenly staggering about Oh, while God has demonstrated an otherworldly level of patient endurance, how does He endure such sinfulness for so long? And his people try to live lives that follow this example we're supposed to, anyway. We endure because we know that God will make everything right. We are patient knowing that though we die in this life, everyone dies. But we are blessed because we are we're dying daily. In the Lord, we die to self so that we can live in Christ. And this is the plight of believers, and it is a benediction for believers. God's people, the woman, her offspring, words that we read earlier in the revelation, those who are engrafted to the root of faith, they do suffer. We do suffer. But not forever. It can feel like forever sometimes. But it's only twelve hundred and sixty days Forty-two months. Three and a half years. A time times and half a time. And three and a half years was a literary way of speaking about any period of great suffering, no matter how long, back in ancient Jewish literature. It was a literary device that was used back then. So the point here isn't to mark off the days on your calendar. Oh, one one less day to worry about. No, the point is that the suffering for God's elect is of a limited duration and it will end. And when it ends, it ends permanently because God deals permanently with the source of the suffering, and that's what we're reading about in Revelation 14. Our king returns riding upon clouds. It's described as a white cloud in verse 14, and this is certainly how the faithful would see it. Despite its brilliant whiteness, I can only imagine, however, that for the unrepentant, the reprobate, it might feel as though it's a very dark and stormy cloud. And to us, Christ's followers, the golden crown is a victor's laurel wreath. Worn by our conquering hero, and so we celebrate to the lost this golden crown Well, it's also the victor's laurel wreath worn by the one who crushes their head. And the head of the serpent. And he carries with him a sharp sickle. Now, FYI, as we continue our Long-standing Easter egg hunt, if you will, for the number seven, all of the sevens that are populating the book of Revelation. Did you notice the repetitive use of the word sickle? It appears in Revelation seven times. And all of them are in Revelation 14. In fact, all of them are within verses 14 through 19. By the way, the number 12, we've talked about this frequently being employed by John in the book of Revelation as well, and we see that number in chapter 14, too, if we if we know to look for it. See, the Apostle John, he is commanded throughout this book to write twelve times in the Revelation. He is told to write twelve words from God. Well, one of these twelve words is right here in verse 13 of chapter 14. I find it interesting that there are twelve words that John must write for God's church. Because the church is symbolized in the book of Revelation by the number 12. And so there are 12 for the 12. There are 12 words for the 12 of God. Well, we're on the subject of symbolic number usage. I should probably take the opportunity to mention the four ports of the universe that were listed in verse 7. You see there the heavens, the earth, the sea, the springs of water. You see that? In other words, talking here about all of creation And this fourfold encapsulation of the creation that's presented to us elsewhere in Revelation. We saw it earlier in chapter 8, and we're going to see it again in chapter 16. And I believe that all of this symbolic math, it also helps us to understand verse 20 here in chapter 14. What's meant by the phrase, for a distance of 1600 stadia? There's been abundant speculation about this number over the years. And unfortunately, some of our English translations don't really do us any favors in trying to figure it all out. Because some of our translations they say 1600 furlongs, which is fine, I suppose. But others they say 200 miles. There are others that say 180 miles. There are metric folks out there, they say 300 kilometers. There's at least one English Bible that says 186 miles. There's another that says 185 miles. Rather, bizarrely, the New Living Translation out in Left Field somewhere, they've opted for the translation as far as a man could walk in seven days. Would depend on the man, I suppose. Now the Greek here, it involves just four words. Achbo, which means to the distance of. Chileon, which means 1000, Hexacosion, which means 600, and Stadion, which means stadia. So the most direct translation of the Greek into English would be to the distance of 1,600 stadia, or to the distance of 1600 stadia. It's pretty straightforward. I don't know why we have to make things so complicated. It's probably mostly because of that word stadia. What the heck is a stadia? As you might imagine, it is a unit of measure, and sort of like today, you know, for a distance we might speak in terms of blocks. But back in Roman times, they didn't talk about blocks, they talked about stadia. So they're giving somebody directions saying, oh, you know, you are so close to where you want to be. You're only about really six or seven stadia away, really, from being up well on your way. So just go down the corner, turn left, go down about three stadia, you see a gas station, hang a right, then you're gonna want to drive maybe another four or five stadia, and you'll start to see the signs for the highway. Just follow the exit sign from there and you should be good to go. Now each of these stadia, these blocks, if you will. would have been about 607 feet as we measure things in the West today. And so is this the same as a furl long? It's a fair question. The answer is actually no. But close. A furlong is 660 feet, so it's a tad more than a stadia. Well, why do so many of our English Bibles say furlongs if it's not exactly the same measure? Well, like I said, it is pretty close And it's the closest English unit of measure that the King James translators could think of back 400 years ago. And ever since then, lots of translators have decided to defer to what the King James has done in this verse. Alright, so that explains furlongs, but what about all these various numbers of miles that we find? Well the exact number of miles, as I do the math, would be about 184. Some translators, they've rounded the numbers a little bit differently when they do the math, and so they might come up with 180 or 185 or even 186 Now those who have opted for 200 miles, I feel they have just given in to Roundup craziness, probably because the 1600 is a really nice even round number and they probably wanted to somehow mimic this nice even roundness with 200. I would suggest the same with the 300 kilometers people as well. But I guess you'd have to ask those translators yourself. That's my guess, but you'd have to ask them to see if my guess is right. But anyway, with a lot of that kind of generally sort of figured out. What did John have in mind? Because that's what we care about. Well, there are a few legitimate options, and I think all of them have some merit. And they all kind of point in the same direction. Now one option it points us to the literal geography of the Promised Land. The north-south Length, the region, the length of that region that we now today oftentimes refer to as Palestine, that entire area would fit within the 1600 stadia. Actually, with a bit of room to spare. So it's all of the promised land and then some. And the and then sum, I think, is important. Now since a Roman stadia was 625 Roman feet, and not to be confused, you might remember I just said it was 607 feet. Well that's English feet, that's Western feet. The measures are a little bit different. So for the Romans, a foot was a slightly uh slightly different measure than the foot today. And so a stadia would have 625 Roman feet. And so if you had 1,600 of them, 1600 stadia means that you would have precisely, do you have anybody happen to know off the top of their head what 625 times 1600 is? One million. You would have precisely one million Roman feet. Talk about round numbers. To the ancient mind, something as large as a million anything would be nearly impossible to fathom. I mean, even today we have a hard time fathoming one million, don't we? Try imagining a stack of one million pennies. What does that look like? Can you even picture that in your mind? I mean it's a million is a huge number. We talk about a million as a way of illustrating a huge number. And even in a day of runaway inflation, we're still kind of impressed by the idea of a millionaire, aren't we? Well, so this is talking about the land. It's using this conceptual idea of a huge number. It's conceptually talking about far more than just Palestine. I suggest that perhaps the entire earth is what is on John's mind Another really cool and I think really helpful way to think about all of this is to consider the numbers four and ten. Fore touched upon the number four today, right, symbolically representing the creation. And in previous discussions, we have talked about the number 10 and how it is a number for perfection, particularly as it relates to The creation, things related to the creation, like the law that governs the creation and our responsibility within and for the creation and the completeness of the order within creation? So there are ten commandments. A tithe is ten percent. I don't know if you ever notice this, but the phrase God said, it appears ten times in the creation narrative in Genesis chapter 1. To testimony to our maker's creative power. 10 is what is called a perfect numeral, along with the numbers 3, 7, and 12. The number 10 is comprised of two other really important numbers that are added together. It is 4 plus 6. 4 again represents the creation. Six represents man, which is the crowning achievement of creation. You put them together, you get 10, the number that governs the creation. And it's not without significance that the Passover lamb in Israel, it was selected on the tenth day of the first month. And the tenth day of the seventh month was the holiest of days. It was a day of atonement. And there's a lot more actually could be said about the number 10, but I think the point is illustrated sufficiently enough for now. Okay, great. What does that have to do with Revelation 14? It ties directly into what some have called the Apocalyptic arithmetic. We've been talking about all the numerology within the book of Revelation throughout our series. And the phrase for that that people like to use, theologians use, is apocalyptic arithmetic. So you take the number of creation, the number of the four quarters of the world, and you square it. What's the square of four? Four times four is sixteen. Now you take the number 10, the number of completeness in the created order, and of legal requirement, and you square that. What does that give you? 10 times 10 gives you 100. So what I'm getting at here, in other words, is we have a formula. We have 4 times 4 times 10 times 10. And what's that give you? Gives you 1600. Another way to do the math is to multiply 4 and 10. 4 times 10, it gives us 40. That's another hugely symbolic number in the Bible. What's the square of 40? 40 times 40 is 1600. However, you choose to do the math and show your work, you get to 1600. Which seems to be telling us, listen guys, the whole entire planet is in view here, man. There's going to be seas of blood all over the place So you see there's a reason you learn math in grade school. I know we all protested, well I'm ever gonna use this stuff. Well I suggest to you that we're using it now and That proves that we learned math all those years ago so that we could better understand the revelation. Okay, so now let's uh inject back into the discussion the image of the blood that's up to the horse's bridle. There's no mistaking the meaning. We have had painted for us a word picture that depicts total, complete, worldwide judgment from God. and the absolute horror of the punishment. John has given us different words to say what is written in Isaiah chapter 63. I have stomped grapes in the winepress all by myself. No one from the nations joined me. I stomped on them in my anger. I trampled them down in my rage. Their juice splashed on my garments, stained all my clothes. For I looked forward to the day of vengeance, and then payback time arrived. So my right arm accomplished deliverance My raging anger drove me on. I trampled the nations in my anger. I made them drunk in my rage. I splashed their blood on the ground. This is a judgment taking place outside the city, as it says in Revelation. John appears to be channeling his inner Joel, his inner Zechariah as he says these things. Joel in chapter 3 writes, I will gather all the nations and bring them down to the valley of Jehosaphat. I will enter into judgment against them there. There's a play on words going on here. Jehoshaphat, that's a Hebrew word. It means the Lord has judged. The location of this valley is uncertain, but it is widely believed to possibly be the Kidron Valley. which is located outside the city of Old Jerusalem, near the Mount of Olives. It's also possible, even probable really, that there's an eschatological meaning, an end times meaning that's intended in the imagery that supersedes any sort of proximate locale, specific geography in favor of an idealized picture, symbolic picture of the end times judgment For instance, in Zechariah 14, we read, The day of the Lord is about to come when your possessions will be divided as plunder in your midst, for I will gather all the nations against you. Jerusalem to wage war, the city will be taken, its houses plundered, and the women raked. Then half the city will go into exile, but the remainder of the people will not be taken. Then the Lord will go to battle and fight against those nations, just as he fought battles in ancient days. On that day his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives that lies to the east of Jerusalem, and the Mount of Olives will be split in half from east to west, leaving a great valley. Half the mountain would move northward and the other half southward. So it's all very dramatic, isn't it? And people are worried about it. And they should be. If they're not in Christ. The penalty is drastic. It's above almost everything else to be dreaded But I want you to note that I just chose my words carefully. I said, above almost everything else. It is to be dreaded. So severe as the penalty, the punishment is, what we should dread even more is sin itself. Sin kills. And it is true that death is an enemy. Sin devastates lives. It brings with it misery and ostracism and Really ordeals that are too numerous to name. Sin destroys. It kills. So only a fool wouldn't recognize the despair of death and so dread it. But more than this Sin brings dysfunction into relationships. It brings separation from God. But it's dishonoring to God. As the late Robert Charles Sproull used to say Sin is cosmic treason. As bad as the punishment for committing such treason might be The treason itself is worse. Dread the sin more than the punishment Because if you don't, then you just could have a pretty healthy view of punishment. But still have a very anemic view of God. We're going to work to bolster your spiritual constitution next week, God willing. We're going to add an iron supplement to everyone's diet, helping us all hopefully to more richly appreciate the one like a son of man, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. And my expectation is that We will all be very encouraged by the preaching of God's Word next week. And while the message this week might have been a bit more on the somber side, Well the hope is that my brothers and sisters have been encouraged by it as well. Let me close a word of prayer. Father, we love you and trust you because you are a God who knows all things, can do all things, cares for all of your people in ways that we can't even imagine or fully appreciate. We know that you have a plan and we trust you and your plan and your provision. We know that you're a holy and righteous God. When we sin against you, that we are committing high treason, the highest of treason. And yet through the provision of a sacrifice in the person and work of your son Jesus Christ, You have set apart a people for yourself. Called us to live increasingly holy lives as we await the day of glorious reunion in the heavenlies as the heavenlies. Join the earth. We pray that all who read your word, who hear your word preached, who Experience being witnessed to by believers who are faithful and sharing the gospel, that their hearts would be pricked, they would recognize their their brokenness, their fallenness, their sinfulness, their treasonous position. And they would turn from their sin, turn to Christ, that they would have the provision of everlasting life that we do We praise you and thank you for these truths. We thank you that we still have the opportunity to share these truths with a large amount of freedom that still exists. All these things we lift up in the name of our Lord, our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen I am going to stop the stream. Again, if you'd like to uh follow the uh series, learn more about the series, um, or hear other messages in the series, they're all available at our website If you want to know more about what we're uh what we're all about, if you want people to pray for you, or you have a theological question, or you're looking for a church, and if it's not local, you're you want help finding a church where you are, just reach out to us, Household of Faith in Christ. There's all our contact information Till next time, God bless