And it looks like looks like we're live. So welcome to the live stream portion of What we do here at Household of Faith in Christ every Saturday. If you'd like to learn more about us, find us online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Today we are going to be in Revelation chapter 14 one more time. We've been there for the last few sermons. We're going to be there this one last time. We're also going to touch on, I don't expect you to be able to turn there, but just so you know you can look them up later, uh, Lamentations 1, Joel 3, John 4, Matthew 9 and 13, Luke 10 Isaiah chapters 17 and 63, Jeremiah 49, we're going to be alluding to all those places. So lots of Bible in the sermon today. Most of them will be allusions, no, not a not a whole lot of uh citation of those of those verses, but we will have a lengthy reading. I'm going to read the entirety of chapter fourteen here in a second. Today's message is titled One hundred and forty-four K, three angels, and the lamb's harvest Let me uh clear my throat. So when I was a very young boy, probably about five, six years of age, Um do we need to move that back a little bit? That's awkwardly positioned. You want to slide that back a little bit? The lamp? It's like right in the line of sight. Oh, you mean Angela. Yeah, no, the I was thinking the other way. Yeah, because yeah, is that better? Is that better? Oh, it's fine. Oh, okay. No, it's okay, sorry. Anyway, so as I was mentioning when I was a young boy, about five, six years old, my grandfather owned a early nineteen sixties model American Motors Rambler. And I I think It was the 1962 AMC Rambler Ambassador. And I looked it up recently, and apparently it got about 12 miles to the gallon. Which I think actually was considered pretty okay back then. And its color was called Elmhurst Green Metallic. And I wonder if that's why my grandfather bought the car, because he grew up in and around Elmhurst Illinois. And the car was Elmhurst Green. So I I I wonder about that. Now I'm not sure if this car had seat belts, because if it did, well we we never wore them, because almost nobody wore seatbelts back in the sixties and seventies. And so I would sit in the front seat without wearing a seatbelt, and then as we were driving through town, my grandfather, he would often allow me to kind of slide over onto his lap, and therefore I could drive And uh I couldn't reach the pedals, so he handled the uh the the brake and and the gas, but I could hold on to that steering wheel And he would even let go of the steering wheel with his hands. So I really felt like I was driving the car. But he was actually still steering the car, he would lift his legs up his one of his legs up underneath the steering wheel, press his knee against the underside and shift his leg back and forth to handle the the direction that the the car uh was going. But I felt like I was steering And it was fun. I felt like such a big boy, you know? Something that today's kids don't really get the advantage of of experiencing anything like that today. Because I felt like I was being trusted to have control over the car. At least in my own imagination I was. Yet the truth is my grandfather was still doing the driving. He had control, not me. And that's a good thing, because I'm not sure if I would be here today, be telling this story if I had had the proverbial reins handed over to me as a five year old, because landing in the ditch would have been a best case scenario in all likelihood My grandfather, he wasn't the sharpest guy. And he wasn't always a particularly good grandfather. But he knew enough to keep me safe on the road as we were traveling through town in the car. And you know, there's a sense in which, a hyper sense in which this is also true of God. In a colossal and perfect kind of way. I think I have control. But God has me on his lap. And he is a big God. So he can reach the foot pedals. And he's steering me. His chosen child. He's steering me to heaven. The proverbial reins that I mentioned, they're in his hands. And he keeps me spiritually safe on life's road. And how thankful I am for that. And my brothers and sisters, I'm thinking you must surely be thankful for this too. Because you are involved in navigating around and through various potholes and lots of hazards. But spiritually speaking, you are held in God's lap, his arms around you. Have you ever considered what it would mean for you if this wasn't the case? What if God gave you full and total control. What if he removed his hands? He turned your journey over to you without a sustaining hand of support So that you have full jurisdiction, full say over where you're headed. What would happen? Revelation chapter 14 is what would happen In this chapter, we see that Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, has charge over his troops. He keeps them safe as he leaves them. And so, quite literally, praise God that you're a member of his army. Because if you're not a member of his army, well then you are not headed for heaven. Instead, you're headed for the winepress. Now there are others who do not follow Jesus, they're not part of his army, and they like to say things like, My body, my choice! Straight into hell. I'll do it my way. Right into the path of that sharp swinging sickle We don't need God. We're masters of our own destiny. Indeed To anyone who thinks like this, the peril that's faced by them is nearly incomprehensible. So I invite all to listen carefully to the sufficient, infallible, inerrant, inspired Word of God. As we did when we wrapped up our look at chapter 13 of the book of Revelation, we are going to again sit under the reading of an entire chapter, this time chapter 14, as today we wrap up our look at this portion of the book of Revelation. Then I looked, and there before me was the lamb standing on Mount Zion. And with him one hundred and forty-four thousand who had his name and his father's name written on their foreheads. And I heard a sound from heaven, like the roar of rushing waters. And like a sni a loud peal of thunder. The sound I heard was like that of harpists playing their harps And they sang a new song before the throne, and before the four living creatures, and the elders. No one could learn the song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from the earth. These are those who did not defile themselves with women, for they kept themselves pure. They followed the Lamb wherever he goes. They were purchased from among men and offered as firstfruits to God and the Lamb. No lie was found in their mouths. They are blameless. Then I saw another angel flying in mid-air, and he had the eternal gospel to proclaim to those who live on the earth, to every nation, tribe, language, and people. He said in a loud voice, Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come. Worship him who made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs of water. A second angel followed and said, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great, which made all the nations drink the maddening wine of her adulteries. A third angel followed them and said in a loud voice, If anyone worships the beast and his image and receives his mark on the forehead or on the hand, he too will drink of the wine of God's fury, which has been poured full strength into the cup of his wrath. He will be tormented with burning sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment rises forever and ever. There is no rest, day or night, for those who worship the beast and his image. Or for anyone who receives the mark of his name. This calls for patient endurance on the part of the saints who obey God's commandments and remain faithful to Jesus. Then I heard a voice from heaven say, Write. Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Yes, says the Spirit, they will rest from their labor, for their deeds will follow them. I looked, and there before me was a white cloud, and seated on the cloud was one like a son of man, with a crown of gold on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand. Then another angel came out of the temple and called in a loud voice to him who was sitting on the cloud, Take your sickle, and reap, because the time to reap has come. For the harvest of the earth is ripe. So he who was seated on the cloud swung his sickle over the earth, and the earth was harveste Another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he too had a sharp sickle Still another angel who had charge of the fire came from the altar and called in a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle, take your sharp sickle and gather the clusters of grapes from the earth's vine Because its grapes are ripe. The angel swung his sickle on the earth, gathered its grapes, and threw them into the great winepress of God's wrath They were trampled in the wine press outside the city. And blood flowed out of the press. As high as the horses' bridles for a distance of 1600 stadia What a powerful set of visions we have in this chapter. You know, the Apostle John, he is said to be in the Spirit four times in the Apocalypse, and this chapter isn't even one of those four times. Goodness. Those four times, if you're interested, by the way, they're found in chapters 1, 4, 17, and 21. The opening paragraph of this chapter paints such a splendid picture of the faithful, doesn't it Willingly singing God's praises, no lies in their mouths, sealed by God and so obedient? Presented as blameless, no defilement with women, in other words, no idolatry They follow their king wherever he goes. Is this supposed to be us? It doesn't seem possible. But it's true. This is how the bridegroom sees his bride To the Spirit is making his church to be. And when we eternally join the Father in glory, this is precisely and perfectly who we will be. The handful of paragraphs that follow the first tell us that there is an eternal gospel that's proclaimed, and in conjunction with this, there's the proclamation of judgment. The utter darkness that's portrayed is like that of black velvet. I mean, it's dark So it's a good thing that the light of the gospel is also in view in this passage. The evil world powers they fall. So that's good, but not without the worldly powers doing what they can to bring others with them on their plummet into the depths of depravity, the reprobate, they are out of their mind, mad with adulterous drunkenness. They worship that which is evil. And this comes to define their very identity. Ultimately, their insurrection against the Lord's throne. It's met by the furious wrath of God, poured out full strength, bringing torment. Before holy witnesses for age upon age upon age But for those who are walking the narrow way or entering heaven through the gate that is Jesus Christ of Nazareth for them, for us We are blessed. We're rewarded. We find rest. This is what awaits in the future So praise be to God, that's what awaits. But these things are also part of our experience, certain aspects anyway. Now As the church patiently and faithfully endures. And how do we do this? By obeying God Now the next portion of the chapter begins with the phrase that includes the word lo or behold, depending on The English translation. But sadly, the NIV doesn't have such a word as this. And I say sadly because what I read from today was the 1984 edition of the New International Version It's too bad the NIV misses this word. It misses it actually in verse 1 as well. And it's a real bummer because the pop of the passage, it is in my view, significantly lessened as a result. Now the NIV, you might have noted, it simply says, the lamb standing on Mount Zion in verse 1. And in verse 14, I looked, and there before me was a white cloud, and the one like a son of man. Well, how much better if the translators of the NIV didn't, in this particular instance, overly clean up the text? Because in the Greek, it really should be, I looked and behold the Lamb. The idea is I looked and holy smokes, the lamb. I looked and whoa Upon the white cloud was the Son of Man. I looked and wow! I looked and my breath left me. I looked at Sam We're talking about the one true God of the universe, right? I mean, John was gobsmacked by what he saw I wonder. Are you Godsmacked? By our flabbergasting king. Our king who sends his angels to address temporal Babylon with dire warnings and eternal individuals with sober realities. Some of those warned can include even those who erroneously think they have God on their side Like in Lamentations chapter 1. The Lord has rejected all the warriors in my midst. He has summoned an army against me to crush my young men. In his wine press the Lord has trampled the virgin daughter of Judah. Now, in case you're confused by that last line in my view, it's meant to be at least partially an epithet. Because Jerusalem had sinned greatly. So in other words, the so-called virgin daughter of Judah. Even for those who haven't sinned as badly as others, they all still live in the same dysfunctional world. And so They might be living out the words you find in Joel chapter 3 verse 13. They cast lots for my people and traded boys for prostitutes. They sold girls for wine that they might drink. Epstein Island is nothing new. As God's people, we are guaranteed victory in Christ. But that doesn't mean that there isn't sometimes a feeling of something that approaches hell on earth Because the shots are fired in the spiritual war. If you're following the Lord Jesus, then you're not among the grapes that are utterly crushed. So hang in there. Because God knows what he's doing. He truly does, and he will harvest the grapes. The idea of an enemy being destroyed, that's what's alluded to by the gathering of the grapes, as we see also in Isaiah chapter 17 and in Jeremiah chapter 49. And so once more we see how steeped the Apostle John was in the Old Testament as he wrote down these visions that he received from Christ. Now the harvest of grain, that's often a more familiar image for Christians. Jesus, he tells the parables about the good and the bad seed. They grow up together. At the time of the harvest, the good grain is gathered along with the weeds, but they are separated and all that isn't ripe grain is burned up, thrown into the fiery furnace where they're will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, and then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their father. Tells us in Matthew chapter 13. With this parable and related ideas in mind, here's a word that I have for your consideration. Each and every one of us is trending toward ripeness. Each and every one. Is yours the ripeness of the grain? Meaning the ripeness of righteousness? Or is yours the ripeness of the grapes? Meaning the ripeness of rebellion, ripeness of sin. What will your harvesting yield? When you're ripe and it's time to face the sharp sickle, which will it be for you Will it be the ingathering of beautiful, mature wheat, or will we the cutting away of the bloated blood-filled grapes? That are consigned to everlasting hellfire, to the everlasting bloodbath of the wine press. You know, this sort of language, I alluded to this last week, it can sound mean to some people And because it can sound mean to some people, this is why we have an abundance of heretics who are out there lying to large groups of itching ears. Telling them that God of love would never do this, even if he's told us in his word that he does in fact do this. But it's not mean. It's the act of a divinely loving and just God. When we talk about God bringing judgment, another way of saying the exact same thing, because it's the exact same word in the original language, by the way, God is bringing justice. That's not mean. That's good news. And these idolaters that face the judgment, face the justice of God, they stand guilty of far more than some Mere intellectual misunderstanding. Now they do prefer New Age spiritualism or humanist atheism instead of the truth. That's that's for sure. I mean, is that so bad? Well, actually, yes, it is bad. And they deserve to be smitten if only for that But it's so much more than that, so far, far worse than just that. Because what's being written about here in Revelation is a system of abominations, a systemically sensual evil, a devilish religion devoted to its own unbridled earthly will. That's where their loyalties lie. For them, there's an air of ceremony attached to giving themselves over to Molech. Giving themselves over in mind and motivation. The mark that they have on their heads, on their hands, this tells us that they are committed in their thinking and in their actions to the purposes of the beast. Their moral failure is a sin against God and against neighbor. And even against self. God given so much There's no excuse for wasting it. But worse than wasting it The devil worshippers of the beastly rule. They put what God's given to them to use for vile, ugly purposes, lust. Pride, cruelty, oppression, it's an abomination to the core. It's an outward fall that We can see all around us. We see it, don't we? We see this outward fall, the evidence of evidence of it all around us. But it's also an inward fall. And it shows itself only in a way that we can only see the very tip of the iceberg. I mean, you think you've seen evil? I trust that you have. I believe you when you tell me you've seen evil But whatever you see, that's not anywhere near even the half of what God sees. And I know I pushed this next point over and over again nearly every week, it seems to me I bring this up, because I want you to absolutely 100% get it And never lose it. We're at war We are at war. It is a startlingly breathtaking war. The lamb and the dragon brutally engaged. And we are more than mere spectators because the beasts in the church are brutally engaged. It's not that we don't win. We do, because God wins. So we want to always keep at the center of our focus the glorious Son of Man riding on his clouds of power You know, God appearing in the clouds, that's a recurring sign in the Old Testament of God's majestic presence with his people. And we can see it in the New Testament too, the Apostle John, he had seen it before, earlier in his life. Right, the Mount of Transfiguration. He also sees the clouds of power with Jesus Messiah ascending to heaven following his resurrection. And Jesus Messiah, he is a righteous God. He is a righteous Christ. And the whiteness of the cloud, it signifies this. And It's proven how righteous he is when we see the replacement of a thorny crown with the golden crown. And he comes in righteous rule and judgment. Now, only the Father knows the exact time of the final judgment. Christ tells us this in the gospel accounts And we're reminded of this fact in verse 15 of today's passage. Because Christ, in his humanity, is informed by the Father through an angel from the temple of God that it is time. To wield the sickle and reap. There is an ultimate final end when Jesus returns and totally, completely consummates his kingdom. But let's not be misled Because there's also an aspect in which we are in the era of judgment, even now Verse 15 says, the hour has come. The moment for reaping is here. And what's interesting is that in the Greek, the word in this verse is ora, which can be translated as era And we should remember that Jesus told his disciples that the entire period of time from Christ's first advent, which we celebrate during this time of the year, From his first Advent to His return in glory of his second Advent, that entire period of time is the season, is the era, is the aura of the harvest. In John's gospel account in chapter 4, the Lord says, the fields are all ready, ripe for harvest. In Matthew chapter 9, in Luke chapter 10, Jesus says the harvest is plentiful. But the workers are few. So get to work. Testify who Jesus is. Go about the business of making disciples. Now some, as they go about this business of trying to make disciples, they will, some will respond favorably Others, they will harden their hearts further. And so the wicked with unrepentant hearts of stone, ultimately they will be smashed like grapes. as their own fury gets turned in upon itself. And we're about to transition into a new section of the Revelation in our next sermon in the Revelation series. As we prepare to move on, I hope that you continue to be able to see how well everything is being knit together in this story, in this narrative, in this letter that we have. From God's heavenly throne room in chapter 5, we were shown the rising prayers then from the incense altar in chapter 6. And these prayers of the martyrs are answered to a certain extent anyway in chapters 8 through 11, as the angel who's in charge of the incense ignites the cycle of plagues. If you're remembering some of these images. And that same angel shows up again here in chapter 14 as the one who's given authority over the fire upon the incense altar. So once more, we are treated to the overlap of imagery by John in his repetitive cycle of vision, showing us the truth of the person and work of Jesus Christ. Doing so from multiple perspectives. And it's not just John who does this in Revelation. The whole Bible actually does this. The Messiah is the one shown as being trodden underfoot. in God's judgment as the representative of his peop of his peop uh of his people in Isaiah 63. And the result is that he the promised anointed one becomes our redemption. Now here in Revelation we see our Christ as the judge at the end, having once been trodden underfoot, but now he's doing the treading underfoot. In God's righteous anger of the forever stubborn We don't want to be among the forever stubborn. We want to recognize Jesus for who he is. At least part of what that means is to recognize that he's not some mere man, though he is truly man. And he's not merely a prophet or a priest, although he is the true prophet and the true high priest. And he's not merely some angel. But we might mistakenly label the name of Michael too, like the Jehovah's Witnesses do, and so many other misled people in similar ways might do. No, he's not an angel. He's the Lord of hosts. He's the all-in-all. And right after the next chapter, we're going to see his judgment blast onto the scene again. Seems to me that in response we should get busy warning others to the coming judgment. We should enter the fray. I mean the King of Kings is calling his forces to battle. We're to be in the battle. And what weapon are we to use? The gospel. Announce that our Messiah, the Christ, has come. Go tell it on the mountain. Over the hills and everywhere. And he is returning to firmly establish his kingdom forever. A kingdom that rules over a renewed world having burned away all that is unholy. That's the path that we're on. And it is a path full of potholes and all sorts of hazards. As you're kept spiritually safe in God's lap, His arms around you For so many of the people in our lives, so many of the people we know, this isn't currently the case for them They're not currently in a situation where they're sitting safely in God's lap with his arms around him. They're in rebellion still. Maybe they haven't fully understood or heard the truth. You know, if God gave you full and total control with regards to them, it was totally up to you their eternal destiny, if it were. Would you try to save them? Would you if that was up to you? Well, behave as if it's up to you. While at the same time avoiding taking on the weight of pressure to forget that God has his hands steering the journey. He is sovereign. He is in control. But he chooses to work through means. In his sovereignty he works through means, and one of those means is you How far can God use you? Well, how about we find out? Even if it's only at twelve miles per gallon? Let's find out. And let's pray. Father, we love and adore you for what you have done and are doing and will do for your people. Calling us to yourself, providing for us, protecting us, equipping us to share the good news of Jesus Christ with those around us. Allowing us the privilege of participating in your grand plan. The privilege of announcing and proclaiming that our King has come and he's coming once more. And even the privilege of enduring suffering and persecution in this world as we await the arrival. The return of our Savior. We pray that your word would prick the hearts of many. That those that already know and understand this truth, that they would be encouraged by it. And those that henceforth have not accepted and received this as truth. that they would feel convicted in their heart. And he would use this moment to replace their heart of stone with a heart of flesh. Make them a new creation. So that they too can join the workers in the field in bringing in the harvest. All these things we look up to you in the name of our Lord, our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. I'm gonna shut down the stream. You can catch these streams after the fact as well. They stay on the social media platforms. They're also housed. in a kind of a permanent fashion on Odyssey and Sermonaudio. Odyssey. com and sermonaudio. com. Until next time. God bless.