Welcome to the live stream from Household of Faith in Christ. If you'd like to learn more about us, you're encouraged to do so online at Household of Faith in Christ. We'll be undergoing a website makeover here in uh in the coming weeks, so be on the lookout for that. It could possibly mean that we will have our website down under construction for a couple of weeks. If that's the case, just bear with us and We'll be back as soon as we can be. Today we'll be in Genesis and Revelation. Genesis 3 and Revelation 21, a sermon that I have titled Genesis to Revelation in Simple Terms. Let's uh begin though by opening with a word of prayer. Holy Father enthroned in heaven. We acknowledge your greatness and praise you for who you are. We thank you for inaugurating your kingdom on earth. We place our hope and our joy in the promise of the coming consummation of your kingdom. And as we wait, we thank you for sustaining us, for providing for each and every one of our needs each and every day. Forgive us for so often confusing our wants with needs and uh hence becoming ungrateful and impatient. Help us, Lord, to see clearly our own failings and to be humbled so as not to be guilty of self-righteous judgment of others. And we ask that you would help us to forgive just as you forgive us. We are weak in and of ourselves, finding strength only in Jesus Christ who strengthens us, heals us. protects us from the evil that lurks in hope of keeping us from enjoying a right relationship with you. Please bless this message. Make up for whatever inadequacies I bring to delivering it. And despite my frailties, I ask that you would cause the name of Jesus Christ to be glorified. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. Well, if you remember last week part of the sermon included a story about my grandfather and this Sermon Today does as well. A number of years ago, my grandfather died. And at the time he was very old, and he was incredibly sick for quite a long time. And we got to the place as a family where we knew that he was going to die at any moment. And we lived in that moment for nearly a year. But he did eventually breathe his last. And when he did, my mom asked me if I thought Pocky was in heaven That's what we call my grandfather, Paki. Was Pocky in heaven. I pondered the question. Of course I answered it even before finishing pondering it. Didn't really know what I was talking about, but I answered the question anyway, which was pretty typical for me, particularly back then. But before I had a chance to fully finish pondering, I was approached to help solve a family dilemma. You see, my aunt was in charge of making the funeral arrangements for Pocky, and she did not want a religious service. You know, scripture reading or two, sure that'd be fine, but nothing too much about God. And so we did what families do in these sorts of religious crises. We had the kids read the Bible passages. Because that's safe, right? Feels holy, you know? But the focus of course ends up being on the the kids, how cute they are How cute they're dressed, how cute they sound as they they read words on the page that they can barely pronounce. And it makes us adults feel rather smug, aren't we, precious adults? Hmm. Making sure our youngins read their Bible. Won't catch us adults reading the Bible, not allowed anyway, because we don't want to be exposed for our biblical illiteracy as we read words from the page that we can barely pronounce. Anyway, back to the dilemma. My aunt did not want a religious service. And I'm not talking about just a service outside of a church building. No, no. She wanted the service devoid of a chaplain or anyone like that who would MC the event. Apocry was a decorated veteran from World War II. The honor guard was on hand for his funeral. We could have had a chaplain from the Marines, but my aunt did not want a religious service. And other than me, pretty much everyone in my family at that time was petrified of public speaking. And there was a time when I once was two. Now, this is prior to me having gone to seminary becoming a pastor, but even back then I had gained experience doing some public speaking as a radio talk show host. And I can tell you, you make a fool of yourself every single day for three hours at a time with thousands of people tuned in, and well, let's just say there's really nowhere to go but up from there. And so A small gathering in front of a casket, it really isn't as intimidating as it probably should be So, long story longer, my mom volunteered me to MC the event And then she asked me if I wouldn't mind doing it. So what was I supposed to say? But actually, in fact, I would have said the same thing even if she had asked me before she volunteered me, which was this Knowing that my aunt did not want a religious service, I reminded my mom that even back then I was a religious person. And I might not have been a particularly good person, but I was a religious person. And I couldn't imagine that my conscience would rest if I stood before a captive audience at a funeral. And didn't share the gospel. A funeral? I mean, really, a time when and a place where people are contemplating deep thoughts. Like back then, I grew up in and around the Chicago area. That's where my grandfather was from. So the deep thoughts back then might have included things like Why hadn't the Cubs won a World Series since before World War One? When will McDonald's finally come to their senses and make their hamburgers available in the frozen food section of our local grocery stores? You know, deep thoughts like that. Deep thoughts like, what happens to us when we die? That last question is not the question actually that we ask. When we are away from funerals, we might ask what happens to us when we die. But in my experience When we're actually at a funeral, the question we ask is, what will happen to me when I die? And as it turns out, by some incredible quirk of God's plan and purpose for this world, I know the answer to that question. It's a valuable answer. It is the most valuable answer. But I'm not allowed to keep it for myself. I must give it away to others for free because even though it It's an answer of unequalled value. I paid nothing for it, so I have no right charging others for it. attempt by me to charge others for it will be evidence that I never really had it to give or sell to begin with. So, I told my mom I would MC the service. And out of respect For my aunt, I would not go out of my way to force this answer into the ceremony. However, if there should open up a natural opportunity for sharing this answer to life's most critical question, well then I just I would simply have to do so. And she saw no problem with this. I wasn't so sure my aunt and others who were like-minded with her would have the same attitude, but I figured it would be what it would be as one of the great meaningless phrases of all time puts it. It'll be what it'll be, and we talk about stoicism. But I digress. So picture, if you will, the scene. There are women crying uncontrollably. Not all of them, just two. My aunt and her daughter, my cousin. And they were actually upset at the rest of us, people like me who weren't crying more. They condemned us, saying that we simply did not love Pocky as much as they did. And you know what? It's quite possibly true. I mean, who's to say, right? I I'm gonna leave that for God to judge But again, I digress. So now there are these crying women, and there are a bunch of awkward men trying desperately not to look self-conscious. And people were mostly paired off in groups of like two or three, and they were gingerly entering into conversations with people that they kind of sort of remember. You know, second cousins you haven't seen in a couple of decades. You know, friends of the family that you actually weren't sure they were friends of the family. You're thinking maybe they actually are family, like did they share a family bloodline? I don't know. Talking to neighbors, they had never before in their lives met, and yet Nervously sticking their hands out, shaking their hands, saying it's good to see you again. You know, some people might be in their minds nodding knowingly, like, yeah, I I I've been there. Were you actually at the funeral? I don't remember Perhaps we're all cousins, I don't know. When it was time for the hour-long remembrance service to begin, I stood up and I welcomed everyone and uh I looked at my grandmother my grandmother and seriously I gotta tell you I can't remember a a single day in her life when she smiled more than she did that day. It's kind of a funny thing, shock. I looked out over everyone else and I made solid eye contact with my mother and she's looking at me proud to see her son front and center. And uh I looked to my aunt, and she was still crying. She was looking at me. And I introduced a uniformed Marine whom I had mentioned, and he said some incredible things about my grandfather and his courage and you know I gotta tell you, until that day, I didn't really know the fullness of what Pocky did for this country, all the medals that he had received. He was a quiet man. He was humble. He didn't talk a whole lot about himself. And then the children, they did the Bible reading that I mentioned earlier, and I gotta say, they were cute as a button. And there are a few other things that had to be orchestrated, uh including the eulogy, which by the way was delivered in a powerfully good way, really well d uh done by my mother. Still marvel actually at the job that she did. And after all this we still had quite a bit of time left before our hour was up So I encouraged anyone who was comfortable doing so to step forward and share anything that was on their heart, on their mind regarding talking that they want to tell everybody about. And I think it was two people that took me up on this And no joke, I think they each spoke for maybe maximum a minute. Like basically said anything at all. They almost said nothing And so we still had a lot of time to kill. And I apologize for the potential funeral pun there, but really we had a lot of time to kill. And so I proceeded to share what I said I would share only if time allowed. I promised I would not force it in, but neither would I run from the opportunity. So I began by joking that since no one else was stepping forward, that they were going to be stuck with me and my thoughts And then I let everyone in the Lord's Prayer. And then I said this. We are here today. To honor the memory of my grandfather and to offer comfort to one another, those who loved him. And in honor of Paki's memory, and as a means of comforting you. I will share what I think he might have wanted me to share with you. Not everyone knows this, but when he was a young man, Pocky wanted to attend a Lutheran seminary. And I can also tell you that it was just a few days ago my mother asked me if I thought Pocky was in heaven. Only God knows the answer to that question for sure. So I'm not really going to say a whole lot more about that other than to say that For Pocky, that is now a settled issue. He's dead, and his body will be buried next hour He's already in heaven, or he's not. Whatever the case, his time for doing anything more about it is done For Paki, this ultimate question is answered. But what about you? What's the answer for you? Do you know that you are created in God's image? Ponky, if in heaven would want you to know this. You and I and the person sitting next to you, across from you, were created in God's image. We all were. But you are corrupted by sin. We all are Ever since the fall from grace, by Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. You can read that story in Genesis chapter 3, near the very beginning of our Bibles. If you're not familiar, here's how that story goes. Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God really say you must not eat from any tree in the garden? The woman said to the serpent, We may eat fruit from the trees in the garden, but God did say you must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the middle of the garden, and you must not touch it. Or you will die. You will not certainly die, the serpent said to the woman. For God knows that when you eat from it, your eyes will be opened and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. When the woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for food and pleasing to the eye, and also desirable for gaining wisdom, she took some and ate it. She also gave some to her husband, who was with her, and he ate it. Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they realized they were naked. So they sowed fig leaves together and made coverings for themselves. Then the man and his wife heard the sound of the Lord God as he was walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And they hid from the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man, Where are you? He answered, I heard you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked. So I hid. And he said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree that I commanded you not to eat from? And the man said, The woman you put here with me, she gave me some of the fruit from the tree, and I ate it. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? And the woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. So the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and all wild animals. You will crawl on your belly, and you will eat dust all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and hers. He will crush your head, and you will strike his heel. To the woman he said, I will make your pains in childbearing very severe. With painful labor you will give birth to children. Your desire will be for your husband And he will rule over you. To Adam he said, Because you listened to your wife and ate fruit from the tree, about which I commanded you you must not eat from it. Cursed is the ground because of you. Through painful toil you will eat food, and from it all the days of your life. It will produce thorns and thistles for you. And you will eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your brow, you will eat your food until you return to the ground. Since from it you were taken, for dust you are, and to dust you will return. Adam named his wife Eve because she would become the mother of all the living. If a Christian, Pocky would have wanted me to explain that sin brought a curse into the world. But also a promise. The curse is that life is hard and ends in death, even spiritual death And the promise is the seed of the woman. A child would one day be born. as the answer to this curse. The Bible proceeds to tell us how God protected the family line of this chosen one. We read about it in the stories of Seth, Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. The nation of Israel under Moses and all of the kings, priests, and prophets. And Pocky loved these stories. Remember he watched the Ten Commandments, that old Chuck Heston movie, he watched it every year at Easter time. And Packy would want me to remind you of these stories. It takes us all the way up to John the Baptist making way for Jesus. Jesus is that promised seed of the woman. It is Jesus who paid the price for our sin, if only we'll trust in what He has done for us, then we are healed and we will not face spiritual death If Paki's in heaven right now, he'd want you to know this So that you can join him there. It was about this time that I noticed my aunt wasn't looking at me anymore. And my crying cousin, she suddenly shot up from her seat and she stormed from the room saying loud enough for everyone to hear, I don't need to take this blank. It was a bit unnerving, I will admit. One of the first times I think I might have felt somewhat attacked for my faith. But I didn't really grow angry. I grew sad. I was sad that my aunt and my cousin were apparently rejecting their Savior. Now sure it was tough dealing with them giving you this silent treatment the whole rest of the day and the next day too. But it was far worse dealing with the reality of their probable spiritual condition. My heart broke for them. But I pressed down my message for all the others who did not storm from the room. I pressed on with an analogy that a former pastor of mine had once used. He explained how salvation works by using an illustration. Imagine that you're standing over here and you are wrapped in a filthy, dirty, rotten robe. In the entire robe, it is so soiled that it cannot be washed clean, no matter what you do. And you can't get the robe off. And then standing over here, you have Jesus. And Jesus, he's wrapped in the most beautiful, brilliant white robe imaginable. I mean never has there been a robe so clean as this one Now imagine God, he's right here. And he says that what is filthy and rotten cannot enter into heaven. Only that which is clean. And white, pure. So the only option available to you is to do Nothing. There is nothing you can do. But if you'll be still And if you'll release that tight grip on those filthy robes, and if you'll turn to Christ Well then Jesus, he removes from you your dirty robe and he takes his clean and holy robe. And he places it on you. He wraps you in his holiness. If only you'll accept it. And if you do, then you stand before God. And what he sees is not stained, but what he sees is pure. And we should notice that Jesus, he doesn't drape his robe over your sin-riddled robe. No, no, no. He takes your robe from you. He removes your sin. Jesus not only takes your sin away from you, he puts it on himself. So now over here we see Jesus, he's putting your robe on himself, a soiled robe. And this robe is made white Washed clean by the shedding of his blood You don't do anything of merit in this great exchange You surrender to it. You don't take pride. There's no pride to be had in having earned it. You didn't earn it. Rather, you are humbled by it. And don't think for even one moment That any one of us or anyone that we know is not born with a soiled robe We're all very rotten scoundrels. Every last one of us. The Bible teaches that if you have broken one commandment It's as if you have broken all the commandments. You are guilty of having broken the law But do you understand? You're either guilty or you're not. It's binary Have you ever committed even one sin? Then you're guilty. And there is no getting around that fact And there is a penalty that must be paid if we have a righteous and holy God. And Jesus Christ paid that penalty in full for you. If you'll accept the gift. Why wouldn't you? Why can't you? Why won't you? Don't you believe it? The whole Bible teaches it. In simple terms, it's like having your whole life story written on the pages of this book in my hand here. This book contains everything you ever did, everything you are doing. It's all there. All the bad stuff. And all the good stuff. But we have to admit, even that good stuff is mixed with bad stuff, isn't it? Like prideful ambitions, selfish interests, mixed motives It's like having this other book over here. And this book contains the whole life story of Jesus. And on its pages are written all the good stuff Jesus did. And all the bad stuff. Ah, but wait. There is no bad stuff None at all. It's a perfect record of perfect love, perfect obedience. So you have two books You have one cover that reads the sinful record, and you have the other cover that reads the perfectly holy record. And God swaps out the covers. Your record becomes Christ's record Nailed to the cross. And Christ's record becomes your record So that you are then a saint in union with God. If you're a Christian. If Pocky was indeed a Christian, he would have wanted you to know all of this. Are you a Christian? Do you want others to know? To know that there is nothing you can do but repent and trust Jesus. That even your righteousness is as filthy rags. That's what the Bible says. Particularly compared to the glory of God. That all there is for any of us to do is Surrender. And then out of gratitude to follow Jesus in obedience until the day that we die. And when we die, if we are His, what awaits us then? Eternity with God. That's what And it's tempting to say that this eternity with God started for Pocky when he died, if he was a Christian. But the truth is that if you become a Christian today. Then your eternity with God begins today. It can begin right now With this ultimate fulfillment awaiting the return of Christ at His second coming, what's sometimes called His Second Advent. And until the last day, we continue to live in a difficult and diseased world. There's no doubt about that And so I don't want you to misunderstand it's not all lollipops and cherry blossoms when you become a Christian. Not yet. But Here's how the end plays out. Here is what awaits, as described in the very final book of our Bible, in Revelation chapter 21. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband, and her loud voice from the throne saying, Behold! The dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God Himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning. Nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away. And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Also he said, Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true. And he said to me, It is done. I am the elf plan of the Omega. The beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment. The one who conquers will have this heritage. And I will be his God. And he will be my son. But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars, Their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death. We find here in this passage the comfort that belongs to those who are trusting in God through Christ. Comfort in a glorious forever after for those who are wrapped in holiness. And comfort in knowing that evil will be dealt with. And eliminated. Paki was not perfect He was a little kid in so many ways he just could not grow up. I mean he always ate too much. He had uh what some might say Um kind of a weak commitment, not a very clear commitment to telling the truth. He cheated at things. He cheated playing solitaire. Not kidding. He did a lot of wrong things. Some of them were very, very wrong things. And he didn't talk about God a lot. And he didn't go to church. But he loved the Gaiters, singing gospel. And he would sing along to the old hymns, mostly out of tune, getting plenty of the words wrong. And there's this old story about a deck of cards that taught about God, and Hockey shared that story with me. And he taught me that Santa Claus is real insofar as he represents the good gifts of God. And Panki said that thunder, well, that was God bowling. That rain, that was the teardrops of angels. But was he a Christian? If so, he'd want you to know what God wants you to know What the Bible teaches, what I have endeavored to share with you here today. And if you believe it for yourself, I have to ask, are you sharing it with others? You should want them to know. Because that's what Christians do. Those who have been rescued themselves, they can't help. But tell others about this good news of the Great Exchange. If you've not been willing or somehow able to do this, well I think possibly you probably have your answer on that ultimate question, don't you? If you don't share this truth, isn't that evidence that you don't really have this truth in your heart? And if that's the case for you, well then you need to ask God to change your heart. So I wrapped up my message to the gathering of people at my grandfather's funeral. And if they weren't absolutely sure that they would spend eternity with God when they die, well then I encouraged them at the very last to change their answer to life's ultimate question. And so before you breathe your very last, I encourage you to do the same. Father, we come to you in the name of your eternal Son. We thank you for delivering your truth to us through the teaching and example of your chosen people who have come before us. And we ask that you would soften our hearts, replace our rock-hard hearts with hearts of flesh. We pray that the power of your Holy Spirit would convict us of our sinful ways and sinful attitudes and that you would help us to know Christ, to truly know Jesus Christ, and to place all of our trust in Him and in His gift to us. Forgive our stubbornness. Too often seeking our own way. Depending on ourselves, trusting in our own deeds, our own standards. Thank you for your loving promise. For your plan of salvation. That was put into motion before the world was even created. Equip us, Father, equip us, Abba, to confidently and confidently proclaim to all Who would have ears to hear? That you are the Creator God, who rules even today And forevermore, as Lord and Savior and King over the entire world. And also in an intimate way, a very intimate way, over our individual lives. In Christ's name, we pray and ask these things. Amen So I'm going to uh shut down the stream. Again, you can find this stream again later or other streams. At our website, Householdfaith in Christ dot com, Household of Faithinchrist. com until then. God bless