Turn we away. Hey Facebook Live, how are you? Let me turn this just a little bit. Get the camera so oh, it's not turning. Let me try this. Oh, it turns up there. Now now you guys aren't in the shot at all. Sorry. Here, is that better? That's not too bad. We'll try that. We'll see how this works. We're trying to do new camera position For New Year, anyway, uh we're recording today. Uh a number of shows are gonna air uh for a month-ish or so starting in a couple of weeks. So you're getting a sneak preview if you're watching this or if you catch this later on. So Anyway, let me get right into the show here and you'll catch on to what's going on here in a moment, I'm sure. Welcome to the Faith Debate on the news radio 930 WFMD, online at WFMD. com, also on the FM at 99. 9 HD2. And we're on Facebook. So if you're hearing this on the radio lady, you missed the Facebook, we can go back and watch it, I guess. But we have people on Facebook right now watching us live. We look good. Don't we look good? We look good. So we're we're down a man today, so um you guys have to step up your game. Imran Razvy, Daniel Razvy, I'm Troy Skinner. We've got to step up our game because David Forcy, who's normally part of the panel couldn't make it today. So if you had anything you wanted to talk about him behind his back, today is the show to do that. So what's going on in the world today? Finding a hard time figuring out like what's what, which way's up, which ways down, which way sideways, left, right. I mean we're living in an inside out, totally screwed up world right now. Somebody today commented and said, Man, it's like we're living in the Truman show. You know, it's it's crazy. And I said, yeah, they say that life imitates art, and if that's true, we're living in a Picasso right now where nothing is the way you would expect it to be. Part of that I think is shifting cultural connections. And by that, we're talking about all the things that have changed the way in which we connect as people and and with our culture. So this would include Um the things that come along with all those dictated cancellations. You know, we've got the lockdowns and a lot of sports gatherings got canceled uh or they played but they didn't have fans. You know, the Olympics got postponed, things like that, things that will knit people together. You go to you know, you go to the office after the Olympics, hey, did you see that wonderful Olympics performance? And you know if the Olympics are canceled, then that chance for connecting in that way is lost Right. Uh in many places, even this year, certainly last year more, Thanksgiving and Christmas as far as gatherings as families and friends got cancelled. A lot of weddings and funerals. And so many people were not going to church in person anymore And still and still aren't about two years after the uh the pandemic started. And then even if they are gathering, you know, they've got the the the mask requirements which puts a layer of of distance between people and and and the mandates, making people question each other, do I want to get too close? Do you did you get the shot? Did you not get the shot? Lots of things that are disrupting our our connections. And you know, conservatives, they they used to connect. quote unquote conservatives, uh used to connect with and trust the military and law enforcement and now you're hearing people who have a conservative background and you think of them as conservatives, they're concerned because Can we really trust what's going on with our military? Look what happened in Afghanistan. We we left Americans behind. Uh General uh Milley, you know, apparently called the president, uh called China behind the president's back Um, you know, feds are calling parents at school board meetings terrorists because they don't want their kids to be taught pagan ideology. They they want them to to to to maintain some sort of a Christian biblical worldview. Um And of course the once high regard for the office of president has been replaced by chance of let's go Brandon, which is very controversial in church circles because people feel okay, what you really mean by that is something really gross and offensive in Christian shouldn't say it. So that's the opening salvo of all these things that have disconnected us. Disc disconnected us, and that last one is part of the disconnection because it's disconnected us from what maybe a few years ago would have been our our moral compass. There are people that three or four years ago would have never been comfortable saying, let's go, Brandon, who today are proudly saying it. There's that disconnection from what was going on. So you guys are pastors, you know. I'm a pastor. By the way, I forgot to mention I should plug our website, HouseholdofFaithInCrist. com. If you want to connect with any of us, that's the easiest thing to do, is probably go to the website. And if you want to get in touch with me, my phone number and email are there. And if you want to get in touch with these guys, I can get you in touch with them. Or I think the Conquered by Love uh ministry uh yeah the website for you guys conquer conquered by love ministry or no conquered by love dot org but it's conquered by love ministry right the organization I think that's linked there too and they can connect with you through that I think. So anyway, go to the website and you can do that. So what do you guys think about it? So my two cents first of all, when you were saying that about conservative viewpoint, I think more we want to talk uh about what is the what does the Bible say? Not so much conservative, but biblically what does God say about what's happening in the culture, the disconnect, and why is it happening? And I think I think that when you look at it from that world view, um you'll see a d a difference. Not neither conservative or liberal, it's more of w God is all about relationships. Love your neighbor. How can you love somebody when you can't smile at them? Right. Yeah, and and I I guess particularly on a radio station like this, it's going to be really important to uh clarify you know how we're using our terms. Me in my o in my life, I don't use the word conservative as a political label so much as as a worldview ideological label that includes politics, but is primarily a framework of preserving what is right and good. Yes. You know, and we know what is right is and good based on what the Bible tells us. And so I you another euphorism for traditional values. People say conservative as in you dress conservatively, you dress them honestly. you listen to conservative music, meaning traditional music that's not uh full of cursed words and things like that. So the There's that conservative doesn't just mean political. But so that we're not misunderstood is a good catch. So from a biblical point of view, from a traditionally conserv uh uh Christian's the word the traditionally Christian point of view Uh what is it that you guys, you know, as you're pastoring people, as you're out and about in the community doing what it is you do, and people are probably sharing with you their concerns about all of this stuff I just mentioned. Uh what are some of the things you're hearing? What are the th some of the things you're saying in counsel to those sorts of things? I think really the the biggest The biggest problem with a lot of the separation that we've had in the culture over the last couple of years is the lack of fellowship of believers. That that's where believers thrive and I mean Hebrews commands us to fellowship with each other, whether that's every week at a church service or some other way, but There's been so little of that because of the uh pandemic, whether whether it's because of mandates or whether people were just worried and afraid, whether some churches just closed their doors. I I think a lot of churches are still close when we're recording this. They haven't even haven't even opened back up. They're still online only. And you really need human connection. And it's it really has to start with the church. The church has dropped the ball in other words. But I think the church dropped the ball way before the pandemic Because people would go to church, listen to a sermon, didn't even say anything but hi or bye to somebody. There was no fellowship. It was just listen to a sermon for fifteen minutes and get out of there. And And uh the home church movement came out of that where people were longing for fellowship, longing for actually a deep dive into God's word. What does God actually say about this and how do we relate to it? to people and I think that was uh that almost came out of a pushback against social media and uh you know friending everybody and not really n actually knowing anybody, the home church movement allowed you to have that relationship that's deeper a deeper connection to your fellow person. And uh that's where that's one of the reasons you we have a home church, uh to be able to have that fellowship and to be able to really get concerned about our um um uh the our friends and know what's going on in their lives. And we can't do that in this culture. So the home church is a great way and uh any of you guys listening, we I strongly recommend small groups, home church, host people, bring people into your house and ask actually talk to people, get to know them. One of the best places to hide is in a church, particularly a big. The bigger the church, the easier to hide. Right. And that might sound attractive to some Like, yeah, I want to hide. I don't want to be noticed. I want to be the wallpaper. That's not what's best for you. That's not healthy. You you were made to be in relationship and you need accountability and you need to provide accountability to others. That's one of the things that gets missed to think a lot of times. Oh, I don't need to go to church. Well, just for the sake of argument, let's agree that you don't need to go to church. Just for the sake of argument, let's agree. The church needs you. You bring something when you go to the church. You know the if if the church typically has twelve people and all of a sudden they've got fifteen people that's encouraging like hey we've got more people they typically have fifty and then they all of a sudden have seventy that's that's encouraging like we're reaching and p impacting more people so you're bringing at the very least by your mere presence some encouragement. But you're also giving an opportunity for somebody to cry on a shoulder, seek some advice, exercise uh their knowledge and and insight by giving you counsel if you should need it. You bring something to the table by attending yourself. You don't want to be hiding somewhere. Right. But don't just fill a seat, actually participate and be involved. And not necessarily teaching and preaching, but just really paying attention, hearing God's word, fellowshipping with other believers, discussing And when churches decided that they were gonna either because of mandates or because they were afraid, uh to to to shut down and do virtual church, man, didn't they just reinforce the problem we're talking about with these uh shifting cultural connections? People aren't connecting with individuals even before the pandemic, as you said, Imran, because they got their face on their screen all the time. And now doing virtual church you're just encouraging more screen time for screen time and and honestly if you just were sitting there in the pew before and never spoken a word to anybody while you were at church, what's the difference? Might as well sit home and watch it on TV. But that's and that and that's also part of the problem. We we need more fellowship, more discussions, deep theological discussions. Why do you believe what you believe Not just, are you a Christian? Oh yeah, I'm a Christian. No, why do you why do you say you're a Christian? What does that mean to you? And what is your stance on all these different topics? and and doctors and people need to have an answer. I would challenge all of you that are listening to pick just one person in a week. To find out more about them, to pray for them, to spend some time getting to know that one person and see what happens to you. Just take one person, pick anybody at random, and just actually listen to that person, what's going on in their lives. And pray for them. I would I would really put forth that I think you would get a lot more out of that than you would think. And if you happen to be somebody that's comfortable in a social situation with lots of people around and you're you you you you can get chatty with somebody rather easily and that sort of thing. Sometimes, you know, you're gonna gravitate towards other people that are also comfortable and gifted in that way and you just spend the whole time in your little insulated circle. You might want to think like if you're one of those people that's very comfortable, make it a conscious effort to show up and look for somebody who looks a little uncomfortable. Somebody who's kind of on the edges, their eyes are down, they're they're like screamers like, oh I hope nobody comes and talks to me That's the person you want to go talk to and say, hey, by the way, my name is, you know, what's your name? How long have you been coming here? Oh, you've been coming for 10 years. Wow. Shame on me for not having introduced myself before. The other thing that can be a challenge is people I think in a previous culture we were probably better at this as a people, but most people aren't good at remembering names. I'm not sure exactly why we're distracted maybe when we're hearing the name or we're so nervous what we're gonna say that we weren't listening to the name. I don't know what it is But we're really bad at it. Just own it. Know that they're bad at it too, probably. And so a lot of people don't walk up to somebody in church or in any situation, but we're talking about church. That they recognize with, oh, I don't know Daniel's name. So I don't want to go up to Daniel and not know his name. It's going to be embarrassing, so I'm going to avoid him. Just walk up and say, I'm really embarrassed. I know we've talked seven weeks in a row now, and I still can't remember your name. What's your name? I'm going to do my darndest Turn it into a joke or whatever. Just own it. Put it out there. Eventually you'll come to know the name. If you talk to the same person eight weeks in a row, fifty weeks in a row, eventually their name will stick. So and sometimes you can even overcome that, right? I've had people do this. People that I I do know their name, but they're not a hundred percent sure if I'll know their name. And so they'll walk up and they'll stick their hand out and you know they'll shake your hand and say, By the way, I'm Troy which yeah, I don't know if you remember me. Oh yeah, I know I remember you And sometimes the ones that's a gimmick you get them to you know have the name get volunteered back. No, I remember you and I'm I'm Steve, remember me? Yeah. So there's there's a lot of things, a lot of tricks and things that we've lost because we're so much involved in our own thing and life has done so fast. The these electronics are supposed to make life easier, but they've actually isolated us and made life life a lot more difficult. And we were just talking recently about just um the styles of film these days. Everything is so fast paced. So if you if you're used to watching movies that came out recently and then you you go back and watch something that came out in the eighties, it feels like it's so slow. And then watch a s a sixties movie and it it'll feel even slower. Because not that not that they're any worse or any better and and there's whole topics to be you know, terminated on that st you know, said about the content of the movie, but just the style of of the of the film Everything is much more fast-paced now because we don't have time. Ever this is the age of the tweet. If it can't fit in 140 characters or 280 characters, then it's not worth saying, it's not worth reading, not worth spending time understanding. And I really appreciate the old movies, the old black and white movies from like the 40s and 50s, and part of it is for prof precisely that reason. The the um uh the story are i it's allowed to breathe. You know, and it's not dependent on editing choices is dependent on the character development and the acting chops. So the people on the a lot more single shot camera angles and things like that and Yeah, the but the pacing and the music and the all that sort of stuff, it's way and I have a, you know, uh developmentally disabled challenged adult son. He so much more prefers those movies because it's so much less stimulus, you know, stimuli into his brain to have to process. He likes the old movies too. I mean you ever read an article and see the T L D R at the beginning? T L D R it's a it's um text language for too long didn't read, meaning so it's so it's a one sentence summary at the beginning or the end of a news article. Next time we'll look uh if you see T L, semicolon, DR, they it's and a whole on a whole bunch of blog posts, articles and so on, meaning If you're too lazy to even read this 300-word article, here's the one-sentence summary that tells you all you really should know. Really? Yep. It's the tweet version of the article. TLDR. Wow. Alright, so here's our TLDR for this episode of the Face Debate Radio Show. It's the best show ever. That's all you need to know. Right. And that's the way it is. Let's talk about the other motivator though. You know, we're talking about the the the family celebrations that got canceled, whether they be Thanksgiving or Christmas or weddings or uh downsized funerals or whatever and also the church downsizing or going all virtual or or segregating the the the congregation based on whether they got the the uh injections or not gonna get the injections or whether they're willing to wear a face covering or not. Um a lot of that is driven by fear, it seems to me. So I'm not sure. I've read the Bible a few times. Does it say anything at all about fear and whether we should have it or not? I can't remember. But uh the the issue really is if you don't know where you're gonna go when you die Then you will be fearful. And if you do know where you're gonna go, then yes you can have fear because flesh rules over you, but you can let go of that fear knowing that you're going and you're saved and you will go in eternal and be and be in heaven. That's a big, big difference between somebody that's saved and knows where they're going to go and where they're not going to go. There's many people that attend church. you know, that did or attend b regularly before or maybe still attend regularly, that really don't have a full understanding of what salvation is. And they don't So the same thing if you understand and know Yeah, the biblical worldview helps to answer all of that across the board. You think about the the the main touchstones of of of the gospel message, you know, a classic way of presenting it would be, well, in the beginning God created. He made you. He made you in his image, he made you special, he made you for relationship. But if you don't have that, if you have uh you know, things just somehow sprang into existence in some shockingly undefined way And uh therefore there's really there's no meaning or purpose behind everything springing into well, our whole life then is just an accident within chaos And if it sprang out of chaos, couldn't it just spring back into chaos just as easily? Like what's the keep that's so there's this insidious subliminal fear hanging underneath because you don't believe in the creation narrative, so there's that. And then you don't understand the world around you, but why are all these bad things happening? Why can't why why can't I why'd that guy steal from me? Or why am I not safe? 'Cause you haven't come to the grips with the reality of sin and what that all means. And then like, okay, so how do we get out of this? What's the rescue? There is no solution outside of Christ. If you don't have Christ, like there's no hope And so you can see how the whole way along and then what gives your life meaning and purpose? Like you want to live a really good life like uh you know Betty White uh passed recently, right before her hundredth birthday. And And uh you know, people are saying how she had a wonderful sense of humor and she had a really good legacy of her career and that sort of thing, but seriously, in 300 years? 500 years? Maybe? In a hundred years maybe, will people talk about remember Betty White? How much meaning does her life really have? uh if it's outside of a biblical worldview. But every individual life has meaning inside of a biblical worldview, and in a Christian life where you're trying to walk out your faith and Build it through build out in your sanctification, ultimately getting to the glorification point at the end where there's there's a promise that's held out. All of that's missing, and that's a long lead-up. But that's the kind of thing, particularly these last couple of years, people need to hear. Yes. And churches, pastors, I'm talking to you, you've dropped the ball big time. Big time. People when they most needed that, at least in our context, in the American context, when they most needed to hear it, you say, ah, it's alright, stay home. You've they've taken away the purpose. I mean what you're Troy, what you were saying is God has a purpose for each one of us. And if you know that purpose, if you're following that purpose, if you're following it And seeking after God and glorifying Him, then there is great things that can be done, that great things, a great purpose that you will have an impact. And without that purpose, if you're not showing up at church, if you're hidden behind a mask and you're hiding from everybody and not communicating, not talking to anybody, not having that relationship, where's your purpose? Our purpose is have relationships. Why why did God send a son Jesus to die for our our sense because he wanted that relationship with us. And we're giving up relationships voluntarily. And then you have people who they've tried to find some reason for hope and purpose. like a meaning in their life and they'll hang on to something and then they get disappointed at every turn. And so you know a lot of people are like, oh if only everyone would wear a mask, our problems will go away and then the problems don't go away and it causes all sorts of other angst with people or if everybody gets the the the shots everything will go away and that hasn't proven. Well if only we would support our defense and military and then you know something embarrassing like Afghanistan happens, you lose your confidence there. All these things you want to you put your your faith in a political party or anything of the world, in your job, you know, and also people are not able to keep their job because of some of the nonsense and weirdness that's going on right now. And so all these f false things for hope fail because they're nothing but idols. Right. And again, church leaders. Seriously. If you closed at all you know, shame on you in my opinion, but I have some grace. So if you if you closed it first because you just weren't sure what was going on, then we'll talk about back in 2020 And it took you a couple of weeks to figure it out, and maybe it would have taken you a couple of weeks to restart the engine, depending on the size of your church and all that sort of stuff a month max. If you were closed for more than a month, I mean shame on you. And there were some closed for more than a year, or some closed for more than a year open and then closed again. And some are still closed. Some are still close. Well a lot of them went out of business closed, right, that way. And some of them are they're still at church, I guess, but they're not actually meeting yet. Shame on you. There's a large proportion of churches in DC, for example, that are online only still I mean the Bible has famously been said that the Bible says fear not 365 times. There's one fear not for every day in the year. And yet the the the church pastors are not telling people, hey Fear God, and if you fear God, as far as the worldly concerns, fear not. And we're not giving you that. By the way, we have a few minutes left, and I want to make sure we touch on this because I This could maybe be a whole show, but I don't want to make well we can't. If we if it's that interesting, we'll carry it over into next week's show. But the left scope random chant. I do want to get your take on that. Do you think it's appropriate for a Christian to say, let's go, Brandon? Absolutely not. And do you agree with that? I would say that It people know what it what it actually is supposed to mean. So, you know, you're you're basically uh saying curse words. Uh it's one thing to agree with the sentiment, but to actually say it I I think the a more obvious answer would be, for example, the guy uh re uh recent you know, a few weeks ago or whatever, um said it to Biden's face. That I would say is definitely disrespectful and nobody should be doing that, regardless of what you think and whether it was a joke, whatever. You know, don't don't say something d just like you wouldn't say i uh just like that that guy uh a few years ago who yelled you lie at Obama in the middle of a congressional speech It's that's not the time and place. Have some respect for the office, whether you hate the guy or not. You don't you don't speak like that, um, you know. It says uh Micha Michael, the archangel in Jude, says he when he was arguing with the devil, he didn't even give bring a railing. accusation he did of against the devil. He said, the Lord rebuke you. He didn't curse at the the devil himself, which, you know, that that's excuse me, that could be a whole nother show But no, I I I don't think Christians should be going around cursing at people. Um uh and it's one thing then when you have a euphemism, you know, it's kinda like when you bleep out words but you're still saying them. Everybody knows what you're saying in in the words, so I I'm not a big fan of crass language. Okay. Yeah, well it's interesting because I've I've I've I've heard a number of people share your point of view on that. I will say as far as the UI thing, uh clearly it was culturally inappropriate. Um but I don't think w I wouldn't in in a in a religious sense, I wouldn't have called that a sin. Um he was speaking out in a way that was out of the norm, but I don't think it was sinful. Uh and the let's go Brandon, you know, it's I think it's a complicated question. I don't know if I have time to I don't know not going to have time to get into the complicated. Maybe we'll kick off next show just finishing our thoughts on this. Because I think there's some complex, I don't want to use a leftist kind of a term because I always get squeamish. when other people use, but there's a nuance uh to this that I I I think um I'd like to get your take on the duance, let's put it that way. So uh the one who said sure was Daniel Razvy. The one who said absolutely not just a little while ago was Imran Razvy. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. You can find us online at the wfmd. com and you can find us personally online. Probably the best way is to go to household of faith in Christ. com. You can connect with us through various means on that website. Until next week, that'd be about 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless. Let's see this one going, boom. Actually I thought you might hedge on that. No. It's known as a curse. It is the F-word. Yeah, it it is a curse. Everybody knows it's a curse. So just like the word what uh the actual word, uh what is F or S or whatever, you know what that word means. Let's go brandon means that. So Oh why is it not a crossword? It is a crossword. The culture has made it a crossword. Let me reload the user for next Next time I've got there we go. And that's loaded. So that one's gonna air on the twenty-third, by the way. And so that means this next one's gonna be on the thirtieth, if my math is correct. And if you're watching on Facebook, we appreciate it. I'm not going to be able to interact with you very easily in this kind of an environment, so I'll interact with you later if you leave a comment or something. Be glad to. Uh give me just a second to untype in. Oh one Very okay. Okay. And all right. All right. Let's attack the new ones. Wow, you actually doing it take two. I'd never seen you do that before. I'm on the wrong track. I don't think it's gonna save right if I don't. We don't want that. We don't want to do a whole show it's not gonna air. That would be a disaster. Some people may prefer the actual stuff. Yeah, more than we care to admit, I'm sure. There we go. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com and Yep, we're on the Bluetooth 99. 9 FM HD2, so you gotta have one of those fancy radios. I don't know if those are popular or not anymore, but uh These used to be the upscale cars that all have the HD2 radios in them. So if you have an upscale car, good for you. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Fate Debate. Um joined as always by Imron Razby and Daniel Razby and we're absent one. Our best looking member of the cast, uh David Forcy, or at least our deepest voice member of the cast, that's for sure. I'm not sure who's the best looking. I think the three of us all got an equal shot at that one. I think we can make it run for our money So uh w we're we're not before we jump into what was the scheduled topic for today, we're going to uh put some loose topics and loose ends from last week's show. So if you're listening to this as a podcast, some people I know will sometimes listen to We record these shows in ARPS. People who have been listening for 17 years plus now understand that's what we do. Have a tendency to do the same general topic for three, four, five shows in a row. And so I know some people that like to listen in rapid succession. They wait till an arc is over and they'll listen to three, four, five shows in a row. So for you, this is a seamless transition. Last week we were talking about the um uh the phrase, let's go, Brandon, uh has become very popular, a lot of songs, all that sort of stuff, and uh uh somebody uh infamously said it actually to Joe Biden on a Skype call or something like that. Uh he ended the call with let's go brandon and the president said, that's right, I agree, let's go brandon clearly out to lunch on what that means. So that's interesting. But anyway, it's been brought up by some people that I know saying, man, should Christians really be saying that or not? And so I posed it to you guys and and uh Imran quickly said, Yeah, absolutely not, Christians should not say that Daniel didn't get there as quickly, but kind of ended in the same place. He kind of explained his reasoning for why he was saying Christians shouldn't say it. And so I want to give a and I'm to be honest, I'm a little ambivalent about it. So I'm not saying that it's absolutely the best thing in the world for Christians to do, but I'm not really hardcore against it either. So I might be able to be a a a voice for those who I feel like they need to have their voice represented in this room. So here are some thoughts. One, it's not the actual original phrase that was being chanted, you know, the the F Joe Biden chant. Uh it's a euphemism And we use lots of euphemisms for what would otherwise be considered coarse, inappropriate and polite company kinds of phrases And so um I think it's much preferred to have a euphemism than the coarse crass language. Particularly as you know as a parent who once had little kids, I'd much rather they hear Let's Go Brandon than hear you know the original phrase because it's easier to navigate that as a parent. So there's that. The other thing is I think that the whole phrase, it's not just a replacement, at least this is this is why I'm a little bit unsure of exactly where I want to stand on this. It's not just a replacement for the F-Bomb, you know, followed by the president's name It's more complex than that because the way that it all began to become popular was at the NASCAR event when the racer had just won a race and the fans were chanting um the original version of the phrase. Can't say it on the radio, uh nor would I really want to say it anyway, but can't say it on the radio. But you know what? I think if you're listening to a station like this, you know what I'm talking about. They chanted it and the reporter on the scene She's hearing what they're saying, and then she misrepresents that and says, oh listen, they're saying let's go, Brandon And so I think this let's go Brandon thing, this phenomenon, became a phenomenon. One, because it was a way to have a euphemism for saying you're dissatisfied with the way the president's doing it. job. And it's also a way to call out the media for lying about how things in reality are happening. So it's a twofer And so when you think about it that way, when you're calling out the media and you're calling out the president and you're calling out your dissatisfaction with life in general and you don't want to Use a curse word plus, a good way to try to diffuse totalitarian mindsets is to try to ridicule and mock them with humor And this is a way to do that. It's a very complex way. So if we're not going to say it, and I'm not saying that we should, I I I'm I mean I said it on this show in this context, because it's not an FCC violation, and in this context I I don't think it's it's an issue. Some people could disagree with that, I suppose too. But if we're not going to say that What would be an alternative? What would be an acceptable alternative? What would be a way to to mock and ridicule the tyrants if you believe that they're tyrants in our world? Or should we be or should we be mocking you and ridiculing? Or should we rather use um more eloquent speech? Well, what would be the biblical basis for that Well there's a certain amount of respect and honor for anybody in a position of authority. Now God puts people in position and takes them out of position. He raises up people and and uh tears down people according to his will. And And whenever somebody is in position, just like Saul was anointed by God, David was then anointed, but he would never lift a hand against Saul. He would never say anything bad against Saul, even though Saul was trying to And whether you believe Biden is God's anointed or not, he is an app power uh position of power and no one can be in a position of power without God's authority. And when God tears him down, that's one thing. But while he's there, is it our job to be that way? And uh one thing you were saying earlier uh uh the same euphemism, I don't even say OMG because it's the same thing as taking God's name in vain. And so that's the same reason I wouldn't say let's go Brandon because that's what that means The F-word is merely crafts language. It's not taking the Lord's name in vain, right? And that and that's a good point. And to to argue the other side for a minute. Jesus used some pretty harsh curse words. Among the political leadership of his day. Political leadership, he went to the Pharisees and he said, you brood of vipers. So basically he said, you son of a snake. Now we have another phrase in English which I'm not gonna say on the radio either and I don't say it in the Views, right? They they use that word in in dog breeding. You know, I'd be hard pressed to find a really clear difference between that and what Jesus said you son of a snake. Jesus is actually saying you're son of Satan, but says Snake was uh in the Well Brood of Vipers in j general. Uh I don't know. That's that's It's a it's it's a i it it clashes with the image that people have in their head of Jesus. Oh Jesus is all love and all gentleness and all kindness and and he was all of that, but he was also the guy who went and braided a whip. so premeditated and beat up a whole bunch of people and threw them out of the temple and and so on. I mean th there there's a lot more um So we say traditional masculinity, manualis in Jesus than than what you know, the culture is uh today is is saying. Yeah. Yeah, I I I know. I I wanna have you know, since But maybe because I'm not exactly sure where we want to land on this, I want to have you know a measure of grace for those that would disagree. Um because on the things for which I don't think there's any room for disagreement I'm not going to give them the grace. But in this case, I could point to examples. I mean, Paul, the Apostle Paul, you know, if you look at it in in in the in the actual Greek, he's basically telling something to go cut off their you know what's. You know what I mean? That's pretty direct, crass kind of imagery and language that uses. In the Old Testament where there's there you don't see it in the English translation so much, but if you understand the euphemisms and the idioms of the of the day Uh it's basically the same kind of language in the Old Testament where we read it in the English and it's about something about, you know, your your leg Um you know, something's gonna bad's gonna happen to your leg. Yeah, uh we're talking about a certain kind of leg if you know what I mean. Um you know Or I will k I will I will kill all the males. Well the Hebrew doesn't say males. It describes the difference between males and females. in how they go to the bathroom and so on. And so there are some And as far as mocking language, I mean uh among the ruling class of the day in the Old Testament would have been the uh the the false prophets and priests of of the day um had the ear of the king and all that and Elijah goes way out of his way to mock and ridicule uh uh the the priests of bail. You know what I mean? So it's Well the priests of Baal were not the position of authority. They weren't uh the authority there. They were priests of And I think you can make a real good point of mocking or tearing down authority if God calls you to that. But I would say the masses are not called to that. And this is the one and only country that I know of that actually in the Constitution it gives us a right to tear down the government if the government becomes offensive. And uh so in this situation I guess uh you could pardon that and say yes we're acting within the uh authority that uh this constitution was was there. But even then I tend to s err on the side of let's stay away from crash language I if you're educated enough you can find other language to say what you want to say without having to be crass. And that just brings that crassness to mind when you say it even if Yeah, I I yeah, but again, I guess the part that makes it a little more comp complex I think is I I think for me to be honest The first thing that comes to mind is the image of that reporter misrepresenting the truth. That's the first thing that comes to my mind, rather than the crassness of it of of the language. And to be honest, I don't know if I haven't thought this through this is on the fly in response to our conversation here, but I think I'm far more comfortable with somebody using the S word and robbing an F-bum or using the B word that we didn't want to say earlier, I'd much rather hear that than hear the Lord's name taken in vain. Absolutely. So You know, and I'm guilty of you know, of of all of it at some point in my life, you know. So I'm not I'm I'm not uh throwing rocks uh living in a in a glass house. Uh but I st still that being the case, I I'd would rather what you know, watching a TV show or a movie, like it doesn't get any sort of a negative rating held against it if it takes the Lord's name in vain. But it will get a negative rating against it if it uses the F-word or an S word or something like that. And so we've got that inside out in our culture. That is true. Anyway, well we took up probably a little more time on that than I wanted to, but I thought I think it's I think that's helpful. And so Here's a pastoral takeaway, at least, and if you can add to this, this isn't empty the last word on it. At the very least, if you've been using that phrase Maybe now for the first time you're hearing that maybe you shouldn't be. And you need to examine your own heart and your own habits on that and decide whether or not you feel Um as you understand God's word and your conscience before God with a biblically informed worldview whether you should be saying that or not. And you might be of of mind to say, huh I should say it all the more. You know, but you know, at least now you've you've heard some talk about it, maybe that's helpful to you. And that's one of the roles this show is supposed to be doing for this community. We do it better some weeks than others, I know Maybe you replaced that phrase with pray for Bright Biden. Yeah. Meaning the same thing. Pray for Biden. Yeah. That's not anywhere near as funny. And that is part of it. Humor, you know, I think we've got this really bad stick figure, you know, mannequin view of who God and what Jesus was like as he walked the earth, you know, two thousand years ago that he had no sense of humor. I have a feeling he was probably a pretty fun, funny guy, right? He had the fullness of of a of a perfectly formed personality. I think I can't imagine that humor wouldn't be part of that. But one of the things is does humor have to put somebody down to be humorous. Oh, no. But in this case you're trying to point out that the guy who who has been put in authority, I would agree with you, been placed in nobody's in authority without God putting them there. But because God has placed him in authority, he's responsible to God, and from a biblical point of view, he is failing miserably in living up to that. And in this country, particularly, where it's a government of the people, It it's people's job to hold their elected officials to account. Yeah, that's what when Ahab came to Elijah and he said, Oh, are you the one that's troubling Israel? He said, I have not troubled Israel Israel, but thou and thy father's house, you've been causing all those problems. He says it to Ahab's face. So but he also is not not using crass language in that that uh scenario. He's speaking more eloquently. And I think you can be classy about it. Yeah. Alright, so let's uh let's transition a little bit and if we don't have time to finish some of these thoughts today we'll carry them over into uh our next week's show So we we wanted to talk today about um the loss of a desire for truth. We like to say, oh everybody desires objective truth. Everybody desires the truth. Exactly. Right, yeah. But that truism doesn't really feel all that true anymore. There's a loss for the desire of truth. And some examples that that that I thought of that would help to exemplify this and Different people on different sides of the fence are going to respond differently to some of these things that are going to throw out. I get that. But take the frontline doctors as an example Their whole goal is to say, look, we're medical professionals, we're dealing with people who are sick on the front lines. Here's what we've seen, here's what we understand to be the truth, these are the ways we should be approaching this. And instead of hearing them out, having a debate, having a respectful dialogue back and forth, maybe even mocking them with some let's go Brandon phrases if you want, let's go uh frontline doctors or whatever, instead of that We're getting them canceled and shut down, but we just don't want to hear it. We don't care. Maybe you have the truth, maybe you don't, but even if you have the truth, we don't want to hear it. They get shut down. The social media, you know, fact checkers, which some people are uh calling fact blockers. uh are are getting in the way of of the free exchange of ideas. I mean Dr. Robert Malone got canceled on Twitter. Um you know he's one of the guys that was involved in the invention of the whole MRN uh MRNA technology that's behind uh most of the shots. And he's now saying things that has people concerned, and so they're shutting him down, so they don't want that truth. Parler, a social media platform, got shut down Um, you know, people are fleeing Google uh Google and going to uh platforms like DuckDuckGo to do their search engines uh stuff because there's less censorship there. Uh I'll pause there for now. I mean, there those are some examples of people in the mainstream not wanting the truth. How can we try to encourage people to be like, hey, It's okay to have the truth. In fact, you want the truth. How how do we incur how do we get back to that? You can't handle the truth. Yeah. I do. A few good men. Uh probably my favorite Tom Cruise movie of all time. I I think the leadership and the people that are in uh that are very, very wealthy in controlling the media don't believe the public can handle handle the truth and so they only want them to have the truth according to their will. And this country where we used to be where e the ACLU would fight to the death for anybody's right to speak. They may disagree but they have the right to speak. Now they're saying Oh, I'm glad so and so got canceled. Uh Green just got canceled on uh um Twitter. Yes, Marjorie Taylor Green, yeah. And and ACLU came out should have been done earlier. Why? How is that? I thought ACLG They canceled Donald Trump. Exactly. So when he was the pre while he was president. So so that's the difference of the president. Think what you want. He was talking about respect to the office was crying out loud, right? So that's a different topic altogether which I think is Could you imagine they fired FDR's fireside chats? Could you imagine? Well we just won't print the fireside chats anymore. You know, we yeah, the radio stations won't carry 'em anymore, not allowed or even updates on World War Two. We're not gonna carry that anymore, 'cause it's not true. We're just not allowed to be on the radio. The Handle the truth. That could be Yeah, that could be part of it. But some of it isn't it's it's not that as they're trying to orchestrate what the truth is, right? Like the whole What's causing climate change, if it's even like an important thing or not? Are we all gonna be dead in twenty thirty? Because that was the projection, you know, like twenty forty or the twenty three. Um Al Gore, who ran the internet, uh said that we're all gonna be dead by twenty fifteen, wasn't it? Yeah, well and if you want to go back, I mean I'm old enough to know, I mean there was gonna be um The world was going to end because of an ice age. That was the big thing back in the seventies. And then by the eighties it was we're all going to die 'cause the earth was going to burn up. And by the nineties they're kind of back to an ice age. And then we got into two thousand houses climate change. Like so if we get an Ice Age or the Earth burns up, they're right in either case. And that drives that drives an agenda that's political. But pol politics, you know We'd I'll be careful how we phrase this, I guess, so that we can stay on tact with uh on on point with the faith debate But your religious worldview affects all of life. The Bible addresses everything, your finances, your marriage, your sex life. It addresses everything, including your politics. And so if God's got the truth about what politics should be, and those who are the enemies of God in his truth have their politics, and those who you know, would disagree with some people about on the on the leftist globalist kind of agenda. They're using the global climate change to instill fear and go for like the everything's gotta be green, the Green New Deal, the even if it doesn't make any sense So it's not just they can't handle the truth. They want to control and kind of indoctrinate you into what they want you to think the truth is. Don't you think? I think there is There I want to look at it from a little bit different angle from the people that are reading the news or watching the news or listening to uh you know news and truth and trying to find and discern what is true. There's a few different ways I've seen people handle their uh what they see on the media. Number one is it's just a very surface level. Hey, turn on the TV. And nine out of ten channels are more left-leaning, so turn on the TV, heard a left-leaning topic, a talking point. Oh yeah, that's probably true. Okay, great. Next next thing. And just go on with your day and meanwhile these things are sifting into your head. So that's one level and then the there's a deeper level and you have some more liberal and more conservative politically speaking people that do go on a deeper level and they recognize that most people in the media have some sort of bias, whether they're left or right or whatever. and they'll look at different sources and try to discern what what they think is is correct based on that or they'll favor certain channels just because they think they're more truthful. And then you have this the cynical minded people who really are of the opinion that it's impossible to know the truth anymore. And I'm not I'm talking about Christians. I I see this I I know a bunch of people. That that are this way. These are Christians who believe in absolute truth and also believe that there's absolutely nothing you can do to figure out what the truth is because everything is so unreliable on the left and the right. in the uh you know news media in any any sort of way that you could get facts and information. And so what do you say to those people? How do you discern what is really true if Everybody's a liar. If you can you know, I've re you've been recording me long enough you can probably take my words and mix them up with uh some kind of fancy software and make me say whatever you want me to say and I can spout all sorts of blasphemy to you from your computer now because you have enough recording of me. So we have the technology to do all of that. How do you know what's what's really true anymore? What how do you discern as a Christian Yeah. That's why it's so important that the churches not stop meeting, but that that the leaders of the church do lead, do point people to the truth. And the truth is Jesus Christ. The truth is found in God's Word. You know, and uh so instead of you can't handle the truth, it's what is the truth? And the problem is most of the church leaders it's the corruption from within. They have been corrupted by their seminaries, they've been corrupted by their the their leadership uh of churches, of uh panels of uh advisors to to pastors, i it's it's craft from within. The enemy within uh is is there and they will not tell the truth and And and as Daniel said, most of the people that I know that have really focused on Christ and Christ centered have really become cynical of knowing that the the truth cannot be found in today's media. And today's even today today's mainline churches you cannot find the truth. They're not gonna stand up for the truth. So really not just the mainlines anymore. Yeah, even the smaller ones. Even the ones that have a reputation for being biblically faithful, in the last half a dozen years that reputation has gotten to be unreliable. And that's why the home church movement is so important where you can actually challenge somebody when somebody says something Challenge it, let's go to the Bible, find out what the Bible says and discern what is what what's going on there. Yeah. No, I was just commenting on what you said the the even what even the less mainstream, the more conservative churches have And again, conservative as in a traditional minded uh you know s the church, they've they've fallen off. Um I mean the Southern Baptist Convention voted to adopt critical race theory and to and to believe that just you know uh fairly recently here and that's that's unheard of for a w you know a a a a tr traditional fun uh fundamental Christian And because it's so hard to find any sort of trustworthy source anymore, uh pretty much all of the big sources are compromised. at this point, right? And I'm not talking about just CNN, MSNBC, ABC, CBS. I'm also talking about Fox News, Newsmax. Absolutely. They're all compromised at this point. So where do you go? And so then you've got to try to suss out places that seem to be consistently uh sharing what aligns with a biblical worldview, and then you you start to grow to trust them a little bit, and then you start to compare them with other people that you've grown to trust a little bit You start to multitask and you take in a half a dozen or more sources of reasonably trustworthy people, comparing and contrasting, and then trying to navigate through that through, okay, based on all of that, this is probably what the truth is The other thing I've been trying to do like crazy, but it's harder and harder because now we're not getting even true raw data. But I used to try to go back to like the core. You know, what is the actual data as best as you can trust that And then if somebody's not saying something in alignment with that data, either they know something about that data I don't, and I need to find out what they know that I don't, or they're just not informed because they're not echoing the data. I mean, how many times have we heard the argument about the the guns and you know gun violence is caused by you know uh skinheads or altright wackos or um no by the guns themselves the guns themselves you know. Well if you ask uh the Baldwin family they they they think that actually might be a little bit more than a little bit of a I guess is what happens. But uh yeah, and but you look at the data and it the actual data itself doesn't support the arguments that they make about the guns, and yet but it's not about the facts. See, that's the problem we're having. It's not about the truth. It's about the emotion. Yes. Right? You're not going to win an argument with an emotional person. And I think using facts. I think it's our responsibility as Christians to really dig deep and filter everything through the Bible. If it's contradicting the Bible, then obviously it's not true. Um but it's not a new thing. I mean if you look at when the country started, there was a there were a lot of Extremely opposing newspapers that would clash their headlines against each other. People were just well informed and could use critical thinking to find out what the truth actually was. Yeah, because they didn't have uh you know uh government funded pagan schools back then. Yep. All right. Anyway, that would be the last but um bump word of the day for today This is the Faith Debate. Thank you, Daniel. And Imran Razley. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Find us online, household of faith in Christ. com and of course WFMD. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. God bless. Well, you found something to debate about. Brandon. Mm-hmm. Yeah, we've been agreeing with each other all on a lot of topics, so It's good to have some difficulty. That's also part of why early on I was bringing up a lot of cultural, political, big things, because I assumed that the four in the room would have a lot of commonalities there and we would build some rapport and some mutual trust and respect and that sort of thing so that when we start to get into the stuff that we're more likely to have some bumps in the road like, oh I'm a I'm sure I can agree with that, that we would already have like friendships more deeply rooted and that sort of thing. 'Cause you know, you guys were just meeting David, he was just meeting you, and to be honest, I only know the three of you only so well, and you only know me so well. So uh it provides a foundation for that too. I feel like I'm feeling better about how the flow is going. Uh based on our our goals moving forward. Uh I think uh you guys agree. Yeah. I'm not sure if this last episode we found an opportunity to share what the gospel message is. We didn't give the actual gospel message. Well the first one we kinda did. Mm-hmm. Yeah, the first one. But we want to try to make sure they're hearing the truth about that. Well the truth is you need a savior. Anyway All right, so this next one is gonna be on February sixth. The years flying by. Absolutely. Maybe the mask mandates are removed by February sixth. Or we'll start the triple masking. Yeah. The full on hazard suit. Haz mas suit. Yeah, the best The only reason we're not wearing it yet, because uh Fauci does not have been bad Did you hear about the new shop that's apparently uh being used, I think, in India or something? trust that but anyway it's a it's a rival to the uh three shots we have here. And so Fauci was asked about it apparently yesterday or yesterday or yeah day before something like that. And uh he's like, oh we don't need another uh we we we've got all we need. It's like interesting. And the first thing that went through my head is I wonder he must not have a financial interest in the new shot. Yeah they did it without his financial interest in there So Moderna and and Pfizer are both very connected. They're all almost the same organization. Oh I d I did not know that, really. Yeah, well I think Pfizer owns Moderna Really? I d I don't have I don't have proof of that. Well at some point that's true because there's like seven guys that own everything. So everything is owned by BlackRock. Sadly, yeah. And they're buying up like real estate like left and right. Mm-hmm. You will own nothing and you will be happy. Yeah, that's what they tell us. That's what they tell us. Hey. You know, in heaven I'll agree with that. We will certainly be happy and joyful. Alright. Ready? Welcome to the Faith Debate. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here on NewsRadio 930 WFMD. We're online at WFMD. com. You can also hear this show, not just on the AM, but on the FM at 99. 9 HD2 I'm Troy Skinner, been hosting the Fate Debate Show for about seventeen and a half years now. Started when I was three. And I'm joined this week by it's it's not a sin to lie like that, is it? I might have to repent later. Imran Razby and Daniel Razby are on the show this week. We are sons, David Forcy, so one of us will have to talk in a really deep voice. for portions of the show today. I can't even get as deep as in when I'd want try to. Like it's impossible. Yeah, it just comes in naturally. Anyway Um I don't know if I mentioned this or not already, so I will now in case I didn't. Uh Household of FaithInChrist. com is probably the easiest, best centralized place to get in touch with all of us, but I do want to give a shout out to a uh a a parachurch organization ministry that the Rasbies established years ago, Conquered by Love Ministries, and their website is conqueredbylove. org You can check them out. And actually I haven't mentioned this to you guys yet, but I I want us to uh take some time talking about the kinds of things that that particular ministry uh focuses on and and and do a series of faith debate shows on that. We can talk about that more later. They're learning about it as you are. See how that's the well-oh machine that we are around here. So this week, we started to touch on it a little bit the last couple of weeks just as a side. So we didn't really go deep on. But last week we were talking about truth. And related to truth, I mean a lot of the stuff and the debates about what's true, what's not true has to do with the whole COVID. narrative and all things related to COVID. And if somebody doesn't agree with what you're saying, then you're a conspiracy theorist And if you don't agree with them, well then they're a conspiracy theorist or they've bought into a conspiracy or um so we got businesses requiring masks, even sometimes when the government's not telling they have to require the masks, which is interesting. Or possibly even requiring the shots and asking for some sort of documentation to show that you've gotten the shots. And you know, they were doing temperature checks all the way back in twenty twenty. Um and uh the well go ahead a lot of it's not even consistent. I mean There's a sporting event I was hearing about where they had three lines. They had one line for people who had vaccines, uh, had vaccination cards, they could go in without being checked. They had another line for people who had a proof of a recent negative test, and they could go in without being checked. The third line for people who didn't have those, they could do a rapid test. But if you and there was one guy who had his vaccine card that went to test it and he went in the rapid test line and got a positive result and turned right back around and went to the vaccine line and didn't get didn't get checked and he was allowed in. So it's not really logical at this point here because if you're vaccinated you can carry the thing and so So a lot of it is really just driven by fear and emotion. Well I have a friend who's sick uh and went to get the tests and by the way the tests, you know Sometimes I wonder if they could test the turni turnip and test positive possibly. I mean I I I don't know. But w it is what we it is what it is, as they say. It's it it's what we have to work with. Right. And so she was sick, she is sick, and so she went to get tested and she tested positive for COVID. And so she informed her employer that she was sick, so she, you know, she'd have to be out for ten days, because that was their policy. But of course, their Shorthanded, a lot of people left because they didn't want to live by the policy of getting the shots, so they have fewer employees on staff now, and so they need all hands on deck as often as possible. And they said, Yeah, well how sick are you? And she said, Well, I'm sick, I mean my nose is running, I've got a sore throat, a fever, I'm I'm you know, achy, whatever. I'm I'm not feeling well. I I I'm I'm well, you know, you got the you you got the shot, so tell ya what, uh you can come back to work in five days. Instead of ten days. What if I'm still feeling sick and five days? Oh, don't worry about it. You got the shot, so it's fine. Come in. With symptoms. Wow. Co it to your point makes no sense. But anyway, on this business thing, I want to start here. Because this might be the whole show possibly. And if not, I've got some other uh you know, uh cannonballs uh ready to fire. It's been very common, and to be honest, it's where I've been most of my adult life But I'm questioning myself a lot more in recent years, like re-examining why I've landed, where I've landed on some things. The business wants to require vaccine passports or they want to do temperature checks or what have you. They want you to make sure you stand you know six, eight feet apart, whatever it is. a common response from people who would probably ideologically agree with the three of us most of the time, because it's kind of a libertarian kind of a response is, well, you know, it's their business. They can do whatever they want. And boy, that just feels wrong to me suddenly. And so I'm not sure that there's a biblical case be made that because it's their business, they can do what they want. What do you guys think? Before I go off any further on that, what do you think? Well before we before we answer and we need to answer the biblical thing, just from as a as a lawyer's perspective, um and the constitution, there is a difference between a business voluntarily making a rule, no shirt, no shoes, no service, for example And the government putting pressure on the business and saying, you, okay, well we won't mandate it, but if you do this, we'll give you extra tax credit. or we'll make your life easier or we if you don't do it we're gonna audit you more or we'll have more inspections. So the government can put a lot of pressure whether there's an actual mandate or not that makes the businesses feel like it is in their best interest. Right. So that is a little bit different. Now it's the government doing it instead of the business. And even if they don't put that kind of pressure, if they have put the fear of COVID in somebody so much so with all the media outlets saying it that the business owner is f afraid for their life. That's almost the same thing because the government has put that pressure on in in the same uh base. But yeah, as as far as far as a b biblical perspective There are objective truths in the Bible. There is objective right and wrong. You don't just need to get decide as an individual or as a business owner, hey, I'm going to do this or I'm not going to do that. Well, you have to follow God's law and that includes I mean for example, you can't decide on in in the in the biblical law that, oh, I'm a farmer and I don't want the poor people to clean the edges of my field. We you don't get to decide that. They get they have to go in the industry field. That's what the Bible says, right? So it's not like oh well I'm uh I'm the farmer. I get to do well no, God has rules for what to do But he also has, you know, rules for the people that are agreeing. You can't do certain things. So I think i in America a lot of times we're we we have the tendency, Oh, it's my freedom, it's oh it's America, it's it's my my liberty, my freedom. Well no, it's it's God. God gave you all these things and he gave rules and regulations around how you use what he's giving. Now there's not a whole lot of day of Bible verses that deal with masks, for example, although there is one. It says if you're a leper, you should cover your upper lip. So if you're symptomatic, if you if you're gonna be making people sick then you should be staying away from them and doing your best not to make them sick. So there are some Bible verses that deal with that, but uh there's not a whole lot that deals with like businesses. So because you and I might have some a uh a lot of alignment here. Is this kind of how you've been thinking for years and years, or have you kind of come into where you're thinking about this over the last two or three years? Like more more uh I've kind of I kind of still feel like a business can do whatever they want and in at least in America there's a legal right for them to do whatever they want and they can refuse service, but the person can also refuse to to shop there and and so on. Yeah that's what I'm hearing a lot. So here's here's I'm I'm this is a work in progress. This is not a well formulated uh view on my part. Yeah, very dangerous. I might listen back to this in ten years and be like, oh my gosh, what were you saying? Why did you put that out there? But I'm just, you know, being transparent. So we would say that, let's say you own a restaurant. And somebody who comes in with a skin color you don't like, and you say, sorry, I'm not going to serve you, we would say you can't do that. I would not say that. You would not say that. I think it's a wrong and it's evil for the business to say that. Right, which is why you shouldn't be allowed to do it. I think in the from a biblical perspective, no, they shouldn't. In as far as in a in a um constitutional perspective, there's really no nothing preventing that. If that's true, then the Constitution is an ungodly document because we have rights and liberties and freedoms for one reason only. Why do we need freedom and liberty? So that we can go about our business of fulfilling our responsibilities. We have responsibilities before God, and we need the freedom to do it. And so if anybody's going to squash my freedom to do what God tells me to do, and part of what God tells me to do is to go out and work and feed my family, right? Earn a living so I can feed my family. That's my responsibility as And so if if there's going to be rules in place that are going to keep me from being able to do that, that's an ungodly rule. It should be rejected, it should be fought against. That's why fascism is is dangerous and bad and ungodly. So I don't think it's right for a restaurant to say no. And so I agree with you, it's not right for them to do that. So Troy, what about a swimming pool that is women's only and they don't want men there because of modesty and stuff And so they refuse service to a man that wants to come and swim. No, I I think things can be uh I would say a more dramatic thing that's been in the news in recent years than even that would be the cake bakers who don't want to decorate a cake for, you know, a um uh a ceremony that's going to recognize two same sex individuals coming together in what they would call a marriage. I can't do that because I'm putting my artistic you know sign and seal on it's I'm I'm not gonna serve you that way But they have the right to refuse it because God would tell them not to do that. And and they actually say that this is a country based on English common law, which originally it was, right, was influenced strongly by English common law, and English common law was deeply steeped in biblical law then the biblical principles are really when we when you get rid of the Bible, you lose English common law, you use The Constitution? You lose all the case law leading up until now. Everything's a living, breathing document. You can make it mean whatever you want. And there's no standard. But if the standard is God and his expectation, well that that clarifies everything for me. Absolutely. But in that situation well in in the the cake baker situation, they actually said you can pick any cake that's already made on a display or you can buy it. We're just not gonna make a specific cake for you to celebrate homosexuality because that's against my religion So they weren't refusing service to them. Okay, they were refusing to do it specifically because of artistic value. Now in the swimming pool thing that I just said, if it's a women's only swimming pool So women can feel comfortable and not be ogled and not have to do that. Yeah, but they're refusing service to half the population. That's kind of the other thing. But the point there though is that the motive for that sort of a rule is want of modesty and respect for women so they're not being oogled. So the things matter. Why we should have separate bathrooms for the same reason. So the motives matter. And that's where as a Christian you can be consistent and say the motives matter, but the old motives need to be Christian in nature and biblically based. Right. Right. Bec if you don't have a Christian foundation, that's where you get th things like, oh well, you know, I'm a racist and so I say I have certain motives for not wanting those people in my shop. Okay, well That's your own motives and and as somebody who is not a believer, the only real logical answer you can give to that is, huh, well, I guess that's your opinion, then nothing I can do about it. But God does have something to say about these things and that's why it's it's really important. And because we've got to remember, you know, the the the founders of this country uh were overwhelmingly, you know, weaned on the Bible. They learned how to read probably by reading script Sure. You know, they uh the people the framers of the Constitution, they were the generation that was, you know, right on the heels of the first great awakening. I mean it's a it it culturally things were so different. And they even warned us today, like, you know, this is this form of government is only for a godly people, you know, people who are going to respect the Bible of God. Otherwise this is not going to work And that's why we try to export it to other countries. It doesn't work. Right. And and they they didn't intend for us to have freedom of all religions. It was freedom of different denominations of Christianity. That was the design and and the belief of the founders. And so I think when you when you have to do it. Yeah, right. And so if you have that um that mindset, then you are gonna have consistency with what types of services you do and don't provide as your business. Um and I and I think all of those restrictions If you're going to have restrictions in your business of who you serve in the Eastly Base of the Bible, that really is the only reason you can You can base that. So I started out by saying we wanted to talk about COVID and the conspiracies and stuff, and we took a little bit of a planned uh detour to talk about the business question. I don't know if we have a whole lot more to say. I think we've all said what we want to say and we I think we mostly kind of agree and where we agree to disagree with We can pick that up some other time. But getting back to the COVID stuff in the last half of today's show, we've dealt with a lot of uh misdirection where things that purported to be true put forward as true with a particular narrative. Not talking about the facts per se, but the spin. In the old days we would call it spin, today we call it well it's the truth. And you can't question it. And you can't question it. And so we're not allowed to question things like, you know Some people are concerned about the so-called migrant crisis. Is there really a crisis or not? And what's the well you're not allowed to. You have to welcome the sojourner no matter what is becomes an argument. And if you say anything otherwise, well then you're just, you know, a bigot or something like that that. Early on we were told that the uh you know the Wuhan flu, as people were calling it back then, uh began in a wet market. And uh But that was the prevailing or and if you said anything to suggest that there was something not true about that, that it happened in the lab and something like that, like, oh, you're just trying to blame the Chinese people. and you're going to cause all sorts of of hatred against American Chinese people and it's going to be horrible. Um and then they've conflated, you know, like they've changed and they've conflated things. So now it used to be people died with COVID But have you noticed they subtly changed that? They don't say they people have died with COVID. Now they're saying they died from COVID, even if they didn't die from COVID. They were more careful about it. But now they've just shifted a little bit. Uh and they were you know, they used to be a case But when somebody was sick, they were a case. If you had a case of the flu, you had a case of pneumonia, you had a case of cancer, whatever, you know, it meant you had it. Mm-hmm. But then it was, well, we're gonna count test results which you may not even have any symptoms and so then cases stopped being illnesses. And then for for a long while they said that you should not wear a mask ever And then it I mean unless you're in the hospital working and then it was oh everybody needs to wear masks and then later some some studies came out saying maybe masks aren't that helpful unless they're certain kind and worn in a certain way and then And you know, peep people pushed back and said, Oh, don't follow those studies. Now we wear two masks. So there there's a lot of different conflating And here's here's my take, and I want to give your response after I I give you my hot take So the things we've already mentioned and you threw out there all the controversy about treatment, particularly you know early treatment approaches, you know, the the degradation of hydroxychloroquine and uh ivermectin uh as a as a horse paste. Um people you know people who want to tout the the value of using vitamin C and vitamin D saying like what are you a witch doctor? You think vitamins are gonna solve it? You go to the hospital and they try to force Randezevir on you, even though it has the most pathetic track record ever. And then all these requirements for the mass that don't work, in my opinion. I mean that the the data seems clear that they're not make having any positive effect. In fact, you can argue they're having a negative, a net negative effect. With all that said, here's my hot take I think the Christian message should be love your neighbor. Take off your mask. Reject the injections. Homeschool your kids. And because all I'm hearing from the big voices in the big evangelical world, something we'll call big Eva. is love your neighbor. Put on the mask. Do what the government says. Is it that big of a deal? It's such a small gesture to you know if it's gonna make your if you just make your neighbor feel more comfortable wear the mask, love your neighbor and wear the mask. And I'm like, well if it's If it's such a small gesture, how about the small gesture of taking it off so I can diffuse the atmosphere of fear? I can let people breathe actually fresh air for a change and stuff. But not many people are saying that. You agreed right away, which is encouraging, but what's the downside to that sort of love the neighbor argument? And there is there is a biblical basis. for being careful when you're sick and not afraid to others, s keeping your distance, keeping your face covered, all that. For when you're symptomatic or when you've been exposed to something like that. There there's biblical a basis for that But there's not a biblical basis for having the fear run o run your life and to be all um concerned about uh you know, the the the religion of COVID, which is become much of a religion now. You have to sacrifice to the altar of triple mass or triple vaccines or whatever. I've heard people call it the cult of COVID stand. You know? It's Yeah. So particularly in the church. Now I if somebody wants to wear the mask, fine, whatever. Be honest, if there's somebody I know, I'm gonna try to talk to them and say, look, you don't even understand how much damage that mask is doing. It's not protecting you the way you think it is Because you think it's protecting you somewhat, it's not. Uh the data would seem clear on that. I know that anybody who listens to this that uh is is a consumer of the mainstream narrative thinks I'm an idiot right now. Okay, that's fine. You can think that. I I know for a fact, you thinking I'm an idiot, you're wrong on that one. But the churches Fine, if you want to wear a mask, I'll talk to you about it, but I'm not going to make you wear a mask to come worship God. Like where's the biblical precedent for that? To put some sort of requirement on somebody to come to worship God. It's actually evil. to cover your face and worship God. That's worshiping Satan. And there's several places you can even look that up and show that. That is absolutely unbiblical to worship God with your face covered Hmm. I haven't heard that argument yet. I like that. I don't have to lift that particular thing. A lot of occult occult rituals that involve covering your head in the face, standing six feet apart. from each other and in a circle and I've begun to joke and say we have to stand six six six feet apart. That's what they've been doing for years and years and years. And we're doing that in the main tube now. And there's and there's a lot of speaking of conspiracy theory. There's a lot of people that say, oh, the vaccine is the mark of the beast. And and what I would say to that is it I don't think the this vaccine is is the mark of the beast. I think I think that it's certainly a dry run to get the population used to the idea that you must do what the government says in order to be allowed to transact in the economy. And I think that's something that when people get desensitized enough to that, th that's when something like the mark can happen. Uh and that's th that's a problem. And I I think maybe I mean we we we have some different views of eschatology which we can do. Yeah, but but I don't I don't disagree with you know desensitizing against you know the government opposing things for you to be able to buy and sell and all that sort of stuff. It seems not just reasonable, it seems true. Right, it just is, it seems. But it all comes back to what we talked about the last couple of weeks, is the truth. What is the truth? See, the people in power are in are imposing their truth, which is not true, on the public. And to give me the how much time do we have? Um just a couple minutes. Okay. Give me a real life example. Um our family had r you know realized before it was the mainstream news that hey this COVID thing is coming to the US and we didn't know anything about it how dangerous it was, how contagious it was. There's a lot of things from overseas. uh news that we're hearing. I remember that season well. Before the media and the US even talked about talked about it. Other countries are talking about it and we heard about that The only person in America talking about this time was Tucker Carlson. So we actually decided to, hey, let's make masks because we're gonna need them and we created a business and we made masks. We were taken off of all the platform. We could not sell masks because uh Fauci said no masks are needed So Amazon took our mask down. Wow. Um Bay took our mask down. EBay took our mask down. And we even we even posted them on a conservative um platform like a competitor to Amazon, a very small website. And not only did that get taken down, they got deplatformed by their credit card processor saying you're selling medical inf misinformation. to wear a mask. This was before uh you know, it became cool to wear masks and everybody you know and and there it wasn't like you could buy them in the store because they was everybody were all sold out. Yeah, I from my point of view it was never cool to wear masks For the record. But in fact, we didn't we didn't know how dangerous it was. Right, no, yeah. So we figured it we could be a few. Well yeah, they were saying like a five percent death rate they were saying at the time. So we could provide a service. We were saying twenty percent death rate. Which is like, you know, that's like half the planet dies kind of death rate twenty percent. Right. So so we were we were trying to provide a service to people and we were not allowed to because the people in power had decided on a different truth, which is not true at all, and shut it down. W n and uh my thing is in this country where you can do whatever business you want so long as it's legal, h w when when did m making masks become illegal? It's not a drug. Right. If there's no legislation against masks, but the platforms, the The uh uh the pay pay paying platforms they shut people down. But you saying that you got shut down by all these things, you must be a conspiracy the But they're not targeting you, right? They're targeting anything that distracts from whatever the narrative they're trying to push is, no matter how big or small you are. And then we finally were able to get them to re when we we wrote the money. No, once Fauci decided that masks were okay, that we needed to have have wear masks. Then all these places. So on March 17th, all of a sudden we're going to have to do that. Well we met and we weren't and we were one of the first because we actually had the listing ready, but within the week there were thirty-five thousand separate sellers on Etsy making masks Well unbelievable. Unbelievable. Well there you've another I mean I hear so many of these kinds of anecdotal personal stories and it just reinforces what I know to be true. What do I know to be true I said love your neighbor and I listed some things. You know, you want to really love your neighbor? Study God's Word. Absolutely. You come to know Jesus Christ. You you will know the truth. You repent from your sin, you recognize what righteousness really is, you understand that there is a hope in the future and that there is a maker who has a plan for your life, and that all of that is centered on the cross. It's all possible because of what Christ said on the cross. That change that's a game changer. It's a game changer. And I mean history bears that out, right? I mean the last two thousand years of I mean even our our uh Even our our time, our our marking of the years is marked by that event. So anyway, we're going to wrap this up. Till next week. This is the Faith Debate Imron and Daniel Razby. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless. For some reason. Yeah, for some reason either I did I didn't click in the right spot or I forgot to click. I thought I clicked, but maybe I didn't. I don't know. No big deal. It's not the end of the world. Silent outtake. I'm gonna have to fire the producer. As soon as we hire one, I'll fire him. You already fired him, now you So But it was definitely a nightmare trying to get cell masks. Oh my goodness, the the school she had to jump through and all that stuff and then when Tauchi said it. Oh, let me just tell it. It's unbelievable. That's unbelievable. He he changed. I I think it was March seventeenth. I threw that date up, but I think that was the date because just a few days before that he was saying the don't wear the mask and then like less than a week or a week later he's before Congress saying everybody has to wear a mask. Wait a minute, what what changed in the last handful of days? So we spent several weeks trying to figure out how to get this store up and finally we we were allowed w to write a big long page explaining all the reasons why people shouldn't buy this map. that we're sell that we're stuck trying to sell. And and that it wasn't gonna help you, it's it wasn't gonna be good for this, it wasn't gonna be good for this. There's no medical research that is mass helpful Yeah. So we had to put all that up there and then finally they allowed it to be posted and then Fauci said, Oh yeah, and and you could buy them and then everybody wanted it. Um but yeah we got taken down for so many it was the funny thing is that conservative site, right? So the alternative place. Oh there's there's alternatives. I mean you don't have to be on YouTube, you can be on Rumble Well we went on this uh alternative, you know, conservative. They almost canceled the entire foot thing. Yep. Yeah, the whole website actually got taken down. Because of our mask. And uh I think uh Shopify or PayPal or whoever they were using uh banned them and or threatened to ban them entirely unless they immediately removed us and forbid anybody from the I mean the You you probably know, right? Yeah, everything. They couldn't find anybody to use as a bank. Like they nothing. They were like every possible way you could hurt that company, they did it Why? 'Cause they didn't like their ideology? They didn't like their truth. No, because they started a civil war, don't you remember? Yeah. Anybody who did that. Millions of people dead is what they're talking about. Millions of people dead in America because of because of power. And the only people that were killed that day were killed by the government. So go figure. Seriously. That's the world we're living in now. They had no choice. Hey, you know, this is going on Facebook it'll be alive the Facebook will cancel Well eventually. We're not that big so we don't get noticed very often, but it could happen. And you know what? Okay. I mean whatever. There was life before Facebook for me and there'll be life after Facebook for me Well to be honest, what I'm looking for is a really good replacer for the live streaming. It seems like for now Facebook all but had that market cornered idea. LinkedIn has live streaming now. LinkedIn. Mm-hmm. LinkedIn censors people too. Yeah, they do. They took uh Dr. Robert Malone down. The new Rumble is supposed to be live streaming now. Rumble has live streaming? I think so. I that's what uh uh uh that I did not know because actually I've used Rumpel and I didn't know they had a live stream I have to check that out. I don't know if Dan wasn't but maybe they do now. I think they do have everything YouTube has now. and Facebook has it. I will say the Rumble man. You ever used it for anything? Oh my gosh. The upload speeds on that are ridiculously slow. It takes They've changed that. Yeah, I'm I'm still using it. Yeah. Uh it takes two to three times as long to upload something on Rumble as it does on YouTube. For a short video it's not a big deal. If it's a video that would take like two or three minutes to upload and it takes you five to ten minutes to upload, no big deal But if it's a video that on YouTube would would take a good five, ten minutes to upload and it takes a half hour or more to upload on Rumble, that's kind of a big deal. It's like, you know, goodness gracious, is it ever gonna finish? Is that a conspiracy? Are they trying to slow it down? Makes you wonder, right? Maybe there's some other bandwidth being screwed up with or something. Yeah. Yeah, who knows? Oh you are a conspiracy theorist. Everything is a conspiracy these days. You don't know what the truth is. How do we know what the truth is? It feels as though everybody is lying about everything All the time. That's the way it feels. Especially if they keep saying this is the truth, this is the truth and then you find out it's a lie. And they themselves say, Oh, this was a mistake. But that's uh it's on a on the fifteenth page on the bottom right left right corner there'll be even those things. And sometimes they won't even admit that it was a mistake. They just kinda move Move on. But yeah. All right, next show. This one will be a fun one. I think. You're gonna make it a fun one. All right. Finally get to talk about end times. Yeah, we're gonna talk about all the bizarre stuff going on in the world. So not that fun yet. Only one talk about that night. This is the Faith Debate. Thanks for listening to News Radio 930 WFMD on your Sunday morning. I'm Troy Skinner. We're online at WFMD. com We're on the AM, of course, at AM 930 and on the FM at 99. 9 HD2. If you'd like to connect with me and the show and kind of have a one-stop shop for doing that. I invite you to go to householdfaithinchrist. com. That's household of faith in Christ. com. That's the name of the church that I pastor is a house church And I'm not alone in my venture. There's a couple other house churchers here in the room, Daniel and Imran Rasvi. They they co pastor, I guess, a a house church. It's been around for longer than mine. How long have you been doing it? Like ten, fifteen years maybe? Something like that? Yeah. It's been around for Yeah, so um they're old uh hands at this, long and the tooth. Daniel started out as a pastor when he was like three. Anyway So we've um last few sh shows we've been talking about stuff going on in the world and the can't find the truth and all that sort of stuff and what is the truth and the truth of course is found in God's word and Jesus Christ is the embodiment of the truth and all these Is he the truth, but he is the way and the life and all of that. And um by the one since I'm bringing it up I'll just tell you if you don't know uh what I'm talking about right now, I'd strongly encourage you to reach out to one of the three of us so we can explain to you. in intimate detail what all of that is about because if you feel like life is hopeless it is not there's hope in Christ. If you feel like there's no purpose to any of this, there is purpose. God made you for a purpose. He made you in his image so you are a wondrous creation. And um unfortunately though, you're not perfect. You make a lot of mistakes. What the Bible calls sins. Some of them are heinous sins. You commit them every day. And so a holy God can't abide that, so what do you do? You're kind of back to having no hope. But Christ pays the penalty on the cross. Um if you will only uh accept uh the gift of his sacrifice and then you live out your life in gratitude until the day he returns and uh you join him in glory forever. Uh and it's a wondrously good story. There's a reason the Christians have hope. And if you're a Christian hearing this and you and you're like, yeah, I wasn't feeling the hope, but now I've been reminded, you know, if that's the case for you, go remind somebody else today. Don't assume that your friends that call themselves Christians, even if they go to the same church you go to every week or something, don't assume that they're actually processing and understanding, grappling what the gospel really is. Share the gospel with people. Go and share. Give people the reason for the hope that lies within. I would encourage you, challenge you to do that today. Ask yourself, how can I glorify God today? Amen. Every day ask that question. Yeah, absolutely. And if you're going into a business meeting, how can I glorify God in this business meeting If I'm going into the church onto Sunday morning right now, you're listening to the show, how how can I glorify God best as I go into church today? How can I best glorify God as I leave the church and enter the mission field that's all around me, right? All that sort of stuff So, but in the context of what is truth, and again, Jesus Christ is the truth, and so we're not questioning what the truth is in an ultimate sense But we talked the last few weeks on this show about different things that make you wonder, man, who can you trust to be giving you like factual data and information about what's happening in the world, you know, news outlets and People were writing opinion pieces and stuff like that. And it used to be back when I was a kid. Uh, I don't even know. Does the National Enquirer exist anymore Is that a thing? I don't know. Yeah. Well yeah, uh that's that's kind of the point. Because when I was a kid You'd be standing in the checkout line at the store and you'd have the National Inquirer there and they'd all these bizarre stories about Bigfoot sightings and UFOs and UFO abductions and that sort of stuff and it was all zany, like, okay, whatever But now you can turn on CNN or Fox or anything. And you'll get stories about murder hornet. And UFOs and life on other planets maybe and and some sort of bizarre thing called Tiger King I never got into. I don't know what that is. I guess it was like a reality TV show. But was it really real? And then the Tiger King guy died, I think, or something? Like what happened there? And the Trump dossier that existed. And then the fantastical things, like seriously, not too long ago, if you heard stories about people going up into outer space as private citizens Like, okay, that's like fantasy land. That's science fiction. What are you like H. G. Wells or something? But it's happening. I mean, William Shatner went up in space last year for crying out loud. Finally an astronaut. You know, oh yeah, we we went where men had gone before. Um and uh you know, billionaires before him who'd been up there. And then Oma um Really but maybe it's just because the news coverage more is more pervasive, but it just seems like there were so many wildfire do you remember how the wildfires in California and and Oregon and Washington uh dominated the the news and act in Australia, remember? Right before Like the big news story before COVID just dominated everything. I think it was like January-ish of 2020. Australia was on fire. Right. Zany bizarre stuff. Is this the end of the world? Welcome to the end of the world. I mean think about it. The Texas ice storm last year, that was bizarre and weird, a failure of government as well. Didn't we also read about the uh rat plague or mouse plague in Australia? Didn't hear about that one. Millions and billions of mice infesting everything in Australia. You can Google the mount mouse infestation in Australia, you'll see, you know, on these farms Thousands of millions of mice running over everything. Like they ate everything and then started eating eating each other. Seriously. You can see it. Are you sure? Yeah, like you could like the floor is a few. So that's a national enquirer story right there, isn't it? You know, there's there's a So I want to ask well before I ask the question I was gonna ask, let me ask you this. Out of all the bizarre stories you can think of off the top of your head, and maybe it's the one you just said, I don't know, the last couple of years there's been a lot of really z zany stories. There's been a lot of lies and myths truths, and we've talked about that at nauseam. The Zaney stories. Do you have a favorite one that you like is it the one you just mentioned about uh the UFOs actually in my in my uh uh I I think that's that's actu there's actually more to that than what meets the eye. Okay, how so? Because I I I could go there with you because I've got some thoughts about that. Yeah, so all throughout No, yeah, at least the last fifty, sixty years there have been a lot of people that believe in aliens, believe in UFOs, you know, there's people that talk about UFO sightings and this and that and it's never really been that mainstream but if you had to pick a general set of people with an ideology that would lend itself to believing in UFOs and believing in the life in the life of on the planet, generally more liberal-minded people would believe in that. Generally more liberal people would be atheists and they believe that we evolved and maybe there could be people that evolved on other planets and so that was that was something that one of their theories is that life started on this planet because the aliens like put life here. Right. So a lot of a lot of liberals and a lot of atheists are kind of predisposed to think, oh, that that could be true. But by and large, Christians and political conservatives, Republicans and so on were more inclined to say uh that that's just a bunch of fog washes. They're the flat earthers. Right. What's happened which was really interesting over the last year is the right has talked a lot about UF Tucker Carlson talks a lot about UFOs. Uh Fox News in general, a lot of uh you know, mainstream n the the US military is officially talking about UFOs. That's never really happened before. That's something new. And so my my theory is this, and it's it's it I think it's interesting, and um of course it is my theory, so I think of course I think it's interesting. Don't worry, I find it interesting. So so my my belief about aliens and life on other planets from a biblical perspective perspective is that the Bible does not leave any room for intelligent life outside of Earth, outside of humans, other than spiritual beings. And as far as physical beings that, you know, are are you know, a do like humans or just just aliens on other planets? That doesn't really work because either they would have to be sinless or they uh Jesus would have to have to die for them too, uh which kind of messes up a lot of the theology of of the the cross and and and so on. Uh I don't think the Bible is is you know excludes the possibility or precludes the possibility of uh you know animal life or plant life on other planets and I mean that's that's fine. God made advanced creation, he can make plenty of things for himself to look at on other planets. But I don't think that there is intelligent life in the way that people think of aliens. So if it can be proven that there are quote unquote UFOs and or quote unquote aliens, they would have to be demonic in nature or angelic in nature, but most likely with the things that you people claim aliens do, that would be demonic in nature, um especially with p things people talk about happening to them If in fact any of those are true, that sounds a lot like Genesis six and what the angels uh fallen angels did in Genesis six, which I take a very literal interpretation to that and that women and so on. We can get into that. But I think that's that's where it's it's coming from and a large portion of those stories are probably made up. There's a lot of people who hallucinate, but if any of it's real, it would be demonic in nature. And I think that our culture has been conditioned over the last 50 years or or a hundred years or so by science fiction to believe that someday we're gonna meet aliens and it's gonna be really, really great And it's going to end up one or two ways. Think of all the movies you've ever listened to, all the uh TV shows you've ever watched or books you've ever read that had to do with aliens. They all end in the same way. humans band together in a one world government to defeat the aliens, or the aliens are good and they come up uh and and teach us how to be better humans and they band together in one world government. Exactly. So if I was Or the aliens die because they don't have an immune system. But they didn't wear a mask. But but all the humans banded together to do that in a one world government. It's this common theme. And and so I'm I'm thinking if I was Satan and I had to design a plan to try to take over the world and I know I'm going down but whatever and I'm gonna do my best i as if I'm the devil to try to Do this one of the ways if I w if I wanted to put a guy up there be the Antichrist to figure everybody who's gonna follow him make him look like an alien Because all through our culture, if you could prove, quote unquote, prove as much as you can with the we talked about truth lately, but you know, if enough people believe, okay, yeah, that's true, that there's really an alien Everybody's going to assume, oh yeah, of course they're smarter than we are. They traveled the galaxy. Of course they know more about we should just obey whatever they say. And that would be the easiest way, in my opinion, to move to a one-world government and have the Antichrist Um so that's my prediction. If you see uh aliens actually appearing on Earth and and uh you know w w humans start the governments start to follow what they're doing publicly, that would be a sign of end times. in my opinion. Yeah, well yeah, so you went you have a much fuller formed uh than I do. I love science fiction. But I I would agree. I would say for those that are gonna be, you know, skeptical and push back and they expect you know a certain kind of theological discourse on on this show over the years. We don't deliver it every week, but consistently enough we do. I do want to say I hear you. The Bible doesn't explicitly say there couldn't be intelligent life in God's creation somewhere else. However, I would agree with you, I would say it's pretty much uh a a good and necessary consequence of God's word, it would be we would have to reconsider almost our entire paradigm Right. Uh for it to be possible. So I would agree with you. I don't think there's room for intelligent. Right. So so I but I'm not physical beings. Yeah, I'm agreeing with you that that that the idea of there being intelligent alien life forms who are going to come visit us some other day uh it it seems pretty much beyond the pale of what the scripture allows. Uh I'm leaving a little bit of room because I don't want to make an argument from sil silence when the Bible doesn't explicitly say that. Right. But I I'm agree I'm agreeing with you. That's fair. And I also agree with you that well I'm gonna add, I have a I have something you didn't bring up, and so I'll add that first. Um People are liars. Sure. And so some of these visitations and abductions they claim could just be pure fabrications of ego and wanting fame and money. And so there's that. Not saying that that would explain all of them, but that certainly is a possibility to explain some of them. In addition to that, something I think we have a tendency to forget sometimes, it's what's called the noetic effects of the fall. So With the fall, the entire humanness of us gets corrupt, including the way our mind works. That's why we have recalled in the New Testament to a renewal of the mind, right? The Apostle Fall. We should be renewing our mind because our mind is not it doesn't work right. It works well, reasonably well, but it doesn't work right. And so people You know, our eyes can play tricks on us, or our memory can be fuzzy or wrong about something, or we can want to believe something so badly that we we make it almost be true. And so we're not lying. But we either misunderstood or something about it, so that the noetic eff effects of the fall cause us to accidentally get things wrong, and that could explain some of these happenings. or things people claim that they're seeing. I saw it. It defied the the laws of physics. And maybe it did, or maybe you're misremembering. So that's possible. However I think it's also possible that there are spirit beings who can defy the laws of physics. And I don't think God would have his angels out there playing tricks on us like that. And so I would agree with you there that if that's what it is, and I I do not discount it. In fact, I'm increasingly persuaded that that's likely, actually, at least in some of these instances. In instances that aren't the noetic effects of the fall or people lying. Uh it's not caused by sin or a diminished capacity. If it's actual really true, yeah, it's probably some sort of um evil spirit thing And they're up to no good. And I haven't connected any dots beyond that other than, well, that just explains it so I can move on. But yeah, I ain't got it here. What would their motive be for showing themselves in such a way. And that's an interesting theory. What would their motive be presuming that we are near or in the end times? Presuming that. And I that's a big presumption I I understand. But if you presume that, what would their motive be for having the right talk a lot about aliens now? Tucker Carlson, Fox News in general, other r right wing sources, the US military Well, like I said, Democrats, liberals, atheists by and large already believed in aliens. It was the conservatives that did not, and having conservative thought leaders talk about it in a serious note can get people's minds thinking, oh well maybe that could actually be true, especially if you don't have a good biblical foundation for knowing what these things would be. If you ever saw if you ever could prove they exist, like we we kind of have in agreement, they would be dem demonic So if you don't already have that biblical strong foundation to know, yeah, that would be demonic, you could be thinking, oh yeah, I mean I saw a a science fiction movie before. They were cool looking aliens. Yeah, maybe it's one of those people That'd be fun. So it occurs to me, you know, as you're as you're talking, explaining it, it's it's your theory applied differently. Because I'm I'm not and I'm not saying that to diminish the likelihood or possibility that it's actual demons that are doing weird things that people are capturing on films of I think that's I think that's possible. I believe in the supernatural. So it that could happen. But it doesn't the it doesn't always have to be a supernatural explanation. So the same theory, your theory about the motivation, could apply with the spirit uh world, the the the the enemy of God influencing the systems in such a way that Uh it's a PSYOP. It's a human Psyop, maybe influenced by uh, you know, satanic influences or something like that. But they they could but w are you kidding? You mentioned it was it last week's show about w or maybe it was two weeks ago s uh ago when you talk about we have enough of your voice on on uh on tape now on the computer that we could manipulate that to make you say whatever you want. They got what they call deep fakes, I think they call it, right? Yep. We can do deep fakes like you can't tell. Yeah. I've seen some of these things. If somebody tried to pass up, they sent me a private message. Uh it was Barack Obama saying something, and it was Barack Obama. It was his voice. It the limp s the lip sync and everything was matched up and I'm like, there's no way Barack Obama said that. And I don't think it's any secret. Anybody who listens to this show the last seventeen and a half years. I'm not a Barack Obama fan, so I'm not looking to defend Barack Obama There's no way he said it was a deep fake. It had to be. And so if they could be that persuasive with the human voice and the human anatomy and stuff, which is really hard to mimic really well. They can do that. They can make a spaceship appear. Like I mean, have you been to the movies? But the increasingly more f uh sightings and and video evidence and picture evidence, it seems like it's coming to that point where um the devil may be ready to reveal himself and move to that direction and if you do believe in and and times this is happening, then this uh is slowly moving in that direction. It just seems that way. And so it at the pace it's going, it allows them people to get used to seeing it and not be sh chalked into disarray, but be moving into the into the sing the simple or single purpose that they have for us. Yeah, I I kind of jokingly threw out there uh flat earthers and I jokingly assigned that to the the wacko right in the religious world. And the reason I say that is I only I only know like personally one flat earther and he happens to be a Bible believing Christian and he's just like out to lunch on the flat earth question as far as I'm concerned. Um so since we're talking about UFOs and all that and this strange stuff, you have to science fiction. Do you have any thoughts on the flat Earth thing? There's been some pretty high profile uh people that uh some celebrities I think said they believe in Flat Earth too recently. Is that right? Yeah, some big rapper or or singer said said that they believe in a flat earth. It was it's pretty interesting. I think it it goes back to the the the truth and the logic and people don't have critical thinking skills. They don't have truth and logic. And they and they've seen so many actual conspiracies. play out in real life. Ain't that the truth? It does not question everything. I mean d does gravity exist? Is this just a dream? Are we living in the matrix, right? Right. And I mean You might as well question everything. If if such some of our most uh you know deep deeply held beliefs have turned out not to be true, you know, you would think that everything else you know is. And and there are some Christians who take a couple of the verses that and uh in the Bible that are very poetic in nature, not the historical passages in Genesis, but you know something from the Psalms and and stuff that are written poetically about sunrise and so on say, Oh, how can sunrise, you know, if unless we have a flat earth? You know. Right. So pe people say they say that and they think it extremely literally. I'm a very literal Bible believing Christian. I believe in six day literal creation, the b earth was created, you know, six six thousand or so years ago and um not evolution had nothing to do with it. So I I I I believe in a literal interpretation of the Bible. I I think some of the people that believe in the flat earth come from that kind of a place. They're like, look, we want to Be very careful to s what does the word actually say? Well that must be exactly what happened. Well true, but there there's also plenty of passages Yeah, and they're also they would also talk about you know the the foundation and the pillars and uh yeah there's there's there's other language in the Old Testament that could be understood. Uh which is why they understand it that way, in fairness. To to support the idea of there being a flat earth. Here's here was my point. And we actually uh I don't know if I should tear uh what the heck. We were gonna have this flat earth guy on the Faith Debate show. In fact, we did the show. We recorded the show. But he was a podcast guy. And uh there was no way for We're a radio station, but you know, the technology for in the podcast world and in the radio world, and even though we're a radio station with w a lot more technological muscle than a podcaster would have. It just wasn't lending itself to to doing it in the reverse, that we could take do the radio show first and him use it the way he wanted in his podcast. I can't remember all the detectacle reasons, but we decided it would be a lot easier if we just had him record it as his podcast, and then I'd take the audio from his podcast and then repurpose it on the Faith Debate Show. And he forgot to hit the record button. So we did ours. We did uh it was me and uh and and uh um somebody that did the show with me for a long time. We we did it with him um We spent three hours with the guy. Wow. And it was very frustrating and my my uh co-host, I don't want to say his name, if he if people who are long standing listeners of the show might know who I'm talking about, but I don't need to it's not important. His name's not what's important. Uh the point is what's important. I did the show with him for a dozen years probably, a dozen of the seventeen years. And he never once in all of those shows lost his cool. Except for this one. And so he was kind of happy that the record button never got pressed because he was a little embarrassed. He felt bad and He would ask me, he said, you know, can we listen to that and make sure like I I I I I'm just not comfortable with how I handled myself. I don't know what got into me and I don't know what got into him. He was incredibly frustrated. You could not get a straight answer and you know the flat earth guy would not um he wouldn't hold himself to the same standard he was holding others to. And then and his arguments were just ridiculous, unfortunately. He was saying things like, um, well I believe the earth is flat because when I walk outside it looks flat to me. That's not an argument. Not a Christian argument. No. Because you can't see God every day and you believe in God Right. And here's a level and a level for the flat. And the level of the earth. And my and my argument to him from a you know religious worldview, Christian worldview point of view was it doesn't matter If the world is flat or the earth is round, that doesn't change anything. I think the b the Bible actually I think could leave itself open to either one. Maybe I'm missing something there, but I don't feel like the Bible's making a case for a spherical planet necessarily. And I don't know that it's making a case for a flat planet either. uh you know, it says some things about the planet but you could read because it's mostly in poetic environments or you have to try to figure out what does that mean. And so we God's creation we still use flat earth language in our in our English language. Oh the sun rose today. You know, the the moon set. Absolutely. Yeah, because it's all from our perspective or exactly how we're seeing things. And we talked about that you know, several weeks ago. Perspective means a lot as far as, you know, where is the center of the universe you know, uh perspective and being everything's relative. But no, I I think there are some people that come from a place of you know we really want to know what God says and we want take the Bible very literally and very seriously and I respect that. Um no I I disagree with the flat earth theory. I I I I I I do too for the record. I'm not a flat earther. Neither am I. No. So we're hey we and on a note of agreement. Uh thanks for listening to Faith Debate today. Thanks for being on the show again, guys. Uh Imron Razvy, Daniel Razby. Uh they're with the uh the church that meets at uh Imran's house. I think that's what they call it. The house of the church that meets at Imran's house. Uh you can connect with them online at um I always get this wrong, why don't you say it? Conquerbylove. org or Well yeah, or or you can go to my church's website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. So conquered by love. org, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Those are the two websites. If you, you know Want to connect with the show, the easiest way to do that maybe is at WFMD. com. Maybe I'd get the stations website a plug too. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. God bless It's nine past nine o'clock. So we did spend an hour before we started recording. Yeah. You want to try to do one more, or you guys done for that? I I can go with another one if you want. I've got stuff to do if we want to. It's up to you. Are you tired? Are you ready to go? Yeah, we're okay. Let's do one more. It's just we we do family worship together until before I forget, you made a joke a couple at the beginning of a couple episodes ago and I and I didn't respond to it because it it didn't make sense by the time I got the chance to speak. But um you meant you made a joke about, oh, is is it okay to lie about that? That's not a sin, is it? And I I was gonna retort that a lie is not a sin Actually good point. Actually it's a good point because I would agree with you. I I I it it's it's one of my pet peeves when I see like something like Way Comfort goes go around go around and say, Hey, you know, did you c uh uh look with the glass? Oh you're an adulterer Okay, I agree with that. You broke the false witness commitment. Well no. You didn't break the false witness commitment. commandment by Yeah. By telling you a lot. Now, should a Christian be truthful as a matter of course as a general rule? Oh sure. Sure. I I agree with that. But uh Yeah, no, we have too many examples in the Bible where you know the lie was the right thing to do. Right. I think Corey Tin Boom would certainly have some things Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Let's see where are we here? Alright, this will be our last one. That almost felt like it should be a separate show altogether, so I didn't really think about it there. But I don't think we What is this? Uh oh the the lying question? Yes. Yeah. Well I mean if it comes up and if not we won't you know we won't force it necessarily. We'll see if there's a No no no I'm saying that that could be in another topic. Oh yeah, it could be. So what am I doing on that? Alright, what's the date again? This next one's gonna air on the twentieth. So it's getting us past one more Vemory after that. Valentine's Day. My favorite Christian holiday. Uh let's see okay Twenty twenty two. Whoops. Oh wow. Wow Oh what? The date of this show airing is zero two two zero two zero two two Wow This is a wild You can't definitely Welcome to Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com and on the FM at 99. 9 HD2. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week again by the Razvis, Imran Razvy and Daniel Razvy. The three of us are pastors of house churches in the area. And our partner in crime, another pastor of a house church, uh um could not be with us. He's uh I guess uh he wasn't the one under the weather. I guess uh family members under the weather and he could not be with us, David Forcy But uh he he hopefully will be with us on our next show. Having him a hard time for uh you know clearly his family didn't wear a mask and get the shots and he would be fine. Because then you know that is the that is the truth because we always tell the truth. You know, I think it's on our minds, I'm gonna bring it up and if we don't get to the prepared subjects, but I jokingly said last week or week before Um I I said something playfully and it wasn't it was clearly not a true thing, whatever it was I said, and I said, it's not a lie, this uh it's not a sin to lie, is it? And then we just moved on with the show. But uh after the show was over, Daniel Rasby said to me, you know, I I I I I should have retorted because I was thinking it and didn't have time to say it in the context of what was going on in the show, but it's not really a sin to lie. And so not necessarily. So why don't we in the spirit of the things we've been talking about in recent weeks, where it's hard to figure out the truth and you know from the lies and the importance of the truth and stuff Let's let's talk about that a little bit. Why don't you explain 'cause I, by the way, there won't be a whole lot of debate I don't think, because I agree with you. But um why would you say that it's not necessarily a lie? I mean a sin to lie. Well I th I think Christians have this idea that, oh, you should be truthful. And and yes, you should be truthful. And many people uh assume that it's a bad thing or it's a sin to tell a lie, and in many cases, in fact probably the majority of lies, are in fact sinful. Um but the Bible never actually says that it is a sin to lie in that kind of a blatant type of statement. There's a commandment, one of the ten commandments is thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. And that's conflated a lot of times when people try to simplify the Ten Commandments. They say, Oh, well that commandment says don't lie. That's not what it says. It says don't bear false witness. Don't go around telling people that so-and-so did something and therefore I'm trying to get them punished for it legally in the court system. That's what it's talking about. Now, there's other passages that say the Lord hates a lying tongue, somebody who's a habitual liar, that you know they're not trustworthy, that type of thing But there's a lot of examples in the Bible of a lie actually being a a uh honorable thing. For example, Rahab. Rahab lied. blatantly she said to the uh the people in her city of Jericho, Hey, these men came, they left, they went that way, and they were right behind her or above her. For the uninitiated there were uh spies from Israel because they were gonna conquer Jericho And they went there and she was part of the enemy city. And yeah, she protected them and she misdirected the uh the forces from Jericho, so she she lied to them and in effect she lied to her king by uh by by doing so. And yet she's held up as uh a as as a wonderful example for for Christians. Yeah and a case the the the passage in uh Joshua about Israel winning the the the ensuing battle was not enough for us to understand that what she did was right. Hebrews goes on in great detail about A Rahab was a righteous person. She's in the hall of faith. Yeah, she's a faithful person, and this is great a great thing that she did. Um another example is Which is maybe a little bit more controversial is is when David went and he was uh fleeing from Saul and he lied to the priest actually and said, I'm here uh because I'm on a mission from Saul and can I have the the holy bread and can I have this uh you know, all sorts of things. And d it Jesus gave that as an example of something, oh well of course David could have done that. You know, w that was that wrong? Meaning it wasn't to do what whatever David did there. So there are examples throughout the Bible of somebody telling a falsehood. Yeah, well the Egyptian Midwives are an example too. Hebrew women are lively. They give birth before we get a chance to kill the kids. They they spit those babies out like they're nothing, like hez dispensers for crying out loud. Although to be fair, the Bible doesn't say that that was a lie. So, you know, may maybe they were doing no. But it does say it does say the midwives were saving the men children alive. Right. And Then Pharaoh's like, why why do you do that? And they made up this story. Now so that you don't misunderstand, the Bible does give us examples where lying was not appropriate, you know, Abraham famously twice. misrepresents his relationship with his wife. And he was even telling the truth. She was a right. But but yeah, what he wasn't saying was oh s Yeah, so so the actual the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth is really exactly crazy. Yeah, because she was his sister, his half sister. Uh so he wasn't lying, but also his wife, and that's what he was really lying about, and he was doing it out of fear. And he was putting his wife in jeopardy. We were talking a couple of weeks ago about, you know, we have freedoms and liberties so that we can fulfill our responsibilities before God. Talk about a not so chivalrous way to act And it's beyond not chivalrous, right? I mean his his responsi his probably his primary responsibility as the husband is to protect his wife. That's like the first rule, protect your wife. And he violated the first rule. That's why David, you know, his first rule with his troops is to make sure they can eat, not starve to death. So what's more important? Tell a little, you know, fib? to uh to the to the priest or feeding your troops so they don't starve to death. So I mean yeah, some of it And Abraham's faith was counted as righteousness. So even th him counted as righteousness He was doing this. And it's not situation ethics. So we we want to clarify that. It's not like the situation determines what your ethics are. God's truth is what God's truth is. So you apply God's truth to the situation. You don't apply the situation to what what is allowed to be the truth. You know, that's the there's a difference there. So I don't want to I don't want to be misunderstood because situational ethics is a So I got a question for you when we were talking about Abraham. Why is it that when Abraham didn't tell the whole truth, why did God punish the king instead of Abraham? Hmm. I haven't thought about that question. You have an answer, I hope? I'm always asking for your opinion. Oh. Um Because should the king have known? Should he have been more diligent than asking? I don't know. Well that's what and that's why God said, Well, I didn't that's why I kept you from actually sinning and committing adultery with this woman that you thought wasn't married. Uh Um so he did protect him for that otherwise and and God said otherwise I would have just killed you if you'd done that. I have loved whom I have loved. Does that ring a bell Yeah, God chooses and he chose Abraham. And even though Abraham did something that was not on and that was not godly, God still protected him. And one of the things that I wanted to bring this to the table here is you could have committed a lot of sins, but God has a purpose for you. And if you come to God and repent and ask for his forgiveness, you will be relieved of that sin and you will be holy and be able to be So this is an example in the Bible that should really give you hope that God has a purpose for you. Seek Him and give Him your life. And you're not relieved of that sin because God, you know, uh winks at his own justice and his righteous standard. Uh that sin, whatever sin you're wrestling with, listen. Um it's paid for. In full. Yeah, just not by you. If you're willing to allow, you know, that payment And you're willing to repent. Right. And God doesn't, you know, suspend his justice laws just because of you know uh uh you're one of the good people. Uh you know, pe the another good example which is a little bit unrelated but along the same vein is the woman taking at adultery. A lot of people say, Oh, this is an example of Jesus changing the law saying we're no longer gonna kill adulterers Well, no, what what Disa said is okay, uh first well first of all there's a lot of procedural issues with that. The guy wasn't there. They said he was in the act taken in the act, but the guy wasn't there and and Yeah, he's a good thing. Right uh legal proceeding. Jesus made a couple comments about the procedure and he's like, oh okay, yeah fine, we can stone her, but you know, whoever is sinless you you start and they're like, oh whoa, you know, I'm I'm not going to do that. And they all left. Then the woman's like, well, so uh you know, she or Jesus says to the woman, you know, where are your accusers? Well, nobody's here anymore. He's like, Okay, well, I'm not accusing you either then. And not that sh she didn't commit the sin or that she wasn't guilty of it. Yeah, sh you go go and sin no more, but but also there even within the law of God You you couldn't stone an adulterer with no witnesses. Right. And so Jesus was God. He's he's And even if he had a witness that wasn't enough either. Right. And the soon is gonna separate us from God eternally and so that's why he said go and sin no more and her sins will be forgiven in the eternal life if she trusts on Christ. But the actual punishment on earth, you know, that wasn't You know, I don't know that we've ever done a show on the a topic of the question I'm going to ask you in a second, and it certainly wasn't on my mind. mind on my radar to to get into on this show. But you mentioned Corey Tenboom and this question popped up. I mentioned that before the show by the way. Oh was it before the show? Yeah in case in case anybody's listening I didn't hear Corey Yeah. Oh, right before the show you mentioned Corey Tenboom and now it's popped back into my head and I'm thinking the the idea of, you know, righteous lies. Right? You know, if you're hiding a Jew who you know that if they if they find the Jews that you're hiding, they're gonna kill them. Yeah, it's totally appropriate. And I had this conversation before I get to my my question I want to throw you on. I had a conversation similar to this with somebody in my family who was, you know, wrestling with all the strangeness in the world and like when is is it ever appropriate and okay to misrepresent things because uh you're trying to stay away from something that's wrong and bad and evil or whatever. Like what's the way to handle this? I mean we have to tell the truth all the time, right? Lying is a sin, right? And I said, well no, lying, the Bible does not say that lying is necessarily a sin. To your point, uh Daniel, you know, the generally Christians should be truthful and good to our word and all this, but there is such a thing as a righteousness truth And one way of thinking about this, it's not the part of Romans 13 that has been uh bandied about a lot in the year uh last year and a half. have. But right after the verses, actually it's part of the same passage, but there's a few verses that are talking about you know you have to do whatever the government tells you to Right after that, uh I forget exactly which verse number it is in in uh Romans 13, but it's basically saying that you are to give uh honor uh that's due to the one whom honor is due. And I said, you know, telling somebody the truth is an honorable thing to do. So you honor someone by telling them the truth. But if they don't deserve the truth If they're dishonorable and their intentions are dishonorable, then they don't deserve the truth from you. And so there's no dishonor. They've already dishonored themselves. And so in that case, it's totally okay to misrepresent because it's for a better, higher good. They don't they haven't deserved the truth from you. And sometimes I mean there's been times that I can't think of an example off the top of my head, but I do know on rare occasion I've been chivalrous and a a decent fellow. And there's been times when um somebody didn't do something that was all that becoming and Nobody knew for sure what the situation was, and so you know what, to save the person the shame, to have them be dishonored, I just took the heat. Yeah, you know what? That was my fault. You know what? Really no. I uh I I don't I wanna get into the details, it w it was my fault And in some sense maybe there was some small element where maybe I had. But usually no. It was usually like you know what? Like I'm thinking in terms like when I was in management And one of my one of my team would do something wrong and they're getting a lot of heat. Well ultimately the buck stops with me, the manager. You know, so I didn't wasn't directly involved, but you know what? Obviously didn't train them well enough, I didn't prepare them well enough, I didn't you know something wasn't right there, so they made a mistake. I mean it's technically it was their fault, I get it. Right. But to spare them the heat and the embarrassment, it's like, you know what, that's my fault And I'll make it right to you. So that was a lie, technically, right? But it was an honorable kind of a lie. At least I think so. You guys agree, I hope. Otherwise you ought to go repent. So here's my question. As we uh enter into a hot topic now on the fate debate here on News Radio 930 WFMD. World War II, according to Tempo's what made me think of this. Dieter Bonhoeffer participates in a conspiracy to assassinate the leader of his country. Mm-hmm. Yep. And he's almost universally held up as a hero for having done so. Should he be held up as a hero? I'm not necessarily saying he should be held out as a villain, although that's open for discussion too if you think he should be held up as a villain. So there's many people that hold to a very strict interpretation of Romans thirteen that would say that a Course he was a sin forever lifting a hand against anyone in his legal government authority. At the same time, there's a lot of examples throughout Scripture where God commands a certain person to overthrow a government. You know, a good example is Ehud. Ehud, um, was the king, right? The very fat man. Mm-hmm. And whoever One of the funniest stories in the Bible. Might be the funniest story in the Bible. What was the name of the guy that was the first thing? There he's mocking the the other prophets about oh yeah hey he might be sleeping. He might be sleeping. Yeah. I don't know though. Go back to it. Anyway. Yeah. So Ehud was the was this evil king and God commands what was the guy's name? Anyway, some god very godly individual who was commanded by God to go and assassinate him. This wasn't even in war or self-defense. This was in cold blood. He walked into the king's house, stabbed him. And that's what the funny part is that the dirt came out of his He is so fat, like his fat swallows up the whole sword and he couldn't pull the sword back out. So yeah, it's it's laughing at some poor guy's demand. But the point I'm making is clearly God commanded him to go assassinate, and so this that's actually a very similar situation to Bonhoeffer. Now, did God command Dietrich Bahafer to do that? I think if God commanded him to do that he probably would have succeeded. Um if God got a specific c command. But God also commands people to do things that have impact on other w ways and Maybe the thing that they're working on doesn't work out the way that they expect based on what they thought God told them. So it could be something that that he was led and he was a godly person that was doing this. But I think there is room in the Bible for um removing authority. God does place people in authority, but he also removes the authority when it's no longer deserving or allowed by God to be there. Um, you know, a lot of people talk in America about, oh, will we ever have a r a revolution again someday? Or was the original revolution right? Because we we should have been still uh under England. And You know, that there there are some interesting theological questions. I've heard some very good arguments on both sides, but I think there are enough examples in the Bible where God says, you know, enough is enough. This kingdom is overthrown and I'm putting up this other one in its place And there's nothing uh necessarily inherently wrong with kingdoms being overthrown and taken over. Um just i it it just has to be done with the leading of God and I will say. Closer to our neck of the woods, uh, there's something just down the road from Frederick, in Harper's Ferry, uh, John Brown, famously or infamously, depending on how you want to view what he did. He was a you know abolitionist, wanted to end slavery like yesterday, and it wasn't happening, and he was lied to by the politicians of his day, which I I can't understand 'cause that just doesn't happen anymore. But apparently back then there was some of that going on and and uh wrongs were not being righted and he decided to take some things into his own hand and hands and he got himself, you know, armed and a bunch of guys going on it with him, and there was a big showdown in Harbour's Ferry and it went very badly and people died and all that sort of stuff. And Some people to this day will argue that John Brown was a hero because he was on the side of right, because he wanted to end slavery. You know, shadow slavery was a horrible blight in human history and in this in this country's history. Uh but there are others are saying, no, no, no, that's not the way you do things. He was horrible he was an evil man for taking up arms in such a way. So there's a st story more recently, I don't remember the exact names or details, but there was some professing Christian that went and killed an abortionist and blew up the clinic or burned down the clinic and or whatever where they were killed And I forget the guy's name of the story I'm thinking of. It wasn't just any abortionist, it was like a like a big time abortionist. And a late term, like one of the only guys in the country that would basically murder the baby uh baby as it was coming out of the vaginal. He was almost universally condemned by other professing Christians in this country for oh this is not the way you do things. But in Well if you're still watching this, thank you.