We've got Daniel and Imron Razvy with the uh church that meets at Imran's house. And if you got one of those really cool like extra special cars that has an HD radio in it, or you happen to have an HD radio at home, you can listen Troy Skinner have been doing this show for a little while, so maybe you know me. And me, Troy Skinner, the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, uh have a website, Household of Faith in Christ. And if uh you want proof that we're sinners, we'll just wait a few minutes and I'll demonstrate by the by somebody's sin that they're a sinner. So somebody was doing that for years and years and years. Well that's not nice. Let's try that, see if that'll work. Yes, my mom had it went to a youth group once they had a seance. So is that where the idea of nice comes from? Yeah, the word fool the way we normally use it isn't exactly the way the Bible typically is using. But my sense is, and I don't mean this as hyperbole, my sense is that more than 90% of the churches in the West You can find us online at household of faithinchrist. If you'd like to find out more, again, just go to household of faith in Christ. And we start with the problem and then Jesus is the solution. It's a wonderful comedy, has a wonderful happy ending. And so there's a lot of scriptural influence in what made America and its form of government what it is. It doesn't matter what the economy does, what the market does, because money's gonna go into the 401ks every week anyways. I have a website, household of faithinchrist. We don't make editorial decisions. And it doesn't mean that you're actually literally getting executed, but in some cases you can. But then the third thing is just the brute facts themselves. Sorry about that. I don't see really odd. We had to now the tail end of that, so we're going to begin a transition probably after our recording session together here now into some of those things, maybe even as we record today, we'll see. And Stephen Colbert goes on this rather esoteric soliloquy for about thirty to forty seconds, in which he talks about he mentions the name of Jesus, he does mention Jesus one time, without any real uh ha has been recently. And they go through the Matthew eighteen we talked about, they're canceled from church, right? uh and it's not a biblical model. Force, Daniel Razby, trying to put all your names together at the same time. That might be worth talking about uh would be why have we gotten to a point where niceness is so important? And now it is. Mm-hmm. It it's not about handling the truth. the one of the prophecies God says I'm gonna do this. Right, in the darkness of heart and attitude towards God. or uh sorry, the ears ears are stopped and their eyes are are closed. And that and that's one reason why the House Church model I think is very useful i is because you don't have a lot of expenses. I mean, tens of millions of babies brutally slaughtered. And get safe needles and adapt yourself with as much drugs as you can. Alright? But we're saints now, so we don't wallow in them. and hold us to account when we don't do things that God will tell us to do. So what's just thing is people were sent a bunch of uh Trump bucks that they didn't need for rent and so they just put it into the market. Particularly in a digital way we have to do it. Oh yeah. So we have to do that. Uh somebody in charge is perfect. It was right on the s edge of uh we we talked well danger. Is this why the disclaimer's on the show? Yeah, there's a Republican in California that did that with an hour she got of COVID. Because the government is not d God. Pull guns. And oh yeah, you're right, Choi, we didn't find anything today, so you're okay. the same P as somebody else's, you're allowed to so long as it's not advertising something that is uh actually illegal. Mm-hmm. Uh she came and she created a whole bunch of fabricated evidence and said, we're gonna get all these upstanding citizens to go make these accusations together, so it's gonna look like there's all these evidence, you know, and and so now we have a reason to to do something to him Like a child. Base. Uh we're coming off the heels of the show, having been in a bit of a transition because of all the restrictions that were placed on our ability to do our typical roundtable discussion shows with all the, you know, um So we've been working our way through. We don't want to get canceled by the social media tech giants. The the the uh age group. I don't remember being everyday. quote unquote good people, depending on how you want to define good. And the then President of the United States uh talked about how there were good people on both sides and he just got castigated for it. Did you do you know what I'm talking about? some young actress uh she's probably famous if she's on Stephen Colbert's show at Leonide and he's interviewing her and at one point she turns to him that turns the tables on him and says, You know, one of the things I like about you, Stephen, is you always talk about your faith on your show and st Right. You can be a a baby Christian and not have a deep understanding of how to explain the gospel to somebody. Right. says uh you know, he didn't walk in and like, Oh, could you move out of the way? And I'm invited to guest preach somewhere else and they're meeting me for the first time. you know, polygramatically saved by the blood of Jesus Christ. I will say for the record, I mean a lot of people that were in the circles I traveled for years were big fans of Ravi Zacharias. Uh Winselm very articulate, very bright guy, but I never felt like I learned a whole lot from him. Oh, he saw her and then there was a one night thing. you know, one day type of oh uh you know in in in um indiscretion. And I was like, yeah, I don't really gain anything out of that. I mean he uh had ownership in a whole bunch of uh massage parlors in different parts of the world where he would frequent and he owned them so that he could frequent them and uh he was a uh a serial happy ending guy. And he allowed him to wallow in this horrible habit of sin as a result of being nice. But you're honoring them them for what they did and I mean do you have the whole Hall of Faith in April I mean and uh and tells talks about all these men of faith and women of faith who were uh having those memories of of people in in the past and certainly canceling somebody I mean the whole idea of cancel culture is is just stifle speech and memory and history and I think that's that's a problem. And we haven't done that well because now we're in situations where the the the the evil forces in the world are doing bad things to The camera is in a tenuous position right now. Yeah. Thanks so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us if you're listening to us live or part of your day if you're out and about listening to the podcast right now. said www. And I I didn't do this last week, but I I I'd like to give a shout out. have some great resources. uh as a biblically informed you know Christian uh mother and father kind of thing. Right? And uh we represent kind of the leadership of uh of a number of churches that are working together, house churches that are working together. Do you have a re do you have a an answer to the question as you as you maybe. uh d divisiveness where holy is divisive. 1828. I was just going to say those first few words that you mentioned on that first definition sounded like effeminacy. If we were, you know, if we could get in the Wayback Machine and travel back in time a couple hundred years and some and you called somebody nice, they punch you in the nose for it Nice. A soft cushion fall. Right? Uh that's a form of love. You know, it's so you get so boxed in on all these issues. And then why, and let's get to that at the bottom of it, because if we don't agree on the terms, there really is no way to communicate. So worried about being nice that we don't know anything that's true. Because the pastors aren't proclaiming the full council of God. uh congregation that's a lot of the name that are very successful, very big, and they have faithful, as far as I can tell, faithful ministers. And I think that's one thing that the early church was trying to not have is is a lot of overhead. uh involved in uh in the spiritual well-being of their congregation, equipping them to then go be salt and light uh in the world Yeah. Right I gotta I gotta be responsible for my own household, my wife, my my my son, uh myself. uh biblically faithful in that and I've got to minister for the people in their needs, counsel them in their marriages and their life decisions and those sorts of things. Anti abortion is really a ministry that's an offshoot of a church or offshoot of people that are Christians that have a heart for it, and you can do it as as a person but not as the pastor. Your primary concern is the discipleship. Daniel Razvy, his father, uh Imran Razvy also on the show, David Forcy. I mean I I looked up at the clock like wait a minute, it's over? As the church I'd get involved with that and I'd be ministering, I'd be working hard to get them out of that. Well there's only God told people to uh in Israel to the internet. You can find all sorts of ways to access me and my church, Household of Faith in Christ, at my church's website, household of faith in Christ. So the niceness problem extends to the gospel. And he is the way. And we want to be m increasingly more and more like Christ as we as we progress in our walk. Judge not lest ye be judged and all that sort of nonsense you hear, right? when we live in glory. and and you make make that whole story. Like feelings. You know, so that was kind of just in our DNA, if you will, as a culture. There's only one way to heaven. And you guys are businessmen, right? It's my business. and letting me weigh in and and tell you, yeah, okay, this is what we're gonna do. these people that came here would have to work for it, would have to labor for it, and other people can help and support them. you're gonna stay at the bottom, you're gonna stay getting where there's free stuff. Till they can get back up on their feet kind of thing. and and the again the law of unintended consequences. and now we've got in a situation where nobody's doing a good job of of it a and the taxes just go higher. And after the first week, he's like, Yeah, you know, you're probably worth a hundred bucks a day now. And maybe a young whippersnapper like Daniel when he's like you know 14, 15, 16 years old and says, hey, I want to climb some of those trees too. But he has no opportunity to get in, and so we got a bunch of people who can't get their careers started. happen in the economy and more and more correlation with speculative in and the large institutional investors that are just manipulating the market. brought revenue to those companies. So wouldn't that hedge enthusiasm on buying a bunch of mutual funds and stocks and bonds and stuff or you would think so. is a lot of the the Uber rich people are buying and selling large swaths to the market, which m uh manipulates it in whatever direction they want. need resources to manipulate the market. But they can't do that. Like what's the biggest number we know? And and and we we clarified by the end of the we have no we have no we're not advocating in any way to you know violence, but there were I mean arrest, yeah. We'll never say anything ever to anybody about any particular thing that matters. dying of of COVID right away. And uh we've uh gotten into the habit now uh when we record these shows uh on weeknights, uh we actually do that live. David Forcy, who pastors a church that meets at his house. uh you know those of the staff or management of you know WFMD. uh our entire worldview about all things that happen in the world because God is sovereign over everything. He's a god of everything and But he's not your vending machine god. It's very close to Enron, so I had the first thing. that you would have a level of privacy. And have you had the experience you're talking to your wife or friend or something about something like, boy, it sure would be fun to take a vacation to Acapulco someday. something like that, to bring it into their house so that it can spy on them. I wonder what names forty years from now, you know. I disagree. uh invaded the the sanctuary uh in the middle of what uh the Roman Catholics call their mass, their worship service, and basically s stopped things down so that they could uh check everybody's uh to see if they had their backs pass card with them. uh YouTube, they believe they're God. Yeah, President Trump was prohibited from speaking, prohibited from advertising in certain magazines and papers and things because they didn't agree with the president uh be able to even let you have a paid advertisement where it is not something illegal. the agenda of the documentary filmmaker. uh negatively affect foreign policy. you know, the seventies and eighties or something where live and let live, do your own thing and everybody try to live a good uh kumbaya life kind of thing. And that's why there's limits and even in the in the Bible there's limits on what you can do, right? And my bank could decide they don't they don't I mean, d it it doesn't take very many companies to say, Hey, you know what? anymore, right? understanding how things should be, everything becomes purely subjective. You know, in our context, you know, which system is the more godly, more scriptural? uh th where they've gone after um political appointees or what s stuff they supposedly did in college or in high school or whatever because and that has no no bearing on on on today It might be a totally separate show. Sure, I do talk about having uh multiple witnesses, but I'm not sure that the text requires the spirit of the law and what we're told requires eyewitness. that you have to build the case. But I'm thinking we might grab a handful of books that are similarly themed and talk about those issues that have to do with raising a family, uh, you know, rearing your children, having a good uh relationship with You know, reach out to me, give me a buzz, uh, shoot me a text. And I'd be glad to try to figure out how to work it into what we do here on the Faith Debate. But we maybe can do a series of shows on that as well. To add uh in the comments or something, I'll interact with that later on if you want. Uh in about a month or so. of the FM where David Forcy sounds really good. kind of went through a weird phase and we weren't able to talk about a lot of things that I think were on a lot of people's minds and so we've been working through some of those issues that have been in the news that have been impacting lives in general, church life more specifically, uh individual uh Christian life, because all four of us would be uh Christians. But a lot of high profile people. uh Euro nationalist racist uh uh xenophobes, you wouldn't think we would celebrate lives like Colin Powell or Kobe Bryant uh when they pass. Uh we're talking about critical race theory um and things related to that, but but broader than that, the things that are in the DNA of the of the culture generally. I don't know exactly the words he used, but whatever the exact words they use, they took them out of a out of a broader context where he went on to explain more fully what he really was intending to say. It was one sentence. So nobody stood up and criticized then President Trump for that, right? Everybody's good. You know, Christian Circles News the last week or so. stuff and you know how do you how do you navigate that? gospel context or biblical framework around it, but he does mention the name. of how Christians should witness to the world, to share the gospel, the biblical truth in a way that the culture can receive it. Um, you know, it we don't want to give the appearance of evil. I mean he the biggest example everybody uses he went and overturned the tables, but it was premeditated. And be extra careful of trying to be precise of exactly what we mean and how we're saying what we mean. So there's saints that still wrestle against sin. And that's exactly what the gospel says. Our identity is that of saint. to say that if you are a follower of Jesus Christ, you are no longer a sinner. Was he actually a believer? I don't know. situation as Robbie Zacharias was a member of my church, you'd be facing discipline. Back on track a little bit. In many cases, um there's some very gross and egregious sins that are also listed in the Old Testament of what they did by saying, well, cancel culture is bad. There needs to be some sort of standard by which things are or are not canceled. But then we unfortunately add because cancel culture is wrong. something like well it's none of my business what they do. God bless you in large measure are ill equipped to train up the next generation of leadership. ninety nine point nine H D two and worldwide at W dot WFMD dot com at householdoffaithinchrist. Uh David's um with a church that is yet to be named. And and the broader culture and how the church should be interacting with um a world that insists we'd be nice and if you s tell the truth that maybe that's not nice and how do we navigate that? This week I want to kind of piggyback on that and talk more specifically about the kinds of problems that has caused for the institutional church, if you will, this past to me. to get along with everybody, just get along, to get along because of all the uh diversification, the racism, the whatever else you can climb up, because everything can can be pointed to I don't think what we mean by the word night, because nice now is considered a good thing. um or being over scrupulous or exact, or perceiving accurately that the smallest faults, errors, or irregularities Are they delicate flowers? Jesus we in our culture we have this perception of Jesus that Jesus was nice and with all that weak, effeminate, you know, uh in uh easily injured, delicate, but be glossed fairly as nice and maybe, I don't know, I'd have to think about that. Other people don't have to be nice. a Christian. If somebody's gonna accuse you of something, you have to agree on the terms to begin with. Are you're not nice? is on the stand, Tom Cruise is badgering him and the the the uh military commander that Jack is playing says, You can't handle the truth. And saying, you know, the uh the gospel we preach is to the Jews a stumbling block and to the Gentiles or to the Greeks uh uh foolishness, but to them that are called the wisdom and the power of God. And that's sorely missing in this culture. themselves. I mean is our way of doing things the only way we're gonna get ourselves out of this? um many others. those things. uh and if they want to do things among uh partnering with each other, other Christians or whatever, that's fine. You can't be an anti-Abortian church because that's not that that's not what a church is. To organize it, to lead the charge for it, to help fund it. Now there there it within the region there are I'm not sure how many in Frederick County there are to be honest, but I just made a whole bunch of pastor friends mad. The opportunity were there. And that is one of the five ways. really go out there and say there's a that there's a creator God um who's who's sovereign. Jesus Christ, He lived the perfect life, died the perfect death, and proved that He is who He is by raising from the grave and ascended into heaven where He's ruling now Who made us for that glory, but we screwed it up through sin. So he started there though in Isaiah 53 and then told him the whole gospel. Yeah, and people talk about the freedom of religion in this country, right? in different ways, not worship whatever religion you want, not worship the devil, not worship this or that and have all these different cults. In your house. So he makes the rules. and subsidized housing and free cell phones or whatever they give nowadays, I don't know. The job of the Christians and the people in in general, it's not the job of the government. Uh and I can only imagine that there were times when you thought, you know, I want to take a shot on you know, a few years back, let's say, you were doing the whole climbing the trees, knocking down the branches and doing that. And you only work for a week. So the stock market really did take a crash, a a real it was supposed to and it did in March um of twenty twenty. And we're suffering some of the consequences of it now with inflation. And people who are smart realize that in runaway inflation would be devastating for the economy, which would crush the stock market one would think investor that's thinking, oh well I think such such company is a good bet for the future, I'm gonna buy some of it, has very little impact on the market. If everybody has that much money, then you become Venezuela. You will own nothing. Daniel Razby and Imran Razy also on the show again. So that you know that's that's the dilemma of the question. We don't even represent the views of many of the churches here. Well then what are we doing? Um and then people are I mean some people will try to block it and figure out how to put their phone in a different part of the house or something so they can't be eavesdropped. looking into somebody's privacy. committing crimes. until you're proven wrong by, oh actually the pictures are okay, so never mind that. And so they're doing the job of a fascist. uh a proper application of law because we don't really have an objective standard. libel charges, slander charges, right? f progressive, you know, pagan ideology guy, and yet he's more of the uh the purer form, the old school liberalism from And his his instincts, now that we know what we know with all the stuff that's happened in the last couple of years, it seems like his instincts were right. is i found to be an adulterer, right? And it feels like that's wrong to me too. And there's been many people that that's been done too. And the you you asked a question which uh is not your question, but it's what a lot of people say, you know, w what do you have to hide? searches. They're all biblical. That's that's where that custody comes from. now being searched by the government. Because he's God. There are all the people that know him. So I think that's that would be the uh one example and there's many others, but one example of the biblical basis for innocent until proven guilty. your spouse, you know, uh having good spiritual disciplines in the home. And if you're listening and you are afraid to come to one of these churches because of your past or your history, don't be. And find out what God's purpose for your life is. Uh uh well, it's possible that if I said it, but I I feel like I maybe have forgotten it in the past, but maybe I don't know. Is there a way to download the file and then load it in so that Yeah, I'm sure there's a way. Lots of weird stuff going on in the world and I don't know if you guys have noticed and maybe it's just me. Uh and and some of them get celebrated, which is good. And uh very f I don't I don't know if any mainstream pastor would ever stand up and say there are no good people. I don't know that you have pastors right now, for the most part, who who want to sound like they're biblical, they're legit pastors who are saying that, oh Stephen Colbert was nice. so on. Boy, we're a total stream of consciousness today. But I don't know that he's had an opportunity to be very well discipled. to do teachings, if you will. Who is deciding what evil is? Just like everything else? Paid very much close attention to that. Although sin can take a while before you really admit to it. I mean there's no spirit of repentance there. Things that are tearing down institutions that are positive, our our structures and our heritage and our traditions and all the statues that have come down and things have been canceled. You know, uh famously now uh Joe Rogan's uh getting all sorts of pressure for Spotify to cancel his podcast and all that sort of stuff. But they're still remembered and and and proclaimed as here's somebody that gives a good example that we can follow. with people falling short. You know, and so so that we should celebrate that when people follow Christ and set an example of that. Even they, you know, even those that we might count ourselves among that group in large measure, uh aren't resting upon God's standard and God's way. good and righteous people and causes and you want to cancel them, quote unquote. ideology, but it's incomplete. what the issues are. Maybe not the definition of today. fine, accurate, exact, precise, as nice proportions, nice symmetry, nice workmanship, uh nice texture, nice tints of color, uh requiring scrupulous exactness It's not a precise thing, even though one of the definitions is precise. That's what people are looking forward to with Jesus' second coming and I think that's that is lost on the church today Yeah, but also, where do we get this that Jesus was nice? But but also the culture is as often stated that the only people that have to be nice are Christians Uh and so you're you're all about being gentle and kind and meek and here you are not being very nice. And you know, it's it's a false argument. our culture to make an assumption. what somebody said or um you know somebody sharing about themselves. But it's some really deep, complicated stuff at a huge uh uh uh a h a very high reading level and and and uh coherence uh level such a deep level. Is no way for you to comprehend much of anything in this life without a foundation in in God, in Christ. could be would be is wiser than the wisest of men. Uh and God will save the ones he wants to save, but it it says very clearly, God has made the wise uh foolish and the foolishness of God, if if it were, like the the most foolish part of God that could Well, I actually have a grasp on the truth, the truth, capital T, the truth, that they don't have at all. And you can hear one pastor do a sermon and then three days, you know, three weeks later you hear another pastor do basically the exact same sermon how that happened. that the gospel is not being preached is one of the reasons that our culture has a misunderstanding of what it is to be a Christian. is the truth, which is not even the correct gospel. to keep the lights on and so you don't you don't have to worry quite as much about oh if I make people offended they might not come here and then we how are we gonna have a church? Yeah, you know th not to be making an accusation that I mean there's plenty of large churches that have uh you know, buildings and and uh in all sorts of things and they have plenty of saved uh The idea of the programs are going to be the solution. housing units as opposed to the you know the the structure of the church is you've got elders who are responsible for teaching and leading because we refuse to make a a central pillar of our quote-unquote ministry uh the abortion issue. I'm derelict of my primary duty. um crack pipes I for underserved communities. Okay, okay. As always now, joined on the Faith Debate panel with me as Imran Razve, Daniel Razvy, and David Forcy. uh incorporating these five elements and then we practice using each of the five as the starting point. Right? who made us and were fearfully and wonderfully made. you know, chance theory of things popping into existence or whatever, you're going to offend them. And then in response to this good news, this rescuer that we have, we out of gratitude live a life of increasing holiness. Right? And all five parts, pieces, aspects, whatever, are not nice. life. But by that time you're taking part in their in their situation without even pr realizing it. Right? That's that's what it is. And my aunt and uncle were responsible for my parents and there was no welfare or freebies and things like that at that point. You know, there's the law of unintended consequences, right? these these checks because of the the lockdowns, the mandates and people were forced out of work. then the church becomes dependent on, oh well the government's doing that, so I guess we won't do our responsibilities anymore. In most cases they're probably able to have the big fancy buildings and the big fancy lighting and the smoke machines and all that because the government is spending money on things that maybe the church should be spending money on church in general. I think there's a bit of a connection a at least a correlation uh there. You know how that long that is? So you you worked for me less than a week and I fired you because you're incompetent, but now I've got to pay unemployment insurance or money for you for two years almost. Almost cut in half. He's rebounded all the way back, has since then set new record highs. Okay. And then to compensate for all the things, they're just going to print three trillion dollars and flood it into the market and invest it in the market to prop up the stock market and all that sort of stuff. Look at the inflation. We will own everything. And share it. Also on HD2 of 99. So uh it we were playfully mentioning it at the uh before we actually started uh rolling for this week's show that um And what I understand is those fancy devices, those smart technology devices, uh they have microphones and things. That's crazy. Okay. And he was exposed, this is what makes me think of this, he a big part of what he was doing was exposing how the NSA is spying on everybody about everything. You know, it's it's it's really bad when the government does it and and the argument we're making kind of now is that the social media companies are becoming like the government as well and they they should be subject to those same Um so I I I think maybe maybe the issue also is like uh in a place that is godless You assume that they're innocent and why do you assume they're innocent? No, you know, i i the whole a whole heinous uh crime of uh of what uh Jezebel did with um Naboth's vineyard uh and to prove that what I'm saying is true, I mean I'm paraphrasing rather loosely here, but the gist of it is to prove what I'm saying true, here are three witnesses. Uh at some point I think I also want to transition. That's the voice of Imran Razvy. You can find links to this faith debate show. And he mentions how he hopes and he uses Jesus' name if I remember correctly in the context of he hopes that that uh after his life on earth is over that Jesus has a sense of humor. and so that he would like them and maybe help build their platform. Well Jesus wasn't nice. statues defending somebody who's g being cancelled off of social media? And we want to stand up and say, look, that's not right, but if you're standing up for somebody who's a jerk or somebody who owned slaves two hundred and fifty years ago Anyway, that's the end of this program. or on the FM at 99. what we just were talking about kind of into what we're gonna continue to talk about. uh year or two trying to be so nice that if everybody, including the government, says you're not gonna meet, we're gonna sh we're gonna close our doors. The just the list is actually just fourteen different definitions. And to some extent preciseness or accuracy is Right, sure, yeah. to desire and to have a you know a a complete conversation where Right. And and those people writing those sermons for them might not be Christians. Uh and that's what passes. of what I do, and it is I would agree with anybody who would who would want to make the argument it is the most heinous sin in the history of the United States of America. If I'm gonna take less time to prepare a good gospel message in order to go be involved in the abortion fight Because well we'd all be in jail. gospel proclaiming Christ exalting church. There's sin in the world. with our Baker, with our Savior, in glory where we will no longer sin. Eternity in torment. poor to success in the US is the shortest it is in anywhere in the country anywhere in the world, use it. It would be nice to help the chickens hatch out of there because they're struggling. away and they said, Oh, we'll fund it by raising taxes. Um but the church uh that allows to look at get flabby, but the the church has grown flabby as a result of depending on government money too, because the if the government spending all this money and doing all these social programs Can you help me understand? predictably, and it makes sense to me, nosedives. Yeah. Yeah. We will not have heaven on earth. And and like I said, uh we're we're exaggerating. Some people have noticed that in recent weeks that there's a little disclaimer that airs before the show about uh you know the the views and opinions expressed on the on the following program do not necessarily reflect Um I mean right now what we're talking about is not private. That's the problem. They're publishers, they can make editorial decisions about what's in their paper and what's not. the problem. You familiar with that? potentially putting government important but government secrets uh out there that could be a risk to national security, to government agents or something. make somebody an example and do whatever they want. Whether you have any sense of honor and shame. I'm not assuming that you're guilty. You're innocent until proven guilty. Talk about coming up in future shows. Christ can be possessed or in some way invaded and controlled by an evil spirit is something that I think we'll talk about maybe our next show. You have said the time last time it happened, you said that's the first time that's ever happened. The biggest thing is the way I'm doing it now, because I'm using a different I'm using a YouTube video for music. Take three. And a whole bunch of people in the evangelical world like wanted to glom onto him and celebrate him and make a big deal about that and they wanted to be really nice to Kanye West. But the thing that you're going to hear from today's contemporary Christian, at least in America, a lot of times, they're going to bring us, ah, yeah, but you don't want to, you know, what about the concern of giving the appearance of evil? You know, you don't want to do something that might lead somebody else to give in to temptation and sin. Um we're allowing someone else to to define the terms or allow society to define the terms. Exactly. But you're not nice. God wouldn't have us call that out, hold it to account. HouseholdoffaithInChrist. That movie talked about that the enemies within the church. I was like, Oh yeah, that makes sense. series of shows in rapid succession. you know, that has somehow gotten it up to the the highest of priorities. Well who you call a nice not only is that, but l uh the context is important, but also just the tone. Easily injured, delicate, uh trivial, unimportant. generally speaking, not all Christians, hopefully not the four in this room but and hopefully a lot of who hearing our voices as well. such that if you circulated that or something like it among the general population, first of all most people wouldn't even crack the book 'cause it's too long. But everyone else that who's preached, if they're not gonna get saved, they really don't have a clue what's being said because their their ears are closed, their eyes are on them. Do not proclaim the gospel, are led by pastors that might not even know what the gospel is, perhaps aren't even Christians And how is that allowed to happen? hunger for the word on their own. that's arisen within the and and sources of a lot of problems and issues as well in the the American Church is that there are designated people in charge of those things, good at those things, doing Um so I I think I think that, you know, the the undoing of uh of the individual Christians There there was an article I saw today about the Biden administration is funding d uh uh drug paraphernalia and and uh They assault someone. Well you can you can bring up the other thing. 930 WFMD and 99. And to be honest, you probably wouldn't go to my search either. The Ethiopian eunuch was reading Isaiah 53 and he asked Philip, hey, do you know what this means? A lot of it is because of direct influence of the scripture. You know the starting point. It's not nice to not let the uh the migrants who want to cross the southern border come in and get all the free health care and free food and then it makes it very difficult to be hospitable, to be welcoming of uh people that need help. it is really the church's job, but particularly believers in general, to be nice in in that sense, if you're gonna define it as help people who need help. Very easy. By the way, poor person who's ever named Alexa. um images of children to get to to clamp down on child pornography and that sort of stuff. So, but I mean that would be a good use of that sort of technology, but can you trust that level of invasiveness Not too long ago I watched a documentary that's probably been out for a few years now. But most of the time movies, we just my wife and I just watched a movie. He seemed in the documentary like his motives were pretty good. evidence to build a case, have a fair trial, and then have the tr punishment. Uh uh my YouTube channel won't exist. You know, or if you think there is no God, there's that there's that tendency of people, uh institutions to try and fill that void because they're not entrusting And if you're being searched, now you're being put in a position of shame that you don't deserve. But if you're going and searching for things to find out, now you now you're removing people from positions of honor and it's not about whether you're guilty and innocent. And that comes from an idea of honor and shame. This is the Faith Debate on 9 30 WFMD. So, is that the a fact of the narrative being wrong, or are our Christian sensibilities overtake our sinful nature? Anyway, so that's that's the gist of what he says. Sin. uh that then y you know and and you're looking for a for for heroes right who are but you're looking for um you know you're you're left grasping for for someone somewhere and and and you don't know how to deal with Yeah, that's that's the uh piece I think has been missing from the uh conservatives arsenal. out of which we can't get out, um it it's almost like it's become it it it it's begun to feel like it's a necessary evil to have the seminaries because the pastors most on large The next generation. You don't have to be holy if you're nice. Oh nice. Right? And and because we're sensitive to that, they're allowed to bludgeon us with that club. when something happens where oh oh you're breaking your standard, you know, you're you're you're a hypocrite. I I think one of the so, you know, maybe not everybody needs to be in a house church, but every Christian does need to take ownership for the discipleship of their own household and and the discipleship of fellow Christians. that responsibility that's that's uh there is that responsibility that's taken on by every Christian. And I said I teach about it, I preach against it, I blog about it, I've been very vocal over the years on the radio about that issue. To fight against that. And and and the way and you know we got spoiled for years because this country was originally established based on uh some pretty hardy biblical principles. God, God, the Savior. If everybody could just make up their rules as they went along, at some point, somebody has the final say and says, these are the rules. And that was great. Because part of the process of getting out of that egg gets their blood moving in the situation, gets them hearty and gets them to survive. I'm going to have to pay a lot of insurance because you know you're a higher risk and so that factors into my equation. Yeah, that's crazy. uh as big of a deal as the large headfund fund managers. Because by scanning everybody's phone, you are assuming that the people you're scanning have these bad images and then you're you're making an accusation that they are a criminal. And a lot of these big tech companies are basically becoming agents of the government now to enforce those laws by saying The devil's advocate though, God knows everything. uh standards but well certainly that's where it's the why we have due process. We can go we have s we can have several shows on that sever you know several weeks that we can talk about that. But I I think is is it somewhere maybe it's the French system or somewhere else where it's the reverse, right? And i i it it's if you look at Jesus' example, you know, what did Jesus do with the woman taking adultery? um different kinds of forensic evidence and stuff. Yeah, turn up turn up the the low register there. More than usual famous people have been dying. That's what uh uh Woody Balcom says, the eleventh commandment, thou shalt be nice. All people are sinners. Yeah yeah, I mean it's it's like there without without knowing Jesus, right? To whatever extent Jesus acted in some of those manners when he was here the last time on earth, he is not when he's coming again. Our culture, our society is very, very nice. So uh yeah, I I I wonder if that has taken away from the ability in general for society to Because it's not nice. But there's very little I think the government should be funding. I can't find a scriptural argument for Christopher Columbus's statues. You're in disobedience and you should find a church. That's that's a problem. You've got to have them like you before you're going to share the truth with them. We were talking about that a couple weeks ago, right? From you know, where will the world be salted if the the saltiness is gone? Right? It is nice to let the homeless person come in and just ravage my food pantry. So yeah, it can be weak to to get help and see wha one of the problems with that is the government has overstepped their bounds and provided things that they're not supposed to provide and when that happens And it's difficult in the world of NICE to try to help people understand that what sounds good on the surface necessarily wrong for churches to have big buildings and fancy lighting and all that sort of stuff. Well, fifty bucks a day would be far below minimum wage. The jobs market reports and all the financial indicators continue to look horrible. Yeah, battery's still going. Uh the last few weeks. Plus of course the Internet is taking it everywhere. Some of it can be used, you would think, for good stuff, so you've got to be careful where we navigate. Um I wasn't really sure what to make of an Ed Snowden type until watching the documentary, which tells you that maybe I should learn more because I might have fallen to pray too much too all the time and they're documenting Bush for keeping this stuff uh on file and they could use it against you at any moment kind of thing and he felt like that was wrong You shouldn't have to worry about it if you have nothing to hide. then you are in effect committing the trial and sentencing and execution, you know, even before any anything is done with due process. And I think I think there's there's a lot of that on on an individual level too. Of course you can try to connect through the radio station's website too, but it's a little harder to connect with me directly through the radio station's website, which is wfmb. So how do how you're you guys are pastors? You know? One who is perfect, right? Your li Facebook live came up cut off for a few minutes and then it came back. It's worth it's worth the twelve bucks or whatever they charge for doing it. Let's see if uh am I right? Um well I I'm I'm I'm thinking of like social media right now uh in general. It for some reason felt like that episode went faster than the first one. We have a maker, we've got sin, we've got a redeemer, we we uh are in the walk of sanctification, ultimately ending in glorification. I mean, think about it in the simplest terms. No, I I mean I don't mean that as a joke. God with his with his rightful realm, with his rightful place. I haven't thought about it in these terms before, but it's it's probably the innocent until proven guilty. In John's third epistle, he's vouching for somebody's uh upstandmanship, saying this is a really good guy here Wow, that's two and six months that you missed the music. All right, it looks like yeah the microphone is almost running out of gas, but we come in. Uh well then you're not being nice. Um which we I think you know we mentioned that last week. I don't know for sure about that part. You pay restitution. You don't want to spend down your social capital. So, if we're living on a steady diet of nice, well, it is nice to let the sojourner in. That's the point. So there we we went we went there. Or guns or whatever. Well, one of the things is we're all guilty and deserving of death. And and somebody will find something that they disagree with you and they're they can outlaw that and now you're guilty and now you're gonna be put away when there was nothing there. It's part of the it's part of the issue that um you know if with if God is out of the picture, right? uh yet just a humanist kind of perspective, then you you still write like there's still a desire for They have a website for that. And nice is easy. Wait till next week. We have somebody who made us for relationship with him and with others. Why was it that? Yeah, I'm not even sure what to be honest. uh high profile case a few years ago somebody claimed to be a Christian said God wanted him to kill the abortionists in his own how many lives did he save right I don't I don't think it's a good use of the technology. They're saying no no that e even though it's not anything illegal or unethical, they're saying, Oh, we don't agree with this political view, so we're not gonna let you advertise, we're not gonna let you spend the money, we're not gonna And then they have a trial and the witnesses agree that if they're found wrong, then you stone them. Like I I'm going to cast you into outer darkness, you know, my outer darkness, where there's gonna be weeping and gnashing of teeth for you because uh you know, I'm I'm casting judgment on you. We're going out cold. Yeah, it looks like we're rolling. So my instinct on that is immediately a knee-jerk. It was called in the name of fun. Sure, yeah, okay, yeah, let's go way back. uh common sense, the book that was circulated throughout the American colonies right before the revolution. Now, I may be uh in the minority here in this group by saying that I think all drugs should be legal and nobody and nobody should do them, but all drugs should be legal. uh uh of not being involved, the government not being involved in sanctioning victimless crimes. Yes, it's what I meant by it was a good thing, but I've dangerous. Sure. I think it's still gonna be a couple years. At some point we do have to get into eschatology. You're good just the way you are. you know, look to follow the example of people where where they are worth following, where they are, you know, that uh you know Paul talks about follow me as I follow Christ. Nice is easy. And that's intentional. They can't just call up and say, hey, I want to stop my four one K contributions. uh any reality negative reality felt from that as of yet, why not just can't they just print a hundred trillion dollars? Now I do think there will be a millennium on earth. It's uh good to see you. He's he's all about Jesus and being nice and a good Christian now. Or would be on the radio. People don't give you the benefit of the doubt. Charles Klaus uh quote. Yeah, so you're saying they have no just cause to be snooping inside a reason to suspect anything and they're just on a lark checking everybody's devices. I mean, unrepentant and hiding it and lying about it and covering up for it. But I mean there's a lot of uh unsaved individuals that are way smarter than me. Our logo is our logo. Right, sort of uh I I like i i if there's like micro cancel culture where you know someone says, Well, I I I can't be friends with you and So from a biblical perspective, I I I would go back to that same example. Right, yeah, absolutely. And so we we we've begun to own that niceness, nicety, is a virtue for a Christian, as the world defines niceness. And uh, you know, and so I just I just go and I attend and um you know some someone else reads their Bible and tells me what it says and Inflation is doubled in this large largest in forty years. If we would solve that problem we wouldn't have the issue with big tech, uh uh that particular issue with big tech. You started with critical wave theory. John's first epistle talks about I think it's in chapter two, it talks about you sin, but then you pick yourself up and wipe yourself off and you move forward. We're actually going to spend some time. Are they particularly delicate flowers? So we're not making a blanket accusation, but I think in general that is one of the dangers when you get to be a very large church, now you have overhead. Yeah, we can spend the money on the bigger building with flashier lights and the nice sound equipment and the big band. He can he can meet out that judgment. And we need to we need to double down on that and not not go sin more that grace may abound, but don't uh you know face the storm head on and say, no, actually, that's correct And he would manipulate uh these masseuses, these women, into feeling like that's what they needed to do. But I thought there was quite a bit of new information as far as who all the players are and how the dots connect and stuff. Well, I mean, I said before, I don't know if I said it on this program, but if you go back and read um Thomas Paine uh um This next one is gonna air on thirteenth of March, by the way. Well-rounded presentation of the gospel. And I think the answer to that question is really gonna depend on whether you have The government is shaming you for no reason. Yeah, you can't mean what are the odds of that fellow part? So that was the second half of the sentence is what was removing uh in the same thing. Well, I think we've confused what meek means and therefore we've allowed ourselves to confuse it with nice. We just don't have that education or the attention span to digest. He's the way? Did I miss some good stuff last time? Literally now. God knows everything, but man doesn't know everything. There's enough for people here that cover for me. They can be mean, they can play hard, they can do all the nasty things they they want because they're not Christians. The prevailing reality, sadly, and it's heartbreaking. The opportunity is there. And you can start a gospel proc uh proclamation with glory, starting with the endpoint. So you have to be friendly and nice and be accepting of all their problems and sins and issues and challenges and make sure that you're really friends before you tell them anything There's not other entrance requirements. I mean dramatic in the space of a few months, two, three months, something like that. The government's printing money like crazy when it's giving money away for free and you don't have to pay your rent, you don't have to pay for things that are essential. Because we printed three trillion dollars and dumped them in the market. Like a dugoflex or something? We're co-heirs with Christ. So I'm not really but this wasn't that old. to to order people's lives in the way that they think is is right. You have honor and shame, you have fear and power, you have guilt and innocence, and they're all uh actually equal. I I haven't seen it. He didn't risk offending somebody by talking about sin or the need for repentance. So we got we we're a mess. But when everybody's right, just inject it digitally into everybody's account. And that's news to some people. No. We we start we've kind of transitioned with the Faith Divate show. In today's culture, yes. Oh yeah, no no. So we're talking about being nice and and the same thing with Ravi. Yeah, we're we're we're we're a bunch of pansies. You're not gonna be nice to the powers that be? Oh well that's not fair. I didn't have to make the rules either. So it's fake. Anyone can put on our platform whatever they want. Would you have anything to hide? You just got to listen to me. All right, we'll strike that again. Was he actually a follower of Christ? You don't have I mean, if it's decentralized, you it takes a long time to contaminate every single pastor. I mean there's so many different meanings of the same word. But yeah, that they're they're gonna give us room to to share the gospel with them. So why would I hire you? Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh it any anything they they say is illegal. All right. It feels like it's everyday. I think when it's uh I think when it's misused, uh you know, it's No, not a lot, but some more. It might be an individual Christian's call. I just don't expect me to give you a f well formulated About jails? I'm stuck with unemployment insurance and even though you quit or you uh fired you because you stole, I still gotta pay your unemployment for ninety nine weeks No, I didn't hear it. They can decide who on Spotify, they can decide who uh is in favor and who's not. You know, the way that the law is supposed to work is the four of us do not have the right to insist that the Washington Post publish something we send them. This first one we do is going to air on February twenty-seventh, God willing. Is that something that everybody gets to decide in their own you know in their own mind with you know their own feelings So how should we just keep our mouth shut on that? Or with Sunday school for that matter. We can't comprehend the truth. I don't even to be honest, maybe that's a topic for not today because I wanted to do some thinking about it. Because maybe not today. Yeah. Yes, because we'll all be in Christ. And you really don't. Oh wow. So Ravi man, God only knows for sure, but I'll tell you this, if Rah if somebody had the same They don't have a website for their church, but they have a website for their ministry. So love doesn't always mean it's nice and gentle and and uh and soft and and warm and fuzzy. And you can do it as a group of persons. We pick ourselves up, we move forward, but we still do wrong things, bad things. It's like, oh, you know, happy ending. Feelings. And then people and they go great though, Choi. It's about uh it's about Ed Snowden. Well, yeah, next week we'll be back. I've been wondering about this for like almost two years now. And we can still talk about that a little bit now if you want. They can be taken to court. But he did say to her, Go and sin no more. He said, Where are your accusers? Yeah, I just it's just uh I wasn't gonna say anything, but then we swung back and kind of brought it up again so well I'll I'll mention it. That explains it. So there it's an adjective to uh to eat dainties or sweetmeats. Consigned to hell forever. So anyway, so that was a little bit of an instruction moment here on the Faith Debate Show. That's more than two years that I gotta pay you and you only work for me a week. So when you dump in three trillion dollars of new money that was never even in existence, that's gonna flood the market, it's gonna make everything go up. I mean seriously there's uh he is king over all, he owns all, and we are co-heirs, and so yeah, we will have everything we could imagine and then so all of us there will own everything. I don't know if they're saying that exactly, but I will say there's a huge emphasis on a different four-letter word, nice. And so I've been really thinking about that, and I think that that could be a really important distinction for us maybe to get at least I think it's going to become a important distinction for me when I'm preaching and stuff to make the point. Anyway, we're gonna jump into uh we're gonna kind of dovetail, you know Biblically you disciple from within the church to the next elders. And so we got the world around us is dumbed down, but as far as fear of God is is dumbed down in that sense, has no wisdom, has no sense of a fear of God But I'll just go in like sequential order. It taught us to meld and get into this community and and um I was reading, you know, just recently a billionaire he said that his his parents emigrated and his parents taught him that the ladder from I mean you you do you have uh lot of comments from some world bankers saying things like you will own nothing and you will be happy. It could lead to, you know, World War III, although technically I think we had World War III, it was the Cold War, but a a a hot third world uh World War III. Daniel Razby also on the show. Trying to be a comedian? Not in the sense that we define it in America now. You know, we are still sinners. 9 HD2, possibly online at WFMD. com is the website we can connect to everything that I'm involved with and that this show is involved with. wfmd. So welcome back. Anybody can be nice, but to be holy is hard. The definition from 50 to 100 years ago of nights, because I feel like it's changed Well, we find out, you know, you got pastors that aren't writing their own sermons. com. You know why? com. Why are we here? And somebody was on his trail a few years, a number of years before he died, and so he changed his habits to hide it better. So you you're trying to stand up for what's righteous, what's true, you're trying to elevate what was good about a certain situation. And so it really shouldn't surprise us when we see such little comprehension and like you said he can't handle uh or can't comprehend truth. We're going to have a program for that with designated people that within the institution of the church. And it's this very narrow avenue into talking about the gospel. Like, there's only one way? And so y you have to set the the the standard for what your business practices are gonna be and if somebody says, Well I'm gonna I'm gonna completely do something different, you're going, No, no, you're no you're not You're not changing out the logo. Yes. And in America we have very little honor and shame. I'd probably want to dive in and look specifically at the text and grapple with it, but I'm not Thanks so much for listening. The plan is, uh God willing, the creeks don't rise, uh to talk about some of the specific things uh that are related to the books that you've written on various topics that have to do with how to raise a family. You want drug addiction to be rare but safe. And and you can see by the way if you're talking to somebody and and and uh um they're mentioning a book they read and they say, Oh I mean, I love this book, wow, because it's I I you know it's it's got it's a And the the Morgan Iowa great reset. So what do we say to those who because I've had hints of these discussions before, not nothing quite as deep as we're having now maybe. I could try singing to you, but I'll spare you. Of course, you can follow the Faith Debate Show at WFMD's website as well. Uh so it's a short clip. So again, niceness shoots us in the foot. More famously or perhaps infamously, he spoke at Lakewood Church in Houston, Joel Olstein's heretical congregation. Or are we misunderstanding what gentleness and kindness and love are? They're not per sometimes proclaiming any of the council of God. It doesn't pay. I'm Troy Skinner, by the way. If you start walking your foot, no matter what somebody talks about, you can you can share the gospel with one of these five points. But there there's no accountability in uh in most of these situations. But but if if somebody is trying to hide that they that they're taking dirty pictures of little girls, then I don't want that private. So those are two of them. So Kanye West, he has a rather public uh professed conversion a few years ago, right? Or you know, or learning how to um uh celebrate the There's a book that was written a while ago in sales, Good is the enemy of great. You say one or two words, oh you're you're a this, you're that. But as far as going to a church and hearing the gospel proclaimed on a regular basis, week in, week out, that is not happening in the overwhelming vast, vast majority of churches, it seems to me Or they're so addicted they need to steal in order to support the habit. You know, you you have a house with kids in it, and somebody's got to make the rules. Thank you, gentlemen. Yeah, 'cause we were talking about Bonhoeffer I think too and stuff. And I'm joined as always now by three other pastors in Frederick County, also House Church pastors, Daniel and Imron Razby, pastoring the church that meets at Imron's house. Same thing for anybody named Karen these days. They have been canceled. Are you guilty? And where it's lacking, um, you could argue it's sorely lacking, and we've got to be careful about that. Because my my sense I'm gonna guess because I have it. We just don't recognize it because we've all been raised up with the evangelism explosion, the idea of, hey, you know, are you familiar with the Ten Commandments? Oh I don't I don't think it's I haven't thought it through something. I'm not sure exactly what angle it we're gonna take, but um the question of whether or not somebody who is an actual believer in Jesus Yeah, and I I've I've been thinking about uh you know precision of language, how important that always is, but particularly it seems so important in today's day and age to define terms and be So he never really did anything for me. com. And just like you know, we talked to last week and we've talked for the last several months about definition of terms. 9 HD2 and online at WFMD. Then visibility become more valuable. But there's rules. Maybe the same as mine. End of one, then the two, end of three. However, finding a good church can be tough. Because you can't handle the truth. And these immigrants, if they're coming here for the free stuff, they don't have that opportunity to actually become great, which this country had a history of and uh has the ability to do. Why would I take the risk? We don't even have communism right now or i really what we we we we were so worried about the communist boogeyman we allowed fascism to take over. 9 FM. They can't find me on Google search. But there were some but there were some high profile peop high profile people who died in the last you know year or so, you know. No, he he took time and braided a whip, which takes it t it takes effort, and then he went and whipped the uh people and and threw 'em out. There's saints that still, this side of glory, commit sin, but our identity is no longer that of sinner. There are consequences for bad behavior kind of thing. And that's a real challenge and I've had to deal with uh recently, actually. It feels difficult because it well it's not going to be received maybe as nice. How bigoted of you. So uh you uh we do these on live on Facebook so you can uh get a sneak peek at what's going to air on the radio later on. And we don't even agree with each other on some of these things. How many books do you have now, uh Emran? By all the uh crud that's out there in floating through space and people being nervous about that, there are certain things you weren't allowed to do, and so the the show And it's almost always somebody I know, which is even more rare, right? But God has his own version of a cancel culture. It doesn't want to stay. Holy is set apart and separated for the love of God and the grace of God and glorification of God, whereas nice is just nice. So it it sounds nice that, yeah, just 'cause somebody's having a hard time, we're just gonna put them on the public public doll and You want to be nice, but what is that how does that affect everybody? That was before. So so that's uh that a lot of people don't realize that's one thing we have in our justice system in America that's so different from everywhere everywhere else. He knows whether she's guilty or innocent. I would argue there aren't any good people on any side of any issue. Right. You know, that type of thing. But I was just preaching on this topic actually very recently. And explaining that to somebody was completely unacceptable and they they refused to join our church. They're controlling what information is out there, what they deem is truthful or reasonable for people to digest. So why do we have illegal search and seizure in the Constitution? Like the the the the the the facts testify. Don't be afraid of reaching out because of what you've done in the past. Thank you for starting part of your day. I'm getting myself all discombobulated here. You know, what if I like this other way? Will we own anything in heaven? So we have a potential audience of probably like you know five billion people right now. Or like that Roman Catholic Church, you hear about this in the news not too long ago where uh the the authorities uh But um it's easy to make the argument, yeah, I mean he's he's Because you have to have all this evidence and proof, you know, otherwise somebody can just make an accusation and then you do it I think that that can biblically count in a biblical category. And I mentioned this, all of this with upcoming shows, because if you're watching on Facebook or you're listening on the radio and you've got an idea about a show, a question you'd like to hear us tackle I guess we start the recording because I'm gonna put these away. You've gotten to know some of these other voices rather well in recent months too. It's it's you know, I I've done it a number of times where one of the first things I mouth is, you know, you might not know me, so you know, let me introduce myself. I've got my doubts now, which then makes raises all sorts of questions about different things. That's householdoffaithinchrist. There is no fear of God. com. You want to maintain your social capital. There's no back door to heaven. Then the churches and the Christians said, Oh well I guess since you raise taxes we'll just count that as my donation to the poor and now I don't have to worry about it And there's some of those that are making big money because that they have the I mean you got one of these fancy devices. And the tech companies are not God. Oh, nobody's accusing me anymore. There's there's that part of it, I think. That's yeah, that's what I'm saying. com. The the the Rasvies established a ministry years ago that has a lot of helpful uh information for family life, particularly That's not what the church is for, so we must understand. What? Right. But there's just uh more money in the market than there's supposed to be because it was printed with nothing to back it. So we talked about abortion and abortion being murder. What if all the Christians just rose up at one time and just got rid of all the abortion clinics? Yes. I mean they can make your b life absolutely miserable just because they disagree with you. But I've come to think about that. He was mired in apparently years and years and years of unrepentant, gross, heinous Well y yeah, it doesn't affect your personal salvation, but it is things we c we should call out. We're gonna we're gonna actually do a contest on the show one day, I think, and see if we can come up with a name for your the the that's the good news. It's from the current culture. Right. They can't hear or see what's going on. Find us online at wfmd. A platform is uh is given protection from any sort of slander or libeless lawsuit because they're we're just a platform We talked about cancel culture f for a lot. A couple of things I have to check. But it's interesting, those those ones that were talking about, um th soft, weak, w what's one of those words? Are they? We shouldn't be surprised. You can connect with me and I'd love to talk with you about it. There are at least three in Frederick County that I know of, and they're all represented in this room. In my opinion, there are five elements that get touched upon. Well that's not very nice. Couldn't the duc couldn't the government just print a googaplex amount of money and You give honor to people, give people the benefit of a doubt. My cell phone number is on my website. I don't know if you saw this, Tim Keller had a positive tweet that he sent out regarding Stephen Colbert. One who is holy. No no no. Hello. You're gonna force the police officers to have to do something to you? Right. You know, if you have a bunch of like minded people, then they might even all go to the same church and they might well want to do that together as brothers and sisters in Christ, but they don't need their pastor Because that's the nice thing to do. In fact, if they find out you're a Christian, you're whacked out your way out there. You're not gonna just go do willy-nilly. Well, no, that's not the point. We should w celebrate someone's legacy. We'd be walking through Matthew 18 right now. And that's I mean it's and there's a quote in there from Isaiah twenty uh twenty nine, I think, which talks about But in in the in the context of the passages in First Corinthians, it's talking about the gospel Because the real correct gospel is not even being preached. Again, God willing, preach don't rise. Why doesn't the gospel get proclaimed? Did you just call me a sinner? What does that really mean? It's being broadcast on a radio station. Those are two pretty good witnesses right there, right? Take three. And Tim Keller sends out a tweet congratulating Stephen Colbert, saying this was an incredibly wonderful example. And then I had a couple of things I want to say and then people would help me so to go backseat again. You can also access the podcast and all sorts of other stuff about the show and the churches that are represented here on this show, which I'll get to in just a second. But um yeah, it you know, i if if someone is nice that you know that makes me feel good if they're nice It it means set apart. And the Just Justice Department just okayed the uh um injection sites, safe injection sites where you can't be arrested and you can't have anything to be held against you, you come to the safe injection sites Well, in today's the science world and so many secularists out there who believe in, you know, evolution or uh some sort of random uh It's rather narrow-minded and bigoted of you to say there's just one way, isn't there? You know, God lets in who he wants to let in. That's true. Any anybody famous that's been against the mandates or the vaccines or anything? You're going to sue somebody sue them. Thank you, gentlemen. So anyway, thanks for watching. Yeah, you gotta make sure your whoofers are in good uh are in good working order. You know, well yeah, in today's economy, or today's world it doesn't pay, that's for sure. You can also go to WFMD. And after a few months, now you're worth, you know, a million dollars a day, because our business is booming. It's fake. Yeah, we already done that. Yeah. I turned it on, it moved the camera a little bit, but I think we're still gonna be okay. We're born as sinners, right? Right. By the way, I'm a yeah, this is kind of a little bit off subject, but you're a financial guy This is the Faith Debate. So they can just and it learns their voice and they can just instantly, Alexa, do this, echo, do that, whatever. No. And it's not for us to go and and snoop around and spy on each other. Edward Snowden. I mean, I run a business. Where were the Christian pastors criticizing for saying there were any good people? It's it's circulating on social media. Um and I would put the emphasis on trying to be a comedian because I don't think Steven Kobe is very funny. I don't think so. I want to talk more specifically about the church institutionally and the niceness and the trouble that got us into. And a lot of it also is because of really heavy influence from English common law, which is deeply steeped in scripture. You know, our sales practices or our fulfillment practices or our billing practices are what they are. David Forcey, Imran Razvy, Daniel Razve, I'm Troy Skinner. Right? So you can start from any part of it. But can't the government just send me more money to compensate for the inflation? Those those are the kinds of things that have gone up my memory of what I remember some of your books touching on. And he talks uh he leaves the the strong impression that there is a hereafter, there is an eternity that we have to be concerned about. Uh he's by his own admission would have claimed that to be a new Christian, a recent convert, and he's almost immediately invited to speak at churches. Yeah, and it's interesting. But a lot a lot of it had to do with the erosion in the seminaries. Well, that's not very nice. They're pushing hard and they're just they're just brand new. And Christ's owner of everything. And all I can say is truth in advertising, right? But I thought we would transition to something a little bit different. You have to have not one witness, but two eyewitnesses to the actual act. And that's why it feels everybody's so off balance right now because things can change in a whim because it's subjective and I can change my mind. How do you navigate that? That's wrong because it deviates from God's righteous standard Oh really? If I try to mess with it too much, it's just gonna fall down. And you know, some of the big evangelical leaders uh have a a little uh a little phrase they like to use that talks about that. Currently he's the strongest. And the Razbies also have a ministry organization called Concord by Love Ministries. Meaning you don't get to just ask him for things and and get what you want. We're gonna be ignoring you a little bit because we're busy doing the radio show tonight, but uh this is a chance for you to get a sneak peek on the stuff that's gonna air on the radio They can't participate in the Lord's Supper, for example. So if you're with us last week uh or if you were listening to the podcast and now you're hearing this one on the heels of uh that podcast. We can't speak the truth. I I there's nothing worse than that. A church is to disciple the people and have leadership there. But should they go to jail for it? The truth is the reality we're talking about the niceness. And and to s to a larger extent, the market I think has less and less correlation with what's actually It's fake, but also everything's fake. Oh yeah. They they the advertisers know what you want and so they're giving you exactly what you're doing. Yeah, like anybody named Imran's gonna be hating life in fifty years 'cause it'll mean something totally different than somebody's names. That's like the police going door to door and searching every home in America for drugs, let's say Just going door to door and search every house just because That website, by the way, for connecting with me is household of faith in Christ. One of which is trivial or unimportant, another one is weak, foolish, or effeminate. Yes. I'll give them I'll give them this benefit of the doubt. Interesting. I know I like to use that example of adultery, but it's it's just because there's there's very clear um instructions for what to do. David Forcy, I'm Troy Skinner, and I never started the music, so we're going to go out without any music. Uh it was maybe last summer, late summer, early fall, I can't remember exactly when, but We should absolutely talk about it. Same issue with Sunday school. Actually let's think let's talk a little bit about what we've been talking about. Okay, so if the government's gonna just send a bunch of checks to people because they can't work because the government told them they couldn't work It's not a good thing to just go snoop and spy on people, regardless of whether they're So the faith debate will be back next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. I'm okay with that. It didn't work. We've got uh David Forcy, the unnamed house church on the southern end of Frederick County That's a flower, right? So everybody who was aiming for that, good job. And if there is no fear of God, then where does wisdom start? And maybe a house church just doesn't seem like it's your thing, whatever. And Christ is reigning, so we'll have a perfect justice system. You might be suicided then. I feel so sorry for somebody named Karen or Alexa. It was a documentary. And that was never allowed to before. Clearly, right? But do you guys disagree we should not talk about defending Have you seen that yet? You don't want to show your little vaccination card to walk into the worship service? You know, there's the happiest of endings awaiting Christians That is true. Uh I think it uh to us it was a new movie and it came out like in 2007 Now you didn't do do the worst. Ninety nine point nine HD two. And of course he did repent eventually, obviously. So then you're getting a bunch of Tony Robbins, you know, live your best life now, success happens to you if you only follow these five steps to a happy existence kind of stuff And it allows you to be m um more bold in preaching because you're not you don't have a conflict of interest And we've been living off of the echo and the fumes of that for years. That's it is what it is. Like, oh we'll just send you some money to help you get through, it'll pay your rent for a couple of months maybe or something like that. It went from like, I don't know, thirty something thousand down to like eighteen something thousand. Yeah, communism works if God is in tr in charge. My uh cell phone company could decide not to renew my cell phone contract. Well, then I don't either. I mean just think about David and Bathsheba, right? Oh, you can't cancel cultures wrong. And nice is not uh not very precise. So you've got to be windless. But he still, while on earth, he followed the judicial system that he had set in place, which is A couple more boxes to check. Come to think. Maybe you've already been up for hours. And it's conqueredbylove. So that would be a positive usage, but I I'd be willing to bet that But we do have the fruit of the spirit, which includes gentleness and self-control and kindness and love and words that feel kind of nice Uh otherwise there's no conversation to be had. If you're not saved, you don't have the discerning wisdom. Safe weed but rare. And they're all offensive. He made us so that we would glorify him and enjoy him forever. Well the regulations have really stifled uh the economy here. Every time somebody gets paid, some money's going to the market. Like I understand that uh the Apple products, like their iPhones and stuff, uh can scan for inappropriate I typically don't watch things when they first come out. Okay. I don't think he agrees with us in a worldview. You know, yeah, why don't you win some uh as as we're uh recording this show in the in the No, Tim Keller's lost his mind. I think people were afraid to offend Ravi Zacharias. Right. It was that bad. Yeah. There's nothing in the Bible that says that he was nice. It it has to do more with the like a sinful condition, right? Yeah, uh yeah, I I generally tend to to uh lean in the direction of That's not very nice. I can't I can't worry about it. And yet, we want to react against the Does that not describe our world today? You're calling out my sin? It's not nice not to do that because we're to welcome the sh the the sojourner and they'll try to use biblical language against the Christian So something like Daniel has no opportunity to prove himself during that first week. Yeah. We have much more of the guilt and innocence. But what would be a s a a you know biblical reason for choosing that over the guilty until proven innocent? You haven't missed the music. Oh, I said it was the first time it's ever happened? And also wanted to signal to the world that look, if you profess to believe in Jesus Christ, we'll be really nice to you too And I will say that to be honest, there there wasn't a ton of new information as far as And Imran Razby. This one hasn't there yet. You can find us also on the website, WFMD. And because they're the ones who ultimately make the choice of what's in and what's not in, they could face It's not us. You're proclaiming the truth, aren't you? But I knew who he was. They don't know enough, they don't have time, they don't have the motivation whatever it is. Well, you're going to heaven. How's that possible? You can persuade me. When you uh take take the example of adultery. If tomorrow Google decided that they don't want me to run my business, nobody will find me on Google. Yeah they're they're trying to um put themselves in the place of God to uh Forty five. God bless you That's not the label. And that is a whole different world view that is really lacking in the Western culture completely because So that's offensive. Then the numbers become meaningless and then do you have How many have we done so far? com and household of faith in Christ. Right now, Facebook and uh I I have not noticed. com. You didn't even fall asleep. If you count yourself as a Christian and you're not going to church, Because in my if you're going to do a full orbed So we we're going to still commit sins And a lot of the people, they learned how to read by reading the Bible. If you look at some of the papers and and documents and stuff and Daniel was pointing that out, it was really the freedom to worship the one God But but there has to be a we need to have a standard. That makes sense to me. Good point good way to end the show. I mean we're we're doing our darndest to represent the the views of God, right, from the pages of scripture and have that inform In fact every single person in the room has one of those fancy devices. You're familiar with the Ed Snowden case and he's like the the whistleblower, like reveals a bunch of governmental kind of secrets and stuff. And sure if there is things that are found out, now you should be shamed in the society. I don't even know what I don't even know what your opinion is. It wasn't even just strength of consciousness Right, right. And for years I've actually said in sermons, you know, when I preach com. But we've got two people. So shall we look for the no w no Webster But within the institution of the church is a problem. Or you're going to come across as being narrow minded and backwards and you're going to make the church look bad and that's going to offend me as a Christian. Remember we defined nice in 1828 as weak, foolish, effeminate, and so on. Where it's you're guilty until It could be just me. Does that seem have you noticed that? Okay, so who's uh And so then um then anytime there's anyone who Weakness, softness, right? Well I I think I think the the facts And we see this with um the government wanted to tie the hands of of employers, like I said, you guys are in in business and you you owned your own company for a while A blowtorch, yeah, radio station. Right. You can or you can email me. And um um and a as if there are only two sides to any issue, there are multiple sides to to most any issue, and there are going to be, based on our estimation I don't know the name of the actress like I just uh been saying I have to turn to my wife and say, Who is this? And so those who are ungodly, they're canceling things for ungodly reasons, and then our reaction is rightly to say, well that's wrong Um the one who's talking about coming back next week, that's And of course the last step in all of this is that ultimately we share eternity And so applying that now more broadly But you know what? So everything falls apart, right? And Christ is building many rooms for us. Um and But in this in this context, the whole idea of you have your privacy Everybody is innocent until proven guilty. If we start with that premise, then doesn't it really matter. Somebody's still watching. We'll have some differences probably. I'm not sure how deep the faith runs, but I mean obviously you can be a I mean, yes, sure there's that loving side to him and the nice side to him, but he was he it I mean you you want those Christopher Columbus statues to stay up. Might be you know it might be a vocation they're gonna take on, like they're gonna go about doing that. And then beyond that I gotta make sure that I'm preparing the sermons and being uh They involved uh they're involved with the house churches, as you've heard us talk about, so am I. Almost two years. That if you're ever time for an assassination, for example, in in war uh in war that's one thing and we talked about Yeah we don't have objective standards in the law anymore. The problem is when you have all these uh searches without a uh just cause Or you don't want to have anybody have any reason to think that your testimony is is askew or something like that. I'd watched an entire lecture Or if you're listening to this later, perhaps it's a podcast. And boy, I I probably should have done some homework. It's all just little tiny pieces. And so it doesn't get it doesn't get preached. You've got to become friends with the lost and dying world around us. And when the government started to take that job Everyone will own nothing and no one will be happy. Because I'm like, I have no idea who is that. So where's the balance in this? I'm not sure that I any longer think that that is precisely how the Bible characterizes things. Right? So I I you know I'm not gonna say that they ha that I have a higher intelligence, but I do have a much better grasp on the truth Till next week, when the faith debate returns, uh God bless. I don't know about abortion laws about drugs. Why why w what's the what's the downside? Oh my gosh, what was it called? That's WFMD. Well I know maybe you're not starting. What's that? We were talking about being nice. I mean if you read First Corinthians, it says God hath made the wisdom of this world to be foolishness. You know, they're farming it out to organizations like Docent Group. It was more of a lively discussion, I think. That's why I'm talking about this now. We need to be held accountable. But the point is it's diffic it it feels difficult. They never get back up on their feet. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here on WFMD. He's the God of everything. Forty-five books. I thought it was none of it none of it was surprising particularly to me. Sunday school should be. And he's published a list. And so now we've got kind of this fat, dumb, and lazy And that's all they're ever going to scan for. And if you say something against them, they can just deplatform you and get rid of you and silence you completely I mean I would argue, I think But in a nation that uh is led by a bunch of So like even when it comes to like good, you know, like it it is important to define all these things. Like unambiguously, that is the prevailing wind right now. I mean the biblically you remember the good things somebody did and the bad things, you don't hide the bad things. So I agree with all that. I have I have a pretty well formulated argument about that 'cause I've been mulling over that for years now. So um we've been talking about niceness and all that sort of stuff and And yet they're making editorial decisions, so they're trying to have it both ways. And they did that to a president of the United States. Daniel Razzley doesn't exist anymore and then nobody can find me and I can't run the business and then I I don't have any income Uh but you without any due process. And that's one of the concerns too with this nice thing that's plaguing the church in my opinion, is Kanye West. But I will say Ravi Zacharias never quite did it for me. I paid attention. You know what I mean? Maybe it has to do with the importance of people's feelings. It is. Because you don't want somebody to say, oh, you're a hypocrite. Well, yes, the standard that you are perceiving, which is based on the gospel that you think is Same argument. I mean seriously, we weren't scared worried about stuff. It really brings into question uh I mean only God can know for sure, but based on the information we now have, it raises the question of was We've been saying that for years. So yeah, God's standard is lost on them. Now, if they're getting stoned out of their mind and as a result of being stoned, they do something. But what if they never like you? But now there is no ladder because we were stopping people from using that ladder because the government gives you free stuff, so there's no chance of you climbing that ladder. In a sense everybody's become uh a victim of what was a few years ago called Trump bucks and now people call them Biden bucks. I think they're gonna be half right But that's not what he said. And so I think I think that one of the main issues, the problems that's Uh you know, that you had equal protection un under the law that if you wanted to advertise something, so long as you're paying the Two in six months. At least we're getting here the part of the music that we're talking over. You're still wrestling against sin, you're still struggling against sin. Because all the devil had to do was take over a few seminaries and now he trained all the pastors from all the different congregations W hold on. But uh trust me, I know most of you guys, and most of you guys I would not go to your church. And this is how I teach the sharing of the gospel at my uh at the Household of Faith in Christ, by the way. So all five elements Yeah, when you're old and feeble you're in trouble. You s still are honorable and you're upstanding citizen and all that, but with your So whoever that is, thank you. And perhaps Jesus will return before February twenty-seventh, so we will see. Without knowing one who is perfect um uh in every way, uh com. But after that I'm not sure we should have jails. I will give you a shot, but I can only pay you 50 bucks a day for you know for the first week and see how it goes. Because it was a problem, because then the government can become onerous and and decide to go ahead and I wasn't there. Secondly you didn't stop. Maybe I'm my my antenna are up and I'm noticing it. Have you seen it yet? Welcome to Face Debate on 930 WFMD and But if you're Christians, you have to be nice. Or you're gonna force the you know y your neighbors to think badly of our congregation? You know, back in the nineteen nineties there was that famous movie line in a few good men, Jack Nicholson is uh Well we believe it or not, we're we've run out of darn time again. Well, but the good news is that there's a rescuer from that sin And I'm sorry if you don't If the government did not provide free this, free that, all these different things then When my family immigrated, they immigrated they were sponsored by my aunt, my parents were Since the advent of the 401k where you're automatically taking money out of every paycheck and putting it in the market I I sent you guys a text earlier about privacy stuff. It was a God honoring thing to do, kinda it was just sick stuff. A couple of lucid moments. I'm not sure why that's an insult to be called a flower. You guys agree with that? So that it really has to start there Is it maybe because you fear God? Maybe we'll maybe we'll actually go there on the that isn't a proof subject matter. Yeah, that's uh that's six hundred and ninety-three days. They're constantly recording. I don't think he's a Christian. Yeah, maybe. That's what the Bible says. What happens there a lot is we're But then when somebody is saved in Christ, the Bible doesn't really refer to them as sinners at that point anymore. So many people that would identify as conservatives, you know, Republicans, patriotic American kind of thing. Got uh David and Daniel, uh David um I don't know if you guys ever heard of that. Uh we don't have an understanding of that because the church isn't doing its job. Safe to a different issue. So He didn't My email address is on the website Household of FaithinChrist. But one of the things I said last week about um com. It was it was worshiping Yes. That was three. And I don't think you were quoting yourself, you're quoting other people who say that about you know unreasonable We are all sinners. I haven't really done that in the past, and that's throwing me off. Well, it's like the way Kanye talks about the Bible and Jesus and and It wasn't like If you're if you're commenting, uh I'll try to get to those later. Whoa. And it's not that long of a book, I think it's eighty or a hundred pages And that's why you say you know, uh that you you were saying that Well now the the next step of course in the chronology is well yeah we're made, we're wonderful and all, but then we we're fallen Who are you to call out my sin? And those who don't accept what God has done for them spend Like, you know, you're kind of young, don't have a lot of experience. That's the that's a very basic is that what's the thing that's they they bought things with it and that increased the value of those companies because they And so d do Christians have a duty to stop murder at all costs? We've got uh just uh a a minute or so uh left in the show so we'll begin to to draw it to a close. Hello, Facebook. Maybe you're in the middle of your day. I had regard for him based on the opinions of a whole bunch of other people. So is the only way to fix that is just everybody join a house church and So the church becomes like this amalgam of parachurch organizations under one And you say, of course, we have to get there, and the reason we have to get there is because the things are being restored the way they were at the beginning, because we have a maker He's the God of politics, he's the God of education, he's the God of science, he's the God of radio stations Other people are paying good money for a device like Echo or Alexa. And then you've you know, so there's a whole whole legal standard in scripture for you must have Now that's our system. We want you to come out and learn who God is and how important He is to you and what He's done for you. Yeah, it must be just you. If somebody is uh in unrepentant sin, They're canceled from participating in that sacrament. Uh have but too many I think have allowed themselves to be deluded into having a false idea of what it means to be. It makes it detrimental to their health. He could have killed her for adultery. And and speaking about the uh like the uh the adultery or the the the rape kind of stuff or whatever that you talked about and you emphasized eyewitness And so the t the the facts are a witness. I thought you said. Or maybe it's just very rare and We're all sinners. Imran and Daniel are with a church that's called, I think, the church that meets at Imran's house Parents drop off their kids, they expect oh the youth group will take care of it. You don't have to be bringing in massive amounts of donations. It's okay. And yet, here we are, the stock market. Easy. Let me actually let me check Yeah, but the uh places the papers and magazines are also now refusing some advertisements Lots of fodder for conversation. Right, David? I'll ask my wife, oh that's an actress, she's in this show or was in this movie. I'm Troy Skinner, the pastor of that church, Household of Faith in Christ, and uh my partners in crime on this show. You gotta see that. Welcome once again to the Faith Debate. And the reason we do that is because in everyday conversation we think, oh I would share the gospel if only you know And a great example of that, you know what you've been talking about is Philip with the Ethiopian eunuch But So is this is this why Uh this is the Faith Debate. I mean we do not necessarily represent their views. We've talked about this very briefly on the show, but they're very different paradigms. If the apostle John and everyone who knows you vouch for you, that might be enough And I think can you put a finer point on it? So I don't think there's anything wrong with, you know uh Well we've been saying it wrong for years, because God would have us cancel I did, yes. And I might be overstating the numbers. So somebody's gonna be an idiot and throw their life away, uh getting stoned every day But if somebody wants to be an idiot, I don't know that we should have laws against being an idiot. So the first is we have a creator And it says Philip started there and explained the gospel beginning from the begin Genesis to you know the the end I'm guessing that's you, David. Like I said, there's less and less coalition because That's a new new word these days. All four of us on the panel tonight are pastors of house churches com. Original sin. If he's a nice guy, I don't want to be mean to him. Speaking of podcasts, you can access that at the Uh properly soft, whence, delicate, tender, dainty, sweet Yeah, the the word n I mean, it's an English word, so yeah, we have we have to think, is would there be any Hebrew or Greek words that could Are you hungry? Seriously I'm Feroy Skinner. We need to have people in our lives who are going to challenge us, iron being sharpening iron And it'll keep inflating. And then you check your uh social media account about a half hour later and you're seeing a bunch of ads for Acapulco. That's how my daughter feels. Citizen Four. It it seems like almost every day in my newsfeed somebody now there's always celebrity people that die Whoopi Goldberg too. org is their website. We live in a nice world And and anything where there's like uh where there are bites of information going out, either of you know Although the you know you're paying customers in the fuse if you don't have to be a good idea. I have somebody that refuse to to become a part of House of the Faith in Christ Well, we've we've we've been told this lie that you have to make friends first before you can make any impact in somebody's Whatever you say sometimes is going against prevailing narrative that might be not be perceived as nice the way we've been defining it, you you're gonna get that that uh I don't think he would count himself as a conservative, actually. Uh and they're they're Uh and we're Like you don't wallow in your sin. Yeah, and if any of uh you guys have ever had chicken eggs hatch So if if people are n are worried about the future, they would normally stop investing com. Plus a blowtorch uh FN station at the H22 H d D two part of 99. Exact well yeah, exactly. But what he's applauding there is the niceness. Two, three years ago, something like that was now. First of all, what does this and that mean in your context? But my job as the pastor isn't to organize efforts Contact me anyway. Not anybody, but there's a lot of people. We don't want to people to we don't want to give people ammunition to falsely accuse us. And and and and I don't want to make this about Rabbi Zacharias but just to clarify for anybody who hears my voice is like what are you talking about? As as you said, there's fourteen different definitions for it They they're treated as though they're publishers but they have the protections of a platform That kind of liberal. Maybe I w misheard Uh yeah, that fosters good conversation, but you have differences. com Nice. And too uh people are too quick, I think, in It was more back and forth. You're extreme They had to work and if they could not work, my uncle and aunt were responsible for making sure that we didn't starve to death. Um Obviously God was there, he saw, but but he's speaking as as uh a man there in that passage You can connect with all the social media and So And I I have a very good friend who is adamant that seminaries should not exist and never should have. And what's what's been the root of of that? And then whatever time I might have left over, then I can allocate that to other things like maybe abortion if I have time and that sort of thing. But if you did that, those chickens would die Till next week, 167. Oh no. That becomes the same situation as political prisoners, you know Well, thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here on the Faith Debate on It's so important to have the proper definition that we agree on. Right. So it's God's house Isn't that what the non-biblical pagan world is aiming for though? So we're not expecting any privacy. They're constantly eavesdropping and recording what you say. One of the exceptions would be Enemies Within the Church. Yeah. Yes. Rather exclusive, isn't it? Are you able to do one more? And so that'll be pretty close for a little while. Put them away in a ref map. And we don't want to be falling down. Last two weeks we talked about niceness and how that's a problem, you know, and and all that Just as long as you hit all those points. But the lockdowns and stuff, the restrictions continued. She feels oh it's a great thing. We're gonna say goodbye now, but uh do you have anything to You got that deep We're all born as sinners. So if you are just approaching human beings from a This is the Faith Debate. You are fading, goodness gracious, you're a tired pup. And it was a Bible teaching church, but the youth group had this uh Here's the entrance requirements for heaven. Coming up on two years ago, everything falls apart, everything gets shut down, and the stock market And then within the same month it came back up or three months. Oh. It's not about whether you have anything to hide Right, right, right. com I haven't noticed. Remember a number of years ago there was that happening in uh in uh Charlottesville So in his case, was he a saint who still wrestled against sin? You can access all of the different kinds of stuff and connect with us. Because they bought it from the same place. So what those small investors are doing is not really And they can just print all the money they want, apparently, without any com. Um True. Um My guess is that it wasn't necessarily a complement Noah Webster's 1828 dictionary. And so nothing is fleshed out. And so we we have a situation where Like there there should be that uh I mean I agree with you because you can either be a church or an anti-abortion ministry. But if you crack that o egg open and help them get out, they will die. I'm True Skinner. Nope nobody's good, not even one. Just gotta grab the microphone and go for it. You have to play nice. What? They really com All four of us are pastors involved with house churches in Frederick County. But if you don't have to have any yeah, rules or regulations around why somebody is cancelled And reach out to us and talk to us I would love to have an opportunity to try to help you find a good, biblically faithful And then we'll just have like I'm I mean I'm I'm being a little bit facetious, but s as a logic exercise. The downside is you're uh Yeah, that's because now you're now you're accusing everybody and you're guilty until proven innocent Well whooping Goldberg, ironically. If they're not Christians, they generally agree with all these Christian principles. But isn't part of the market um a a bet on the future You can stream us there. He didn't exactly say that. But trying to be a comedian and you know and talk about your faith at the same time. But niceness is the enemy of holy. Nice But maybe there's another one. Doesn't get shared with the world. I mean think about this, Troy. I think that's where he was and he was trying to protect I was kidding. I never his style never quite connected with me. com. We're actually gonna watch it as a congregation a few weeks. That's why home coaches are important. Maybe one of you if you if you're able to get a signal you could look up really quick. There was somebody on the news, some some um So not he's not accusing you, but he's saying that you did sin. Darn it. I think that's what he says That's why I said like Rabbit Zacharias, you haven't paid that close of attention to it. And that's kind of what I said last week. He's coming as the conquering king to destroy the world. I think we've confused nice with meek. I don't know. So the average Listen to the listen to the I don't even remember all the things we talked about. Suicide. Because the government's not God Who knows? Conquered by Love Ministries is the name of their organization and conqueredbylove. That's not very nice to the indigenous people, is it? Because wisdom starts with the fear of God. Uh the the the the primer in in primary education was scripture. com. Well he said he said there there were fine people on both sides and I don't mean the white nationalists who should be condemned totally. You don't stay in your sin. Right? Yeah. I can't find a scriptural argument argument for jails. Um Like you said, it's a lot longer than a tweet. I'm Troy Skinner, I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. You're gonna be guilty no matter what. Really? I don't know who this is You've been listening to us on 930WFMD I've gone and and uh stood vigil at abortion clinics in the past. Um with accountability. Each book is like its own little standalone topic, if you will, of them could cluster together Till then, God bless. I'm going to give him every pen of the doubt. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from let me check my watch. That's one of the worst things a Christian could hear is oh you're a hypocrite Although I I I do feel I don't want to be careful uh you know I'm not out there doing a poll and checking them all out myself. How do we do that? Have you broken any of them? That's Run best by and get new ones and then we're gonna be an hour later. And they're able to play that card because Christians have been uh they uh You're not going to just change those without inform me and And and you were saying that We got about a a a minute or so. No, it's not great. You stone and kill the person that But is that what diverse is talking about The challenge we have is we've we've dug ourselves a hole That's not very nice That uh deep voiced wise man there was uh David Forcy. A bunch. Right. His holiness, right, his way is completely lost. You're putting it in the market and it's forcing it 5 hours from oh right about now. You can find the podcast later on. It could I think he's probably a pretty liberal guy I mean they're So it might be easier just to go to household of faith in Christ. It's still up there. I haven't really noticed. They well it took Right. As a pastor Mine is called Household of Faith in Christ We have a maker I want that exposed. And you know why it's not preached? There's there's me So I feel like like in our contest where you have all this Does it seem to you like in recent months Well these days you're not gonna get any pastor to say that because being good is part of the culture. And that's where we gotta be c because there's a lot of there's a lot of things that in my opinion are attractive about the whole libertarian Well a a a parent can love their child and punish them when they do something wrong. We've jumped now. Suicided? It's conqueredbylove. Their views do not necessarily represent ours And then you find out And so we we talk ourselves into a corner sometimes There are other examples. That'll be in about 167 and a half hours from right now. 'Cause I w I've been thinking about this recently for whatever reason. But my d I need to make sure, one, to your point, David, I gotta make sure I take care of my own family. Or if everybody says you gotta stay six feet apart, you're gonna do that. There's a reason why I have my own church, okay? That is a full-orbed gospel That's what's going on. I don't know if you've had a chance to think about that. You have to be nice. It's been difficult for me to uh interact with that now because the camera had already shifted. You may talk about it when this starts. Well a few years ago my name was And I say that because as an example Yeah, exactly. Well, then you're a sinner. If I hired you It's still still still up here. It's word for word same. Okay. The bad news is whatever name we choose is what you're stuck with, so we've got to make sure it's a good one, right? A zillion dollars? Yes. But there are other times when you expect Yeah, and the problem with that is there's not a uh Never heard of it. Like you right, you repent and you move on I'm sure there's others And so there was this assumption that that's I don't know. It's not great. I happened to see that uh very quickly when it first came out My name is Troy Skinner, and I am a sinner And look at the mess we're in as a result I hope you're proud of yourself. We call it sanctification in Bible to speak. I want them punished. We are innocent until proven guilty. You're gonna be guilty of something. Pun intended. So Perhaps. Secondly here. But to flesh out some of those things What is it about niceness that Maybe you've you've heard it. You still do that, but you were doing it as a business owner Clinton. The point I'm really making is Yeah. Alright, so maybe it's a maybe it's a you know I'm going to be nice We need more time I mean it It's like a Star Trek universe where there is no money Well, we have to hide I mean those aren't the exact words, but that was the tone Weak, foolish, effeminate, um Um and yet That's that's not nice Never heard of her, never heard What's the definition? We're we live in in in in a reality where What are you gonna do about that? W with accountability, but that's Email me, call me, whatever you want. And it's the same issue we have with schooling So the thing for us, I think, to think to clarify is It wouldn't circulate. I think it's important to recognize that Now the government shouldn't fund them, of course. This is bad. Uh particularly these past couple of years. And so uh So they understand it. Yeah, you have to attack the premise I want them stopped. And he talks about the struggles with fear. I agree, I don't I don't think there's anything about jail in the Bible. Sure there's been negative consequences org. Uh I thought he was very I know some people that do that. God bless Don't sin anymore And yet that happened We're all a bunch of nicies now Yep Those amphetamine is kicked in. There's a reason They talk about our uh our social capital. But that's not the world anymore This can't be good. So if you search deep enough you're gonna find something. I don't know, have you David? And the ones that did read it would be very confused by it because it's it's Jail serves only one function, hold them until trial. It was the shortest recovery in the history of the stock market. Um And that's what you do when you have the safety nets in and But we live in a world now where Um But What is the Learn about sharing the gospel. I just remember the last one was bad. Have you had that happen? How how do you do that? They listen to This cannot be good I think that uh the tease we're gonna I think some of them And so it's not very nice for you to to Right? Now they're referred to as saints. org That does pay Good enough. I love Rabbi Zacharias. I mean it's an important part of Yes. Yes, multiple times. com. Right now. You know, all these Alright. It was