Hey, hello audio video stream. Thanks for joining us. We're not gonna be interacting with you a whole lot, but if you would like to comment in the comment section uh when the show is over, I'll go through those and we can interact. If you just want to follow along, that is fine too. We're going to be doing at least four, probably hopefully five Faith Debate shows. We'll be here for the next couple hours recording. And uh we got some pretty cool topics. They're all in the description up on top that I typed it before it went live so you can see what's on the docket and and uh jump in and give us a hard time. We're down a man tonight. So we're gonna have to raz for that, as I said earlier, a joke that apparently he hasn't heard a lot, so I feel better about myself I don't know. Maybe it has to do with raising stuff like R A Z E, which is Oh really? I don't know. I'm just thinking I don't know if it had something maybe to do with like a raspberry. But I don't know where that comes from. You know, when you when you You go you do that to somebody or whatever. Why the term raspberry? Why it's called raspberry. It might be short for raspberry, but raspberry is spelled with like rasp. Yeah, but this is America. People don't spell. They don't even read anymore. So to me to maybe akin to uh to roasting. Alright, so let's uh get this going. First known use nineteen seventeen Short for raspberry sound of contempt alteration of raspberry. Okay. So you were right. I was right. Now we just have to find out why that sound is called the raspberry, because it doesn't make any sense. But we won't think that later. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. We do appreciate it very much. We hope that we are a blessing to you. On the Faith Debate today, we'll be asking the question, authority. Where does authority come from? Does social science rule, political science, philosophy, the science? Is your personal experience your authority? Is scripture your authority? That's where we're tackling today on the panel to talk about such things. David Forcy, pastor of the Unnamed House Church in Southern Frederick County Also Daniel Razve is here. He's a pastor with the church that meets at Imron's house in northern Frederick County. And uh missing from the panel today, Imron Razvy, he's also a pastor, he's founder of Conquered by Love Ministries. online at conqueredbylove. org. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, located in central Frederick County. Find us online at Household of FaithInChrist. com If you'd like to connect with us, with any of our churches, with my social media, find the faith debate really easily on WFMD. com or listen to sermons or Find trusted Christian resources or read the Bimonthly Pastors blog or things like that. You can do all that sort of stuff at household of faith in Christ. com. Household of Faithinchrist. com. All right, so I gotta pick up the slack for Raz, because Imran's not here, so Daniel, David, authority. Where do you get your from whence comes your authority? Uh well we just before we went on the air we were talking about the origination of terms. Uh does authority come from the idea of like the the author of something? Or or is that Is is it the other way around? Did did author come from authority? The the author gets to decide what happens in the story. Well I I would say aut authority is a variation of author. Right. So it It probably comes from author. If you are the author, if you're the designer or the planner, the one that made the thing, then you get to explain You get to explain um or direct on what that thing is and what it what the everything relating to it is. Yeah. The the author the author gets to decide uh what the what the the the purpose of the of the characters and the All right. Well, I'm not sure of the etymology of all this, so maybe what we'll do is we'll change our word a little bit. Who gets to make the rules? What rules do you follow? The author, right? Yeah, well I mean we can get into that too and maybe we will because all three of us are going to say scripture is the authority, right? Right. Uh and but then you have to get into how are we defining that, like authorial intent. versus you know reader response theory, you know, the whole deconstruction literary approach and stuff where the y you're kind of reading the space between the lines to figure out what the meaning of the text is. Authority has uh um All right. How many how many how many times does it have a positive connotation, or how often do people think of it in in positive terms? I think in this culture authority is thought of as a negative thing. Right. We we we have we have authoritarianism thrown around a lot these days. Or just if somebody is in authority, that means they get to tell me what to do and I want to do what I want to do. Mm-hmm. So yeah, it's a negative sound. Yeah, I I mean yes and no, the same I'm because I'm I'm trying to you know process that question and and put people in my head. And I'm imagining people that would say, you know, they would agree with you, yes, authority, bad, authoritarianism, bad. And yet the people I'm bringing up in my mind right now and my mental Rolodex are the exact same people would say, the science. Fauci is king. Right. They're the same people. It seemed in in my in my circles most of the time. Right. So they're not really anti-authority, they're just anti any authority who disagree with their personal view of what their authority should be, which is why this question is being asked today. Because they would say their authority isn't scripture, their authority isn't you as a pastor. It's not the Christian worldview. It's not Judeo-Christian values. It's none of that sort of stuff. It's the science, right? Or it's um, what should I say, the social science, the political science. Well the well the the beauty of uh what uh just m science is related to or tied into just materialism, right, is that uh ultimately that like there is no actual authority because nothing because there's there's just stuff and so I can just But the human nature is human nature is to desire a god or a ruler or something that can tell them what to do, even if they I mean you can say all you want, oh I w I make my own rules and and stuff, but everybody desires some sort of leader, leadership, whether that's a god or whether it's a person, and that's why there's so many people that follow the experts. The experts do this and you know because they know what's best for me. And I'm still making my decision. I mean I can choose to follow them or not, and I'm I'm a smart person, so I'll choose to follow the experts. But still the experts is some authority figure. In that case it's unnamed. And that's the nice thing about saying the experts is now there's nobody to blame if something goes wrong because you had a faceless person you were following in the first place And uh, you know, you don't have any accountability. Yeah, I think uh even by default, but though those who want to be like a hyper materialist And like there's no meaning to anything. Everything's a happy accident. Everything's just chance. Um We might just be living in a dream for that matter. It might be just like a big matrix movie that we're all plugged into somehow or whatever. Even people that will want to go that far For them to hold that position, they're making some sort of a reality claim. Yeah. And they're the one who's the foundation for stating what that reality is, and so they've made themselves the there's no escaping authority. Something in your life is the authority. If you're a little kid, it's your parents. Yeah, at the workplace it's usually going to be your boss, right? Um you know, or in in but I'm talking more culturally though. Um Because we're all three of us here going to say that Scripture is our authority, God's our authority. Yeah. Right. Let's talk about the role, the the rightful role, where there is a scriptural, it's okay scripturally for us to assign some authority to these other areas. So in what ways is it okay for a Bible-believing Christian to say, you know what, Scripture is my ultimate final authority, but you know, science does have some authority in my life and how I interact with the world. Social science does too. You know, people grew and how they interact and how to understand all that sort of stuff. Political science, because you want to get things done and accomplish things positive in the world, you've got to know how to play the political game and so we have things like lesser authorities, right? Subject to scripture though. Sub right, right. Okay. And that's where I mean you get um Peter saying we must obey God rather than them. So whenever there is an authority that's on earth that clashes with God's authority, which is the scripture, then obviously you you don't follow that, you follow scripture. What are the dangers of not having scripture be over all of that? Why why do I have to have that? I mean I'm I'm trying to take like I'm a a uh a contrarian view here. So you know, leave the uh the the typical non-Christian on the panel for half a second. Right. You know, what do I need that for? I've got science and I've got social science and all these smart expert people and that's good enough for me Yep. So the so the clay say to the potter that, you know, uh you have no authority over me. That's the that's that from is that Sanskrit? What is that? That's it that's in the Bible and and the the the I don't know anything about the Bible, I'm a guy on the street. Sure. The the uh analogy though is is something that's made, right, if you if you make let's say you paint a painting that and you paint a painting and there's people in that painting. Can those people decide anything regarding the world, regarding their world which is inside that painting? They don't know anything other than what's in the painting. You know, if you build a computer and you put you program the computer, it's all been programmed from the outside. It doesn't make itself. And that's the whole idea of you know evolution versus creationism. But if we uh if If all of our answers come from within the machine or within the creation, then there's no way to know if they're the right answers because there's nobody that you can fact check it. Everybody fact check is a fact-check is a ha a hot topic right now, right? We need to fact-check this. Well, you the only way to fact-check truth is by somebody who is outside of creation itself. But you're assuming there is truth Well fact check anything. Anything that we know. I mean fa the whole word fact check assumes there is truth. And that's that and that's something that's bandied about And that's what modern art's all about. I mean you know, how many times have you heard stories about the the artist, he paints the picture and somebody comes and says, Wow, what's your painting about? And he asks the person, What do you think it's about? It's about whatever you think it's about. You know, and uh because it doesn't really have there's no authorial intent there. There's no and that's why modern artists are stupid. Well, so says you, the guy's that scripture overseeing every soon. But this is this is the this is the uh the thing that's flummoxing our society right now. We've got so many people that reject scripture. And we've had that for a while. I think let's shift we're talking about this just before we went on the air and right before we actually started our live stream. By the way we're in the habit now of live streaming our recording sessions, so if you follow me on Facebook uh whenever we record you'll be able to see everything before it actually airs on the radio, you know, in the weeks to come. But that's one of the challenges we have. I think that we haven't had a scriptural foundation to how the world works in America tr truly in our lifetimes. I don't think it's been the prevailing thing for for at least a generation, maybe a couple of generations. You you mean okay, yeah, within the culture. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah, culturally provi yeah. Not like it would have been back in the seventeen and eighteen hundreds. Yeah, it shifted. There was a big there was a big shift that took place pretty much like in uh you could almost pinpoint it to the Scopes Monkey trial, really. There was a gigantic that was a hinge moment in American history. And from that point forward, Scripture really hasn't carried as much weight. Taking it back burner. However, we've been coasting downhill off of the heritage of the scriptural underpinning to how we handle things and there's kind of running on fumes, if you will. I think those fumes are gone. And now we've got people who not only is the culture not, but it's like it's just like it's gone. And so how do you interact with Where where do we find our authority? Where do we find truth? What what gets to rule the roost? I think one of the reasons that people uh One of the things that's that's innately in human beings that communicates to them that there is some some authority even outside themselves is uh a sense that there is that there's good and bad, that there's right and wrong. Um and so you know, like any uh any sane person, even some secular, you know, uh even an atheist would say that, you know, any sane person is going to uh agree that there's that there's right and wrong. And it may just be based on what um you know whether whether something causes uh, you know, pain or hurt. Yeah, some of them are easy. Yeah, if you punch somebody in the nose, they're gonna say that was wrong. Right. But but but that's the I I think the di when you when you depart from scripture from you know, from a a a very specific particular objective standard, you know, there's there's just a lot of grasping and instability that happens and and you end up with people kind of all over the place And we're seeing that in the church too. And when I say the church, I mean like the broader Western church and the church in America. uh you know lost as people who would call themselves Christians have lost their their sense of scripture as the authority Yeah. Have you got an opportunity to s to to teach or preach or comment on this in the context of you know the the people in your congregation or is in in the community as an ambassador for Christ and address these kinds of issues? And if so, what have you said? And if not, if you ha were given the opportunity, you know, what might you say You're given the stump for fifteen minutes to speechify. You know, what's the outline of that speech? What are some of the main points you'd want to try to score? I think you have you have to come to an understanding that there is a creation. and there is a creator. If we can't agree on that premise, we have to get there somehow. But once we get to that premise, then it's a lot easier because you could say, look, well, he made everything so he gets to say how it what you know how it works and what happens with within the creation. But if you can't start with that foundation that there is a creator then there's really not any point in talking except to get to that point. Um so you have to use analogies like, you know, if I if you look at a watch y you know, that the there's no possibility that the watch just formed by itself. There's all these diff it was a watchmaker, put the watch together. And that's the classic e example. There's a lot of other ones. But you have to get to that point and once somebody agrees and and pr surprisingly, many Americans will still agree, Oh yeah, there's a God. Or they they may think, well, you know, there we don't really know who he is, or maybe it's a she, or you know, maybe there's many of them, or maybe uh it It's all in us or whatever. I think it's more common to hear somebody say there's a higher power. There's a higher power, right? They'll say that. But it's an easier leap. Right. It's an easier leap to get from there to, yeah, there is a creator. There's at least something had to start this. Okay, well then that's where you get the answers from. Whatever answer you're looking for, it's gotta come from outside this, outside the universe. So I think that's kinda where you have to start. Well, we live in a world, and this you know this is not hyperbole. I mean this is the way it is right now that uh it's acceptable And considered to be not wrong. I don't think we'll go so far as to say it's the truth. I'm not sure. I I I'm not steeped enough in some of these alternative universes. But it's not necessarily wrong, and if you want to insist that it's wrong, there's something wrong with you to say that 2 plus 2 equals 5. That's not wrong. You can't say that's wrong. They're making a truth claim. They might not be saying that 2 plus 2 is 5, but they are saying that 2 plus 2 equals 5 is not wrong. That's a truth claim. Mm-hmm. You know, so what do you do with that? We we live in a world where, you know, you know, you look like you have some uh European uh ancestry to you. Probably so. You know, and you're a you're a Christian. You know, and uh you're a male, you are the problem. Now you got all sorts of privilege. There's systemic issues that you less, though Right. You're a Christian and you're a male, but you're not uh you're you're not of European descent. No. So you you you have one intersectionality uh point scored in your favor on that one. Um But people like David and I, we're we're a problem that social science would say. And so what do we, you know we we appeal to I guess what I'm trying to say is Is there any ground to be made by Christians to try to fight the social science fight? Debate, argue against, or influence, whatever. uh the the culture with regards to social science or the science or political science or what have you, philosophy. in those sandboxes or should we just insist on no scripture says let me point to you how important scripture is Do we have do we have to get them to acknowledge our presupposition, I guess, before we can have the dialogue? And the way I said that is I was like, oh well no, you don't have to. Is it is it most is it most strategic? Is it best? Okay, so you would argue I I don't think somebody is now obviously I I'm I'm coming at this from a reformed perspective that God has to open their heart first before they're willing to hear. So we're relying on God to make that heart open. But just from a logical perspective, if somebody does not believe that there is such a thing as right or wrong You know, in this culture. Now in the Eastern culture, it's about honor and shame. It's not about right or wrong. And in fact you can't really come at it from a guilt or innocence perspective, they're not gonna hear and they're not gonna understand because they don't understand that paradigm. I think part of what may be happening in our culture is we're shifting away from the guilt and innocence, away from right and wrong, to uh somewhat of an honor and shame perspective as far as you know, there's all this cancel culture we're shaming people for not following the you know this thing or doing the honorable thing and wearing a mask or whatever you know, all the different things. Honor and Shame is actually a very biblical concept and if you go and preach the gospel to somebody in the East, you're going to use different terminology there because You're all focused on we're in a position of shame and Jesus brought uh Jesus makes us honorable in God's eyes. You're not gonna talk about oh we're sinners and and uh uh uh you g Jesus makes us righteous. So there are two different things and th they they are the same yet different and and they're both important. Each culture emphasizes one or the other. So there are different ways to reach out to people based on the culture and the background that they're in and I think we're seeing a culture shift in America which is one of the reasons why there's a disconnect when you try to preach the gospel if they they don't have the capacity to understand it from that perspective because their their paradigm is different. Well it's I mean in in both though there's there's things that are are good and things that are bad. Right. Honor honor good, shame bad. Right. But but guilt guilt bad. But guilt is different than shame. Yes, but but there still is like the there's an an es an essence of this is to be desired versus the other right, yeah. This is the way it uh should be this is what is desired. Yeah, yeah, I think that's a good word. Um I mean I think you know, we we know well, we know because scripture says it's true that uh the law of God is written on men's hearts. Um you know, so I I think to to do that uh I I think we can appeal not just to the intellect, but um but also to to the heart and and and start the conversation there with, you know coming coming helping people grapple with you know what what is good and what is bad you know and that may come out differently in different different cultures We also know though that the heart is deceitful and we also know that people can harden their hearts. And I think we've gotten to a place, broadly speaking, where uh uh uh A significant percentage of the population has significantly hardened their heart so that I agree that honor and shame, right and wrong, those are important things. But they can be misapplied when everything gets turned upside down. So what what would have been years ago in our culture and certainly biblically speaking would have been considered honorable is now the exact opposite. It's dishonorable. You know, if you're going to say that uh you know boys are boys and girls are girls That's dishonorable in our new culture because our hearts are hardened to scriptural truth and realities. Sure. And so it gets turned on its head because it really that's the thing that I think we have to come to grips with. I'm just thinking out loud. This is kind of just a spontaneous stream of consciousness kind of a show r I think right now. Thinking out loud was always dangerous to do on public airwaves, but um We're dealing with a cult. And and I don't mean that like people are going to drink Kool-Aid and go to Jonestown, although maybe we've seen some of that in the last year, in my opinion. uh people doing self injurious things because some power structure told them to. However, that part aside, um I'm talking about in the sense of the the Christian cult idea where there's there's something Christian about it, but it gets twisted and it's not true. And so it's a cult in that sense. Yeah. And that's we kind of live in a Christian cult society right now. Because they'll use some of the same verbiage. You know, the old cliche or the quote I forget who who gets uh attributed to this quote, but you're sitting on his lap in order to slap God in the face. You know, there are people in this culture right now that they're they're sitting in God's lap. That's that's what's sustaining their worldview with them without them even knowing it. And yet they're taking that position on God's lap to sit up straight and slap 'em in the face. That's where we are right now. That's what the cults do. So yeah, I I guess you have to go to the scripture, but if they don't want to hear, I guess you just dust the s the sand off your the the Uh shake the dust off your sandals and and move on. They don't want to hear. The thing is you preach you can preach the gospel to everybody. God will open the hearts of the ones that He wants to listen. And not everybody will. In fact the majority won't. And you you may not even know what impact your words have until many years later when it actually the seed sprouts and and grows fruit and you may not even be on this earth anymore to see that. But that's just our our our command from God for the Great Commission is to go and preach regardless. Some of the seed falls on good ground and some doesn't. And and You know, God says that his uh that his his word is is the tool to use. It it does not um Right. And uh and I mean I think another part of what are the The main ways that we, you know, appeal to the world is to to love God and to love our neighbor and to live a life uh where people are are able to see what it is like for someone to have uh a knowledge of God, a relationship with him. um a uh a a hope and a joy that comes only from um you know being uh uh uh a right standing with God you know, being in Christ by faith. Um and then, you know, and then how does that bear itself out, you know, in interacting with other people, you know, as we um lay down our lives for the good of others. Yeah, we'll let David have the last word today, although I'm going to sneak in, I guess, a last word, because it popped into my head as you were just talking uh like 30 seconds ago For Christians who are uh want to say, you know, I feel like the Spirit told me, or the Spirit showed me, or the Lord spoke to me, test that against the Scriptures too. Always. Always test that against the Scriptures too. David Forcey, Daniel Razby, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD and online at WFMD. com. Thanks so much for listening. You can follow along with everything that uh the show and me and our churches are involved with at householdfaithinchrist. com. Household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless. I wish I had top in my head sooner because that's actually I think uh a problem in the American church right now because of the rise of Pentecostalism and charismatics over the last hundred years, particularly the last forty years. Yeah, it has to get tied into um you know, the the the authority of feelings, right? Right. You know, and discerning between feelings and uh I mean our feelings can be good, just like political science can be good or personal experience can be good, but it's between my feelings and the Holy Spirit. And you know what? Everything. Seriously. Yeah. So we do have to uh we have to come to grips with With that in-house, if you will. Alright, so that's the uh for those watching at home, if you are, what we just did will air on March 27th. That means this next one's going to be the first Sunday in April, which will be the third Too bad it didn't isn't gonna air on April Fool's Day because we're just a bunch of fools. Whoa, I want to say that we're going to have a lot of people. All right. That was the one as I was kind of laying out what I thought we would talk about that I was anticipating Could be the loosest of the shows. And it was. This next one I'm feeling like could really be more dense, but we'll see if I'm By loose you just mean kinda can go wherever Yeah, and that you know it would be a little more stream of consciousness and you know, we'd be kinda thinking on our feet sort of thing. But we'll see if I'm right on this next the next one is the uh deliverance ministry. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Today we're going to be talking about deliverance ministry. Can a Christian be Demonized by an evil spirit? Oppressed? Possessed? What's the Bible say? We'll find out today with my esteemed colleagues, Daniel Razby He's pastor with the church on the northern end of Frederick County, the House Church. His father's involved with two, but his dad's not on the panel today. Imran's absent. today, but they uh have a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries and they're online at conqueredbylove. org. David Forcy back for some more abuse this week. He's a pastor of the Unnamed House Church in southern Frederick County I'm the pastor of a church in Central Frederick County. Our church is called Households of Faith in Christ. Find us online at household of faith in Christ. com. And if you go there, you'll find uh some information about all three of the churches represented on this show. You'll be able to easily link to all of my social media, uh to the Faith Debate show itself for that matter, and all all the sermons are archived there. and and I've vetted some Christian resources. You're like, I want to learn more about this Christian stuff, but I'm not sure who to trust. Uh there's some good helpful links there that I've already vetted for you so you know that it's going to be I don't know that I agree with every single little jot and tittle of what these resources have to say, but 99. 9 something percent of the time, they're right on the money. So I I would count That is trustworthy. Anyway, that's all available at household of faith in Christ dot com. So, deliverance ministry. I've been A Christian for a long time. I've been in leadership for, you know, you know, almost a couple of decades now. I've been a pastor. Right at what uh three, four churches now over the past uh how many years I got eight years, whatever it is I never once had to deal with this question. Ever. Until just a few months ago and have had to deal with it multiple times since. What is going on? Have you guys had to deal with this? Have you ever had somebody come to you and say I I think I think uh I've got a demon, I think I'm being oppressed by a demon, I think of I think of demons taking over my body. Anything like that. Have you ever had to deal with that? Uh Man, I so a couple different things. Um as a believer saying this, somebody who believes that they're saved saying this. Yes. Right. And you know what? And uh maybe we should start there real quick. All of us, I I think I could speak for us just before you hold yourself for half a second. I think all of us would agree the demonic is real. There's a spiritual war. Yes. Demonic possession can happen Right? Yes. So we're all on that page. So yeah, more specifically the question is a Christian or somebody professing, claiming to be a Christian, coming to you and saying, I think I have a demon? I'm either and and they have different language. There's a whole I've come to learn, there's a whole like thing out there. And they don't call it being possessed, it's being oppressed. And they define them different. But anyway, you were about to say. Uh yeah, so in uh I went to I went to Bible college and I there were some people going to college there that uh that would talk about deliverance ministry. So so I've it's something that I've I've heard of. Um And then I've also you know I've also read some articles and things that that caught my eye over the years, um, you know, uh about the idea of about pastors who have interacted with people who say that they're Christians and um have you ever had an individual themselves come and say but no I've no I've not had a a personal interaction Have you ever had somebody who was interested in joining your church ask you if you guys engage in deliverance? Because I have now. Probably six months ago is when it first started to become a thing within my ministry, if you will. I've had to deal with it on multiple fronts. And uh I don't want to get into too many details on the on the radio show, although if you guys are interested, we could talk later off the air about some of this stuff. Data and I actually have had some conversations about this already. Um I had somebody who who was interested in joining House of the Faith in Christ, and the most pressing question he wanted to know Was if we had a drum kit. Okay. He he wanted to know I know somebody who made a church decision based on that. I do too. So anyway, but he wanted to know if we did deliverance ministry. And I said, well, you know, define that for me, explain what you mean. And uh and he went on to explain what he meant, and he wasn't as direct in defining it as he might have been And so I said, look, if i I mean, if somebody is possessed, we'll deal with it. You know what I mean? We will we'll pray against it, we will do everything we cast it out, we will do everything we can to cast it out in the name of Jesus Christ. And But it's not like a regular thing because we have a small church. I mean on a good week we have a dozen people. And all of them are professing believers and I think most of them are probably believers. You know, I can only God can know for sure. But uh so the odds of us having a possession in our midst seems pretty slim, so it's not something we're doing every weekend You know what I mean? And he's like and basically I could tell right then I lost him. We continued to talk for a while and that's like a central important thing to him. And I came to find out later why it's so important to him. He's big into the deliverance ministry. And church is doing that? Because he feels like he has demons. So he is a guy who has demons so so he says. He is a guy who says how I get my head around this. He claims to be a Christian Claim to have demons and at the same time claims to help cast out demons from other Christians who have demons. So and what is that? And and claiming to be a Christian is he claiming to be filled with the Holy Spirit I would think by definition the answer would be yes, but I don't know if I specifically asked him that question. Yeah. Not him. Somebody else I did talk to about and I said look you can't be possessed as a Christian because you you're indwelt by the Holy Spirit Yeah, there's not there's not r there's not left room in this town for the both of us. You know, it's it's you got one or the other. You don't have both. That's not possible. That's correct, but it's an oversimplification. I really do think so. Um so I'm I'm actually gonna uh push back a little bit on your assumption that a Christian cannot be affected physically, emotionally, and and so much. as they say, by demon, multiple demons, while being indwelled by the Holy Ghost. Okay, so by your underst I'm not disagreeing with anything you said so far, but now 'cause I've said words almost exactly like that and I got this kind of pushback. What I uh what I'm talking about is um I'm oppressed by the demons, and when I'm oppressed by the demons, they cause my body to move uncontrollably and make me say things that aren't coming from me. It's speaking through me. That doesn't seem like being oppressed. To me, that sounds like being possessed. They've taken possession of your body, of your vocal cords, of your whatever Are you agreeing with me on that or you're gonna you are I I guess I would have to have more context and more details before I would be able to unequivocally say something because l let's let's step back to something a little bit less um extreme than that example and just talk about actions in general. We have Not all sin is directly caused by Satan in this world. However, Satan does encourage and also cause um sinful activity. We have a sin nature And our sin nature is going to cause us to want to do certain things and so on. And Satan and the demonic uh you know, minions as you were, are perfectly capable of egging us on. to complete those actions that we actually had in our sin nature as wanting to do and then you c it's easy to justify later and say, Oh yeah, Satan made me do it. Well you were gonna do that and he just encouraged you but th but there is the thing. I mean the Just read the book of Job. We have a great example there of first of all, a very different picture of heaven um than than you might come up with in reading a a storybook in uh uh in basic Christian theology, but I mean Satan's going up and talking to God and saying, Hey God, how are you doing? God's like, Hey, how's it going, Satan? And and I I'm being flippant, but that's kinda how the conversation plays out and Satan's like, Look Do I have your permission to go attack Job here? And God's like, Yeah, go ahead and do that. So he has permission now and he puts boils all over Job's body. And he gets everybody against him and he's killing people. So he did kill Job's family, except the wife. So presumably I and it doesn't say for sure, but I would assume at least some or most of his children were followers of God, followers of of uh uh uh of the creator, God, God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and so on, whether where you place Job in chronology, that's you know a thing, and I I know I'm rambling a little bit, but the point being There's an example of Satan literally killing, let's call it, believers. Um so there are there's a real physical consequences that the devil has and he has the authority given him and we talked about authority last week, authority given him by God to do those things and there it is a spiritual battle. So that that that's Not exactly the same thing as literally controlling his every action. Those are definitely just external external. And the other thing is um Job wasn't indwelt by the Holy Spirit. I would say he was Before Pentecost? Yes. Hmm. That might be a subject for a future faith debate show. That might be very interesting. I I I would say that um Yeah, th that yeah you're right. That's probably a subject for a different show. Um I and there's a lot of Old Testament versus New Testament stuff and th there's a there's a the dispensational idea that the Holy Spirit came and left various people at different times in the Old Testament. And I would say that's maybe more of a stronger dwelling by the Holy Spirit of somebody who's already saved, if that's the case. Um that's how I would describe it. But you're yeah, you're right. That's probably a subject for a different show. Even in in the um New Testament we have Paul talking about something that the devil has given him that's bothering him and it's causing him lots of problems and lots of pain. We don't really know what that is. There's a lot of speculation. So the idea that nothing can affect me if I'm a sa if I'm a saved person I think is very naive. Now I don't think that's the case you're making either. Not at all. But I w I I I also wonder how much when somebody says, Oh, Satan made me do that how much it was, this is my sin nature, gonna do that. Like if I if if you're if you're a wife beater and you lift your hand up to strike your wife and you're thinking twice about it 'Cause you're you're saved now, and you just got saved or whatever and you're thinking, Oh, actually I shouldn't be doing this and then Satan whispers in your ear, Yeah, go ahead and do it. She deserves it. What whatever Then you follow through with that, then later you can tell your wife, Oh, my uh you know, the devil made me do this, but he possessed me. But that's a different sort of idea than a lot of uh uh you know, I think what Troy's talking about which would be you know, someone uh you know, doesn't even they would say they don't even remember. you know, beating their wife. They they're they're completely taken over. And I I don't I don't know if scripture Uh, I mean we need to do like a a word study of some kind, but in you know, when I in in reading through the like the gospels where there's a lot of Jesus casting out demons. Uh you know, at least in the it it it depends on the version as to whether it says possessed or oppressed. There's uh but but the idea always seems to be that uh that there is something with English translation. Correct. Yeah yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So so I'm I'm just you know also trying to say okay, how did uh you know, where did where did the verbiage come from, you know, in the uh the deliverance movement. Um you know, but but depending on how you define the term oppressed, I think that's certainly possible by a for a believer to be oppressed by a demonic Yeah, entities. Yeah, yeah. In scripture I i it seems like uh like one When the demon's involved, the demon is actually taking control, you know, which you know, whether we're calling possession or oppression, you know, as long as we're We w we're referring to that idea of the demon having control of the person. So that seems to happen. And also I don't know in scripture if we can if there's any weighted to really say whether the people that are being uh controlled by those demons are are in Christ or not. It it seems it seems to me that there's more evidence that they're not in Christ. They're more the ones that Christ casts out? Right, yeah. I would think that definitively they're not Well, sure. Maybe maybe maybe not in Christ. They I you know, but are they are they believers in the one true God at that time, right? Or are they looking for the coming of Messiah? you know, I don't know. There's there's no way to know if if those people were the whole seven sons of Skeva thing and demon looks at them is like, Hey, I know Jesus and I know Paul. I don't know who you I don't know who you are, right? And so there there is something um that the the m the spiritual world can see. The the demons knew who Jesus was. That's why they got all scared when he came. But Jesus even said, This kind sometimes this kind cometh not out but by prayer and fasting, right? So it's not even as simple as, I command you in the name of Jesus to leave. That doesn't always quote unquote work Right. There is more to it than that. And there's there's a a lot of actual warfare. You have to gird yourself for battle and and and do that. I think the one the one thing that that movement, uh if you want to call it movement deliverance movement or whatever, the one thing that they seem to recognize, which a lot of Christians don't recognize is is that we are in a spiritual battle constantly and there's there are constantly things that we need to be fighting And and and it can be costly, it can be painful. Yeah, I don't know if I want to give them too much credit because a lot of them are charlatans and you know what? Satan himself knows we're in a spiritual battle, so that doesn't impress me that they would know that Uh and I don't mean to be flip about that, but seriously, so and just to clarify, when I'm in counseling with somebody and they're going through, you know, all sorts of difficulties in their life or whatever. I I try to take big ideas and make them simple. And so if I'm oversimplifying, you know, give me a little bit of grace. But basically, if you've got sin in your life and challenges from that sin in your life, it's coming from three places. One of three places or a combination of the three. It's coming from the influence of the world. It's coming from your own sinful nature, you're still wrestling against your sinful nature and the flesh. Or you're under spiritual attack, if you're a believer You know, uh you could be possibly possessed if you're an unbeliever, I guess, but from counseling a believer, you know, you y the influence of the world is somehow Got you askew, and we got to get back into the truth of scripture. What does the Bible say? Let's correct your thinking. Let's renew your mind. And it says in Romans 12, 2, I think. Let's get after the renewal of your mind and make sure you're lined up with Scripture. Then let's make sure that your sanctification progress. process is progressing the way it should be. That you're that you're that I'm doing a good job as the pastor discipling you and that you've got good spiritual disciplines, that you're praying, that you're reading the word, that you're that you're sharing the gospel with others, you're doing the things that Christians are supposed to do, that will help to keep your flesh in alignment so that you're not going to give in to some of those temptations so easily. Let's address that. And if those things seem like they're kind of mostly in pretty good shape, not if nobody's in perfect shape on any of those things, but if you're kind of mostly pretty good, you've got to ask the question, are you under a direct spiritual attack? What's going on here? And we may be need to pray differently or or study the scriptures a little bit differently and equip ourselves a little bit differently if that's what's going on. So I'm all about that. One of the people I know that's I've had to deal with recently He's got a problem with alcohol and he wants to blame it on demons. I'm feeling like that is more likely to be pressures from the world and fleshly desires if he's claiming to be a Christian. The devil's not Like opening his gullet, lifting this the the the can of beer and shoving it down his throat for him, but he's making a choice. Now he might have the the the devil whispering in his ear and tempting him. Right. Absolutely. But that's but the devil's not making him do it. He might be tricking him into it, deceiving him into doing it somehow. But he's not making him do it. But there's somebody else who was saying that no, the devil Like a blackout situation doesn't remember it happening, only knows what happened because others told them what happened that, you know, they like left themselves, if you will, and a voice that wasn't theirs came out of their body, spoke for them, and that they were moving their arms and doing different gestures and things that was not them. And my response was That's a possession. That's not merely spiritual attack or what I would think of as oppression. David's got a good point to everyone to define these terms, but it's it's the taking control part That can't, I said, that can't happen for a believer. So my first instinct was the people who told you this lied to you. They told you that's what happened. Like maybe you had a blackout episode, maybe an epileptic seizure. I don't know what the medical possibilities are, but maybe something medical happened and they counted you as a mark and and they and they deceived you uh through you know and it wasn't anything spiritual and they're lying to you. That seems like it's within the realm of possibility. We've been lied to about everything our whole lives now the last couple of years. So that's certainly within the realm of possibility, particularly with charlatans who are taking their orders from Satan. You know what I mean? So there's that But this person responded saying, no, no, no, I wasn't possessed because they only took a part of uh control of a part of my soul. So this is apparently this is language that the deliverance ministry people use. They talk about you're oppressed and it's not a full possession, it's a partial possession, if you will. issue is that there's it's a lot of extra biblical, you know, uh ideas. It's things that are coming from uh Uh yeah, from from from other sources. And I think when you and I talked well we we talked about that as well, that there's a lot of ideas of uh uh Um there's a lot of similarities to o what was it voodoo or Yeah there's it's a lot of you know I have some uh friends who are now Christians but they grew up in Africa and then they tell me stories about all the witch doctor voodoo black magic kind of stuff that takes place on the continent of Africa. uh at least in the countries where they were from. And a lot of those deliverance ministry have smacks of that to me. Yeah, which I I mean, you know, and there's there's real demonic spiritual activity happening there in those places and in those situations. And here, I think, far more than we really should realize. Right. And that was one of my concerns, because this person we're talking about uh in part. I'm talking about four different people at once, by the way. So if it feels like this is kind of disconnected, I'm blending them into an amalgam. uh of of uh your your recent experiences. But the uh this one person was saying how uh well I I don't know how, you know it's not like I've opened myself up to the occult or something. Like why would I be having this problem. And I said, if you've been hanging out with all these deliverance deliverance deliverance ministry type people and they're using all this voodoo black magic stuff, unwittingly I think you did open yourself to the occult. And and not just from that angle necessarily, there's a lot of things in our world that are really based on the occult. You know, I mean you can go buy Ouija boards in like Target. You know, there's there's stuff that you can buy. Howdy. I've seen them on the stores in different stores. I don't remember how many did you buy? Well, I would I would not want something like that in my house but because I Because I know what it is and I and I and I I understand what it can bring and you know how crazy we sound to the secularists right now? You know how crazy we sound You're afraid of a Ouija board? I'm I I what about what about this? Here's one better. In Christmas time, do you have an elf on your shelf? I don't know, but not you, but people listening, right? If think if you think about it, what is that? That's a a god sitting on the shelf telling you uh whether you're doing right or wrong or watching to see whether you're doing right or wrong. That's inviting a demon into your house. That's what Alexa is too, I think, right? Yeah, well there's there's you know so so it's important everything in your life you want to make sure you know where it's coming from, what the roots are and and if it's not of God, then it shouldn't be in your life. And we want to make sure we spend time in the things that do encourage and build up and edify, spend more time in the Word, spend more time in prayer and Yes, commanding any evil spirits that happen to be around and in us to to leave uh immediately in the name of Jesus the Messiah and speak that in confidence because God is more powerful than any demon. That doesn't mean everything's going to be an instant victory for the rest of your life. But you have to come from that place of faith and spend time in the Word, spend time in in in prayer and surround yourself with other like minded believers that can battle with you. Um and I think that's that's a better way to come out it than to just make the assumption, oh well I'm being oppressed and you know I I There's only so much you can do. Well, there there's there is there are things you can do and whether you decide that uh describe it as, you know, being pr oppressed, being possessed, you know, whether you say you're saved or not, it's not really as as big of an that's not the most important issue. The most important issue is what are you what are you doing and what is your mindset and what are you surrounding yourself with. Are you spending time in the word? Are you spending time reading scripture. It's a pretty important thing for the person who claims that they have something inside of them taking control of it. Well that that's true. That's true. Mm-hmm that we have to deal with. We're we're actually out of time on uh today's episode, so we're gonna wrap this up. I just want to say if if you are if you are sure you're a Christian And you know what? Sometimes we've got to ask ourselves, we've got to ask that question. We've got to test uh that our faith. First John uh t would tell us to do that. So make sure that uh you don't have a false profession of faith. If you've got somebody telling you as a believer But you got a demon inside of you making you say things and do things. I'm telling you, you don't know me personally maybe if you listen to this. Trust me, they're lying to you Our authority is scripture, as we talked about last week. Scripture, it's not possible. They're lying to you. So just take that for what it's worth I'm Troy Skinner, David Forcy, Daniel Rasby also on the show. If you want to follow along online with what we're all about, you can connect with information about our various churches through my church's website, Household of FaithInCrist. com Household of Faith in Christ. com. Of course you should go to WFMD. com as well and find the faith debate page there too. Till next week. God bless Yeah, since we're still doing the Facebook Live, I can't get into too many uh more details now, but um Yeah. I've had if they're saying that they're I've had four different instances in like six months or or ish where I've had to deal with this issue. After never having to deal with it once. And that just makes me feel even more profoundly like we're in interesting times, you know what I mean? Yeah. I mean it's uh I think we're getting to the end. Yeah, I I mean it's been around a long time. Yeah. Like it's it's just in certain circles. You know. Yeah, apparently there's some guys that are considered like gurus, like they're the they're the experts. You know what I mean? If you if you have a real demon problem then call in one of these experts. Imagine like the Exorcist movie or something. You know, Benny Benny Hinn's been around a long time. But I do I do actually been a major figure for a long time and that's And he's one of the charlatans. Right, that's that's right up that alley, right And and yeah, there's a lot of sensationalism that goes on with that. But uh I think that there are spiritual gifts and God has called people into certain types of ministry and that the it there are things that yeah, can anybody place their hands on somebody and and uh a a and pray for somebody to be healed, sure. And I think God also gives the gift of healing. And how most of these people in the Pentecostal movement that claim to have the gift of healing, no, they don't. It's all fake. But there is such a thing as a gift of healing. There is such a thing as gift of tongues. I mean I I'm not a sensationist. Um I I think I'm also not a sensationalist. So most most of the people that are i really much into the gifts of the spirit and and all this, I think a lot of that is a false spirit But I do believe in Thomas. I do believe in Thomas, I do believe in gifts of healing, I do believe in um various Things like that. Um I don't think there's there's a good biblical case to be made that any of those have stopped or ever will stop. Um Um but that's probably a whole nother. But but that also is going to inform how you respond to some of the some of the things that come out of that movement. You could say, well the movement is wrong and also the premise is wrong. And I could say, well the premise is actually f sound, but the movement is wrong. Yeah my my reaction is pretty pretty much, you know, I'm kind of flat in that regard. Uh my reaction to everything is always show me. So and what by that I mean in scripture. So I'm I'm not uh I wouldn't consider myself I don't consider myself a continuationist per se, but I'm certainly not a cessationist either. I'm not sure what that means. But those who want to say that all the gifts meaning. All the supernatural gifts have stopped. And I'm like I'll agree with you if you can show me. And I haven't seen a compelling case made from Scripture where it says that it's it's you know going to stop and it's not gonna be available to the church for thousands of years. I will say though that my read on scripture is that whenever these supernatural things have happened, they've been incredibly rare and you can connect them to some sort of specific purpose at the time. There was some message behind the the demonstration of the gift that was bigger than just the deliverance, if you will. Right. Um it was pointing to authority and proof of the of the of what was being said or things like that. And so I think I I'm willing to I kinda live my life as though they continue but are very rare and that the overwhelming majority, like almost all of what we see out there that passes a pop Christian culture today is charlatan fraudulent crap. I think I could agree with that. It makes me nervous. So so I would have the same answer with these deliverance ministry people. Okay. I don't know everything. I'll be open-minded. Show me. You show me. And I actually I've done some research on this because it has to deal with it. I'm like I'm ill equipped to know exactly and I wanna and I'm I feel like I know the answer, but I want to make sure I'm right. I gotta show me too. Because I've run across and I become more persuaded that I'm right. Are we still talking about this in the next one too? No, I I mean we we can bring it up if you want, but because I've come I've come across not personally but I've come across a lot of teachings by people in that movement and and I I don't think they're all the same. In that in that I think certainly there if if there's an exp somebody saying Satan's literally controlling my ever m every move, he's speaking out of my mouth and he's and I don't even remember, I'm blacking out these times and things are happening to me. Yeah, maybe they're not saved if that's happening, or maybe you know, m something else, but a lot of times there's things that are happening that come really close to that that I think really can happen to the belief. Um you know, maybe he's not literally speaking out of your mouth, but he's whispering words in your ear what to say, and you're saying that and without even thinking. Maybe uh There's oppression, maybe there's physical pain that's causing you, massive pain, um that you know, and that's causing you to turn in certain ways because it's painful to even look in this direction. You have to turn away and go this way unless you're trusting God. Um is there an example of that in scripture where somebody moves against their will only because of pain causing them to move that way I feels like a stretch. I th that that that that to me I was with you often I was like I can't quite go that far Yeah. You know, I don't know. Uh I mean I I I think the question remains, like, is it uh scripture precluded it from happening. Is there uh are is there scripture that's yeah this is like the whole focus I was listening to some stuff recently and doing some reading on the uh middle knowledge uh molin molinism. And the best argument seems to be, well it's possible Right. That's not strong enough for me, I'm sorry. It's gotta be more than just because a lot of things could be possible. Yes. I mean there's no there's no Bible worth talking about cocaine either. I think it's a good idea. No, the Bible doesn't think everything is flipped, but it's gotta be a good and necessary consequence of I don't think you develop a a teaching or methods based on experience. Yeah, based on it's possible and And you know, and it's or or even it happened, but it's, you know, but you know, it's not talked about in that way in scripture. Um I I I think there's a you know I think everything's case by case. I do think you know uh in that I do think it's it's um It the the theology is much less likely to be held by somebody who thinks that um the Old and New Testament are completely separate entities and that they're that that the old a lot of things in the old testament don't apply or or or no longer apply. Um That was very weirdly worded my statement just now. But for example when I was giving up the side of the side of the side of the side of the side. So well then I'm confused because you were talking about Job having the Holy Spirit and then you defended it by saying, well, the dispensationalists believe, and I was like, okay, so I just made that connection. Yeah, and I and I was saying 'cause and I don't believe. Oh, you don't believe that Job had the Holy Spirit? No, I I believe Job was saved. Oh yeah, I believe. Yes. I would agree. And Abraham. Yeah, I believe he's saved, and we're saved, but I don't believe that the Old Testament saints had the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Because I don't think that the the uh The paraclete hadn't hadn't been promised. Jesus Christ was slain before the foundation of the world. But Jesus says it's better that I leave so that I can send the one who comes after me. Like that I don't know, it seems like there's uh again that's a separate show. Yeah I know. Um so that's that's where you have you know the spirit of God with Uh, you know, you'd have to talk about prophets, you'd have to talk about uh kings and certain things. Well, some of the artisans that help build the temple and stuff where they have the the the spirit like comes upon them. Oh yeah, and I believe that happens having the end of the happens. But that happens like Stephen, as he was dying, it says and he was filled with the Holy Ghost as if This was a new thing that just happened. He now can see Jesus in heaven standing. Okay? He was already in glow with the spirit But now he got a special like a double portion. Like almost like Elisha got Elijah's coat and he had a double portion of Elijah's spirit. That's it's like a turbo boost of the Holy Spirit and I think that does happen throughout history, that doesn't mean they didn't have the spirit to begin with. That just means they got this turbocharge briefly, like the a like the afterburners, you know, on a on a on a fighter jet type of thing. And I've seen and been around Christians that you can tell, okay, there's something different this week about you. God has really placed something on your heart and you are completely driven, com completely effective in the ministry to a degree that I've never seen before and haven't seen since. Just but for that week, that was that was it. And the person is saved. But there was just an extra there was a double portion that God gave him for that week for the task at hand. And I think he does do that. He gave it to Stephen as Stephen was dying so he could look at the Jews in the eye and say, I see Jesus up there. I'm going to meet him. I'd have to look at that specifically and see because that's an interesting idea. But it does go against the stream of how I understand the the uh the relationship with the believer to the Holy Spirit in the indwelling. So I'd have to I'd have to think about those I have a I have a thought. So that is an interesting idea. And that passage I mean it also says Enoch walked with God. And he was not for God took him. Like I mean God was with him. It wasn't like, you know, he visited God and then came out and Moses talked with God face to face, but that doesn't mean that he was indwelled by the Spirit of God. I don't know. I I I I'm not convinced that so much of my theology is wrapped up in in some details that would be have to be shifted like like down the line if I were to make a change here because I mean w all the times that the New Testament talks about the bel the believers are the temple. We really should have been recording this for the last ten minutes. There's one that came up like an hour ago. Eschatology, you mean like a millennial versus premillennial? Is that is that um that wasn't it, but I'll write that down With I I remember that coming up an hour ago. I don't I don't remember what else you talk about. Uh yeah. So the I mean I guess I'll see it on the uh screen. Dispensationalism. Right. Um which has to be defined as a term first too. um the idea of indwelling with the Holy Spirit before or after Pentecost. Um we've alluded to honor and shame quite a bit, but I I'd actually like to do a deeper dive into that because I think there's a lot more there. Those are various theological topics. Um I I think I just remember originally when we first started doing these recording sessions, we talked about what we do in our churches, and one of the things we talked about was music, and we only kind of touched on that and I think Yeah and I think I think I actually might already have a note on that to myself so we don't forget to do it. Yeah, I actually have that one Well that's that's the thing is uh originally when uh the the vision for this show I I thought was here's a bunch of house church leaders, let's talk about what house churches are Well we we And we we started with that and we also talked about a bunch of other topics which obviously we should um but um probably good to keep keep circling Yeah. Yeah, no I've I've I do have I'm keeping record and uh and track and I've got I've begun to outline things uh in a way that seems to make some sort of logic. So are we switching gears entirely now or are we having it? So now we're we're jumping into uh the revoice movement. Wow and what The what? Which could be connected if you want to bring it up. Oh, okay. Did did I miss a mess uh a memo? It's just in the Oh okay, I see that. February twenty fourth. Yeah. Revoice. What is revoy I never heard of that term revoice. Oh, okay. So yeah. All right, here we go. Welcome to the Faith Debate. Good Sunday morning to you. If you're listening to us on the radio anyway, if you're listening to a podcast Good day to you, whatever day it happens to be. Thank you so much for joining us. We hope that our show is a blessing to you. We appreciate so much the support you give. just by uh clicking on podcast links or turning on the radio station to hear what we might have to say. And what do we have to say today? Well lots of things to be said about what some are calling the revoice movement because there's an organization called Revoice Basically, if you don't know what that is, you don't have to. Here's the deal. Is homosexuality a sin? That's the question. Can someone be a gay Christian? There's a question for you. Do you know the term side A, side B, Christianity? Well, you heard them now, and if you don't know what they mean, well they will explain that to you too. Here to do all that with you this morning and with me David Forcy. He's the pastor of a house church on the south end of Frederick County. Also joined today again by Daniel Rasby. He's pastor of a house church at meeting the north end of Frederick County. And I'm the pastor of a House Church that meets in the center of Frederick County. My church is called House of the Faith in Christ. We have a website, Household of Faith in Christ. com. There you can connect with uh all the stuff that's related to what I'm doing, which includes this show, and these guys actually, if you want to learn a little more about uh them and their churches and stuff. You can access that through household of faith in Christ dot com. And of course you can find the faith debate information not only there, but also at WFMD. com. So We've been uh jumping around and and normally what we might do, those who have been long time listeners of this show, if that happens to you, thank you, appreciate your support. Um We had a tendency to do arcs uh for a long time where we would pick one, maybe two topics and talk about those one or two topics, you know, three, four, five, six shows in a row kind of a thing. And uh the last few weeks we've been doing some radical, we've been stripping the gears and burning out our clutch, uh bouncing around different topics, and that's because we have these conversations you know, Imrod who's not here today and Daniel and David and me, we've had some conversations off the air about the show and different things we want to talk about. And I started making lists and lists and lists and I started realizing, you know If we just tackle like one of these as an arc, we can only do, you know, 10, 12, 13 topics a year. And we already have a list of like 50. So we got like topics for the next rest of our life kind of thing. So maybe we just start doing these a little bit quicker. And so a couple weeks ago we talked about authority, who gets to make the rules, you know, what gets to rule our worldview Last week we talked about deliverance ministry, whether a Christian can be possessed by the devil or one of his minions. And this week we're talking about Homosexuality, so we're all over the map on on these uh this this one's kind of a hot topic, right? This one's big in the news, big in the culture. Well you would think it should be self explanatory. I mean not too long ago everybody was was pretty sure what the Bible said on the topic and now there's a lot of people that call themselves Christians that are also gay. Yeah, so define your uh your your your your definition of calendar terms there. You said not too long ago. How long ago is not too long ago in your world? In in 2006, our president Joe Biden was not president at that time, but in two thousand six we have tape of him saying marriage is between one man and one woman. That's how it is, and that's how it should should stay. And he doesn't support anything else. This is 2006. So when we were recording this sixteen years later, this is not a whole long time. Yeah, the reason I asked was because I there's been a uh uh let's see if you guys agree with me, there's been this undercurrent. You know how there's like the The the undertow at the beach, you know what I mean? You don't really see it from the surface, but you feel it and it's like pulling the ground out from underneath your feet. You know, that's I think there's been kind of an undertow that wasn't all that visible that was affecting the culture, affecting the church And then the dam broke and we were all able to see that undertow when the um Oberka fell or what was that uh that judge Oberkafell. Oberka uh in two thousand twelve, thirteen okay That's when yeah, because it was after uh uh Barack Obama, because in 2008 he was more traditional in his view on this question. Correct. And then that and then that decision comes down and all of a sudden he changed his position. Right? He had these like political that's my recollection of the timing of it. But anyway, that was like, okay, party on But I remember back in the nineties even though there was a lot of bubbling up and it was and people were trying to tamp it down and and trying to The the arguments were made in kind of a soft way because you could get away with it, or people felt like they'd get away with it. Well, we're just gonna pat you on the head and send you on your way and and we'll be fine. And I think that that might have been a huge mistake, right? It should have been crushed because now you have pastors who say, look, the church needs to whisper about what the Bible whispers about and Shout about the shop by Bosba. And the Bible whispers about homosexuality. This is this is this is an actual quote. Um and in in Canada you're not allowed to say anything about this, otherwise you go to jail. It's hate speech, right? You can't even read scriptures because reading the scripture itself is is a hate speech. speech. I think it I think it sort of goes back to you know the the downplaying of of the authority of scripture. um you know in our for for the record we we're all in agreement right the homosexuality acting on that would be a sin yes in any context Yeah, it's interesting you phrase it that way. I'll say yes, and I'll raise you. Because that's the question. That's a side A, side B Christianity question, by the way. So side A um would be the way out there uh from our perspective, like not in accordance with what the Bible teaches at all. It's totally fine to be uh a practicing homosexual and it's not a sin. And anybody who would say otherwise doesn't understand that You know, the Apostle Paul, he lived in a different time and they didn't understand things the way we understand them today. And and so we need to completely reinterpret or or just jettison those parts of the Bible that would speak against homosexuality and say it's totally fine. That's side A. Side B is what you said, how you articulated it was if you act on it, if you engage in same-sex activities, that's a sin But identifying yourself as gay or saying that you are same-sex attracted and that's your identity, like I am a gay Christian. that's okay. That's not a sin. So the attraction uh is not a sin. So I mean uh Daniel, I'm I'm assuming you would distinguish between somebody who says I have uh I experience same sex attraction. Right. And and that is and that's a a a sinful attraction versus someone who says, I experience same sex attraction and uh And that is that's normal, that's how God made me, I just can't act on it, basically is what some remote. That is there's not really a whole lot in them between, you know, saying like I w I w I would say y a lot of times Christians get a little bit um f too focused on the same sex attraction thing. as somehow greater than a opposite sex attraction, both of which resulting in lust and lust being the sin. Right? So you can there's difference between being attracted to someone and lusting after them. I I th I think there there is. Um you know, you can a as as a non homosexual Christian, you you you can walk down the street and you can see somebody and think that person looks nice and then they is it can very quickly, especially for a man, lead into lust and that's a sin and and Jesus is as is clarified that you've already committed adultery in your heart once you start letting your mind wander and go down that path, right? whether it's to a woman or to another man, it's that's both of which would be sins, and I I don't i I I I don't think that all sins are necessarily equal, but i there's not a great worsening of the sin from one type of attraction to the other as far as lust goes, they are both sins. So I guess my what I meant earlier is that actually going down that path and lusting, whether it's to a man or to a woman, that's that's gonna be a sin. And certainly acting on it in any capacity is going to be a sin. sin and and again it'll still be a sin whether you go sleep around with a woman or whether you're uh uh doing homosexual acts. It's it's it's gonna be a sin either way. Yeah and I think I think you would agree with that, right? 'Cause I agree with that. As far as that goes. No, I I would yeah I I would I would go further than that. I would want clarification too, but as far as that goes, I would agree with that. Yeah, I would agree with that and I would I would say and and you'd probably agree and just weren't taking it this far, but saying that um you know that that one is certainly a a greater Uh distortion of God's best of bearing God's image Sure. Sure. Jesus said mar the from the beginning it was not so. That's kinda like his divorce context. And we c that's a whole other discussion. Can Christians be divorced and if if you're divorced and you become a Christian, now what? Or or whatever. Um But Jesus had a whole chat about that and basically ended up saying, no matter what w what you think about your conclusion of what what you know what he meant by his divorce conversation in uh in the passage um I guess in Matthew, uh he he said from the beginning it was not so Right? God's plan was Adam and Eve. People have joked around it was Adam and Eve, not Adam and Steve, um meaning not homosexual, but also not Adam and Eve and Mary and and And uh Joanna i i is it was Adam and Eve, right? So that so there's there's uh something to be said for that's God's best plan and certainly it wasn't two men, it would it or two women, it was it was a man and a woman, it was just one of each Um so yes, the farther you get from that, there's there are things that look less