Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ livestream portion of our weekly gathering. You can learn more about us online at Household of FaithInChrist. com. We are in the midst of a series on the book of Revelation, so if you want to grab your Bibles and follow along, you are invited and encouraged to do so. Revelation 15. And I'm going to warn you now that there's three pieces really to uh sections in today's sermon. And the first portion, the first third of the message is going to be a little bit of heavy lifting. Because we're doing a lot of review of where we've been and it's going to be a lot of information to try to process. If you get a little worn down by that, try to hang in as best as you can. So in the middle section will be focusing in on today's text and expounding that and then the application at the end. So those are kind of the structures. So if you're feeling early on, like, oh my gosh, there's a lot of information, try to weather the storm. And then we'll uh it it'll it'll become smoother sailing from that point uh forward. Uh today's message on Revelation 15, verses 1 and 2, I've titled Beginning of the Third Earthly Vision And we're only focusing on a couple of verses here because I want to spend time uh to to to make up well for the fact that we've uh some people who are hearing this message are hearing anything from the Revelation series for the first time uh here at Household of Faith in Christ. But even those are part of our congregation, we took a bit of a break from the series during the holidays, and so I want to reorient ourselves where we are, refresh our minds uh as to where we've been, particularly with the more visionary chapters of the apocalypse. So you might likely recall, if you've been hearing this series, or if even if you've ever read the book of Revelation, that there are seven seals Which only the Lamb can open. In essence, the Lamb is given all power to give mankind back, uh to give them a new title deed to humanity's lost inheritance. And then we saw with the with the Apostle John the seven trumpets, and as these trumpets sound, the Lamb's kingdom is ushered in, as the world's kingdoms are shaken and overthrown. And what we're about to cover in the coming weeks are the seven bowls or the seven vials, the seven censors, depending on the English translation that you hold in your hand. With this imagery, we will symbolically witness the Lamb's kingdom being completely victorious, as the evil kingdom is fully and forever destroyed. Now, what's described in all of these different aspects of judgment is not a collection of random isolated facts But rather, these are various classes or kinds of happenings which prep the way for the Messiah's second coming. So as we read and as we study, we should understand that these dramatic depictions, they are types, they are categories of what are for now, generally speaking, partial fulfillments. of the very end events. So let's think about some of the visual representations that we have taken in so far over the past year or so in our study of the book of Revelation. We saw martyrs under the altar. We know that the altar is where sacrifices are made, and we also know that Christ crucified is the ultimate sacrifice. And so in this visual, one of the aspects here is to see that Christ's witnesses are under Christ's covering, protected by his atoning blood. We've seen a number of instances of numerical symbolism in this book. The word lamb, for instance, is mentioned 28 times in Revelation. 28 is an interesting number. That is 7, the number for complete holiness, multiplied by 4, which is the number for the complete creation. Twenty-seven of these twenty-eight mentions are applied specifically to Jesus. There's one time in chapter 13 where the word lamb is used as in in relation to a counterfeit of the real deal. Now this might almost seem to throw our math off by one dropping us from twenty eight to twenty-seven. But I wonder if John is almost trying to make up for this when he uses the word lion just one time applied to Jesus back in chapter five. Anyway, we see variations of how these numbers and the numerology in Revelation all works together. For example, there's the fourfold expression peoples, tribes, tongues, nations. shows up a number of times in Revelation. In fact, it shows up seven times. So this again reinforces for us the importance of the numbers for the fourfold expression and the number seven, the number of times it shows up Four and seven are very important numbers in this epistle. Now for anyone who would like to know where these seven occurrences are, you can find them. The first three are the chapters where you might find a lot of ladies' fashion, chapters five, seven, and nine. Also chapters 10, 13, 14, and we haven't gotten there yet, but in chapter 17. Now rather interestingly, the word tribe gets swapped out a couple of times in this fourfold phraseology. Once it gets swapped out for kings, that's back in in chapter ten, and then it's swapped out also for multitudes. When we get there, we'll see that in chapter 17. And believe it or not, the fourfold combination of words is never one time written in the exact same order. So this very careful variety within the the uh studied repetition of this book, it's really extraordinarily beautiful There's so much interestly going on. The apocalypse is a work of art. It truly, truly is Now another symbolic numeric device that we see in the revelation, but I don't know that I've recalled mentioning it before within the series, has to do with the number 10. Now I Do you remember talking a little bit about the number 10 in the past? Biblically speaking, the number 10 it often has to do with things that uh are in the world, so it's sort of a world number the number 10 is. We've also touched upon the number three and how this is sort of a divine number, the Trinity. Think about that. Well, here's a new idea for today. Ten, the world number. Taken to the third power, the divine number, is one thousand. Ten times ten times ten, one thousand So this means that we might see the 1,000-year millennium, we might see the other appearances of the word thousand in this final book of the Bible as markers. that direct us to the reality that the world, represented by the number 10, is even now, certainly will be, but is even now being transformed by divine power. Again, three being the number for the divine. This certainly seems to be at least a plausible connection when we think about the measuring of the temple and the carefulness there as described in Revelation 11 Now the temple, this is where God is in his blessed presence. And we're going to see in the upcoming chapters, the temple can be the size of an entire city. In fact, an enormous city as it turns out. Because the city in Revelation is the temple. Now other Ideas that are intertwined with the temple would include Christ's obedience and death and how uh this is the incense which makes the saints' prayers pleasing to God. That was in chapter 8. That's the chapter also where the see the extended period of silence is mentioned. Um the silence this correlates to the Old Testament uh temple period And the experience there as well. Because you see, normally at the temple, in the Old Testament temple, there'd be all sorts of commotion, lots of noise in the air as the temple functions were being performed. But at the time of the incense offering Silence So you see that connection in chapter 8. In the chapter about the two witnesses in chapter 11. We got a summary of what was to come in chapters 12 through 20. We're in the middle of that now as we're going to be looking at chapter 15. We learned about the measuring rod or the measuring reed there, you might remember. Symbolically, this is talking about scripture, because the Hebrew word canna translates as read. That's where we get our English word canon. See the similar sound of canna, canon. has to do with a rule, the measure. So scripture is our rule and our our measure. In chapter 14, the last chapter that we spend some time in For the second time, we saw the 144,000 of Israel show up there, which in my view is the church militant. And this is similar to how Israel, believe it or not, you might have noticed this before, but it Israel is called the church in the Old Testament. You know, we see this in the English very Well, depending on the translation, but in the book of Numbers, in chapters 16 and 20, in verses 3 and 4 respectively, the original Hebrew word there is kahal. And it is oftentimes translated as synagogue in our English Bibles. But it quite literally means assembly, Cahal does, or convocation, or congregation. So let's just get us thinking, remind us of how we should understand the Greek word ecclesia. Perhaps you've heard this before in the New Testament. That word means called out ones. Those are called out. They're called out to what? They're called out into an assembly, into a congregation, into a church. Anyway, in chapter 14, we also see a series of angels that appear again. One proclaims the gospel, a second proclaims the fall of Babylon, and then a third at proclaims the doom of the reprobate, and then immediately after this we read about the uh blessedness of believers and the harvest of the good grain and then the harvest of the evil grapes. And in a very generic sense, now this is where we left off. So you can breathe, drinking through the fire hose, and now it comes to an end. And we're going to settle in a little bit as we pick up with the first two verses. of Revelation chapter 15. So if you haven't already, you might want to turn there and read along. Verses one and two say Then I saw another sign in heaven, great and amazing, seven angels with seven plagues, which are the last. for with them the wrath of God is finished. And I saw what appeared to be a sea of glass mingled with fire, can also those who had conquered the beast and its image and the number of its name standing beside the sea of glass. with harps of God in their hands. This short passage, including the entirety of the canon, which I just mentioned a few minutes ago, it is the rule and guide for our faith It is God breathed. Theonostos is the Greek term there. It is exhaled by God. God doesn't make mistakes. He's infallible. God is inerrant. So is his word We need to receive it as such, and so those with ears to hear, I encourage you to hear. So in this chapter, we Or again reading about John seeing or looking at something. Now, these kinds of eyeball phrases that we see in the book of Revelation, these are verbal cues for us as the hearers and the readers to recognize that there's a scene shift taking place. And so verse 1 clearly marks off the beginning of a new vision within the series of visions in this book In fact, John really emphasizes a shift here. He writes in verse 1 that he saw a sign in heaven. Then I saw another sign in heaven. Great and amazing. Seven angels with seven plagues, which are the last, for with them the wrath of God is finished. This is the third and final time in the revelation that a visionary scene is called a sign in heaven. The other two occurrences were both back in chapter twelve for the curious. Now I understand it can almost seem a little bit crazy to be paying so much attention to counting all the time these words and phrases show up in the book the way that we have been. But I'm telling you, the author has purposely left these markers in the text has left them there so that we might find them, so that we might at least, at the very least, note them when we see them. Like the seven angels mentioned in verse 1. This should hearken our mind back to the seven angels, to the seven churches back in chapters two and three, and to the seven angels with the trumpets in chapter eight. And now again, seven angels in chapter 15. That's three sets of seven angels. Now possibly they're the same seven angels showing up each time. Possibly not. But the fact that the seven appear three times, this helps us to understand that these are heavenly ambassadors of the divine. Because the number seven and three, they both point us to God, his holiness. These numbers are used in this way actually throughout vast sections of the Bible, not just in the Book of Revelation. And speaking of seven, there are seven plagues to come. Which will wrap up the need for God's wrath, we're told. That there are seven of them helps to drive home the point that these are not random accidental disasters with no purpose or meaning. We are to understand that these plagues are coming from the just, holy judgment of the eternal God. This is complete, perfect judgment. Accompanied by vast grandeur attributed to God's holy name. And we will See as we read further that these judgments, they're going to come in rapid fire succession. I mean, they're presented in almost a machine gun-like fashion. One right after the other, each one stronger than the last. As they fulfill the Lord's promises and prophecies. So as we see in verse 1, the seven bowls, or depending on your translation, censors or vials. These are to be the last plagues of the seventh, of the seven trumpets. It includes the seventh seal as well. So everything's kind of coming together here, coming to a head. And whatever English translation you prefer, whether it be bowl or censor or vial, some people they like to picture in their mind here something that's shaped in such a way that that that the contents they pour out pretty much all at once. Cause this is it. I mean we are we're heading to the end game now. Although in a way we've kind of been in the end game the whole time. Because maybe you've noticed in in this journey the book presents a succession of parallel groupings. Not everything is given to us in a simple, straightforward chronological sort of historical order. Our takeaway should be that this literary masterpiece is encapsulating and uh and and pulling together the consummation of all previous prophecy. And sometimes in the revelation we see that it fills in time gaps in world history and God's natural revelation. Sometimes it goes beyond that which came before it in God's special revelation. You know, the Old Testament prophet had been told to shut up the words and seal the book. That was Daniel chapter 12. And now we have the New Testament prophet John. He sees the book opened so as to reveal all that had been hidden from those who came before. It reveals these secrets, and then some. Verse 2 goes on to say, And I saw what appeared to be a sea of glass mingled with fire, and also those who had conquered the beast and its image and the number of its name standing beside the sea of glass with harps of God in their hands. Now it has been a while since we've been in chapter 4. But hopefully you still remember the sea of glass that we saw there back eleven chapters ago. It was in verse six. There the glass was said to be like crystal. Here the glass, it should again be understood as having transparency, clarity. But this the image of fire is added to dance in our imagination. What are we to do with this additional detail? What does it tell us? Honestly, I think it could be one of several things, and maybe it could even be a combination of these several things. Could the smoothness of the glass be an image of peace, somehow commingled with the fire of war. Could the peace even be achieved by fiery war, spiritual war Or could it be that the chaos of war is overcome by the placid peace of God? Is this magnificent sea now a mixture that includes the wrath and the judgment of God? I mean, after all, the Lord's judgments are called a great deep in Psalm 36 We might think about other uses of fire besides these negative sorts of connotations. I mean, fire purifies. That's good. It could be that God's holy purity is symbolized in this verse. Not once, but twice, symbolized by the crystal clear glass and also by the purifying presence of fire. A sea. That conjures up the idea of water. So are we to see a reminder of the Holy Spirit applying to us living water Maybe it alludes to the baptism in the Spirit, as the elect are made kings and priests unto God, as it said to us back in Revelation chapter 1. And therefore we're now able to walk upon the fiery solid sea as though it's calm. Like Jesus did. Believers in Jesus Christ are baptized with the Holy Spirit and with fire. It says in Matthew chapter 3. At the start of the church age, the Holy Spirit appeared as tongues of fire. Epistles of Paul, it gives us instruction about the Holy Spirit bringing purity to the life of the saints. You know, fire overwhelms the ungodly, while sanctifying and refining the godly through their fiery trials. God is a consuming fire in Hebrews chapter 12. God shows himself in the burning bush of Exodus 3. And again, with his Shekinah glory in Numbers 9 and elsewhere, fire is many times an instrument of God's judgment, a sign of his power. It's an important element in the Old Testament sacrifices. Are you familiar with the furniture that was set up inside the old Jewish temple? There was an item of furniture there, something that was called the sea. The sea was situated immediately before the sanctuary. And not of little consequence, we're soon going to read in the Revelation about the many waters of the harlot. It's in chapter 17. And when we get there, this should be recognized as standing in contrast to the crystalline sea that surrounds God's throne in chapters 4 and 15. So there's so much biblical content on this, as you can tell. There's so much content here. You could do an entire sermon and series of sermons actually on just this. But before we get too carried away any more than we already have, we're going to pause here and we're going to pivot to another aspect of the symbolism that we absolutely must see. Next week with verse 3, we are going to be reintroduced to the song of Moses. Now coming on the heels of Verse 2's picture of standing beside the sea, this should transport our minds to one of those books of Moses, the book of Exodus. Where we read a rather famous story about the Israelites standing beside the sea, the Red Sea. Now there's some debate as to whether the Greek here in Revelation in verse 2 should be translated as stand by the sea or stand on the sea, but either way works. Although I will say I think the standing by or beside the sea is the better translation. But if it's supposed to be standing on the sea, That's totally okay because then we have the image of God caring for his people by calming the chaos and getting his chosen people safely to where they need to go. Walking through the water by way of walking on the water, maybe. And if it's supposed to be the other ashana standing next to the sea, well then we have the image of God. Caring for his people by dealing with God's enemies through the fiery passion he has for his saints, and then getting his chosen people safely to where they need to go. Just as he did by dealing with those Egyptians way back when, as the people of Israel, they stood by the sea. And they watched God work. They watched God destroy Pharaoh and Pharaoh's armies. So if the sea of glass should get you thinking about Jesus walking on water, I think that's good And if it gets you thinking about Moses and the others standing in victory beside the Red Sea, well, I think that's very good. By the way, it's possible you've heard in your Christian walk some people talk about the Sea of Reeds as opposed to the Red Sea. If you haven't already heard this, well, you likely will hear it someday, so I'm going to add here a short little addendum, a little tiny rabbit trail. When someone translates the Hebrew Scriptures, There is room for honest disagreement here. There is. It could be read. It could be read. However, in the book of Acts, in chapter 7, Stephen is preaching as he's about to be stoned to death And as he does so, Stephen recounts the history of God interacting with his people. And so he he tells the history of the Exodus. And in the telling of the story, he gets the water crossing part of the story. And when he does, he doesn't say that God performed a wonder in the Sea of Reeds or the Reed Sea. No, Stephen says Red Sea. The Greek is clear in the New Testament. And this is also the case for the Septuagint, which is the ancient Greek translation of the Hebrew Scriptures. So it seems to me there's very little doubt. that the right translation, the correct translation is red C. But again, there's that tiny little bit of wiggle room in the Hebrew language, and it has some preferring Sea of Reeds. And to that I would just say, well, at certain level, whatever. It's not a a mountain to die on necessarily. I don't want to turn this into a big, big thing. Either one can be fine, I suppose. However It's just anecdotal, but I want to add in my experience, most of the people I know who prefer Sea of Reeds over Red Sea, most of them. Who prefer this translation of read as opposed to red are theological liberals who are working to cast doubt on the supernatural. Because so often, in essence, what they're saying is, look, the Israelites, they didn't cross that very deep, very wet Red Sea. No, no, they crossed a mere marshy area called the very shallow sea of reeds, don't you know? There was no miracle. It can all be explained away through some naturalistic reinterpretation of God's word. Saying reads, though, I want you to hear me on this. I don't want to be misunderstood. Saying reads instead of read, it is not a litmus test for identifying a heretic. But I'm suggesting that it could at least be best if we were ex to examine the Sea of Reed's advocate. See if maybe they're possibly a false teacher suspect. It's a bit of a tell. Poker term. Bit of a tell. Look into what else this teacher teaches. He could be innocent of the heresy charge. He could be. Then again, could be a wolf in sheep's clothing. Just be a little careful, that's all I'm saying. So with all that now thoroughly beat to death, I want to point out the main application for today. There is a great and amazing sign in heaven in today's passage. God is on the move. He has sent messengers, angels, and they're letting us know plagues are coming. Plagues are here. And then That's it. The end. Are you attentive? Are you awake to what time it is? Are you ready for the end? The end of the age. The end of your life. The end of things when God is finished. And you meet your Maker. Are you ready? As I was meditating on the meaning that we have preserved for us here in Revelation 15, I had an old tune enter my mind. It was like an earworm that's literally been with me my whole life because this song was first recorded the year I was born. It's a song by Buffalo Springfield. They released it The year I was born, it went on to become a big smash hit, a top ten hit for them. It's called For What It's Worth. And some of the lyrics say There's something happening here, but what it is ain't exactly clear. There's a man with a gun over there telling me I got to beware. I think it's time we stop, children. What's that sound? Everybody look what's going down. There's battle lines being drawn, and nobody's right if everybody's wrong. Paranoia strikes deep into your life, it will creep, starts when you're always afraid. We better stop. Hey, what's that sound? Everybody look what's going down. You feel it every day, don't ya? There's something happening here. There's so many lies, so much false narrative, that just what it is that's happening isn't exactly clear, but we know this There are bad people in the world doing bad things, and they're intending to do a heck of a lot more bad things And they often hold figurative guns to our heads. In some parts of the world, actual guns being held to the heads of believers. So we've got to be aware. We have got to be on the lookout for wolves endangering the lamb's sheep. We need to understand that there are worldly powerful beasts wishing ill for you and the rest of the bride of Christ. But we mustn't cave to hopelessness. We must beat back the fear with the truth. All the secular solutions, so-called, prove themselves over and over again to be inadequate, if not outright wrong and so there are so many people around us that are asking if anyone knows what's right. Does anyone know? I mean for sure know what's right and we are in a position to answer that question. God does. He knows all things He determines what's wrong from what's right. So we need to stop, children. Be still, brothers and sisters. And no, he is God. Do you hear that sound? It is the beautiful sound of good news, softening hearts, renewing minds, changing lives. Glorifying God. You have been charged with the responsibility And the privilege of magnifying this sound Are you magnifying it? Magnifying the glory of the Creator Magnifying his glory by the words you use, the life you lead, the choices you make? Are you? Do you do this in such a way that people they look your way and they ask, boy, what's up with her? What's going on with him? Think about this. When Jesus walked the earth, and he walked on water for that matter He consistently did the Father's will in such a way that people said, hey everybody, look what's going down. Now think about this. To follow Christ is to imitate Christ. However well you might be doing this of late, I would encourage you to do it even better. And don't misunderstand, I'm not suggesting you do it in your own strength, far be it. Don't trust in yourself, your own willpower, your strength that you can muster up, pull yourself up by your boost. No, no, no. Do it by the power of the Holy Spirit. Lean on Him, trust Him, His leading. Trust the one who dwells inside you. Inspired by the final phrase of today's passage, the end of chapter 15, verse 2. Make beautiful music with your life. Do so as though you're you're holding a harp in your hands and playing it like the master musician himself, the one who owns that harp. Make this your new year resolution. Your new life resolution That's right. Father, help us to glorify and magnify your name better than we do. We praise you. We thank you that you are so patient with us. We praise you and thank you that you have sent the Paraclete, your Holy Spirit, to dwell within us to guide us and lead us to To help us to grow, progress in our sanctification. We ask that by your power you would aid us in working out our our faith. That we remain true and faithful and loyal to you, that we would be an example as imitators of Christ to a world around us, so despite for somebody that has answers. We're so grateful that you have given those answers to us. Help us be good stewards in all areas of our life. To better manage our time and our finances and our relationships, but also be good stewards of the truth that you've given us. That we would share it. Share it freely and frequently. So we can stand by the sea And watch you work. We thank you, Lord, that we come before you in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. You have promised to heal us hear our prayers, and so that is the name before which we come before you. The name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Alright, I'm going to shut down our stream now. Appreciate it if you've been watching. You can find all of our sermons on Sermon Audio and Odyssey, and you can link to all that through our website, household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week, I boss