Here's it, we are rolling. Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ livestream portion of what we do on Saturdays. We'll be in Revelation chapter 15 today, so if you want to follow along, get your Bibles ready, you're encouraged to do so. We'll also be making a short pit stop in Nahum in the Old Testament in chapter 1. If you want to bookmark that, you can Not as necessary. I would strongly encourage you though to follow along with Revelation in chapter 15. Message today is titled The Song of Moses Reducts. And if you're going to do some personal reading on your own, I would encourage you also to read from Deuteronomy chapter 22 and Exodus chapter 15 and see how they're related to what's going on here in Revelation 15. If you're not too familiar with who we are, uh we are Household of Faith in Christ, you can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Uh it's not just information about us there, we have resources set up there for uh helping you to uh navigate God's word. And if you are looking for a good church and you're not anywhere near where we are in Frederick, Maryland, then I would encourage you to uh to reach out anyway and I would love to try to help you find a good Bible-believing, Christ-exulting uh church for you to belong to. Anyway, we continue this week in examining the lessons that are to be learned from Revelation chapter 15. This chapter opens a new cycle of visions in the book. We mentioned that last week. Now not everyone outlines the apocalypse in precisely the same way. There are some who essentially label each and every portion of the book as part of some cycle. And these folks they then tend to see this section of John's epistle as the fifth cycle in the book. Other teachers tend to view the cycles beginning only after the letters to the seven churches, and so for them they would call cycle one the seven seals, uh chapters four through seven essentially. And cycle two uh would be the seven uh trumpets in chapters eight through eleven, the seven histories of Chapters 12 through 14 would make cycle three, and then now cycle four, they would say, covers the 15th and 16th chapter with the seven bowls. But regardless of how the literary outline is constructed, there is a clear consensus that something new is now happening as we read another scene of worship that is very reminiscent of Words that we read earlier. Now refresh our memories, here's how the chapter begins, chapter 15. Then I saw another sign in heaven. Great and amazing. Seven angels with seven plagues which are the last, for with them the wrath of God is finished And I saw what appeared to be a sea of glass mingled with fire, and also those who had conquered the beast and its image in the number of its name standing beside the sea of glass, with harps of God in their hands. So that's where we left off last week. And today we're going to pick up now with Revelation 15, verses 3 and 4. And as we study all of these various cycles in the book, we do well to understand that all of them are leading to the same destination. They're all leading to the second advent of Christ. So with that review and that set up in place, let's read now verses 3 and 4. And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and amazing are your deeds, O Lord God the Almighty. Just and true are your ways, O King of the nations, who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name, for you alone are holy All nations will come and worship you, for your righteous acts have been revealed. It's interesting The opening to this chapter, we see here a scene shift from earth to heaven, and yet there's this immediate reference to a song that was first sung by Moses on earth. But then, of course, now is also sung even in the heavenlies by many, many more than just Moses, because God's people sing the Lord's praises because by his Spirit The evil beast is overcome. And now the maker of all that is, he finishes his plan. He wraps up his wrath with the soon to be described bowl judgments. So what we have here is a reminder of the nearness of the last things. Do we bask in this reminder of the nearness? Or like so many, do we tend to dread the things that provide evidence of this nearness? When we're reading news accounts or we're viewing videos from a variety of reporters or we're scrolling through social media. When we do those sorts of things, we are exposed to evidence that there's all kinds of evil around us. I mean the the the Bride of Christ is surrounded by evil enemies who hate God, enemies who hate those who belong to God. And this is the same situation of more than 3,000 years ago. Consider Moses and the rest of Israel. They're hemmed in. They're staring at the onrushing embodiment of chaos. Pharaoh's chariots are galloping forward towards them. And situated behind Israel was another common symbol of chaos in the Scripture, a vast sea. The Red Sea at their stern, the galloping beasts at their bow. This would surely mean their destruction. Until it didn't. Until they stood safely on the other side of the sea and they saw the enemy defeated. Like these ancient tribes of Jacob, the saints of God, we stand on the other side of the trouble and the persecution. Oh yeah, the battle, it continues. But the war has been won. There's a way we can look at this and see that the chaos is calm. The turbulent waters are transformed into a sea of glass, not yet fully But already truly. How excited does that make you? Excited enough to sing aloud from the diaphragm? It did Moses. The great figure of the Old Testament, he sings more than one song in the Pentateuch. That's the the word that's used to describe the first five books of the Bible. Pentateuch also can be called the law or the books of Moses. Now one of the songs that he sings is sung right after the miraculous crossing of the Red Sea. There's another that's recited by Moses at the end of his life after he sees God successfully lead his chosen people to the cusp of the promised land. And in biblical studies, actually, this song, the one from Deuteronomy 32, is the one that uh very often is the most formally called the song of Moses. But the spirit of what Moses sings In each of his songs comes to its fulfillment in Christ. And this is what we see here in Revelation chapter 15, the new song that we saw earlier in the book of Revelation, the song of the Lamb. Boy, in so many ways it's the same old song. It's a repeat of what Moses sang because there is a repeat of God's victory. Our sovereign creator, he sends plagues in the book of Exodus. He sends plagues in the book of Revelation. Our bridegroom, he brings his bride physically and temporally to the land of the promise through the Exodus, and he does so spiritually and eternally by what we see here in the words of the Revelation. And some are given eyes to see this truth and to respond favorably. And some remain blind to the truth. And they stubbornly cling to their unrepentant rebellion against the one who made them. God's holy and perfect character demands that he judge. We've already seen plenty of evidence of this in the Revelation, and we're going to see plenty more in the upcoming verses. And let's not forget, the God of the New Testament is the God of the Old Testament, one God. Take as an example a handful of verses from Nahum chapter 1. I'll be picking up with verse 3. The Lord is slow to anger, and great in power. And the Lord will by no means clear the guilty. His way is a whirlwind and storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet. He rebukes the sea and makes it dry. He dries up all the rivers. The mountains quake before him, the hills melt, the earth heaves before him, the world and all who dwell in it, who can stand before his indignation? Who can endure the heat of his anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken into pieces by him. The Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble. He knows those who take refuge in him. But with an overflowing flood, he will make a complete end of the adversaries and will pursue his enemies. Into darkness. If you refuse to repent and follow Jesus That is not good news for you. I want you to note what I said. Follow Jesus. That's what it means to repent, to turn from the path of your selfish and immaturity, to follow the self-sacrificial ways of maturity in the Spirit of Christ. These are those who have overcome, and who join the chorus of those who have conquered the beast and its image and the number of its name. This is the faithful through their prayers. Is this you? If you say yes, what's the proof of this in your life? As you ruminate on that question, recall the number of the beast's name that I just mentioned. It's the thrice-repeated Six. Well, six is half of twelve, as it turns out. And you might recall us talking a while back about the symbolism of three and a half and how that's half of seven. Remember? Seven repres represents holy completion, and so half of that represents things being cut short before reaching full completion. So now with that in mind, let's look at the number six again. Throughout the Revelation, John he represents the elect of God with the number 12, with multiples of the number 12, like 24 and 144,000, for instance. In chapter 21, there will be 12 beautiful foundation stones for the new Jerusalem, 12 picturing a strong, solid foundation. Well, by comparison, the number six, it indicates a broken foundation. You see, the world should be like the church. It should be. But the world is broken in half. So here's the second of personal application questions I have for you today. Are you broken in half? Or are you living the life of living stones that are held together by the chief cornerstone who is the Messiah himself? There are twelve kinds of fruit on the tree of life in Revelation chapter 22 In Galatians chapter 5, that lists what is commonly understood to be nine characteristics of the fruit of the Spirit. These are love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness. Gentleness, faithfulness, and self-control. So it seems like we need three more to get to twelve. And actually, if we really wanted to badly enough, we could. We could snag, you know, light and righteousness and truth from other parts of the Bible, like Ephesians chapter 5, for instance. Really, all nine that we see listed in Galatians chapter five, they center around that first one on the list. I think that it can be helpful to look at what the Apostle Paul wrote there in Galatians. With a slight adjustment to the punctuation, because remember the punctuation, that's not inspired. There was no punctuation in what Paul wrote. That was added many, many years later. So what if we read it? The fruit of the spirit produces love. Stop. Insert a colon. In other words, the Spirit produces love. Pause. And this is evident in the habit of demonstrating joy and peace by having your life generally described as being marked by patience and kindness, to say nothing of goodness and gentleness. Are you a woman or a man of faithfulness, of self control, and all the others on the less on the list? Now look, no one but Jesus himself perfectly loves in these ways, but are you growing in these areas? Well, if so, as a believer, that's evidence you are progressing in your sanctification. But if not And I submit to you that you must examine yourself and examine your presumed justification, because the justification and sanctification go together. If you don't have one, you don't have the other. You have to understand Christ is returning And when he does, he comes quickly. Be ready Will the second advent of Jesus occur even today? You know what? Could be. We don't know the time. But we know there will be a time. And there are many misguided brothers and sisters in the Lord. They devote an awful lot of of energy and angst that attempts to interpret the signs of the times and then apply their thoughts on these things into the pages of the Bible. Well I can save you a whole bunch of time and frustration. The times don't interpret the revelation. The revelation interprets the times. And the time is ripe for harvest. So when you are personally harvested, will you belong to the old Jerusalem or will you belong to the new Jerusalem? Yeah, I don't want to press this next point too strongly, but I gotta say I'm I'm intrigued by the vocabulary choices that are made by John. And a reader can't see this in an English translation, but in the Greek There is something that's interesting within the Apostle John's writings and in his Gospel, the Gospel according to John, he uses the Greek word for Jerusalem, Herosolima. But in Revelation he doesn't use that Greek word. Instead, he uses a Hebrew transliteration, Herusalem. And again, I won't make too big a point of this, but I think it's possible that what's intended by this difference is to see that That old Greek named Jerusalem is meant to symbolize a more secular, a more political city. But the new Jerusalem bearing that Hebrew name indicates a more holy city that is connected with The city of David. A man after God's own heart. The original context of what it meant. I wonder if that's what John's doing there. Now pinning down the exact meaning for that name Jerusalem. to just one definition is a little bit difficult and so it can g be debated on occasion because each part of the word has a range of semantic possibilities. But generally though it means something along the lines of foundation of complete peace, or temple of fulfilled flourishing, or in awe they will see shalom Something along those lines. So again, I'm going to ask you a question of personal application. How does your walk track with these phrases? When you enter the room, do people feel complete peace When you are involved in someone's life, do they experience an increased sense of fulfillment and flourishing Do you even bother to meet someone where they are, to enter their world and be used by God to show them the awe and the wonder of the shalom that exists in Christ? The new heavenly Jerusalem brings these things perfectly. And forever. And we must aim to have God's will done on earth now as it is in heaven You know, I wonder, i there might be somebody hearing me right now and they're thinking in their mind, yeah well that's fine and dandy for some people, but That's not me. I'm not outgoing enough. I'm uh I'm not comfortable being extroverted, you know. I mean But people only knew my story, my background, my baggage, you know, my stresses, how oppressed I am or have been They wouldn't expect such light-filled, godly living of me Then you know it'd be easier on me if I could just let you up the hook at this point and I could say, well, you know, had no idea about all that oppression, all that stress that you're dealing with. I mean, appreciate you bringing it up because surely now I know that you are the exception to the rule. All that social awkwardness, all that introvertedness, shyness, all the rest of the things you mentioned, yeah, I can see now. Okay, you're off the hook. Don't worry about godly living. That's fine. But I can't say that. Not if I love you, I can't. See, you don't have to be the life of the party to lead a life that is full of the fruit of the Spirit. And your story of the past, whatever it is, it has a new context. If you've been born again. And God's graces are renewed every day. And the stresses and even the oppression maybe that you experience at the hands of the beast. They're conquered in Christ. So that you now stand beside the sea of glass with harps of God in your hands, making beautiful music with your life And this isn't to say that it's easy, because it is not. There is no cheap grace. There is only costly grace. But the church is up to the challenge. Because the church is a kingdom of priests, a royal priesthood, as it says in Exodus 19 and in 1 Peter chapter 2. And Jesus, he is the King Priest. He shares with his people what is his. Intwelt by the Holy Spirit. If you're a follower of Christ, then you have been made a priest. And because of the priestly royalty of believers, you are also a king. If you're faithful. Are you? Faithful, I mean Then work out your faith striving to live the life that you are called to live. And you can do this And you know, it it can be tempting for any of us to think, boy, I just I wasn't born for this But you know, if you're following Jesus, that means that you've been reborn for this And together, iron sharpening iron, working to encourage, mutually edify one another, we can grow into this. We can until that last day when we stand full grown in the Glorious, heavenly Jerusalem. And if you're a Christian, then I know, at least intellectually, you agree with this, because if you truly love the Word, then you will not wish to be like the world. You will wish to be conformed to the sole infallible rule of faith and practice that we have that's been given to us and talking about the Bible The voice of God speaking? May He give us ears to hear and to heed what He says. In the Song of Moses, it rehearses what God has done in history. So let's let's revisit some of this ourselves, and let's notice Jesus all along the way. The human story, of course, begins with Adam and Eve and their beginning in the Garden of Eden, which we can understand there being a sense in which Jesus, the Word, is there with them. And the beautiful garden imagery of that Genesis garden ties us to the garden imagery of the tabernacle and the temple that are described later on in the Hebrew Scriptures. And there's a sense in which Jesus, the Son of God, is there too. In the tabernacle, the temple. Can you call to mind any other noteworthy garden scenes How about the Garden of Gethsemane? Jesus was there. Asking if the cup of his suffering could be allowed to pass, if it be the Father's will. How about following the resurrection? Jesus was there, with Mary thinking he was the gardener, which is ironic since he actually in fact is the gardener when we think about it. He is maintaining a perfect garden, home to the tree of life In the eternal paradise. Now we're not there in the eternal paradise just yet, not fully. But in some ways we tend we can taste it even now. But also clearly, we now also live in a wilderness. And yet the days coming when the wilderness gives way completely to a gorgeous garden and in the garden there will be no temple structure. You know such a structure, a big temple structure, it dominated the cityscape of old Jerusalem, but in the new Jerusalem there's no longer any barrier between God and his people. So everywhere is the temple Because everywhere the Spirit of Jesus is there. And there was a serpent at the start of the biblical narrative. Right? He asked if God really did say. And he has grown into a big nasty dragon by the end of the biblical narrative. And this dragon, he rules over an antichrist Babylon. But this city, Babylon, is to be overthrown and replaced by the new Jerusalem. And when this finally happens, that serpentine dragon, he goes to the lake of fire. And that devil, Satan. He enters his eternal wilderness of burning sulfur. It's a role reversal for the evil one. After Jesus and Christ's people had previously been the ones in a wilderness. And this is why we join in the singing of the song of Moses and in the song of the Lamb. a song of military victory and of deliverance from Egyptian slavery, and now it is a song of military victory and deliverance from satanic slavery, slavery to sin. And through all of this, Jesus is there. He was there before the seven letters sent to the seven churches. here in the Revelation in chapters 2 and 3. He was there before the unveiling of the judgments, beginning in chapter 4 and continuing through all the other chapters. He is there. From start to finish, he is there. And so this song of Moses and the song of the Lamb, it points us to the start and to the finish Just as do the 24 elders we read about earlier in the Revelation, signifying the 12 patriarchs of before and the 12 apostles of the new. And so we see the person and the work of Jesus illustrated for us in both testaments, old and new. And this is to be celebrated with more than mere lip service, although with our lips too. As we sing from the heart, our renewed heart. And unfortunately, most of us are at a disadvantage in making an additional helpful connection here to drive even more enthusiasm. for celebrating in this way. And and this is because sadly most of us just aren't as steeped in knowledge of the ancient Jewish festivals the way that maybe we should be. The Feast of Tabernacles? That was a massive party. Took place in the middle of the seventh month, thanking God for the in-gathered harvest. Well, this feast is a preview of the party to end all parties, the completed ingathering of the harvest of all the brothers and sisters in Christ. And palm branches, they were used during the Feast of Tabernacles, also sometimes called the Feast of Booths, by the way. These palm branches, they are waved as a symbol of joy and triumph. Now that I've mentioned this, maybe you'll have a better appreciation of what takes place on Palm Sunday. Maybe you'll be motivated to consider living your life as though your name is Judah. Judah means to praise. Are you living a life of praise for God? Waving your palm branches. Speaking of meanings of names, it maybe not everybody knows this. Joshua and Jesus, they mean the same thing. The Lord is salvation. The Lord saves. One is the Hebrew version of the name is spelled in English, and the other is the Greek version of the name spelled in English. In fact, there are some English Bibles where you'll see Joshua called Jesus in the New Testament. And that can be a little bit confusing at first until you realize what's going on. Now this tight connection Between the names, it draws attention to something that we see in the book of Revelation as it ties to what we see in the book of Joshua. Because in Revelation, we hear seven judgment trumpets Sound as the Lamb of God overthrows his opponent. And this comes, of course, in the context of just a mix of sevens all over the place. I mean, there are seven, seven, seven, sevens all over in this last book of our Bible. Well, at Jericho, under Joshua's leadership we see seven horn trumpets, sounded by seven priests after they had marched around the city seven times on the seventh day that they had been circling their opponent And as was the case then, our warrior king, he wins now. In spectacular fashion, those walls come tumbling down. And yes, I know the church, it can sometimes appear to be tossed about on turbulent waves. I'm keenly aware. But that's not how the story ends. So let's keep our eyes on the horizon. Let's look to what is ahead. Let's focus on Jesus Let's consider how people like Noah and Lot and others, they faced trials and they were preserved out of the judgments. And consider how the beastly Babylon and the apostate church of harlotry that we were introduced to in chapter 14, consider how they will meet their demise. And this is why we sing a victory song. The war's won. And who is it that sings? The subjects to the king. That's who sings. I should mention, by the way, that there is a textual difficulty in verse 3 of chapter 15, but it changes nothing for us who are believers in our personal application of the text. The issue has to do with the phrase that you heard me read, O King of the Nations. It's possible that that phrase should be, O King of the Saints. Okay, well, is that you? Are you counted among the saints? Well then this personally applies to you. Now it is possible that it should be, O King of the Nations, that's the version I read. You know, and given that every knee shall bow, well, you're included there too, right? You're part of the every knee. It's also possible the phrase there should be, O King of the Ages. I think it's safe for me to say that you, all of us, live within the ages somewhere. And so The truth of the news song, there's no loophole, there's no getting out of this. The truth of the news song is for you to sing. And as you sing it, consider. How you're to sing it. You are to sing it by the way you live your life. Making beautiful music with your life. And you're to do so today. And tomorrow. And every day. I hope you've been encouraged to do so by today's message. Let's pray. Father, you're such a good God. You've been active and involved in history and the lives of your people from start all the way to the end We are so grateful and thankful that you have a plan that includes us. We ask that you would help us to be more motivated by the power of your spirit to live lives that are honoring to you, that are exalting the name of Christ, that are Witnessing to the world by the choices we make and the choices we don't, that we are celebrating, we are celebrating with our Lord his victory, a victory that he shares with us. What an amazing story we have. Thank you for preserving it for us. for allowing us to study it, to press in deeper, and to know how to better apply it into our lives and our situations. You're a good God. Forgive us for sometimes losing sight of that. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. All right, so that's the conclusion of the message, which means it's the conclusion of the live stream. Again, you can find us online at household of faith in Christ. com. If you need to reach out to me, all my contact information is there. Until Next time, God bless