I think we're rolling. Welcome to the live stream portion of what we do every week at the Household of Faith in Christ. I thank you for Stopping by on the internet, if you're not familiar with what we're all about, I encourage you to visit us online at householdofynchrist. com. You can find previous sermons, trusted resources. information about what we are all about. If you need prayer or insight on something, reach out. If you're looking for a good church, even if you're not local, uh to the Frederick, Maryland area, uh reach out and uh we'd glad to try to help you find a good Bible believing church. They are too few and far between. I know that can be a struggle for some people, so I would uh encourage you to uh to to to to reach out and touch someone All right, we're going to be in Revelation chapter 15 today, so you want to get your Bibles ready. A message that uh entitled The Answers Are in the Back of the Book. We'll also be alluding to or actually quoting briefly from Psalm 111, Jeremiah 10, and Malachi 1. You don't have to necessarily bookmark those. I'll be going to those really quickly when we get there. But if you want to look them up later. Uh yeah, those are other passages we'll be reading uh today. So when we reached chapter 15 We reached the end of a multi-chapter section of the Revelation that features a very heavy emphasis on the persecution of God's people. But now for the next number of chapters, the focus shifts with a new vision that brings major emphasis to judgment of the beast. And this new vision is called another great sign by John. Now saying that there's another means that there was at least one other one before this. The turn of phrase here is actually tying to the vision in chapter 12 with images of the dragon warring against the heavenly woman and her child. And because of this war, the first heaven, the first earth, they are to be in a sense terminated, replaced with a renewed heaven and earth. And we'll see through a spectacular array of word pictures how this is done between now and chapter 20. Now at times the word pictures of the revelation, they seem to give the appearance of God's witnesses being defeated But as we stay with the photography lingo for just a while longer here, these images, these are the negatives in the dark room. Because once they're fully developed, once they're brought out into the light, we can see that the saints are actually the victors. If we belong to his church, then we are the overcomers. We are participating in the last great exodus and the vanquished Well, the vanquished are the beast and the Antichrist and the harlot and the demonic. Those are the ones who receive justice. And I'm not talking about social justice. Talking about that's no justice at all. Talking about real, true justice. And for believers, because everybody has to deal with that justice question, right? Sin demands justice. But for believers, this justice is applied to Christ. So we personally receive grace. And no one receives injustice Point of clarification. Everyone receives either justice or mercy, and mercy is non-justice, but it is not injustice. God is never injust. Now God decides each of these cases perfectly, of course, and his perfect justice is the prominent theme of the song that we spent so much time focusing on last week, and we'll actually touch upon it a little bit again this week. Our Creator's righteous judgments, they're poured out uh symbolically as seven plagues by God's angelic message bearers. And if the unbelieving world insists on maintaining their rebellion, Well, at the very least, they can't say they weren't properly warned of their need to repent. And the plagues, they picture for us a In a sense, a sort of a last-ditch effort, if you will, to move the stony hearts to righteousness. Before it's too late forever. I mentioned the passages we'll be looking at today, and I just want to remind everyone now that whenever we're grappling with God's word, we're grappling with God's Word inspired of God, breathed out by God. God doesn't make mistakes, so his word is without fail, is without error. It is fully sufficient as the rule and guide for our faith. and our life practice. And I want to unpack that a little bit. I say that all the time, I want to unpack it a little bit. It's the fully sufficient rule and guide for our faith, our doctrine, what we know to be true. How we worship him, how we understand who he is, who we are in relation to him. But also for our life practice. How do we live our lives? What does it mean to exhibit the fruit of the Spirit in your life? The Bible tells us these things. It is the guide for those things. And we can never let somebody distract us from that sort of truth. That said, in the first half of chapter 15, we saw the saints, the law really, the bringing of the plagues. They are lauded as holy actions by God. And they're lauded for multiple reasons. One, it vindicates Christian belief and hope in Christ. Two, it confirms the gospel witness that deliverance is through Jesus alone. And three, it shines a light of glory on our Lord. As we sing, as we pray, even as we endure suffering and persecution. Our desire is that many others would join us in this trek to glory. So you see, the gospel, the gospel is the reason for the judgment. Evil must be permanently defeated. And it will be. And it is, from the perspective of the cross And sin, it must be forever atoned, and it will be, and it already is, from the perspective of the cross. The thing I don't want us to miss here is that the crushing of evil by God is good news. In the vernacular of the day, it's a gospel issue. The atonement of sin, of course. Well, that's a gospel issue too. Everybody will seem to acknowledge that one at least. And all of this is taken together, it reminds us of a phrase I've used quite frequently in the last few years here. Already, not yet. Christ said, as he hung on the cross, it is finished. But he also said he's coming back to finish up the mop-up operation. An analogy that Kirby, you might help us to think about this, it's like the gun has already been fired. The bullets, they are sailing through the air. The projectiles are on target even. They do not miss their mark, but they haven't fully all landed yet. And this is where we now live. And it's why we sing in the midst of the challenges. We sing, Great and Amazing Are Your Deeds. O Lord God the Almighty. Just and true are your ways, O God of the nations. Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy. All nations will come and worship you, for your righteous acts have been revealed. That's the song was found in Revelation 15 and verses 3 and 4. Now I've been reading from the English Standard Version the last couple of weeks. I am again today. And if you're following along in the King James Version or some King James-influenced version, you might have noticed in the Bible that you're holding that it reads, O King of the Saints, rather than O King of the Saints. the nations. We touched upon this a little bit last week, but there was something I left out that I wanted to bring up this week. Because this Very small slight translational difference. It's not really of any consequence, but it does help to illustrate one of the many reasons, big or small, that I am not a fan of the King James only movement because the KJV, the King James Bible, it's almost certainly wrong in this particular translation of that word. They have followed a corruption that comes from the Latin Vulgate translation. Now this, though, I don't want to be misunderstood. This is not to say we can't trust our King James Bibles. The King James, it is a good translation, but it is not perfect. We cannot idolize these translations as though they are inspired. The translations are not inspired. So if you'd like to talk more about the King James only issue, give me a call. We can talk it out. Now anyway, getting back on track with the message of today's sermon. This this song of Moses, this song of the Lamb that we see in Revelation 15, it's a hymn. It's a hymn of God's redemptive care. You know, last week I mentioned the new song that's referenced in chapter 14, and how there's this connection between the songs, and there is some common meaning between these two songs, but there is also a rather beautiful difference as well. The song that we find in chapter 14, in verse 3, it celebrates the final deliverance that we experience at the very end of this world. Hallelujah. But the song of chapter 15, it celebrates the deliverance from the enemy that we experience in time. Hallelujah again. When we're facing a particular enemy, God has promised to deliver. When we're facing a particular moment of suffering, at any point within our pilgrimage on earth, God has promised to deliver. And he has proven to deliver over and over again. He delivers in the Old Testament, which we see highlighted with the mention of the song of Moses, and God delivers in the New Testament, highlighted with the mention of the song of the Lamb. The two assemblies of God's people, the two eras existing as one grand unity. In this grand unity of God's people, they have always, we have always faced difficulty. And the Lord has always provided for his people in and through the difficulties, so that we might remain faithful in continuing our witness. And there will be a day when all individuals, whether gladly or begrudgingly, all will acknowledge the Almighty's just and true and great and amazing deeds. That day's coming. All will fear. All will glorify his name. All will bow the knee as his righteous acts are revealed. Now as you have been doing your daily scripture reading, as I'm sure you have been, maybe you've recognized in other parts of the Bible language it's very much like what John has for us here in the Revelation, like in Psalm 111, verses two and three, it says Great are the works of the Lord, studied by all who delight in them, full of splendor and majesty is his work, and his righteousness endures forever. In Jeremiah chapter 10 and verse 7 it says, Who would not fear you, O king of the nations? For this is your due, for among all the wise ones of the nations, and in all their kingdoms there is none like you. In Malachi 1, verse 11, From the rising of the sun to its setting, it's the Lord speaking here, my name will be great among the nations. And in every place incense will be offered to my name, and a pure offering, for my name will be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts. And similar things are found in Deuteronomy 28 and Amos 4 and Psalm 96 and Psalm 86 and Psalm 98 and Psalm 100, all over the Psalms. All over the Bible, really, we find this sort of language. And We as a congregation read a couple of passages that are related to this point. We read Revelation, uh Exodus chapter 15 last week. We're going to be reading Deuteronomy 32 this week. And these songs of praise, they should stir us. We should be stirred to spiritual battle. We should be stirred the way that a battle cry would stir a warrior to action. And sometimes I wonder, are we feeling such stirrings as God's people? I read once that God's wrath is like a sleuth hound. It tracks the scent of sin, and eventually it catches his prey. and devours it. And for the church, the bridegroom wears this scent of sin for his bride. When we grapple with a truth like that, are we feeling more stirred now? At least a bit more stirred. You know, some will never feel such stirrings. For them are written words like those that are found in the last half of Revelation chapter 15. Picking up with verse five. After this I looked, and the sanctuary of the tent of witness in heaven was opened, and out of the sanctuary came the seven angels with the seven plagues. clothed in pure, bright linen, with golden sashes around their chests. And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God, who lives forever and ever. And the sanctuary was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no one could enter the sanctuary until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished. In verse 5, the tent of witness there, that's a wink and a nod to the tabernacle of testimony. We see that in the Old Testament. This phrase is the Greek translation of the Hebrew tent of meeting. Which is prominently featured in the book of Exodus. That's not by accident. The Apostle John very much wants us to connect this entire section of the Book of Revelation with the story of the Exodus of God's people from Egypt. And eventually the tent of Moses, it would give way to the temple. And that's of course another major theme in Revelation too. And these images of The tabernacle, the temple, the the altar, the the the cloud, and the fire, and the thunder and the throne of God, they all converge in the apocalypse. To help us see the splendorous presence of the Triune God, the Trinity You ready for another tabulation of revelation numerology? The tent or the tabernacle of witness or testimony. It has appeared one other time before this in Revelation. That was back in chapter 13, if you remember. And it is going to show up again in chapter 21. So chapter 13, chapter 15, chapter 21, that's three times. That's the divine number three. And so we are given even more encouragement to understand that these judgments come from God. And this is important for us to understand in light of the fact that there are scholars out there today that they teach that God isn't bringing judgment Instead, God merely turns people over to their own devices, and they, in essence, are victims of their own self-judgment, you see. And there is some truth the idea that we reap what we sow. But this sort of man-centered teaching, it is so prevalent in and around the church these days, and this is just one mere additional example of that. Now these Bible experts they seem to forget that in Leviticus chapter ten, God destroyed the two sons of Aaron when they used strange fire in the tabernacle. These experts, they seem to forget that God judged Miriam with leprosy. That was in Numbers chapter 12. They seem to forget that from the tabernacle, God pronounced judgment upon the Israelites, bringing them a stinging military defeat. That was in Numbers chapter 14. Two chapters later, in number 16, God judged that rebel Korah and his fellow insurrectionists. God did that, and the earth swallowed them up. God did all of these things. And God does the things that are scribed in the Revelation Bowl judgments too. It's the same God. And He does these things because He is God. Holy, righteous, just. In verse 6, the angelic clothing is described Each detail has its own significance. And most important, we should understand that their fashion choices here, what they're describing, are priestly garments. The clean, shining linen, that gives emphasis to the holiness of God, to the holiness of God's judgments. The linen. It's a representation of holy purity. And those golden sashes, or perhaps in your English translation, it says golden bands. This represents riches and royalty and untarnished glory. In the mind's eye, there are some they imagine these as belts that run from the shoulder down to the waist. Others they see them as golden cinchers that are around the midsection like uh like a championship belt you would see in boxing or pro wrestling, something like that. The point here is that these items indicate honor from the king. And if your memory is as strong as mine once maybe was, is no longer, but if your memory is strong, you might remember that we saw Christ with one of these sashes. in the Revelation. In chapter 1, verse 11 13, rather. And so the point here in chapter 15 is plain. These seven messenger angels, they act on behalf of the king. And they are free from immorality and corruption and injustice. Now before we move on to verse 7, I want to say there's a textual issue. There are quite a few of these in Revelation. There's a reason for that. I mentioned it before, I think. In uh verse six There's a variant in some of the ancient manuscripts for the word linin. The Greek word there, it has five letters and it's pronounced linon, so you can see where you get linin from linon. But there's another five-letter word in Greek that's pronounced lethon. And the first two letters and the last two letters in these five-letter words are exactly the same, but that center letter is different. But they're close enough. in appearance that tired eyes could possibly confuse them when transcribing them and it it would appear that some scribe somewhere along the line wrote lethon instead of linon. So what does this mean in English? Well as I said, linon means linen. Lethon means stone. That's a bit of a difference in meaning, I'd say. And I mentioned this because you might run across this. There's a couple of English Bibles out there where they actually say stone here instead of linen. So I thought I would address that issue. Now I want to say that Either way, it has zero impact upon the overall concept that is being put forward in this narrative that's describing this vision. Now, if it should in fact be stone Let's just say. Okay, well then we would have a description of a diamond or some similar kind of a stone that's embedded within an ephod. Remember what that is? Breastplate worn by who? The Hebrew priests. Read more about that in Exodus chapter 28, for instance. So whether it's stone or linen, the idea of priestly garments, it is still the point of the passage. of the language we find here. And these priests, they work in the sanctuary of the tent of testimony that is opened in heaven. Now verse 7 it mentions the four living creatures. And there are some translations following the King James that say beasts instead of creatures. The Greek word there is zoon. It means animal or creature You can remember that word, maybe if you think about you go to the Zune to see the animals. Zoo, Zoon, I think there's a connection to those words there. There's another word, though, that is used in Revelation for the beast. It's therion. And that's also an animal, but it's a particular kind of wild, dangerous beast is therion. It's that kind of an animal. That's not the word that's used here in Revelation 15. Now it's fine to say beasts, because that's appropriate. You can call an animal a beast. A beast of burden could be a definite domesticated animal that's not wild and dangerous necessarily. But my concern here is it can lead to some confusion. And so in case you're somebody who's been confused by this in the past, I want you to understand that we should not mistakenly read into the text the idea that the beast Meaning, the enemy of God is the one handing the bowls of wrath to the angels. That is not what is happening here. God's faithful creature hands God's wrath to God's faithful angels, for them to faithfully pour out on God's enemies, which includes the beast. The living creature should not be understood here as the beast. The beast is the one receiving the wrath. Now this living creature does symbolically represent an aspect of the world, right? The creation, the creatures, part of the creation. And so there are some that'll say, see? The creation is the source of the plagues, of the suffering. God's not doing this, the creation's doing it. No. It is through the creation that God chooses to visit his wrath upon the rebellious The creature hands over seven holy golden bowls that contain the full wrath of God. It is God's wrath. It is not the creature's wrath. God is the source of the plagues. Not the creature. Now the creature is a vehicle, oftentimes used by God in some way. Now actually it's possible we could think about the uh the vehicle being the church, even, right? Because we've been created by God. We're creaturely. We hold the message of warning that's contained in God's Word, don't we? The message that our loving God brings judgment. And he brings this judgment precisely because he is our loving God. The sovereign God I'm hammering this point home because I want us to never forget the sovereign Lord is in total control. There is nothing accidental. There is nothing maverick about what's happening. There is a purpose. There is a goal. There is an intentionality. There is a plan. God's got this. And so that would even mean that we are to understand that when certain people are damned, it is God who damns them. Now, yes, they stand condemned due to their own treason, but it is God who does the condemning. And this can give us hope when it feels that the world is out of control. It is never out of God's control. And we can take some peace and solace and maintain hope in all of that. In verse 7, it tells us also God lives forever and ever. So this God who's in control, he is the God. He is the only Lord. He is the creator of life In chapter ten we we hear the uh the the the the mighty angel from heaven swear by the one who lives forever and ever. I don't know if you remember that. You know, the one who made the heavens and the earth and the sea and everything else that has ever been made. And this concept of the one who lives forever and ever as the creator, as the sustainer, is it is extended to include the exalted Son of Man. We saw that in Revelation chapter 1. And so the one to be worshipped by all the creatures, by the very creation itself, the one to be worshipped is God and the Lamb. And this confuses people sometimes, but there are not two gods, nor are there three gods. There is but only one God, God the Father. God the Son, who is the Lamb, and God the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Christ. These are three persons. But one being, one essence, one God. And this is central to Christian understanding of Scripture. If you lose the Trinity, you lose the gospel. The gospel is Trinitarian in nature. And these days, as I mentioned earlier, there are boatloads of people. They want to erroneously make all sorts of boatloads of things to be a gospel issue when they are in fact not a gospel issue. But in this case, this is a gospel issue. So for the second time now in one sermon I've addressed something, drilled down to something that is absolutely a gospel issue. And with that important reminder in place, we now move on to verse 8, where there's lots of smoke in the picture. Now the same word for smoke, it's the Greek word kapnos. It was used in chapter 9 in association with the bottomless pit And also with the horses breathing sulfur and smoke. It also showed up in chapter 14 as the smoke of torment. It's going to appear again in chapters 18 and 19 as the smoke of Babylon burning. All sounds pretty negative, but the word is also used in chapter 8. As the smoke of the incense that's mixed with the prayers of the saints rising before God. And so this image is far more complex than we might at first imagine it to be So, on the one hand, we might imagine a thick, dark, odious cloud of smoke that is representing the angry presence of God. The image as a a token of calamity, of judgment, in contrast to the incense-perfumed prayers of God's people. So that's one hand. But on the other hand, the text itself makes it pretty darn clear that this smoke emanates from God's glory, from God's power. As in the Old Testament, this is the Shekinah glory of the Lord. Now like Trinity, Shekinah is a word that does not appear in the pages of the Bible. But the concept is there. comes from the Hebrew word that means he caused to dwell, thus signifying divine visitation on earth, the presence of the Lord God. So I've given you on the one hand and on the other hand, well, on yet another hand. So how many hands do you have? Hopefully at least three in this case. The third signification of the smoke in this passage is as a sign of God's active operation. This is not to be understood as a passive wafting kind of a smoke. This is an active purposeful smoke because God is a he is a living God. He is moving. He is working. He is a personal God. He is involved His presence represented here by John is an image of this sort of awful sacredness. That's what's going on here. And that is a fearsome thing when we really pause to think about it. Do you remember how the Israelites they they quaked in fear when the glory cloud of God rested upon Mount Sinai? Do you recall how Isaiah, when he saw the glory cloud in the vision, he cried out, Woe is me, I am undone! That's what we have here in Revelation 15, verse 8. No wonder no one could enter the sanctuary. Just like Moses in Exodus chapter 40. That's the prophet who communed with God. In a variety of settings. He couldn't enter the tabernacle as long as God's glory rested upon it. So all this imagery, hearkening back to the old testament stories, the old testament realities It is setting the stage for us to brace ourselves for the terrifying judgments of God as he pours out his fury one last time. in the coming chapters of the Book of Revelation. And there is no escaping the need for this judgment. Sin must be dealt with. And your judgment, well, it falls upon Christ if you trust in that provision. Or your judgment falls upon you directly. if you insist on self-provision. Now as we prepare to push into chapter 16 the next time that I'm preaching on Revelation, I want us to remember the context within which we live now. And it's interesting. It's a context that's put very well by a now dead theologian. He's dead, and yet he's speaking to our context today. Isn't that interesting? Kinda reminds me of that old saying, right? The more things change, the more they stay the same. I think there's some truth in that. By the way, if you don't read the writings of now dead theologians all that often, I would encourage you maybe to start, because one of the good things about the dead theologians is they won't wake up wake up on Wednesday and go woke on you. Right? You know the entirety of their teaching for their whole life. They won't disappoint you. Anyway, one such theologian is Lewis Brighton, and he writes Though defeated by the beasts in appearance, the church is nevertheless victorious in actuality. It is a victory that is not apparent on earth except by faith. It is a victory that will be fully realized as each Christian is taken through suffering to God's heavenly throne. And it will be fully exhibited at the end for all to see at the judgment and resurrection through experiencing suffering and defeat on earth, even as Christ did. The church is totally confident of victory because of Christ's victory. And so she voices in song her faith in the victory. Even as she goes into death, God's in control even as you go into death. Let's pray. Father, you're such a good, great, glorious God How you put up with this world, how you even put up with your own people sometimes is hard to fathom. Because we know that sin deserves justice. We know that we deserve to be damned with all the rest. And yet through your providence and provision, you have called the people to yourself. To have that judgment rest upon the person and work of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior And we know there are so many who need to hear this truth, and there are many who need to be reminded of this truth who do know it. We ask that the this truth, this this gospel truth, this good news would spread wide and far and that we would be privileged to witness the changing of hearts, the transformation of lives, the transforming of culture. Yes, you would help us to be obedient, to be joy-filled warriors, knowing that you've got this. You are in control. You are sovereign. We have no need to be anxious, no need to take our eye off the ball and focus on all the negative things around us. We should seek to be good stewards of what you've given us. We should seek to do well for our neighbors, our country. But help us always do so motivated by what will glorify you, knowing that in the end, all knees will bow. It's fate accomplish. We lift all this up to you in the name of our King and High Priest Jesus Christ. Amen. I'm going to wrap up the uh the stream now. If you've been watching, I appreciate it. Again, you can find us online at household of faith in Christ. com. Until next time. God bless.