And I think we're counting out. I think we're live. Hello, Facebook. Happy Independence Day weekend It's gonna be with you again. Last week if you were watching our Facebook Live video, we were talking about the whole uh Black Lives Matter uh movement and issue and black and white relations and uh we felt like there was so much more to be said by the time our hour was up that we decided to pick up again uh this week. And this week what we're gonna spend a lot of time talking about it specifically I'm not sure what kind of keywords the conversation goes, but the one of the things that was on my heart to make clear, I've even titled this this particular Facebook episode the this way that this is th this is not a race war. As we talked about last week, it's wrong to think in those categories anyway. There's w biologically speaking, there is one race, the human race Uh there might be ethnocentricities and different people groups and nationalities and cultural distinctives and things like that. And maybe we're at war over those things. There's certainly a culture war that's taking place. place, uh but really ultimately the spiritual war uh that we are up against and so I want us to uh to keep that in mind. So before we get uh going with we're gonna have uh as as become our habit, we're gonna have Angela open us and with prayer in a moment, but before we get into the prayer, do you have your jokes ready? I do Well he tried calling the zoo, but the lion was busy. The zoo basketball camp is growing by leaps and rebounds Tennis is a noisy game because every player raises a racket. And the inventor of jaw knockers should win a Nobel Prize. Thus end the most edifying portion of our evening. So um So if you would open us in prayer and then uh and by the way if you wanna if you uh it's not for sure but it's likely that we'll spend some time looking at the book of Joel. So if you want to have your Bibles ready and uh find Joel, it's in the Old Testament, towards the back of the Old Testament in the section uh of the minor prophets. So the smaller book is only three chapters. But if you get into the that section of the Bible, there's a whole bunch of small books of the Old Testament back back to back to back to back, it's in that area. So you'll be able to find it. of your Bible for your page it on and go there. And uh if we end up reading it, I think we might spend some time there. You'll be able to read along, follow along. Okay. So anyway, hands up. Our Heavenly Father We thank you, Father, for blessing us to see another 4th of July holiday. We are very grateful, Father, for the freedoms of this nation. and we know that they were birthed in the Lord Jesus Christ because your word says that where the Spirit of Christ is, there is liberty. And we certainly have have had liberty in this nation. And so we are grateful for that and we give you glory for that. And we ask Lord that you would be amongst us during this time together. this day after the July 4th holiday. Be in this discussion, Lord, help guide us. Help us to have the mind of Christ, Father. And help us to just speak what you would have us to speak. And we thank you for it. We invite your spirit and we trust in you and thank you for it in Jesus' name. Amen. So I have a few things that I have shared on uh Facebook in recent weeks that I'm gonna use as fodder for for helping to set the stage and providing some context for con conversation that we're going to have just to get us back in the mood of talking about the issues that have been thrown at us in in recent weeks. And those who pay attention to issues That are challenging the evangelical church. These aren't issues of recent weeks, these are issues of recent months or even recent years. It's been around for decades and it's been gathering momentum and there began to be a pretty significant shift and change about a year to eighteen months ago. It's really hit the fan uh this year uh and we're living through intense time That are going to define the future trajectory of the remnant church, in my opinion. So these aren't small issues, these are big issues, and yet there's all these related ancillary issues that are part of the conversation. So I'm just going to throw some of these things out there for what they're worth. It's kind of a potpourri of thoughts on various aspects of what things are talking about. So I'm going to begin with um on Facebook, I had exchange with someone who holds to a progressive view of the world. And during part of our exchange, he wrote I took note he's talking to me. I took note of your reference to the quote unquote evil we witnessed in the killing of George Floyd, because so many white and conservative Christians have run away from this issue They have lots of posts about riots, unrest, and damage, but almost none about his death or the many victims who preceded him without receiving. These posts tell me pretty clearly what's more important to them. It's incredibly disappointing to see a discernible group of people who think his death was not worth posting about Or commenting on. Do I think you or other white conservative Christians are less uh likely to oppose murder? No, absolutely not. However, are you more likely to try to justify the actions Are you less likely to recognize the long-standing systemic problems that have led to these killings? Are you less outraged when there is no accountability for Officers involved in these killings? Are you as concerned about insisting on accountability in these cases? Perhaps you could tell me. And so part of our conversation this evening maybe will help Answer him and people like him what we would tell them in response. And I don't want to jump right into the conversation just yet. Let me share at least one more thing. from social media world, uh maybe a couple more and then we'll start a conversation. I wrote this um a week or two ago I don't own a Confederate flag. Oh by the way, I want to start with if if you know it, I think it's pronounced Kente, the Kente scarf. Kente. I think it has the Kente scarf. This is uh this made the news a few weeks ago when uh leaders of the uh within the democratic caucus of Congress wore these colorful scarves and then they they they took a kneeling posture and um critics said it was you know political photo op uh defenders of the action said that they were demonstrating respect for uh uh specifically African heritage uh the African heritage of African Americans blacks who identify as African American particularly Western Africa. Uh anyway so that's what the Kent Scarf is, if you remember that in the news. So I wrote, I don't own a Confederate flag. Never have owned one. Don't intend to own one. I don't own a Kente Scarf. Never have owned one, doesn't tend to own one. I didn't grow up in the southern USA and have no emotional feeling about Confederate flags either way. I didn't grow up in Western Africa and have no emotional feeling about Kente scarves, either way. As an intellectual curiosity, how is it that one piece of fabric is counted offensive, especially when used as a political statement, and the other piece of fabric is counted appropriate, especially when used as a political statement. I understand that Confederate flags were historically flown by people I also understand that many recognize it as a modern symbol of pride in the culture of the southern United States and pride over defending the I understand the Kente scarves were historically worn by people involved in the slave trade. I also understand that many recognize it as a modern symbol of pride in the culture of Western Africa and pride over ties to the to this region that exists for some African Americans. I'm not suggesting that either is offensive, nor am I suggesting that either is appropriate. I'm merely grappling with why they're not viewed the same way. If consistent, then both would be offensive or both would be appropriate. And PS, trust me, I do know that consistency does not matter a lick in our new postmodern world. However, my ultimate citizenship is in a kingdom not of this world. Hence I'm not a close modernist. And uh one more, because this has been talked about a lot and with the Ever cl close uh ever nearing uh hope for start to the NFL season. Colin Kaeperdick's name comes up a lot. And a story that I think is related to the Colin Kaepernick situation, at least in the sports world, let's say the sports world situation might not be as familiar to you. About a month or so ago, uh Grant Napier, I don't know if you know the Name Grant Napier. Grant Napier up until recently was the radio play-by-play voice for the Sacramento Kings, an NBA team, and he was also a call-in radio show host. on a sports talk radio station in Sacramento. So he's a talk show host on a radio station and also employed by an NBA team to do their broadcasts. Okay, so that's going to be the context of when I bring this up. And In case you're wondering, I'll have to paint the picture a little bit. He received he was tweeted at. I'm not on Twitter, but I guess that's how it works. So he can can specifically draw your attention by sending a tweet and tagging you in it or something And somebody, a former NBA player, tweeted at Grant Napier and said, Hey, what's your take on the whole BLM movement? Now he's a sports guy, and so he's trained up in the idea of having a take, having a perspective, and sharing that perspective. perspective in a public form. That's what he does for a living. And so it's not unusual that somebody would tweet out to say, hey, what's your perspective on this particular issue? And so Grant tweeted back in response, very friendly, saying, and again it's a former NBA failure, somebody that that used to play for Sacramento Kings and he knew him I guess they were on friendly terms once upon a time and he starts out his tweet back and say hey it's great to hear from me it's been a long time I thought And then he said, on that whole BLM thing, you know what? All lives matter. Every single one. Grant Napier was fired. The radio station fired him. The NBA team fired him. He lost both of his jobs for affirming on Twitter that all lives matter. Now, you could make an argument that Grant Napier With a little tone-depth of the situation, and maybe he should have thought about a more savvy way to convey his thoughts. That's neither here nor there. The facts are he said all lives matter, every single one And because he said that, he was fired. So that's the context. And so I was in a dialogue with people on social media and they were talking about the on Kaepernick's situation and what was done to him was so wrong and he can't believe it and blah blah blah. And so this is a portion this was a longer conversation thread. This is just a a a a portion of an important chunk of that conversation I wrote, my thoughts are centered on pursuit of the appropriate biblical response for faithful Christians regarding the large-scale issues. So I'm tentative to enter a situation where it could appear that I'm looking to relitigate the Colin Kaepernick story, but because you've begun to center on Cap's individual example, it's likely important that I address it. Again, my motivation is to identify the path forward that most glorifies Christ. So my hope is that you and anyone else reading this will hear my heart. By the way, I guess I shouldn't assume that everybody who's listening to this is familiar with the NFL and their players. Colin Kaepernick was an NFL quarterback, played a big chunk of his career with the San Francisco 49ers. He was in a Super Bowl as the starting quarterback for the 49ers, had a really good start to his career, struggled a little bit later on after a few years. And And then he got very interested in his family history and lineage and very committed to what he sees as inappropriate actions by uh the government government and government officials represented by police officers towards people that look like him and he protested and he chose to protest and draw attention to this thing that he was feeling passionate about by kneeling during the national anthem before the start of NFL football games. So I I I'm assuming most people are familiar with that, but I don't want to take anything for uh for granted. Anyway, he continued to be in the NFL that year, but then he was a free agent the following year. By the way, for what it's worth, he had an opportunity to uh stay with the 49ers and exercise Exercise an extension on his contract. It was a player's as I recall, it was a player's choice on the extension. It was up to him. Do I want to exercise my option to stay with the 49ers for Or do I want to not exercise that option and put myself on the open market as a free agent? So he chose to put himself on the open market as a free agent at the conclusion And so he goes out there as a free agent and he couldn't get a job And here we are a few years later, and he still does not have an NFL job, although he's making quite a bit of money as a spokesperson and a face in the marketing for Nike sports apparel. So anyway, picking back up. Before addressing what happened in any situation, it can be helpful So here's some relevant context. The NFL made a marketing decision, a marketing decision years ago, to wrap itself in the American flag and alignment. This always felt a bit too jingoistic for me, but there's no denying the effectiveness of the marketing effort over the years. singing of the national anthem and demonstrating a particular decorum regarding the American flag. To help protect this carefully crafted image The NFL instituted rules governing the behavior of players and coaches. Right or wrong, this is what they did, and these were the rules individuals were expected to follow, or they faced consequences. I'm not a fan ever of sports teams regulating freedom of speech in this or any way, and I have consistently and publicly maintained this these rules and by the strength of his convictions he pressed forward. In the end, he paid the price with his team and with the league office. He also became viewed as a high profile media distraction if he signed with another team. Given the spotty performance of his play during the final couple of seasons, none of the general managers of any of the NFL teams decided to bring this potential distraction to their teams. This sort of fear is also what made many teams reticent to sign Tim Timbow. These circumstances were unfair to the quarterbacks, but it can make logical sense when looked at From a particular point of view. Tebow went on to try his hand at baseball, where he still seeks a platform for take talking about what's important to him. Capp went on to Nike, where he still seeks a platform for talking about what's important important to him. There are intriguing commonalities in the stories of these men, as well as some stark differences. Tim Deep Tiva causes a ruckus for advocating very publicly for the gospel. Grant Napier, the sportscaster I mentioned, he got into trouble for advocating publicly that Every single life matters. Colin Kaepernick advocated very publicly for protections from inappropriate police actions for black communities. These are all things that all Christians can applaud, at least at some level, and should be advocating themselves, at least at some level. It's unfortunate that Collins chose to advocate in a way that many Many were able to interpret fairly or not differently. It's unfortunate that Colin chose to advocate in a way that many were able to interpret. differently and instead of speaking for something good, he was viewed by some as speaking against against something good. I said at the time, and so this is not revisionism History on my part, then Mr. Kaepernick would have advanced his cause more widely and more quickly if he had chosen another means to draw attention to his cause. In today's televised and social media world, visuals are important Kneeling during the anthem while the flag waved in the background was a bad visual. was his intended message, got swallowed up. It was sad to see. Anyway, I've written too much already, so I will wrap up with just a couple Colin Kaepernick he advocated in a way that many saw not as advocacy but as a protest against America itself Some Christians think America is worthy of protesting. Some Christians think America is worthy of honoring. So Christians can't and do disagree about this. Regardless of who is right and who is wrong, it is noteworthy that Colin knew he was risking sanction for violating rules If he had any reason to be initially unsure about this, he was given warnings to stop violating the rules. And so he knew he'd get in trouble, and he did it anyway This is not meant as a criticism necessarily. Our Lord and Savior knew he'd get in trouble with the worldly authorities too, but he did it anyway because he had a higher calling. Compare this to Grant Napier The sportscaster. He wasn't protesting anything, but merely advocating for recognizing the value of each individual life. No Christian can disagree with this sentiment Further, Grant had no idea that he would be violating any rules for publicly valuing everyone's life. In fairness, why should he have? It's preposterous that such a rule would ever exist from a biblical viewpoint. And yet such a rule has proven to exist. But Mr. Napier was given no warning about consequences for violating it. He sent one tweet so that everyone who follows him on Twitter knows that he values each of their lives. The result is that he got fired from both of his jobs. This despite not intending to break any rules. If Grant was wronged, the Christian response can't be to say, well that's okay, because Colin Kaepernick was wronged too. Christians are called to stand for justice in each individual case. If our Messiah believes that every human life is valuable valuable then Grant Napier was treated unjustly. As Christians, I hope we can at least agree about that and support anyone who has moved to draw attention to the biblical truth that all people have value. God bless you. May God's face shine upon you. And I'm going to share one more thing. I'm talking a lot and sharing here, but I would but then we'll have a chance to just have open conversation about a bunch of stuff. So this I think we alluded to it last week, but we didn't get into depth about it. The creator of VeggieTales put out a video. His name is Phil Bill Disher, and he put out a video a few weeks back, a 17-minute video talking about the whole Black Lives Matter thing. And so this was a post in response to that If you like to sauce the tomatoes, if a squash can make you smile, if you like to waltz with potatoes up and down the produce aisle, then you've probably seen the 17-minute video posted In mid-June by the creator of Veggie Tales. Phil Vischer's masterfully crafted presentation of his political views has been making the rounds in social media, especially among professing Christians. As a result, I've had several in-person and online conversations about Phil's words, and now I'm finally offering my first post about it. Sooner. One can only wonder why such an army of professing Christians have offered up this video as something delicious for other Christians to gobble up. Phil does not quote Scripture once. He does not point to the gospel even one time. He does not utter the name of Jesus Jesus at all, nor does he even use the more generic and politically correct term God. Not once. Points from a progressive point of view, as it turns out, and the worldview presented is rooted or influenced by, or at least accidentally borrowing from, critical race theory, which is not a biblical philosophy. In fact, critical race theory is a hindrance to the advancement. What exactly is supposed to be the edifying message for Christians in this video? Concluding point made by Mr. Visher is that people should care about the devastating effects of sin. It took seventeen minutes of select Collective history nuggets, fast talking statistics, and highly effective marketing language to tell Christians to care about sin. Any true Christ follower already cares even before hearing Phil's words. And so the viewer might be excused if feeling a little confused and perhaps even short changed shortchanged for having wasted 17 minutes of their life. Some, administering a generous dose of benefit of the doubt, suggest that Phil's goal is to educate evangelicals Who, if the broad characters caricatures are to be believed, are ignorant of, or at least in denial about, the history and the lasting effects of what critical race theorists call systems. racism. It's all rooted in white supremacy, don't you know? But hey, this is the creator of the Veggie Tales cartoon. And the voice of Bob the Tomato. Those cartoons are marketed to Christian families, so he absolutely must be a trustworthy voice to evangelicals and followers of Christ everywhere, right? Well actually, exactly because of Phil Fisher's work on Veggie Tales, he cannot be a trustworthy voice for advancing the biblical gospel. Many Christian kids have seen all the videos. Many Christian parents have laughed alongside their children while imbibing most of the videos themselves. These animated short stories are examples of good, clean fun, highlighting messages of moral behavior This is good, particularly when compared to most of what passes for children's entertainment these days. However, the Veggie Tails universe is a kind-hearted, moralistic universe. It is not a Christ-exulting, Christ-centered universe. Let the body of Christ never forget moralism is not the biblical message. The gospel is the biblical message. Please don't get me wrong. I like VeggieTales. I like Phil Fisher. However, the cartoons do not represent Christ the way that most seem to think. And neither does Phil. His 17-minute political video is well c Crafted and advocates for his point of view very effectively. Yet, as a committed Bible student who is humbled by the good news, the Bible uh the video doesn't resonate with me because he's not talking to me. At best he's talking at me, which is about all that critical race theory allows. I'm sure Phil me means well and I know without doubt that you do too if you're one of the thousands who have shared the video with others. But Phil's video offers no solution. Because Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is the solution. And Phil's video does not offer him. If you have the time and want to take a deep dive into the variety of errors And biases evidenced in Phil Visher's seventeen minute video, then I highly commend to you another video presented by a man who clearly spent lots and lots and lots and lots and lots of time digging into the research behind Philadelphia. issues comments and then a link to a blog by John Harris called Conversations That Matter. If you're out if you're a friend of me on Facebook, you can go scroll through my feed and find that, but I'll make it easy for you sometime within the next 24 hours. Or so I will provide a link to the conversations that matter. It's about almost two hours long, so it's a commitment of time. But if you want to really understand the biblical error of Phil Visher's 17-minute video, then you can watch So I will stop there and uh open the the floor for some conversation. At some point we have talked about possible Reading the book of Joel. Do you want to at least talk about why? Dina's read the book of Joel how many times this week? Three. So three times she's read through now. It's uh I've got one there and it's marked No, it's fine. But it's it's it's one of the shorter books, it's three chapters long. Uh and so you can read it, you know, pretty quickly through. But what was it that you know caused you to read it and keep reading? having our discussion time last week as we were discussing the Holy Spirit just popped into my head and said for I would restore the years to locust date and I was like No, I think that's from the book of Joel. Like I just heard that scripture and I thought, huh. And then as I was thinking about it, I heard kind of like the voice of the Lord say, You need to read the whole book book and I was like oh okay so I did and it was unbelievable how it is so parallel to what is going on right now in our church and how we are being judged. You know, we are we have lost our way as the church and the land and and but there's a remnant. So the book of Joel talks about the remnant of the church and how the remnant is makes God's face shine and like you know he's just delighted in the remnant but it's a warning to us to make sure that we're part of the remnant to not get too um comfortable in our salvation. You know, we are to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. That's not that we save ourselves and don't get me wrong, but there's uh there's um a partnership that we have through the power of the Holy Spirit to yield to the spirit, to acknowledge the sin, to repent from the sin, and to then walk in the way. So that's where I'm coming from. I don't know that it's necessary to read the entire book of Joel. I mean there's been a lot of us just Talking as opposed to discussion. Certainly you're capable of reading the book of Joel on your own, but I encourage you to do that and to ask the Holy Spirit to reveal to you how it would um bless you because I I really do believe that it'll bless every believer. Here's some of the notes that my uh study Bible has about the book of Joel. I'm I'm just gonna left a few that will help to echo what Dina's so feeling the way she does about it. So it says the purpose of the book of Joel to warn Judah of God's impending judgment because of their sins and to urge them to turn back to God. Now I understand in the Old Testament, you know, but at this point the the Northern Kingdom's already out to lunch. And so we're left with the southern kingdom. And so they're repres they are the representatives of uh the of God's people left standing at that moment in history. And so this is a word to God's representatives on the planet to God's people and he's calling them back to himself and warning them of an intending judgment. Well who are his people in this moment of history? What represent People now, well, the church. And so is God warning the church of an impending judgment on the church and calling us to turn back? to God. It's an interesting question. It says, uh by the way, this is written somewhere around eight hundred years before the birth of Christ, in case you're interested in that sort of thing. For the setting, it says the setting is the people of Judah had become prosperous and complacent. Taking God for granted they had turned to self-centeredness, idolatry, and sin. Jove warned them that this kind of life Would inevitably bring down God's judgment. Boy, if that doesn't sound like us today, holy cow. We're prosperous. But complacent. We take we believe that there's God, but we take Him for granted. We've turned to self-centeredness, idolatry, sin. Man, oh man. So yeah, if you read the book of Joel, it is going to address our situation, I would say. So Uh I threw a whole bunch of pop priest stuff, things we talked about last week, things I just brought up, things related to the book of Joel. Is there something that you wanted to spawn off of from that and spark a conversation? Anything that anything that you wanted to share? It's just all confirmation of just I heard a woman from another church who was like judgment comes first to the house of God and the this is a shaking up and I see way too many Christians who are way more concerned about things opening up when they're gonna get their nails and their hair done again. instead of ending the Holocaust of abortion in America. And so I I it just all fits with everything I'm hearing and it's starting to change because in the beginning It was all when are the churches going to open up? I'm like, as far as I'm concerned, they can stay shut for a while, and I think God is sovereign over that and has a purpose in that. And I know that's not completely popular with most the Christians I know, but having seen the Christians in the church turn their back on ungodly ungodly government and allow the things that we've seen for the past sixty years, I I think he is mostly trying to wake up the church and salvation of course, hoping people will bend the knee. Um, but Christians need to get real. So I mean everything he said just aligns up with everything I'm experiencing and even starting to see other Christians and churches say, I think we're in trouble Well and it's interesting I'm finding that um you know 'cause A lot of people will say that they're Christian and I don't know their hearts, but I'm sensing that those who are um filled with the Spirit, because there's a filling and a refilling that the those that are being constantly being refilled with the spirit are like like we're we're seeing the same things and we're like, oh yeah, like there's a there's a kindred spirit through the power of the Holy Spirit. Obviously, that the remnant is like, oh boy, wow, like this is actually happening. There is judgment coming right now. We are in the midst of judgment. Remnant, I think, is a key word. Yes. And I I do believe be because you know the God is sovereign over everything. Absolutely. And he made good come out of the worst thing. Absolutely And I believe that a very good thing that is coming out of this whole COVID shut in, I call it for myself I call it a shut in, not a quarantine, because only sick people get quarantined and I'm not sick. Hallelujah. So for this whole cup COVID shut in, a very good thing that's coming out of it is the line of demarcation between people who are are professing Christians as opposed to, you know, having a an actual re relationship with the Lord and the Savior, that line of demarcation has been drawn and I think that the that um you know to use a biblical term Sheep and goats are being separated at this time. And that's not a bad thing. That is a good thing. Um from God's perspective. I mean it's it's it's a different thing from you know the dark side's perspective, but from God's perspective, from as far as his goals are concerned, it's a time of Testing. It's a time of separation. And um it it is a remnant. And what I've learned about the Bible um There's a thing through the Bible all the way through, even when God was dealing with Israel, there was always a remnant that came through that persevered, that got, you know, saved in terms of salvation under the old covenant, um, which we know Christ is the only savior, but you know out of faint under under that coven Covenant there was only a remnant that got saved. And I believe there's only a remnant that is in the process of being saved. But waking up is a very important point because some people the the whole church I think to a big degree has been asleep. Um and and and and God is using this trying time to wake up those who have been asleep. But his truth is he loves. He disciplines the LC who he loves and his his children who have been asleep are now awaking and we're seeing the children from the I I guess fake children if you want to use that term. Sure. We're we're s we' we're starting to see that more and more. So and there is I don't know if you agree with this, th the both of you and even Troy, that there is Um there is uh an absolute peace and assurance and calmness with those that I've encountered that are I feel like are are part of the remnant that is not present and the other people who are calling the again I don't know if anybody's are But I just sense and I've been just kind of observing just kind of observing if that makes any sense. Yeah. And just like, hmm, okay. And I feel And again, I I feel like the book of Joel reconfirmed this for me, that there's going to be an outpouring of the supernatural with the Holy Spirit with miracles. Miracles and prop like I feel like that's now. I I feel we're gonna see supernatural things happening to authenticate himself. So that God says Okay, church, I need to do this for you, but because I love you so much, I will. Like I am who I say I am. So yeah, I'm gonna do this, but I'm not gonna do this for you you, I'm gonna do this for my remnant because they've been faithful. And so when they call out, I'm gonna hear, but I'm gonna do it to show you how faithful I am to my remnant. To show that I am the God of Yesterday, today, and the future. I am the God who does all of these things. I am the same, and I am worthy of you taking a knee. I am worthy of you taking a knee. And that to me is I'm so excited. Like I'm super excited to see what the Lord's gonna be doing. You know, just the on the knee thing, yeah, I have a different perspective n than all the on the Right, on the football analogy was when everybody was so upset about the bending the knee, I was like, Hey, it's a start. They're bending the knee, like, right, let's go on to bend the knee for Craig Right. Right. I just was sort of like I mean I I I agreed with all that perspective and everything, but I just sort of added this little like hey it's gotta start somewhere. Right. Do it for Christ in either because every knee shall bend to Christ. So it's funny you profess Christ, but that knee's not getting bent. Right. And when I was having the social media dialogue and they kept trying to basically pull me and everybody else into the Colin Naper Kaepernick story and then narrative around that and I don't feel like it's the most helpful case study because there's so many uh facets and factors of how you want to view that and each Each one of the factors and facets deserves its own conversation. So I didn't want to go there. So I was like, okay, let's just go down to brass tacks here. We're talking about the whole Black Lives Matter thing, and And somebody was asked about that and his response was to say and whether it was you know, meaning to be a provocateur knowing that people would push back against it, because some people have pushed back against the responsible all lives matter. I get that. But he could have also just been innocently saying, hey yeah, I'm all for black lives, I'm for all lives, all lives matter, and he gets fired. And yet people are uh Christians. These were people These were Christians I was dialogue in with. Christians are offended that Colin Kaepernick got penalized in their opinion. And I'm not even that's why it's so complicated. I'm not even sure that's fair. He was a average to below average to oftentimes bad quarterback for about a season and a half before he went into free agency. He's not the quarterback that he was in the heyday of his career. He went into So I think yeah, it's still complicated. But when things get complicated, I think it's important to use another sports analogy as to our story Uh to get down to the fundamentals. Vince Lombardi, a famous football coach, Green Bay Packers in the 1960s, won the first couple of Super Bowls. The Super Bowl winner gets a trophy every year called the Lombardi trophy. He's named after Vince Lombardi. He's a big figure NFL history. And I've heard a story about Vince Lombardi. Again, he had these great teams that won NFL championships multiple seasons in a row, and apparently the story goes at the start of every new season, the beginning of training camp as they were preparing, he would gather the team around him and would grab uh a pigskin and he would hold it up and he would say in his own gruff, you know, New York, New Jersey kind of accent wherever he's from gentlemen, this is a football. You don't get much more basics than that. And so I think it's important for us as Christians, okay, what is the Christian football? What is it ultimately about? We as Christians the the the the the good news is that we are we are lost in our sin. We are broken down And we are the walking dead with no hope from ourselves or even outside of ourselves save God Himself would rescue us from it. that and so Jesus Christ comes and what was his message throughout the gospels repent for the kingdom of God is at hand so Ultimately, the football for Christianity is you're either worshiping this which is not God as idolatry, it is lostness, it is sinful, it is bad, it is death Or you're turning, you're repenting, and instead of worshiping these false gods, you start to worship the true God. That is Christianity. And recognizing how to distinguish between the false gods and the true God becomes comes with wisdom, it comes with discipleship, it comes with It comes with Bible study, it comes with seeking God's will in prayer, comes through all of those things, but all of them come down to the very basic fact: am I worshiping my Creator God, the one true God, or am I worshiping something else. And too often the something else is ourselves. And we start to worship ourselves and we forget that we live in a broken world filled with sin. to which I'm a big contributor. All of us contribute to the sinfulness of the world. All of us are sinners. And so when you think about it that way, none of us are victims. As though 20 years ago, 30 years ago there was that Uh Rabbi Kushner put out the book Why Do Bad Things Happen to Good People? Remember that book? And he goes about trying to answer it, which he gives a totally theologically non-biblical answer. Well, I'll let him up the hook on his argument, and let's go back to the title. Wrong question! It's not why do bad things happen to good people. We're all sinners. None of us have good moments by God's grace, but none of us, Jesus Christ, good person Everyone else, not so much. And so the question should be why do good things happen to bad people? Because we're all bad people And so none of us we're all bad people, none of us deserve anything. We only breathe the air that we breathe. I'm only going to take my next breath because God has granted it to me me. My heart always going to continue to beat because God has granted that my heart will continue to beat. Anything that good comes to my comes my way isn't because I deserve it It's because God, through his special providence or his common grace, or whatever aspect of his will is being expressed, is giving me something I don't deserve and praise God for that. Right? That's God's mercy at work. If we got what we deserve, we wouldn't be here anymore. So none of us, when understood that way, not one of us can ever think of ourselves as a victim. None of us are victims. If bad things happen to us, we're bad people. We're getting what we deserve. When we have good things happen to us, those are blessings, undeserved, merciful, grace-filled blessings on our life. And so any worldview that puts people in a situation where they begin to think of themselves and others who are like them as victims and a part of a class of people who are victims, that is a non-gospel message, is an unbiblical enemy of God kind of message because how do you talk to somebody about being rescued from their sinfulness and the condemnation they deserve when their self-perception is, well, I'm not a bad person I'm oppressed. I've been victimized. I've been held down and brutalized. I guess I need redemption and rescue from my oppressors No, you need redemption and rescue from the condemnation of your own sin. That's the gospel. And so anytime we have this victimhood idea and this agenda that's advocating for victimhood, we know right then and there that that is not a gospel proclaiming message. I remember once I was having a conversation with another um black lady. I use black and African American inter interchangeably because having a conversation with a uh um another black slash African American woman and it was on the issue of for expediency I'll use the word race. Okay. And um I felt that she did have what I viewed as a victim mentality. And so um I made a comment to her that I thought was she was a sister in Christ or she she she was. I believe she was a Christian. Okay. Okay. Um I made a comment to her just as You know, because you have these conversations with people, they get so far down in the weeds and you just want to pull them out and just give them like a a perspective, like a a a higher perspective perspective with which to view the issue. So I I told her, and I thought it was a thought-provoking statement, but I thought it was pretty innocuous Um I said, you know, I understand, you know, I'm I'm I'm black, obviously. I understand what the history of our people and you know the things that have happened and the injustices. I get it. I understand it. I said but but I think actually the worst thing that ever happened happened to Jesus Christ because he was sinless And you know, he was put to death for that, but we even we black people we sinned against other people. And it made her furious. That was her reaction. Her reaction was to get furious with me because I told her on our worst day, it's still not as bad as what happened to Crisis. He never said Against anybody. He was perfect. I didn't mean that to demean or to take away from the injustices that have happened. I mean sinners do injustices against other sinners Right. And and it's vice versa. People, simple, you know. So anyway, but I was just trying to pull her back and just say Come tie back and look at who was really a victim and overcame it so that you and I can overcome things and not think of ourselves as victims all the time. Just constantly we're victims, we're victims of this, victims of everything. We're vic we can we can we can overcome that. Take up your mat and walk. If you start there But if she hadn't gotten furious, you could have an interesting conversation and she said, Wow, I hadn't thought about it that way. And then you could have pivoted and you could have said something like, Well, you know what? Well you just said I'm not trying to diminish anything, but first and foremost, let's start with the person and work of Jesus Christ and his suffering at the cross and everything leading up to the cross And then so because of his infinite victim victimization, we can have additional confidence. We shouldn't have any lack of confidence anyway. But we have additional confidence that he understands our pain when we're victimized. Not to say that we're not also victimized. When I say there aren't victims, we're victimized, I get it, but that shouldn't be our defining characteristic of who we are. That's my point. But you can say Jesus can enter into that victimization with you and he understands and he can help you get through it and he can help you have victory over it. And you can have confidence that there's victory over it because Jesus says that that same cross where he is victimized, it is finished. Amen. The enemy felt like it was a great victory, d not realizing that it was his ultimate defeat, that Jesus won a victory for all time at that point. And so there's victory in that. Christians who have been victimized don't live the lives of victims because they walk in victory. And if we get that wrong, we get the football wrong, we get everything else wrong. And one of the things we've gotten wrong in the church over the last A couple of dozen years probably, maybe longer, but certainly the last couple of years, there's been this huge focus on the church needs to be relevant And man has that word begun to bug me. I do think that the churches need to understand their messages. Our message needs to be content. Contextualized. We need to understand our audience, who it is we're talking to, meet them where they are, share the truth in the way that they can understand and speak to them in their situation. That is not being relevant, that's being contextualized. Why I make a distinction here is what does being relevant mean? So being contextual means what does God think, what does God teach, what does God proclaim? And how do I take what's important to God and and share it in a way that is meaningful in this context? That's contextualization. I'm thinking about what God thinks and how I get the message out Relevance is worrying about what do the people think and how do I speak to them about what they care about and what they think. I wouldn't want to offend them because that would make me irrelevant in their mind. They won't hear me anymore if I offend them. That's completely inside out. We should be worrying about whether we're going to offend God. We want to be contextual so we don't act Accidentally or inappropriately offend unnecessarily, but the gospel does offend. And so we've gotten into this mindset as the church of we need to be relevant. We need to have relevance all the time. We have to woo them with things that they'll care about. And so our music changes. Okay, that's style, maybe not the most important thing. Uh the time that our worship services begin at then but change that, but that's a logistics thing, maybe not the most important thing. But you start giving ground on those things before you know it, the message itself begins to change. And now you're not talking about sin from the pulpit Uh you're not calling out specific sins as examples of what the Bible speaks about? You're not calling people to repentance, 'cause why would you repent if you have no sin? Can't pluck you through the solution if you haven't expressed the problem. But we don't want to express the problem because well we might offend them and then we'll come across as less relevant. And then our music not just our music stu uh style, but our musical lyrics. We have so-called worship songs that have nothing at all to do with Jesus. Have nothing to do with God, even in a generic sense half the time in many cases. They're they're s psychologically affirming songs, they're emotionally encouraging songs, but they're not gospel centered and gospel advocating songs. So in an attempt to be relevant to the people, the church as a group all of a sudden finds itself now at a moment in time like this when A voice of relevance is so needed, but we're no longer relevant to God. We've turned our back on God trying to please the people and giving them a message that their tickling ears want to hear Sure. And and it's it one I I applaud them, so I don't want to come across critical, but a whole bunch of pastors in this community when the whole Black Labs Matter thing uh uh uh uh was reignited with the killing of George Floyd, the murder of George Floyd. Um they came together as a bunch of pastors because they need what do we what how do we handle this? What do we do? What do we say Good for them, but it's discouraging to me that they didn't already know what to do and say and that they weren't already doing and saying it. That's we got caught flat footed. The church has been so focused on being relevant, on being people pleasers, on trying to skate around sensitive issues. And not diving into the word and not going about the business of making disciples, that not just the church leaders but the church attenders don't know what to make of this. They don't have a biblical response because if gotten flabby on just about any wisdom question because you can't make a wise decision if you don't know what the Bible says. And we have an entire generation now of professing Christians who don't know what the Bible says. They don't know what God thinks about things. Doesn't know what God calls them to do. And so something big happens like a bolt out of the sky, like George Floyd gets killed and now there's riots everywhere. How do we respond? What do we say? Well, if you had been biblically faithful, just keep on saying what you've been saying for your whole Christian walk. But we feel like we have to reinvent the gospel, and that's my concern is Too many, not knowing what to say, being ill-prepared for the moment, they're not biblically informed. They're not saturated in God's word. The Bible and scriptures are not the air that they're breathing, but they need an answer because it's an emergency. I've got to have an answer now. People are turning to me as their pastor. And so they go online, they find a blog, they find a uh an influential evangelical leader to see what they're saying, and too many times. There are too many of those people that they've begun to drink the Kool-Aid on critical race theory, on cultural Marxism. And so, oh, there's the answer. No, that is not the answer. And now we've been it's been infected. And so last week and now again this week, my motivation hasn't been so much to turn your thinking on things because if you're watching, you're probably uh on board with a lot of what my thinking on some of these things are anyway. But to help make us all more aware to recognize it. So when our pastors or our Bible study leaders or our Christian friends or people that we're interacting with that are uh are in our inner circles or our social media spheres, professing Christians, and they're saying things that on the surface they sound like, well that might be okay. There are times we need to recognize, yeah, it sounds okay Okay, but it's wrong. The Phil Vischer video that I spent time talking about. You watched that well yeah, there were a lot of uh horrible things that happened to black people in this country historically for a long time. That's so true. But he left out any and all of the good things that happened. He left out any sort of stories of overcoming that. And he left this picture of, yeah, everybody who's black is a victim. Angela is a victim and she can never stop being a victim because what we've done to her is a black woman. And I'm party, I share in that guilt because I'm a black man. I'm part of the powerful oppressor class and nothing I do, nothing I do can change that. What did I say? Oh white man. I was like we knew what he meant. So I'm a white man. I can never escape that. And so there's nothing I can do. There's no repentance for that. And we were talking talking about that the other day. One of the things that's so important about this, when we become prisoners of the classifications that we're assigned to, right? There's this group mentality. There's the you're a we talked about this last week, right? If you're if you're black, you're in one group, but if you're and if you're lesbian, you're another group, and if you're transgender, you're another gro And if you're, you know, dis uh have a physical malady of some sort of disability in that way you're in another group. And if you have all four of those groups, that's called intersectionality where all these disability groups, all these disadvantaged groups, all these oppressed classes that intersect and the example I just gave, you're quadrupuly oppressed. Like you really need to have the white people get down on their knees and beg for your forgiveness. Not that it will mean anything. that they can't really ever be repented for. And the problem with these group classifications is it's not individualized. Basically, biblically speaking, there are two Groups. There are the those that have Satan as their father, then there are those that have our Creator God as our Father. Those are the two groups. And you're either in one or you're in the other. And if you're in the one, the bad group, then you are individually called out of that group and you become part of the other group. So there's an individual repentance that takes place. So Angela, she mentioned like 20 minutes ago that black people listen and she had a friend get really mad at her when she said that. Well, if Angela and her black friend, um Decided that well, you know, actually you're right, Angelo, black people have sinned, so the two of us, we should right now here and now we, the two of us, should repent for all the black sins ever committed throughout the history. It doesn't work that way. The Bible doesn't call groups to repentance. I can't re I cannot repent for angels. Angela. Angela cannot repent for me. What's other white man? I can't repent for Thomas Jefferson. Thomas Jefferson can't repent for me. It doesn't work that way. So we start talking about groups repenting and Turning, that is not biblical language. And it and it steers us away from what the gospel call really is. It's you belong to this bad, unsaved, horrible, evil group led by Satan. And we're we want you to repent from that. Because the otherwise all you're left with is um projection. And that's the systemic That's the systemic opp oppression. Absolutely. See there's a grain of truth in all of it. Right. But they're not understanding the spiritual is that the system of uh the system Systemic oppression is original sin and Satan is her father. It's that's being projected onto human forms and that's why it's so unfixable. But so what I try to do is to tell touch base with the truth and then connect it back. And even um even with victims, I'm glad you know there are real victims. Sure. And and there are is a victim mentality. Sure. And there's persecution for Christ. And so, you know, what I try to do is and I do see too, I think, you know, some people are finally getting up and getting up doing something about anything. Right. And so I try to connect with and I think in their mind, you know, when we say Black Lives Matter and then we hear uh all lives matter, it feels dismissive of the true race issue. in some respects, or even um, you know, a friend of mine who was pro-life said more uh African American who was at the ri at the riots down in DC and he said more blacks are murdered by abortion than any other cause. Absolutely. And he was punched in the face. And so the same thing. He didn't mean to dismiss racism, but he It was bringing I say you say what's the what what's the answer to it is always the truth. What's the truth about George Floyd? He was a criminal. He was a really bad criminal and there was a black woman, I can't remember her name, but she pointed out she's like, as African Americans we have to stop uh martyrdom with these are not our role models here. Yes. She really addressed that. Candace But what she's saying is we shouldn't hold him up as some sort of iconic hero of black people when he really had an interesting past. So the labeling alone and I didn't agree with everything she said, but even and I'm very pro-life, so I felt for my person but I could being able to relate and say by saying the tr This is the truth. The hit statistics show more black people are murdered by abortions than any other colony. It wasn't meant to dismiss the also race issue. I think we get into this It's either or and sin is a multifaceted thing. And so I think if we acknowledge that piece of truth and then as Christians, try to connect it back to the spiritual warfare that's going on Oh and that and interrupt the progr the projection. Mm-hmm. And I agree with everything you're saying. And one thing that I think that would help that is something that Troy goes back to is when we listen to someone someone, no matter what side of an eye, you can you listen with mercy and you listen with grace and you listen for, okay, how can I hear you but also present the truth So you're not knowledge which part of the truth they did. They turned it into a little piece of the truth. But I think they could make sense sometimes. What's happening is everyone's looking to be offended. I'm listening so that I can catch you offending me so that I can so that I can keep m my stance of being offended because because I I I I don't want to be wet And I can't and I can't do that for someone. I can't I can't renew so we are to renew our minds in Christ. We are a new creation in Christ. You are well in Christ. So if we have that as our mindset, then when someone says, Angela, you're black and you're oppressed, Angela says, heck no. I'm black, but I'm not oppressed. I'm a new creation in Christ. That's right. I don't think so. And I didn't need to speak for you. No no no conversation, yeah. The oppressors are actually spiritually more oppressed than in some ways. They're embodied. They're embedded. see what they're doing. Absolutely. And boys. Some of them don't. I think some of them do. I think it's it's a power trip for a lot of people because see if I can if I can keep you in a guilt sure category then now I I have a certain amount perverse. Well and that's it is multidimensional. And that's more than one thing I think happening. And that's a spiritual tactic. Yeah. If the enemy can feel us, make us feel guilty for everything 'cause then we can never make it right. And then immobilized too. Yeah. And that was the stated theme. We've drifted a little bit, but the stated theme is again to I recognize this is a spiritual war that we're involved with. And so in the spiritual classifications. Yeah, the Christian loses in victory because the victory has been won by Christ. And so our Christian and anybody who's a Christian, you know, if you're watching this and you're a Christian, I'm sure you've had this experience where You're not feeling so encouraged. You don't have as much assurance in uh the security of your salvation as you might at other times. And you have a Christian brother or sister come alongside and you hear a message preached by your pastor or something that reminds you of what's true about you, that you have victory in Christ. You are overcomers. It's already done. It's just imagine matter of it it's it's done now and yet we're waiting for it to be fully completely realized. So we need reminders about those things. And so the Christian message to Christians is I know it's hard. I know that And I know that there are sinners running all these institutions in our society and they make things hard for us, and yet we have victory in Christ. That is a Christian message. That is spiritually Christian message. So what would the opposite of that be? What is the enemy's message? You have no victory. You're defeated. You're a loser. You've been wrong. You deserve so much better. You're perfect the way you are. Other people are holding you down. They're oppressing you. And so the Christian, their view their mindset is to have one of victory, and they need to be reminded of it because they will drift from that. Well it's the same on the other side, believe it or not, because um there is a common grace and we are made in God's image. And so even the worst of us will have a case until God completely turns us over to the hands of the enemy and completely turns us over to the hardness of our own heart, where we are called to uh a more righteous standard and moral living and that sort of thing. And so the people who are they're bogged out in the victimhood, the victimization, but they have these moments when maybe they don't feel quite so much like a victim They see somebody who's got it worse even than they do, and then they're like, well maybe you're not as much of a victim as I think I am. But that undercuts their whole identity because as Christians we're new creations identities in Christ. Outside of that, what's our identity? Our identity is one self-absorbed and the world owes me. And if I start to doubt that, I have less assurance in my victimhood. It's a weird way to think about it. So we need to have somebody point out to us how yes you've been held down. And if you tell them otherwise they get aggravated, don't you tell me I'm not a victim. I am too a victim because it's the right thing. can't let go. And so anything that's emphasizing classifications of victimhood or emphasizing how somebody is lost and can never escape because they belong And I'm telling you, I've been binge listening to sermons from across the country And I am horrified at what I'm hearing. The overwhelming number of pastors who are giving a pop psychology, cultural Marxist, uh critical race theory message at This moment in time, it's devastating. So pay attention. What is your pastor doing? And I don't say you have to lead your church, but I am saying if you hear some of these things, go have a conversation with your pastor And say, Pastor, are you I I'm not so sure I'm catching the gist of what you're meaning. What did you mean by that? And have them explain it and be willing to be iron-sharpening iron even with your own passion Especially with your own pastor. Maybe especially with your own master. Well and let me let me change the title a little bit but make the same same point but from a different perspective. So a lot of you watching, certainly everyone in this room, knows that we have a son with special needs. And a lot of the criticisms we would get as our parenting was, wow, you're really hard on on him. You're and I said, we need to hold him accountable to what we know he can be because he is not going to be a victim of autism. He is not going to be a victim of Williams syndrome. I see him as healed. I see him as as as as well. And so I I am going to obviously I'm not blind to the fact that he has limitations, but I am not going to use that as an excuse for improper behavior first sinful behavior to excuse things. I am gonna hold him accountable to the truth. And so when he acts out there is a direct consequence, but now but then and I remember Remind him all the time, Tyler, you are healed. Tyler, you are healed. And I want him to walk in his healing, not in his disability. I want to walk in his ability. Because he is So I'm going to focus on that. So I guess what my heart and what I feel like the heart of God is, is saying, let's focus on our unity in Christ Let's focus on what we are in Christ and let's amplify that as opposed to the other, you know, it if you want to do a feel-good message, so to speak. And it's just because there is there's freedom in Christ. How free it is to know that you are not bound by your victimhood. I can never, ever, ever say I'm sorry enough to Angela for what was done. I can't. I cannot possibly do nothing I do or say could ever make what was done to her family Family, right, nothing. Ever. Ever. So it's it's an in it's a non-fixable problem because it's a sin problem. And only the gospel, only the gospel can What I think with all that stuff though, it's still, you know, swift to hear, slow to speak, still listening and being sensitive and letting people share, you know, it's I think sometimes we can just go from we feel so over responsible to, you know, like nothing. We can still always listen to how people feel and just acknowledging I think their feelings. You know, God has feelings, Christ can still feel things. The problem is we think we can fix it. Exactly. But for most, even exactly even I just you know Deflating things is is acknowledging feelings and acknowledging where people are. And again, you know, yes, you feel like a victim, and maybe you really were a victim, and in some ways we're all victims of sin And here's some hope and encouragement. And I think I think people receive that hope and encouragement more graciously than when I deny sort of where they are or they feel dismissed, even if I didn't mean to it. Like I didn't mean to make that woman feel um denigrated because she kept her baby but she wasn't getting married. It was just you know, Satan used that again to me but you know same thing, it teaches us how to be more sensitive and um I guess listening to people. And even in my friend's situation, he was in a violent situation and it was wrong wrong what happened to him, but I'm sure you know he was trying to speak the truth and he wasn't trying to dismiss the r there's a true racial issue. I think people just get it there like you said, it's so multiplied that we think when you're saying this truth it's somehow denigrating that there's a racial issue. I I think it's because people have been trained to be victims though. I think I think we think of victim mentality in general in this country and I noticed it in scripture God never describes us as victims ever. Yeah true. I mean look for it. It's not there. Now we do we get victimized in a moment in time? Yes we do. We get victimized by somebody else's sin. But we are described in scripture as overcomers. And if we you know that that's what Christ he doesn't describe himself as a victim. And he went to the cross. True. Well he said forgive them, Father, for they didn't. Many times when he dealt with people, it was it's like he the But he did walk and and a victim idea is what I'm saying. Even though wrong was done to him, he did not walk in a victim identity. And I think we have a problem with people walking in a victim identity. That's the problem And they don't they may not uh uh uh have conceptualized it and they may not it they may not see themselves that way, but they have assumed a victim identity rather than saying okay what was done to me what was said to me it was wrong but in Christ I I have the privilege of overcoming that. I I forgive as I have been forgiven and I I I receive the healing of God for for what was done to me. And what does the Bible call what does the Lord call us to He calls us to forgive us Forget those things that are behind and press forward toward the upper goal of the pride. Do not call to mind, right? Just the mind. You you you learn from it obviously. You get wise from it. You don't forget it in the sense that you you repeat the same mistake. Right. But you don't just just wallow in it and marinate in it. And the the one danger that I have seen about people just d describing what they've been through through is that they just stay there and they just talk and they just give it power because they just talk about it over and over and over and over and they never move on. That's it. That's an experience but love is Well no it's patient but but what I'm saying is there's a time to move on. Right. the Bible. There's a time to, okay, I experienced this. It was wrong. Okay, but now I need to forgive. And I need to move on. I need to press into what God has called me into Because what the Bible what the Bible describes is that we are either progressing or we're regressing. We don't shred water. We are either going forward or we are falling back. options. That's my c concern with a lot of people. What whatever their sensitivity is, you know, there's there's a there's a gender thing, there's a race thing, there's whatever your thing is, uh a a real trap of Satan is to keep you there and you just talk about it and talk about and talk about and talk about and talk about and talk what was done to me, what was done to me, what was done to me, what was done to me, what was done oh no Uh oh woman mapped, one amount What your mother did was wrong. What your father did was wrong. But what does Christ want for you? He wants you to forgive, right? Be wise from it, and he wants you to grow in him because he has better for you. That's what the devil had for you. Are you going to stay there and give it power by just talking about it and rehashing it You know, a hundred times a day? Or do you But you not really sentiment though? Yeah, I agree with it completely. It's just yeah it's a process and I think even in our sin, you know It's like that all that process is very individual to our walk with Christ. And so again, I just go back to love as patient. And I I believe me, I've been there with and it's like no matter what you offer them There's no way out for them and so I just like Well there's no way out they don't choose a way out. What I'm saying is with with you you know what I'm saying? There's people that that there's a man that was we brought this illustration up before. He was at the pool of This is my favorite forty years. Because when I read this I felt like the Lord said to me when he when the The Lord had compassion upon him, went up alongside him and said, Pick up your mat and walk. When are you gonna pick up your mat? Oh, but this one gets in front of me. And Christ Christ says, pick up your mat and walk. Christ didn't go get the mat for him and bring it to him. Christ said, pick up your mat and walk. Just like he spoke to the one woman, said, Your sins are forgiven, sin No more. Mm-hmm. And so I think there's this call to action. Yes. As a There's this call the first he asked, Do you want to be healed? Right. Because so many people really don't want to be healed. They want to listen to Sure, and they rehash what was done to them ten thousand times. Right. I have compassion for people, but when I come across that I'm like, you don't really want to be. Right. So I've got to move on even if you don't want to. Right. Nothing I don't care about. You gotta love you. Exactly. We can love each other and that's fine. If you don't want to move on, what in the world can I do for you? Even Christ won't for force healing on you. He's asking me, Do you want to be healed? Right. And the guy gave kind of what was like an excuse and then the Lord said, Well I guess he's okay, I'm gonna give him a chance. Pick up your mat Mm-hmm. And he did it and guess what? He was healed. So so but so what I'm saying is what what I'm saying is there there we we need to understand there is that dynamic out there of a and and whatever a person's thing is Sometimes it is in the area of race, sometimes it's in the area of gender. Sometimes people really don't want to be healed. They want to hold on. I have met I the the heart I've had the Holy Spirit tell me me that person doesn't want to be healed. Sure. I have encountered Yeah no I have too. But no I'm telling you what what the Holy Spirit told me. Okay so I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm giving you My testimony. I have encountered a person in my past that I I need to go to church. Because she took delight the Lord. She was speaking about what was wrong with her, and there was a certain kind of uh So um look at my look at my suffering, look at what I've gone through. Aren't you she took a kind of delight in it. I could I could see it. God enabled so it it's God who gives us sight, right? He gives us us are our natural in our spiritual ears, our natural in our spiritual eyes. It was the Holy Spirit that spoke to me and said she doesn't really want to be healed. Because she gets she got a lot of attention from her thing, her issue And she liked it, she reveled in it, and she wanted to tell everybody about it. And so, you know, she she had the the appropriate downcast look. But there was a kind of delight about it in which in which she was sharing her problem and I listened to her for a minute and I just let the conversation drop because I'm like, okay, this person doesn't really want to be helped, so I'm gonna leave it at that. I'm not gonna keep talking to her Right. And that's fine. There are both people. Yeah, absolutely. Oh yeah. So I'm gonna let me just so any comments. Um I mean it's It's just people kind of agreeing priorities, you know, just you can read through them later. I've been answering them as they come in. Um population that reacts in emotion rather than in truth, Kathy was talking about She put posted that. Um Charlene's just commenting that it's a really great conversation. Um all part of a broken, beautifully broken group. You know, Kathy's kind of asking Okay, so in just a second, uh if Angela, you don't mind closing us in prayer a minute, unless you want to close us in prayer. I'm trying to find I did a lot of talking early, so I'm trying to limit it. My voice as much. But I do want to have one la uh 'cause you you each had different scriptures that came to mind and one that came to my mind that I want to share before we wrap up is the closing chapter Yeah, that's true. You know, thrown in prison and all these horrible things. His brothers bas you know, sold him and they're gonna kill him and all these horrible things happened to Joseph. Then at the end of it, what was Joseph's perspective was, well, y'all might have intended it for evil, but God intended it for good. And so I think that can be a healthy, helpful perspective for Christians to hang on to Is yeah, the world is doing a lot of bad things to me, but you know what? I'm gonna trust that God's got a plan. And though the world might intend it for evil, spiritually speaking, God intends it for good. I need to see the truth in that And try to understand what the truth in that might be and use that as fuel for encouragement to understand that we are overcomers and not victims. And have faith too. You may not see you didn't see that toward the end of the I think. As sometimes there's things that we don't see and we need to have that faith that that might be revealed to us until much later down the road we believe what he said, but we might not see exactly how the good came until much later. That's where the faith comes in. It was later when he could look back and read all of it. And we had to have faith in the beginning. And faith is a gift from God. We can ask for faith It's a gift, which is I love that. More and more. We're probably close to an hour and twenty minutes. This is our longest one. I apologize if this was kind of long for you guys. Hopefully you enjoyed it and got something from it fruitful. So thank you. Wrap us up, Angela. Thank thank you, gracious Heavenly Father, for a spirit of discussion. Lord, although it ran a little long, we trust Lord that you were in it. We uh thank you for uh what you spoke through us and we thank you for the people uh that were edified by it and hopefully many were edified by it, if not all people who listen to this uh um um discussion Lord, not only live but at during the recording of the discussion May, Lord, the truths that um that you spoke through us edify and and enlighten and Give people um your perspective on these issues. We are victors in Christ. We embrace that, Lord. Um we are your children and you are not a God who fails. You are not a victim of anything. You are an overcomer and you said those who overcome will sit on your throne with you and reign because overcomers reign in life. They are not victims of life. We thank you For reminding us for that. May many, many people grasp this revelation to the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. And it is in his name that we ask these things. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you for viewing. Thank you for your comments. Uh Dina's been commenting along with you. I'll check those out later myself. Not sure where the topic's going to be next week, but uh we will be back at six o'clock on Sunday next week as well. God bless