This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free for all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what real matters than what most others learn in a week. The Faith Debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the Sound of freedom. Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. On today's episode of the Faith Debate, me, Troya Skinner, I'm gonna tell you a story. And I can't recall if I've told this story before. I don't think I have. I think maybe I've told it in bits and pieces. I don't think I've ever told the whole story. kind of from start to finish. The story of the faith debate. It's fifteen years ago. Fifteen years ago, basically right now, that the faith debate was birthed. So going back to the beginning, I first moved to Frederick back in 2001. And uh it was in late 2001. Uh October actually of two thousand one when I began working for WFMD and sister station W F R E. And uh y in my capacity by the way was as a uh uh as a salesperson selling advertising for the stations. And probably six months or so into me working uh for the station, uh thereabouts, probably a handful of months, uh, I ran into a gentleman named Jonathan Schweitzer. who was pastoring a new church, a church plant called at the time, Crossroads Valley Chapel. And they were gonna have a marriage conference, uh Friday, Saturday, Sunday, you know, weekend long kind of marriage conference for the people in his church and people that the church was connected to. And they thought it would be a good opportunity to invite invite people from the broader community to come and have marriages strengthened as well. And so they wanted to advertise it. And so Jonathan and I had lunch We talked about it. They had a little bit of money to spend. I put together an advertising campaign for them. They had their marriage um seminar. And a friendship was born. John, uh, as it turns out, lives just like, I don't know, a mile from my house, if that, I'm not sure. It's it's within walking distance for sure. And he was having at the time a men's uh group meeting at his house on Wednesday evenings, and so I was invited and so I attended. We started having these conversations during the men's group that would start at seven o'clock and I think we were scheduled to end around eight thirty, nine o'clock, something like that. Uh and everybody would leave by nine, and then John and I would continue to talk, and we would wrestle over theological questions, deep Deep theological questions, getting into weeds, splitting hairs, raging over the debates that have been uh within the church over two thousand years. Like we were going to solve all of those. But we did it respectfully. John and I were coming at things from a different place, uh, but he was always well uh from a different perspective, let's put it that way, but from the same place. He was rooting his arguments in the scripture and I was uh a at least attempting to root my arguments in the scripture and so it really was an exercise of iron sharpening iron And we would go on for hours. And there were times when it was midnight, one o'clock, two o'clock. Again, we started meeting at seven. Everybody else left at nine. And we would continue on for two, three, four, five hours. There were several times when my wife would call at like two o'clock in the morning, Are you ever coming home? Um and we just it it was Such a delight to have those kinds of conversations. I've had some conversations like that with some other people, but never as regularly and never as spirited but respectful like I was able to have with John. And so Jonathan and I kinda would joke, boy, because he knew I worked in radio and he knew that I used to be on the radio before I got into the sales part of the business. And you know, we would joke, boy, wouldn't it be fun to do what we're doing right now in your living room on the radio someday. Hash these things out. Even invite other people onto the show to hash these things out with us. And at the time there was a a cable show. I don't think it exists anymore. If it does, I haven't seen it in years. But it was called um Faith in the Community, I believe. I think that's what it's called. Darn it, I used to know the name of that show. Anyway, I think that's what it's called. It was a panel discussion shows on television, a cable show. And and uh at the time the the then chaplain of the hospital in town would host the show, so he would host it every week. And he had a rotating cast of characters. It was it was always him plus four guests. And those four guests were usually one of the same, I don't know, six to ten people that kind of rotated the same general crew, but it wasn't the exact same panel week after week. uh actually of a friend of the of the program friend of the radio station friend of mine, Paul Bundy, uh former uh pastor here in town He was on that panel. He's been a guest on this show a handful of times over the years as well. He was on that panel all the time. But one of the things that frustrated me and John about that show was their guests would include A Roman Catholic, let's say a particular panel might include a Roman Catholic, a Protestant, a Muslim, and a Jew. And they all agreed about everything. All the time. That's not possible. There's a reason that a Jew is a Jew and not a Christian. Or that a Christian is a Christian and not a Muslim. and so forth. I mean there are important things about which we disagree. And we should give ourselves permission, it seems to me, and it seems to Jonathan Schweitzer. to give ourselves permission to honestly grapple with those areas over which we disagree, but again to do so with a spirit of of uh of of gentleness and uh uh and and politeness uh as much as absolutely possible. So that was part of a motivation for us Not just joking about doing the show on the radio, but actually giving it more serious thought about doing the show. You know, there's there's a call for it. We want to model what the cable show wasn't modeling we hoped to model that you could talk about things that are disagreeable and do it in a way that's not disagreeable. And so Fast forward uh a couple of years, Jonathan and I continued to have uh a rapport and a growing relationship and friendship, and it was 2004. And I can't remember exact oh, I remember now. I was leading a um a a workplace uh book study slash bible study kind of a thing. And at first we were meeting in the building and then the leadership of the radio station began to feel like that might be received poorly by certain people so they They you know, they said, you guys can continue to meet, would you mind meeting somewhere other than in the building? Just we don't want to ruffle feathers. They weren't mean about it. I'm not trying to make anybody look bad by saying by telling you the story. It w you know, they were trying to be respectful of us uh who were having the the meeting and everybody else who wasn't in the meeting. So no worries. So we we took the meeting off off campus, if you will, and met in a local restaurant. Uh a restaurant that now has been closed, it no longer exists. So that chapter of Frederick History is over. And we had a really cool time with the group that came together because it was eclectic. There were Uh it wasn't everybody wouldn't always show up every week. Uh if everybody had, there might have been, I don't know, eight, twelve people. Uh if everybody had showed up at the same time. I don't think we ever had more than maybe six, seven, eight at any given time show up. But there were there were agnostics, atheists, Methodists, Baptists, Presbyterians, Jews. uh Roman Catholics. It was an interesting mix, uh kind of an ecumenical kind of a group. And but we were drap uh grappling over spiritual, religious, Bible related questions. And it was it was really fun and enlightening in a lot of ways. I really enjoyed that experience. But over time, you know, it it became difficult for people to work it into their schedule. We met before work and it became harder and harder, particularly when the weather turned bad. uh for people to make it. Uh and so we started to enter into the the the the fall season, it got into October and um you know the threat of winter weather was looming and people said, you know, I don't know if we should continue to do this through the winter. People started to fall off. You know, we decided to okay, let's pick an end day uh a a logical place to end up this group study so that we kinda kinda end at a finish point and not just have it like fade and disappear awkwardly. So we strategized uh w how we would orchestrate the end, and that came to an end. Well then out of just out of as a courtesy, I went to the then general manager of WFMD. And said, Hey, you know that book study, Bible study thing we've been doing for a little while? He said, Yeah, how's it been going? I said, Actually it's been going pretty good. But we've all decided as a group that, you know, it's that chapter is coming to an end. And so uh we're going to have our last uh meeting next week. I just wanted to, you know, I figured you might be curious to know, kind of know what your staff is up to. Even though it's happening outside of school out of school, out of uh out of work hours and uh uh I said campus before which we already think of school. Uh and we're doing it off campus, but Um decided you'd want to know. And he said, Yeah, no, that's good. I said it was really exciting. We did this ecumenical thing, a lot of different people, a lot of perspectives and I think it was really good for the r for the rapport and the team building of the of the building. I thought it was really good. It's too bad. You know, it had to end. He said, Yeah, that i that is too bad. I said, Yeah, it'd be you know, it's the kind of thing that'd be fun to do on the radio someday. And to my surprise, he said, Yeah, it would be Now I don't know if he was just guessing me to death. I've always been suspicious he was just kind of telling me what I wanted to hear and basically guessing me to death. But he said it And so I immediately, my ears perked up and my body posture changed and I said, Do you mean it? And he kind of almost woke up from a stupor, like, uh uh, mean what I said, well you said it might be fun to do a show uh based around the idea of what our book study was, a variety of perspectives coming together to hash out what they believe about you know these things. And he said, Well, yeah, no, that that that would be great. I said, Wow, well, can I do it? And he was caught so flat-footed, he didn't know what to say. And so he said, Well You can do it, I guess, if uh if our program director is okay with it. So I said, Really? Okay, well, great. So I was concerned in the back of my mind that the general manager was going to call the program director and say, hey Troy's going to come find you here in a minute and ask you about doing a show. Tell him that there's really not room for it or something like that. And you know, push you blah. I'm not saying he would have done that, but I was concerned that he might do that. So I immediately ran to our program director and said, Hey I just got done talking to the general manager and he said I can do a show if you're okay with it. Are you okay with it? What's he gonna say? The general manager said it was okay. He doesn't wanna you know, say anything against the general manager said, Well, I I guess if the GM's okay, I I'm okay. What kind of show are we talking about? So I told him, you know, this kind of this ecumenical s uh uh panel discussion. Uh obviously I'm a Christian, unapologetic, uh and and will defend and fight uh tooth and nail for what uh what what uh I am firmly convinced is the truth Um but I wanted to show that you could have disagreements and do it honestly and openly, but still do it in a in a way that was uh winsome and becoming and and and people wouldn't have to end uh those discussions as enemies. I wanted to model that. And I also wanted to illustrate that not everybody agrees on everything. And that's, you know, that might be okay. You know, we don't have to all agree all the time on everything. And so he said, Yeah, okay, well I guess we can do that, but you I guess you'll have to put together a panel and you know, come up with a show open and that sort of thing. So, you know, m y you have to figure out how to produce it and you'd have to figure out what time slot. So I said, Well I can produce it. Uh I have a background in that. I used to produce radio shows in a former life. Uh uh was a a talk show host of a long form show, a three hour uh show, actually at one point a four hour long show So I I said I know how to do this at least well enough that I can I can fake my way through it if I have to. And uh I can put together a panel and get this done fast. And at the time we were running the Mormon Tabernacle Choir um um music for a half hour on Sunday mornings at six o'clock. And it was just filler, to be honest. The uh uh Latter-day Saint church was sending that to the to radio stations all across the country and some of them would play it just as filler on Sunday mornings. We were one of those stations And I said, you know, there's no money being made there. Uh I'm not sure how good the ratings are for that necessarily. Uh there's no contract for that. We're just running it as filler. Uh could I just have that slot? And I knew about that because I used to program a station in Syracuse where we did the same thing. We ran the Mormon show, the Mormon music, for a half hour as filler, so I knew what the contract deals on that sort of thing were. So I had a little inside track on that. Uh some might call it the providence of God. Uh on the ver uh on getting the faith debate birthed, if you will. By the way, this is the faith debate on 930 WFMD and I'm Troy Skinner giving you kind of a background history. So can try to figure out how to tighten this story up and shorten it just a little bit so we can fit it into one episode of the Faith Debate. So uh I guess d as the s saying goes, long story short, Frank said, Yeah, you can do it and I said, Great, can I do it this week? And this was like a I don't know, a Tuesday or something. Well, if you can do it that fast, I guess so. 'Cause I wanted to act while the iron was hot, you know. I didn't want to give anybody any chance to change their mind. So as soon as I got that uh that okay, I called John Schweitzer on the phone and said, John, guess what? You know how we've been talking and almost joking about doing a radio show? That time has come. We can do it. But I'm afraid that the rug gut might get pulled out from under us if we don't act fast. We gotta pull together a panel and like we gotta get and record like now. you know, let's get something scheduled for this week. Who do you know that would be willing to come on? So Jonathan, you know, he was a pastor in town. He knew a lot of people, and so he put together our first show's panel. Now at the time we had uh no idea of how the show's flow would be, and so we overbooked the show. So there was me, there was Jonathan, there was a uh rabbi, and there was a um a a leader in the Islam. uh c in the commun in the Muslim community in Islam. And we only did I think one show I think we were planning to do one show. We ended up doing a second because there was so much left to talk about. So we recorded two shows in the same evening and it went um Not as well as it would have liked. The tensions were very high. And I said, boy, this was this was really insightful and and helpful. The dialogue was really instructive. I I'm hoping maybe we can put this panel together again and do this again. And the answer I got was, no way, not happening again. So I learned from that that we have to couch things in a particular way and prepare and manage expectations going into the show. The other thing I learned from that is that having four people trying to contribute on the show was a little bit too many. We didn't learn that immediately. There were a couple of times we had five people on the show, me, John, and three others, and that was definitely too many. And we also learned that booking the show wouldn't be as easy as we thought, and so we decided to start recording multiple shows in an evening So that's why you've started if you've listened to the show for any length of time, you you've probably started to notice that we do s uh panel arcs, if you will, arcs of shows where it's the same panel for three, four, five shows in a row, typically four Um and the reason is we basically spend two hours recording four shows back to back to back. And that covers like a month's worth of shows basically. So if we do four at a time That's thirteen recording sessions a year as opposed to fifty two. It makes it a little bit easier to pull the panel together. Also the kinds of things that we talk about on the show, they need some air to breathe, you know, and uh the show is only like I'd say it's a half hour, it's really only like twenty five minutes. And we're talking about some heady stuff and twenty-five minutes i i isn't enough. But if you spread that out over two a two hour conversation, you can actually begin to get somewhere i in the dialogue. And you can do it in a way that isn't isn't quite so adversarial where you're trying to, you know, set the other guy up so you can knock him down. You can be more relational and and so that all became uh part of what we were doing on the show. as well. And so and the and think about it, a twenty-five minute show and the the couple of times we had five people on the show, that means everybody got five minutes on average to talk. And part of that is me introducing the show, introducing the guests, the theme music at the beginning and the end. We've had sponsors on the show over the years. I had to mention the sponsors. So really we have maybe twenty minutes of content divided by five voices. They already had four minutes. What can you say about deep theological truths in four minutes when others are trying to knock down what you're saying? You don't have time even to respond. So Anyway, so that's how the show began to take shape the way that it has over the years, where now it's basically me uh I've been the the the one constant. I've appeared on every episode of the Faith Debate. And by the way, it's been exactly 15 years. 15 times 52 is 780. We've done 780 faith debate shows. And we weren't even sure we would be allowed to do the first one. And once we got up and running, we weren't sure how long they'd let us do it. I felt like we were living on borrowed time for a little while, but once we got momentum at information and the ratings were good. We were the highest rated um half hour on WFMD on Sundays, and we were on at six o'clock in the morning. So we got moved to eight o'clock in the morning, or uh eight thirty actually. We got moved to eight thirty, and when we got moved to eight thirty, the ratings improved even more, and we were the highest rated uh show on the entire weekend on WFMD. So then I started to breathe a little bit easier, like they're not going to cancel us now because we've got people listening. Uh we we've got uh you know sponsors. We had as as many as three sponsors at a time at at one point in time. Um and so we had momentum and It's interesting how the climate has changed over the years regarding the hosts that we are the hosts, the guests that we've had on this show. Early on, we had a hard time getting conservative guests to come on because they were a little bit suspicious Why are you gonna have all these non-conservative people who aren't teaching the truth on your show? Why would you give them a forum? And I've always felt like, you know, hey, what do you gotta be afraid of? You feel like you're advocating for the truth, you know, the the the light will expose the darkness. The truth will be become even more apparent when it's contrasted with things that aren't the truth. So, you know, people advocating for the truth shouldn't be worried about other people trying to have a voice in that conversation. At least that's been my position and opinion But we got a reputation, Jonathan and I did, after a few years of doing the show, because we could only get the liberal guests to come on, or well not only, but we We had more success getting more liberal minded. By liberal I don't mean politically liberal, although sometimes that that's part of it, but it I I'm talking about theologically liberal. liberal liberal theologically people. Uh th th we were having more success getting them to come on the show and then Because the faith debate, you know, we would engage him in a way that made it clear that, okay, Jonathan is a pretty conservative guy when it comes to well, politics too, but particularly when it comes to theology, he's a pretty conservative guy theologically, and so am I. So we started to get a reputation for being conservatives. Uh and so the liberals weren't as comfortable coming on the liberal theologians weren't as comfortable coming on the show anymore. So then we started having a whole bunch of of uh conservative guests. Which was fine. We started grappling with particular Christian questions uh about, you know, issues like baptism or the Lord's Supper or You know, things that Christians fight about, you know, uh God's sovereignty and and human free will, uh views on the end times, things like that. Things that Christians sometimes agree to disagree over and we've we had those battles hashed out on the radio. Um and then we went through a s a season where we had a lot of non Christian guests on and it became more of a comparative religions kind of a show with with uh Baha'i faith and uh Buddhists and uh Muslims and uh I mean ba uh uh Mormons um Uh uh we never had a Jehovah's Witness guest on the show, which is interesting. Uh we've had a a a a very militant atheist on the show. Um all stripes of of Christian or or at least professing Christian, uh pretty much every denomination of of the of the Christian sphere has been on this show. Seventh-day Adventists, the Baptists, Presbyterians, um, you know, people more orthodox, uh people more liberal, you know, Lutherans, uh, you know, what you name it, they've pretty much been on the show. over the years and it's been uh our privilege to have that be the case. And we went through a season where a long season, over probably ten years, where it was John and I on almost every show, with rare exception John would miss a show. Then John ran for political office, he ran for a school board, and because of equal um time rules when it comes to political candidates, John had to take a break from the show, so I kinda did the show by myself with the with a panel and then John came back. And then John had a change in direction with his ministry, and so he had to take a, well then had to, I guess he chose, sort of it was a need. Take a bit of a break from the show. So there was a season when I had Jace Broadhurst uh on the show. He's been he had been on the show a number of times in the past and he would serve as kind of a co-host. uh for for a little while before that uh ended and and Jace has moved out of the area now. And so I did the show by myself again for a little while. And I use it as an opportunity to opine on some things, to share some sermon messages I've been privileged to and honored to share throughout the regions that I've been invited to speak. uh on occasion. Uh it's always such a uh uh an an honor and uh uh uh just a thrill really to be able to share God's word from pulpits uh in the local area. So I did that. And then Jonathan most recently came back on the show, but if you've been listening regularly, you notice that Jonathan is on all the time. He's on as he can, but he's got a whole new ministry. Uh Crossroads Valley Chapel became Crossroads Valley Church, which became a non-entity uh sadly after a little while. And so he uh Um has moved on to his cross bridges ministry, and that's keeping him from being able to be on the show uh in the same capacity as often as he once was. And so why am I telling you all of this? So that's the arc, the history of how the show came to be, what our motivations were. We wanted to be an example of how to have these dialogues. We wanted to be ambassadors for the truth. uh as the Bible would reveal it. We wanted to do so in a way that was friendly and gentle and kind and yet still uh tenacious and and and and and willing to uh to to do verbal battle uh over what is right and what is wrong and I feel like we've done a pretty good job of that over the years and and I hope that you agree. And so here we are on our fifteenth anniversary of doing the show. It's been exactly fifteen years, exactly 780 shows. And it's I'm not entirely sure what the future holds. There's a lot of things going on in my life with ministry opportunities and we'll have to see if this show will continue uh to exist. or not. My hope is that it will, but if it doesn't, then I hope that you will uh consider this to be um, you know, a f a fond farewell. You'll know if I'm on the air again next week, you'll know that this was not a fond farewell. You'll know that this was uh uh just a reminiscence and a celebration of our fifteen years uh on the air. So I want to thank you so much for listening over all this time. All the people who have sponsored this show over the years. Thank you. If you want to listen to podcasts, this show or other shows recently we've had, go to wfmd. com, keyword faith, or the drop-down menu with the show lineup gets you there. Um possibly we'll be back next week. I'm hoping that I will be, but we'll see. I've got to figure out these ministry directions I have going on. So if I'm back next week, I'll see you 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless