They're with a house church that's I think they uh kind of informally go by the church that meets at Enron's uh Enron's house, uh up in like the Thermont area. But I bet you're saying none of you guys know their names and uh you couldn't be faulted for not knowing their names because that's not even the point. The live stream video that we're recording right now, you can check that out later. I don't I'm not saying I can't hold him liable just like I can't hold the gun manufacturer liable for if I want to get a gun a gun and I misplace the gun and somebody uses a gun to to shoot somebody, it's not the gun manufacturers And certainly not 20 or 30 or 40 years instead of dying. That's a good thing. Things are returned back to the way they were intended at the beginning at creation. But it's all solved at the cross of Christ. I'm Troy Skinner. And if you go there, you'll see these beautiful faces. And if that's you, please let me know because I have people that reach out to me and they're not too keen on a house church thing. So give me a call, we'll talk it through. No, no. Uh but even through that, as I said in my opening statement, is we are all guilty of sin, we're all guilty of death, and the problem is there is a l a distinct lack of respect for authority in this country And so it's very easy for a criminal to move from one place to the next and continue to commit the same crime. I remember when I was a kid, and you know, this'll date me a little bit for the the younger set and it'll it'll make me sound really young to the older set because when I say I remember this when I was a kid, but of course you remember that. And oh you didn't have wedding clothes. There's a successful guy. And he looked really shifty and my wife would immediately lock the doors and put the windows up. But Eddie Murphy knew there's something was wrong because he said, look at that guy. But it's gonna get my attention. Anyway, till next week, thanks so much for spending part of your Sunday with us. Thomas Jefferson or that sort of thing. A statue of his leg. w we have any reason to discount the importance of a monument. And it says it you know, here's here's what what you should uh bow down to and worship this. I think slavery was good, but that actually is right in your face. No no no, no. That's why they feel safe. uh certainly as a matter of course, or be a drunkard. I haven't ever done I'm probably one of the very few people who went to who went to college and didn't do drugs, but um but that's I'm going off my memory here which is always as I get older I'm not sure I trust it as much, but I think that the context there w when it speaks against is basically speaking against the Yeah. Yeah, this should be this should do the trick. Well s people will say the same thing about oh there's no good reason for you to have a gun. No. Blanked out. Uh David Forcy is the pastor of a house church that meets uh the south end of Frederick County. Yeah. Um is it Isaiah or Ezekiel? They branded the right hand right where the thumb is, and when you show a hand to make a deal, you would everybody would know that you're a criminal. uh attitude. So that's God's lane. David Forcey, got starting with the Rasbees lately, right? They've written a number of uh books or booklets, however you want to talk about those sorts of things, resources, and we're going to do a deep dive on some of that stuff on the Faith Debate. held responsible for the children's uh misbehavior. You know, uh it it's really helpful if you're if you're trying to do a house search on your own and you don't have something in s uh set up to help you uh avoid pitfalls and There's there's a lot of people that say, oh, you shouldn't be shouldn't be dressed up, you shouldn't be looking a certain way or trying to act a certain way because that's all about appearances and we shouldn't be concerned about our appearances. Say shibleft and then that's how that's how they uh and that's how profiling started. And he's got further. We've got a potpourria subjects tonight. Connect with all of our social media and blogs and videos and even the faith debate and stuff. We do have those concerns on occasion, but you know, we tell the truth and what the chips fall or they may. Because that connects a part of what we were talking about earlier. Yeah, or and you know, maybe the events surrounding um that, you know, so I I think there can be um There's other passages that says don't make a grave and image. and have them as their gods, and that would be the time to tear them down. And they've got like the it's carved out of marble or granite or whatever it is, the the the big image of Martin Luther King Jr. specific men who whipped that flag at the you know. particularly the Lincoln and the Jefferson Memorials are uh very Romanesque, very much like a temple. Some comments on Mike from Imran, uh if possible. the I think even Obama said that the uh um the Indians from India uh helped build this country. Saddam Hussein's uh statue toppling in Iraq be an example or or if I wanted to channel my inner uh HW Bush, uh I say Saddam Hussein Sussein, uh is that an example? of things. But you should have your priority on God because we're not even on this world at at all. of who God is, who He's made us to be, how He has uh instructed us to love our neighbor, uh love our our families. And I think we're pretty good at doing our job on this show. it's very much a foundation and center is something that's shifting is based on what people want. And so the whole purpose of the Constitution where the Congress passes laws, Congress shall shall be the one that passes laws, is no longer in effect. emplointees or and from judges ruling a certain way because they couldn't get it passed through law. Final word of wisdom on this week's show. foundations that it was built on uh through legislation. You are fearfully and wonderfully made. In Christ, by the indwelling of his spirit, you do have the ability to live the life that God intends for you, and ultimately, in glorification, you will have everything and then some you could ever imagine. sessions for now so we'll we'll say that. trying to get on more followers. And their position of honor in this culture and uh as opposed to being shame and having a whole bunch of dislikes or being canceled or whatever. You're like, oh that's such a superficial, arrogant person that just cares about their body and their looks if they're if they're like a you know uh a um of the word that I'm Yeah. And a lot of times American pastors have a a a um will conflate pride with honor. becoming prideful and arrogant. someone is say I'm I'm proud of you or I am like I am proud of this certainly. um supermodel or like they care about yeah whatever. and oh they're just arrogant. That is household of faithinchrist. And you knew or you shouldn't should have known that it would cause XYZ problem, then sure that's a that's a crime and murderers should be killed and and uh uh just like any anything else. maybe. is probably the closest thing and it's and a strong drink and it does talk about how it it's a bad idea to be drunk. Yeah, directly. things. Uh Pfizer, but I I do think, you know, that uh you know the motivation of um i if you're a good Christian, if you care about people, you won't don't want drugs around. uh and every herb plant is for us, right? That would lead into a theological debate, but we're not doing that one. Yeah. and how that could be much more fulfilling and and a longer lasting joy than the short term of of a high. and thoughts. And I know that I cut the brake line before I do that, and then you die, I murdered you, right? This is just a reason for dictionary. Imran, you're echoing much of it. a darn good job looking for work and having a h tough time 'cause he was brown, but he did find it and he w he loved America for it. Uh uh I do want to say a lot of times people are abusing uh drugs the legal or illegal, because there's some legal drugs that people are abusing too but uh having all sorts of problems. And it gets only better from there when Christ returns and you and you live without any of those wants. uh ten tons of it. My position on this shifted about twenty-five mmm more than that now. Mm-hmm. And it's a hard thing to overcome and I would like to be able to recommend another church in the area and I just not I'm not sure who those churches are And they have a website as well. If you're looking for anybody that can really talk to you about who God is and what God can do for you, uh uh one of these churches probably do you a lot better than going to a regular church in a church You will give my hearty endorsement and I would feel good about that. Yeah, that's true. I would actually be okay with that. If this uh government or anybody else decides that I committed a murder and kills me, I'm okay with that even though I didn't do it. in the act of whatever and you bring him before the judge and I guess somebody's gotta hold him still so he doesn't run away while you're doing this, right? or acquittal. Because he stole a thousand dollars from me, I get to pay him another thousand dollars. Right. Death penalty. uh restitution type of thing. There's been a lot of people that have been wrongfully convicted. Right. Is timeout or sending them to their room some form of a familial prison, if you will, and is that sanctioned and God is i i it they're gonna follow you and they're gonna follow your family if there's uh crimes and sins that you're doing, that doesn't negate the possi the the thing that you're responsible for your own actions and and so you know Since there's a lot of agreement, there might be some disagreement on some minor points here or there, whatever. um the importance of a good name and so if you are right in a in a community and you steal and then you repay that you know, where we're not so and you know, this sort of goes back to the answer, right, that we were talking about last week a little bit, right? w would know that hey this guy can't be cannot be trusted. Too bad that that their their son or daughter got so out of control I feel bad for them as opposed to they didn't do their job. And people bring that up, oh, you want to stone your child? uh the wages of that person that he killed. So I I did want to take a second to try to offer a potential answer to the macro question because we didn't really end up addressing it directly. Uh, I believe there's an eternal hell uh kind of thing. So God's got his prerogatives. Uh and when we try to take on God's role and get outside of our own lanes, we can so that would probably be my answer on the macro question. So this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Conqueredbylove. Uh joined as usual now by uh three pastors in Frederick County. as mutual accountability partners and provide and and serving kind of as the the elder board, if you will, for the churches so that we have uh we have accountability and and we can exercise discernment as a group and uh and temptations or just navigate things wisely, I would encourage you to figure that out. Drugs, whether they should be illegal or not. The issue this week, which I teased at the end of last week's show, profiling, that kind of fits as well as his own standalone issue, but a lot of people end up Even a Christian uh uh a lot of Christians will say, Oh, don't be concerned about your appearance because that's not what's important. And it works in the reverse too. Right. And you see that today with the three-piece suits or you know, there's there's uh thinking of somebody right now who used to live in Frederick County, was a big mucky muck in the business scene, and he always looked good. That's not the look of success. to dresses like that, who more often than other people wearing the three piece suits that are causing a ruckus. So th then I immediately was black because the the con uh the woke culture now is you cannot do that. in our the way we navigate life. you know, bigoted opinions and say, you know what, that's not biblical how you're anything like that. The Gentiles also have the opportunity, but it's the Jew first. And so they're fighting the Germans and if the if if they're fighting a German who happens to have a good American accent, they could try to fool them. And so they would ask them and if they didn't know who Joe DiMaggio was or something like that, like, you dirty rotten Nazi, I'm shooting you now. But I wanna I wanna give an example of what the country actually is doing. uh so I I was uh very wondering what's going on. Like this doesn't make sense. Oh, it was the other one. Uh by the way, I didn't have the other thought popping in my head in the profiling thing. It wasn't the Nick Dolphy one, but he's a Detroit cop. But he's a really smart, capable police officer, and he goes to a nightclub with these LA cops and it's it's poking fun at LA and they're laid back and they're clueless cops and There's this guy that walks in and Eddie Murphy's character immediately says, Keep an eye on that guy and turns out the guy's a bad guy and there's a shoot 'em up that takes place in the nightclub. There's nothing wrong with being brown, there's nothing wrong with being black, but if it doesn't fit the context of what's going on, it it seems foolhardy to not pay any attention to that. So people act how they want to be treated. holes in their eyebrows and their nose and their lip and their belly button and all this stuff. And I told her, I said, you don't want all those holes in your body, because some people, rightly or wrongly, will make judgments about you, and it'll be harder for you to get certain jobs or get into certain circles of people because they're gonna be like You know what? And you want to be taken seriously as a young woman when you're an adult in the world. Here she is all these years she's never did. 'Cause there are some religious uh biblical arguments maybe on that. online at WFMD. Daniel Razvy, Imran Razvy, they have a church in the north end of Frederick County. So we have something for mote for you. You give me a collar or you know, uh my my cell phone is actually on our website. Uh marriage. kind of what we're talking about before then. Just you know, pass those via text. You know what? online all around the world, so I'm told, at www. And I'm joined by our regular esteemed panel now. to trust them and respect them wildly and uh hopefully as you listen to the show you will will share my esteem for them. my family in uh New England and they have a statue in uh I is it uh Vermont I think? Benedict Arnold? And then later he turned traitor. So anyway, so do you understand kinda what I'm asking here? And so that, you know, and you might set up memorials to remember both good things that happened and also uh bad things that happened. a memorial, you know, is really to remember something very specific. its fullness. God says, okay. And that that's why it really depends on the context of what what the intent is with the statue, right? You can tell him and you're gonna tell him this and then he tells him what to tell them, right? You know, uh but that's a different thing on that somebody later m dedicating a statue to your memory of that person, but again It is. a dude w what did this dude do and then read the plaque and say, Oh, okay, we're remembering that he fought in this battle or he di uh in started this to have any sort of a memorial that's not directing our focus to God in the Bible. uh monument. Uh the Indians w w uh were known to say that he was the one that cannot be killed because they shot at him and they had he had h holes through his robe but none no injuries on several occasions. But th I remember that saying it. This was not you know, we say this country was built on on godly principles, but with the slavery that negates a lot of it. So then that gives us a great opportunity to segue and pivot into something that Daniel at the b toward the beginning of this show when he said yes. if we don't know the past, we can't really go forward. the the kings and chronicles you have examples of uh you know a godly king coming up and tearing down the statues and the high places and the altars and all the different things. uh you know there's a lot of a lot of pride. Is that what you mean? Given the radio station that we're on, you know, the last two minutes of this show has some blood pressure rising for us as a group to help that contingent, anybody who's thinks that way that's listening right now, to understand how do I navigate that, because I do count myself a Christian, I do count myself a patriot. Right. uh very easily drift into um uh yeah drift into uh idolatry of of country transform our culture into something that's very left oriented. our center as individuals should be God first and then right and that's right politics will come from that. and they made regulations and changes that in effect became like law or had the purpose of law but were not being passed through Congress. and stuff is actually very much of an honor and shame, but a very corrupt version of that. Uh we are a melting pot, Daniel. There I probably do need to think in terms of what the cultural shift might be if there is more of a because uh I want to have language that will meet people where they are and if If the shame is the woke culture is very much sh honor and shame. uh the House of the Faith in Christ website as well because it's got their pictures and it's got a link to one of the ministries that uh the Rasvies do, uh Conquered by Love. What does the Bible say? that any drugs or substances should be regulated of any kind. sin to drink any alcohol at all. that which I think are very very ungodly. Y y are you agreeing or disagreeing with this uh stoner advocate over here? that that we have in scripture of uh of a a substance of some kind that um you know can be uh can be useful and can be harmful. So I I I I I'm just throwing it because we've got the little nitpicker theologians who are gonna want to give you a hard time, David. you know, a ghost gun is now your felon if you have created a gun and haven't don't have it registered and and serialized. making new laws to make people that are that are law abiding citizens. In self defense you could kill a uh somebody as a murderer and that those are two very different things. it's directly connected or or tangentially, but the time frame fits. So I don't think um legalizing drugs is gonna make things worse necessarily. How could he be viable? There's slavery that is more slave slavery use in this in this world now than ever time in in history. uh responsibility. Like for example poison gas. But others would say, Well, have you seen the size of our of our government's uh military? Uh you know, constitutionally begin we're talking about American constitution or what what it really should be there, right? But I would actually punish for what the Bible tells us to punish. Th without a lot of care they should be. But if you walk into say someplace and say and somebody asks, hey, I I need something to be able to you know remove a stump, and then you hand them a stick of dynamite and say And you don't say anything about that. When uh my f family came over here from Pakistan, they didn't come for free things. some sort of a relief or some sort of um you know feeling good about life or being distracted from your problems or stuff. You can truly accomplish that. difficult to prove right beyond uh a reasonable doubt. When you look at we we kind of can see the war on drugs back in the nineteen twenties with the war on alcohol and how horribly that went But we'll get into it today. building. So I do know that I would have recommended him unambiguously a few years ago. I haven't talked to them in a while, so but yeah, that might be a more traditional although they don't have a building. But I don't want to get down that road right now. um should treat various crimes. We're civilized in this country. And and and I think people especially people that feel like this life is the only thing they're gonna be a lot more concerned and careful. Generally when you see somebody sad it also makes you sad or depressed or whatever. then no mu no amount of extra few days I would have given him on this earth is going to c compare to the eternal punishment he's going to go through anyway. Last week I was that. and free uh cable TV in jail for the next number of years until whatever it is. Why do I, the victim, have to pay for something that I actually was right, right? You have you become my slave until you've paid back. that changed their life. the ultimate good happens to them, but that doesn't mean it was good that they were stolen and shipped across the country the ocean. Which doesn't seem to always happen now, but having quick trial, get it done with one of those guys from January sixth of uh twenty twenty one insurrection, there's no guns. because the police officer now became afraid for his life. that are taking one instance out of a thousand and making it so big that it creates fear in people. And that's I think part part of the issue is our society is all based on, oh, you're guilty, you need to have bad thing happen to you. Right. Forgiveness. Or is that a put together? punishment for the long term. the difference there. And if the family is shamed when their children commit a horrible crime of blowing themselves up, there'll be less people blowing themselves up. as restitution for the people that were blown up and that that that family would be shamed in public, that Bob or Ahmed or whoever you want to call him would not blow himself up. the question of being cast out of the garden. RASVI. in jail because uh police officers noticed that that person looked like they could be a criminal. they were profiled, somebody looked at them and thought because of the way they looked or acted, they probably were a criminal and then they went to jail for it. Right. Why won't that bad go away? Even if you're unloading trucks. But when I'm not ninety, but I remember when I was a kid, you got dressed up to go on an airplane. You h now I guess you still dress up like you go to church. There's the uh examples in the Bible of you actually you do act a certain way and you dress a certain way specifically for certain events of things. And then people saying, well, Jesus was a poor person. you know, well um wigs uh wigs on their head and that's how you knew that they were some sort of dignitary. walking down the street in the middle of DC and it was not a good part of DC but he was walking there and and we had no problem and then there was a a white guy that had a hoodie on and his pants were down his down his knees and Right? And that's that's not really profiling. sixth language they know and so their syntax isn't so good, their grammar is not so good, but they're brilliant, but they y your first instinct is that's not a very smart person because they got this not so good English And he's like, Yeah, I shouldn't give the uh children's bread and toss it to their dogs. said to a person that's from a different country, Oh, you're a dog, we shouldn't give to have time for you. It was for the glory of God. people maybe have pushback on that, but it eternity is the most important thing. And so they said they would they were trying to figure out which ones were the traders and they were all from the one side of the river and so they was they were saying, Hey, um say this word, Shibboleth, and they would say Sibyleth if they couldn't There were a lot of uh people that you were concerned because you know the uh a lot of Americans have German heritage of a thing. And she was going to the ringer. you know distinctions that are made where there's there's nothing wrong with that distinct thing in and of itself. You know, the whole idea is he's like this street smart hit really good cop, sarcastic and all that sort of stuff. You can't talk like a black person in the hood. I'm sitting up straight, I'm keeping my jacket on, and I'm you know looking really respectable because I don't want to be stopped for something else. We'll get into the uh the other topic. workbook for is your marriage hitting bad salarias? in an adoptive situation. uh roll over into more of your categories of books maybe the next recording session anyway. multiple issues over many shows. So today's topic has to do with statues. We got a whole bunch of things we were talking about before we actually got started here in today's show that we might end up bringing in, but I want to actually introduce what the planned topic was because I feel like it might interweave and connect with some of the things we talked about. What's the Bible say? And let's even go back in time before when these things were erected, was was it biblically appropriate to put them up? So so I I I sort of maybe I I sort of think of statues in that sense, right? Put this monument up to remember so that generations from now when your kids walk by and they see that and they say, Daddy, what's that about? uh ordained even, you know, monuments. And it kind of looks sort of like, yeah, we should honor and respect and maybe even revere this individual that's got this way larger than life statue basically carved out of the stone. It's especially, you know, never works out well when someone builds a statue of themselves. So yeah, there they're those are statues that's a statue that has people in it, and we but we don't know what people are. Or the Vietnam. Even a memorial statues of slaves. So I think everything we should do should have memorial, but it should be focused on God and how what the godly outcome would be. and they worship probably their their freedom, you know, that that they have or the uh for God and country but they actually in practice it's a flip, right? to be and they say that we want to go back to our godly roots and things, but that word they use Christian, it doesn't mean what they think it means. we're we're actually gonna start start messing it up. And there's you know, there's probably something to that, although I've been on the radio for so many years now that uh i it it doesn't quite do that for me the way it once did. Uh us talk about the cancel culture and tearing down the statues and they're going, yeah, right on, give it to those lefties, you know, those jerks who hate America and they're gonna be all there with us You know, we're making the same we, because um everybody in this room would identify as somewhere on the quote-unquote right spectrum of of life. They just want to put some things in place and make people m you know make decisions based on whatever they want. Seeking honor is a godly thing if it's done properly. between pride and arrogance and then just honor and shame uh as as far as that paradigm. Well if we all get high before the next one then it'll f it'll feel like isn't that the topic? on the internet at WFMD. Um so you can check that out. So uh any any missteps or misstatements we make is purely our own ignorance. You should define what what drugs are you talking about? b job to to say what I can I can't do. So I don't hold that opinion. to a greater extent, right? sorcery witchcraft use of it. of of different things. you know, the actions of others. you know, without regard for the well being of others. But that's not what this is about. Instead of that, why not enforce the laws of somebody that actually uses something to hurt somebody? is to punish but even when it says you shouldn't be getting drunk, there's no prohibitions against buying wine, drinking wine, selling wine, all that. Yeah, you don't need any wine for that, right? Right. prohibiting things make more violence. So w so that that has to be litigated. And if I wanna go someplace and and buy a bag of cocaine and hurt myself, and the person selling cocaine And the people in Ukraine are ho wishing they had that before. Because they're they're they're in lockdown, they can't leave their their apartments and they're starving to death. And there's there's several th things that you die for. Those are ridiculous. Right. So I I I think what what I hear Daniel saying is if we um punish the clear the things that are clearly criminal the way that we ought to God bless. What's that? uh all all of those problems that came with it. Welcome to Faith Debate on 930 WFMB on the FM at 99. Happy Mother's Day to you. We'll be talking about that a little bit. And if you're a pastor who's in Australia, you're really offended by that. So uh I was forewarned that somebody in this room would blow our socks off with their with their answer, but I don't know if that person needs to go first. That's not the definition of the punishment fitting the crime. So and I would say that even of my own family, whether I was convicted of murder and killed and I didn't commit it, I'd be okay with that. We are all guilty. um, a number of years back and uh and it came about about capital punishment. And I said, yes, because you think life ends when somebody dies. Generally, that generally even if somebody's not saying if i yeah, uh there are people in that that that don't feel any of that. Right, entire families are Christian families because they were man stolen, shipped across the ocean and and then So people that are in that situation where they're being pulled over. But the d gentleman because of all the stuff he's heard and seen and everything else was so afraid that he took off out of the car and ran and And then the police officer ended up uh using a taser on him. Right, where grace, mercy, like it how do we uh how do those things fit into this conversation But there is a s section that in in uh Exodus twenty it says, The Lord uh visits the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me. And they're cast out of the garden, which is polite society, godly society, and consigned to a very large, granted, but consigned to some sort of life in prison. No, we don't want this and so John said, Okay, fine. Timeout and stuff, I don't think that works. Okay. a a shunning yes, yes. put to death and I as my family if I had not uh raised them and or or punished them or chastised them because I love them, then I am responsible for that. feeling about this their young child who's been killed by the cops after he attacked the cop. They're like 25 minutes. And WFMD. All those places there's where you'll find the faith debate. Anyway, Daniel Razby, Imron Razby, and David Forcy are the three pastors who are joining the panel again. And we're in the past we used to talk about like one or two issues and do an arc of shows on just those one or two issues. Okay. Because you just made a comment that's that's more of a biased comment to start with, right? But those who disagree with me, and perhaps others in this room, would say, well no, profiling is bad because by by definition it's bigoted. You really do. in the last month there were six people that committed murder that were wearing three P suits. They never said it. based on that. going on. assumption to the premise that you shouldn't ever have any assumptions, then that's a um logical pit that you can never climb out of because you'll never be able to make any decision about anything because you have no place to start, no friend of reference to start from. Um so it's it is important. Right, so there's an example of God profiling. Okay. Um so I think there are some number of examples of God dis discriminating and that doesn't mean because you know, you don't have the same privileges as somebody else, that doesn't mean that you're not gonna ever have the opportunity to be saved, which is the ultimate thing. Okay, and during after nine eleven the planes were shut down, no booze flying. To me and I and I'm brown and it w it would have actually caused me more harm, but I myself said, Hey, what about me? And so that's an indicator we can tell for what that those people over there really seem to love each other. But police are aren't they trained to look for things that are out of the ordinary? I was even put in the reverse. And then some white guy shows up. homies, my friends in my in my neighborhood, then I'll put my seat way back and lean way back with one hand on the steering wheel and really like hang out because now I know I'm there and they would judge me differently. back in the day. We're we're aiming to get canceled by the cancel culture one way or the other. categorize them based on uh what what seemed to me to be logical groupings. Um we'll see how it goes. And um on the south end of the county, uh there's the Force Church, uh David Forcey is the pastor there. to is it to the person or is it to the to s certain accomplishments or events that happened, right? Um I think you can walk by and see the m the m memorial and the plaque and say this is what you're supposed to remember when you see this. Uh it's drawing attention to George Washington. put forward the observation that I can't think of anything in the Bible where there's a statue of a person. under God's mercy we had this. Correct, yeah. Like, if only America would stamp out abortion, all our problems would be solved. But those who think like us, we gotta be careful we don't make the same mistakes in the reverse that the left is making. Uh I mean if I understand you correctly, also you're you're not saying that uh politically that means that, you know, everybody should move to the center. Thank you to Imran, Daniel, David, I'm Troy. And there's a lot of fear as well. In your standing before God, you stand judged guilty. uh a sin pro uh quite possibly for a Christian to be doing drugs depending on what the drug is and and so on and maybe if it's a medicine that's one thing uh various places. So the Which has very sorcery connotations of very and very wit a lot of witchcraft. that uh where they are no longer in control of what they do and then they do things that harm others, they should I think that when you regulate and when you criminalize something, it creates violence and it creates more criminals. So that's where the difference is. Yeah, it it's just there are there are things in the Bible that that you know, going back to the biblical side of it, there are things it says the government's job is to do that, especially with crime and and and things But there is instruction in the uh Old Testament law that if somebody uh you didn't properly uh fence in your roof and somebody falls off their roof and hurts themselves that there's a constant there's a penalty for that. There's only a penalty if you didn't take the necessary precautions and somebody was injured as a result. Consequence, possibly, right? If this country did not have that huge breakdown of the family, the drugs would not be as much of a problem. Uh Daniel, I think you're saying like we we're not getting at the root of the problem. Right. But um and if it had come up earlier I might have just we might have just done both issues at once in two shows, but we are deep enough in it's like you know what, let's save it and tackle that as a separate separate thing Right? It's I'm hard-pressed to think of a church other than you know the churches that are represented in this room that I would have any sort of confidence recommending right now in Frederick County. So but if you're looking for a church with a building, uh it's hard. Because some some things are heinous enough that there's really you know, punishing them by doing the same thing to them wouldn't be good enough. And one of the things that people bring up all the time is what about those people that are convicted wrongly, that did not commit the crime, didn't did not do that? We are all guilty of sin and the punishment for sin, any s any sin, is death. um concerned about. Troy, if if if you steal a thousand bucks from me, two weeks in a row, I'm used as the example of like the the the the heel in the room And are I'm wondering, are we all kind of in agreement on prisons might not be real the way we do it, might not be the best and we should institute more and and try to think of ways to make a biblical argument. after the fall. Right, you have uh you've you've lost your reputation as a trustworthy person and that is going to have a just a natural loss of privileges when it comes to your your social interactions with other people. If you want to think of being cast out of the garden as a prison sentence, okay, but God did that. How they were found might have been because somebody was paying attention to only the way they looked. there's more criminals among people that look like that. Yeah. I mean he looked good. wearing things that look awful usually are the ones that are committing the crime. For hours. or white supremacist because they say that's what the white people do. Yeah. And uh yeah, I'm brown. be that would be an identifier, a way to profile you don't belong to us. But she got to be in high school and she wanted to have another piercing, like a third hole. a uh a website. very intimately involved in how to raise the thing. Or um there's there's no uh there's no good character that didn't have any uh applications of that yes was there are times when it's appropriate to tear down. So usually that that when when we are and when somebody says, Oh well, I'm not a nationalist, what they mean is that they're a globalist. and you know, who he is, who he's made us to be as as humans bearing his image, um, that that we will and uh and then we will not uh be appropriately um or even I I mean we won't be doing the best things for our country if uh you know, if we're forgetting about um you know how uh i if we're misaligning our priorities we're gonna the secular government ahead of God. transform Hollywood or these sorts of those sort you know lash out against Disney. A couple of decades ago I would have said that's the case in America. Should they be illegal? No, there is no in in constitutionally for sure. That is not to negate the fact that what one does while under the influence should still be a crime. if it's just like alcohol, then some would argue that marijuana or tobacco is is sort of like alcohol. alcoholic beverages of some sort are what's at play. how we ought to handle ourselves. you know, uh of business solely, money solely by itself. I mean 'cause you can you can turn anything you want. Intent in court of what the intent was with that. But if you're not careful and everything's fine, okay, well you didn't really do what you should have done, but there's no punishment because everything worked out fine, no harm, no foul. hurting themselves or hurting each other or or things like that. We are all guilty of death. I didn't say the position was logical. ending their life. There is no example of jail in the Bible. About about it depends on what you're stealing, so there's different variations. And then you start with a practical example, a micro practical example. biblically. Um without the natural loss of privilege within the community that they would experience if they if they stayed in one place, I if that makes sense. if Bob or Ahmed or whoever you want to call him blows himself up and knows that the government is now going to go after his parents and take everything they own Yeah. A lot of people, particularly from the south and maybe even parts of uh Maryland, if you're a fast talker, oh you some sort of fast talking city slicker, like I don't trust you, you're a snake oil salesman, aren't you? of profiling and play or some sort of instruction about profiling or times when he was a pastor had to deal with somebody's legitimate prejudice and and And biblically we do all have a place in God's heart for all believers. It's a way to suss out the enemy. And because all the America back then, it truly was America's pastime. And right or wrong, there are people who will not treat that person the same as if they didn't have those tattoos. And secondly, I don't care if it's like, you know, who's the best person you can think of uh in our American Bennett Donald Um in the Lincoln Memorial there's uh plenty of statements and that uh Lincoln himself said that God allowed me this this or God did this or Uh of Hitler up that we could tear that down? that America does tend to have a problem with with worshiping itself, sort of in a in a general way, American society. Right, and so um it so my my concern is that uh that without a without a right understanding of uh of God uh They're putting they're putting so much emphasis on, well, we need to have uh judges who will make decisions based on what we want to see from our leftist perspective But our mission primarily is honoring God. The polar opposite of the mirror image, the negative image, using a film term, of that is also a problem. Um it's just depending on who you're talking to, that's all I was just saying. The Bible, I guess the best uh comparison to that in the Bible, because the Bible doesn't really speak to cocaine or heroin, it talks about wine. Yeah, it's uh so so I I I'd agree that like the the context that we have all we have biblically really is um you know, is alcohol. You know, a and and it's true, you know, if we are if we're consistent about that, um, you know, in in in that we we punish crimes fittingly and reasonably Um yeah, I think politically it's you know that's that's a little bit of a a more difficult um thing. You know, maybe there are populations that are more more susceptible to or or you know, where you have where you have drug dealers or you know, cartels, whatever, where people are, you know, seeking to make a profit. I would certainly like to talk to you about why why you should find happiness in joy. Uh they know it will do them harm, or they know that that person is going to use it in a way that harms themselves or others Going back to the Bible, right, I think part of the issue is in our society, we have really softened response to crime and criminal activity and uh unlawful or sinful activity And what I mean by that is is we don't actually punish for crime, which causes people to not view crime as such a big deal and then they do it more. So that doesn't mean you should have a law against selling the dynamite, but the the that's the thing is that's w reason we have warning labels on things. that that that we wouldn't have to that that would do away with the need for all of these other rules and regulations to try and prevent people from Right like possession of a certain amount of drugs or of a particular drugs period is because intent is so difficult And but they wouldn't go away, I don't think. So that's the problem. So sometimes you'd have to have a bad thing happen to you and sometimes you have a punishment like if you murder somebody, but there's no other way to rectify that. to to talk about a little bit might be, okay, where does um where does forgiveness, where does redemption And and people don't feel any responsibility for the actions of uh people related to that. Profiling. People wear three piece suits and they go axe murder somebody. People who were uh the the elites of society 200 plus years ago would wear these weird coats with tails and white Each and every week, hopefully. like satanically influenced like a statue of Adolf Hitler. bad you know attributes of some kind or another. where it ended up being blessed, being a good thing. So I think all these memorials are important because if we don't have them, we tend to forget You can't have conversations about anything. And that's when they're being worshipped as an idol. So yes, I think it makes sense to tear down a statue to Krishna or to uh a Buddha or whatever. And we want to elect leftists into office so they'll enact our leftist policies and and uh and we want the the institutions to employ only leftist people because then they're gonna have influence on the country and That's my opinion biblically is certainly don't be drunk and you know your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit and you want to treat it right and treat it treat it. um you know that that that would give people a lot more pause uh hopefully before um There are a few things that you're not supposed to have possession of. So I mean I joked after the horrible uh thing at the parade in Waukeshaw, Wisconsin. But I mean if you can make legitimate self-defense reason to have muster guess. Right. Prohibition doesn't work as far as accomplishing it has proven not to work in accomplishing good for the culture and society. Biblical? So that could be an argument for prison. Or sometimes you you remove your teenage uh son or daughter from polite society by sending them into their room. I think the punishment should fit the crime, right? Okay. God bless. You're judging somebody based on the color of their skin, the style of their dress, uh uh the hitch in their gait, you know, whatever whatever it is. If you show up on time. But if if you're reading this passage in a book and we just change the names and stuff, you might say, Oh, that's a really racist person It doesn't something doesn't fit. I can try to do that real quick. i is is that everyone will worship something. appropriate love for one's country can only come out of a right understanding of We want people to be proud of where they live and their culture and their heritage and uh think the best and root the best for what we're all about. All of us are involved with three different house churches that meet together in Frederick County. Via the addiction of others. Unless un unless that can that's the only purpose or the main purpose of that manufacturer, right? Concordbylove. So there's there's two verses that i uh you know I I don't hear I I'm surprised that I don't hear unbelievers show these verses often enough as examples of how the Bible is so contradictory. Right? I've run into a lot of people that aren't serious about life who have a lot of holes in their body. Yeah. Anywhere in Scripture where someone erected a monument that was a statue of a person where it went well. Is that biblically appropriate? But they also, they're putting, if in a weird way, they're putting nationalism, if you will, they're putting country. paradigm as opposed to the Eastern honor and shame or the uh African, you know, uh fear and power paradigm. What do you do with various things, right? Bad. It's hard to imagine it being worse. P uh Peter Kemeney at Good News Presbyterian. I think we are to your point, I think we are all in seem to be in agreement that jail is not really a biblical thing, but what do you replace it with? Well that well that comes from the church and it comes from the i the the individual, but that doesn't come from the government, right? And and so that's um that's the seems to be a contradiction, but it's not, right? What we do and believe now has internal ramifications. But that is that's a different thing, I think, than than profiling. made what some might be considered to some some might consider to be an extremely racist statement to the woman that was uh um asking the um the gentile woman that wanted some help or some healing from him You know, it's in law enforcement, right? That's maybe more too extreme. Right, because this is uh a lot of uh what passes for conservative content is on this radio station. But if you're recreational drugs we're talking about, right? But if somebody ODs on a drug you sold them, then you might face some It's hard. Like no no No redeeming value. Should there be jails? times when certain losses of privilege would be appropriate, depending on the um And then the one thing that I wanted to show and I think we're running out of close out of time, but I wanted to make sure that you you got uh both all of you here is that I'm very much for the punishment of the family. When you say punish, you're not talking about um if if Daniel who's your son murders somebody that you should face the death penalty, but you're saying that if he commits murder, he should face the death penalty and that your family should somehow face some sort of a It's not nice to profile. So we have to be smart about what we do. um is uh you know is is is the problem that people have with uh profiling because there are Absolutely. question we'll be talking about there. Alright, I think we're still in. What if these were s I'm going to ask it this way and then get the pastoral uh input. Yeah, I I think uh I think there are many um Americans who call themselves Christian but are uh American first. I'm not suggesting in about fifteen seconds. So to take a step back though politically speaking, that's a very libertarian kind of view, right? partaking of things that will uh you know make them no longer in control of uh of their actions. That's right. And the a gun is kinda like that, right? Alright. Be able to back it up with scripture? They're still waiting. It's I kinda I guess I kinda lost my train of thought. We don't do that and because we don't do that, we cannot control that kind of crime. Dangerous though. Right. I mean the Washington Monument is very much like Nebuchadnezzar's image of gold, which was actually very much like an obelisk. Welcome to the Faith Debate. I mean there is in the Greek there's you know pharmacon and pharmacia which uh ha which is the root for where we get our whole idea of pharmacy and drugs and Right. In fact Romans says Romans thirteen says that's the role of government is to punish the evildoer, punish the wicked, right? This is a little bit different these last few weeks as we've been kind of going issue to issue to issue, and yet there is a bit of a connection. It can go bad, I get it. Okay. Uh yeah, getting uh to your child's heart, you had a series of books that seemed to connect with that. Come on, that's too high. A statue of his leg, because he lost his leg in uh in the war fighting for the the the co the Americans. It's a very different thing. You know, is is there a place for uh legal lawful intervention there? Right. And uh I mean we have all of you know, we have we have in the in the first five books of the Bible we have the law uh laid out for, you know, how how the Israelites should uh I mean he could be a chameleon, he could be different people to different per persons, and that's how you profile. Okay. Yeah well that's why I I added whether you know it or not or will admit it or not. Yeah, yeah. There's nothing you who knows what you intend to do with them. They're not committing the crime. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. And then it's done, right? You know, depending on the the crime. I'm big about people being in their lane. I feel for them, but to me we all deserve death. Right. I just had it and it slipped my mind. I'm gonna look at him and see, why is he here? Again, knowing who is most likely to listen to a radio station like this, they're going to hear But but what you're saying in I you know First of all I don't like that term because the Overton window keeps shifting and so what passes for the center increasingly left. No, I I don't think so. I think w one of the things that uh one of the reasons why certain things end up being made illegal is because um These days sadly true, right? So whether you committed this specific crime or not, you're guilty. Well there's also the judgments. org. Et Charity's all that matters. Well does that mean you're just locking up people because of the way they look, or does it mean that it just so happens that That's profiling by the way they pronounce the accent they people couldn't it was a hard word. Okay, can are you guys able to hang out or are you guys split too? Um the shows that we record tonight are actually gonna air, I believe, the five Sundays in May, if I'm not mistaken. But there was another one, I guess the monument was the stones in the Jordan, right? Because we talk about the monuments we're piling up the stones or this place itself is a monument. So is is that a biblical thing for us to have done so on that note, really literally anything that creates a sense of awe or worship that is not towards God is unbiblical. Right. At the southern border, a lot of that problem might go away if you get rid of that whole illegal drug culture. But the thing is, you know, a hundred years ago or two hundred years ago, people took pride in how they looked. It just said, oh, he's like five eight and um and that's about it, right? Or if somebody, you know, don't got no good English, you're like, you know, that person probably isn't very smart. Why do you say no? I mean I think it's a I think it's a cute little bit. So i if somebody wants to make the argument that that's the case, do we have a way of thinking through that and say, yeah, that's not really the best way? I'm Troy Skinner, a pastor of House Church as well. These gotta be like 50-ish. Well you're out and throw them out, right? It was for the glory of God and he was making a point. It's not yeah, life isn't fair. Yeah, so you would say that about a lot of patriots. You could have hallucinogenics, which actually open your mind up to some s uh very occultish uh spiritual things, satanic uh rituals and and things like that. I know where I'm going. So we got the microfamilial kind of example and then the macro, is there a biblical argument to be said that that would be an example of a prison system? That goes to the goes to the crux of the question, right? In fact one of the uh newscasters on on a conservative show said the reason I knew that person was black was because they didn't say what race that guy was. It's just the way I mean think about something that has nothing to do with uh looks, but has to do with persona. I don't know I don't I don't know what to promote for you. Well we can hold this over until uh we just gotta start the topic till the till the next time we'll start on and we'll start with the uh vaccines kind of question and then we'll Arrogant pop star is superficial, you know. But uh and uh yes. They're so ridiculous nobody even pays attention to the real ones anymore, right? First of all, God's going to allow it if it happens. It's just ridiculous. But they were cast out or you could say ca in this example, right? We want our children to get to heaven and that's what we're trying to correct for, not to correct the behavior here, but be able to fulfill their emotional needs so that they want to be with God. Monument it it's God instructs Israel to set up monuments at certain times. But that's yeah, I was I uh I don't know if I would change much of what I said I was trying to That's actually not the right way to reach them. That's actually not what's happening. Anyway, so they don't want too well. You know? Uh so the crime itself should be punished and and you can't make the manufacturer or distribution of something a crime I mean it's but that's the same thing with guns, right? org. So uh th the the reason we've lost all the wars and the and the and the struggle in Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, all those places is because the West does not understand shame That's their website. Which sometimes you know us used to be a uh okay. Yeah, well now they don't to your point though they don't have a family from which to be disowned. Yeah, which I don't know. Yeah. Right, yeah, it doesn't have to common sense. Yeah, but the one is a wall with a bunch of names on it. I think that alcohol, probably more specifically wine, although strong drink and some people want to translate that as beer. So those are crimes. It's uh oh that just m m old man's disease hit me. That were in a in a life of crime and they uh God can use all things, that's not an argument for it. Prison does not restitute the crime. And if we wanted to go macro, is there an argument to be made that Adam and Eve, they sin Then we were talking about prison. So there's that look. Uh and some people are opposed to any sort of ear piercings, but I was okay with a single piercing, one in each ear, you know, so two piercings I guess. com. Yeah, like marriage relationship books. It's like what is he talking about? God has a great plan for you, and all that is true, but absent of Christ, you're not going to fulfill that, and you don't have the strength to do it. But as recreationally, right? If they do an investigation, they determine you should have known better, you shouldn't have sold it, and you could be held liable. Let me introduce the panel. Is that what we should be doing? I think I um Isaiah that says the fathers shall not be put to death for the children, nor the children for their fathers, but every man should be put to death for his own sins. Sure, what what do you do in this life makes a difference for eternity, right? That's the look of somebody who maybe doesn't care that much about what's going on in society and culture. I brought 'em. Um but I you know I I think I think probably these you know the statue should represent that but you know again all all characters So there were several instances that he's pointed to God. Alright, well I'm gonna jump into the next thing try to since we got started a little bit late I want to try to see if we can still get five in. I don't think that the the uh the government should create more rules to make more criminals. And you don't explain to them that, you know, you gotta stay back ten, fifteen, hundred yards, two hundred yards when you light it off saying what what what do we need to be active about like what are the right so like saying like the strengthening of the family So I've already caused enough. People who are on the political right get outraged. And so they wanted to remember when he was not a traitor. What's the break line on a big bag of cocaine? And that's why I tried to bring that in at the end because it's that's really what's the problem. You can check out their ministry stuff there. However, with that said, you need the Bible does prescribe you need two witnesses. You you wore a three piece suit and you took the jacket off, you still have the vest and you're unloading trucks. Or maybe it's just this one time. Thank you so much for listening to the Faith Debate Today. So there's actually a conflation of all three, which um is very interesting to me. I mean God gave us free will. Well yeah, but what was it your fault that they blew themselves up with that dynamite? Maybe somebody just likes to hoard cocaine. Hopefully you are duly honored by those in your life today. And uh, you know, if you're if you're uh a close enough page to where we are, or you know, if it's me giving the recommendation where I am. And so we can't we don't want to, you know, hurt somebody. Shame on us. Right? And then you uh uh haven't written those books, but you know, a homeschool family very Right. Without any any sometimes any charges. In fact, if uh you do have children that you're having some chalk challenges with, go to conquerbylove. It's like Sesame Street. It can be ugly, I get it. My Church Household of Faith in Christ is also online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com Sometimes we we talk about one issue or two issues over the course of many shows. So cancel culture, you know, those on the conservative side call them like the woke mob and they're tearing down statues of Christopher Christopher Columbus or Tom com where you can live stream or you can listen to this show later via podcast. But based on body language and things already said, I feel like David might have some questions or potential pushback or need for clarification. In fact, it has been accomplished for you by Jesus Christ. If you'd like to know more about that, go to my website, household of faith in Christ. That's true. That was, you know, it's essentially is a a loss of privil privilege, right? And I think i we should really discuss you know what is the biblical. Well police officers of I mean I I am not a police officer and I don't come from a law enforcement family, so I don't know a lot about it. Or dial a phone at least. Do you guys are you guys echoing his no, by the way? We have to figure that out, right? If you w uh one the the the most frustrating to me thing to me about the prison system that we have in America is Yes, if he's an adult and he's a drunkard and he's doing this, yes. The government's got their role. We want to make it clear. And that's why profiling I think has a place. I look like a terrorist if you want to profile me. So that's what I was thinking the the the subject areas would be. I think that'll work. There's a set of headphones to your left. And what the cancel culture is doing is eliminating the past and changing it completely. So we just or toss salad, depending on what you're talking to. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here at News Radio 930 WFMD. Um I think Daniel Daniel makes a good point there to say, right, like there is if someone is choosing to do something Like the FDA, for example? Now, just the other day we had, you know, crime committed in the subway in New York and none of the media even said what color the person was. I was like they're going out of their way to look at somebody else that absolutely does not fit the profile and I fit the profile and they didn't even look at me. I'm going to do it on purpose in this context. I have a lot more opinions about families. And I'm not trying to pick on MLK. Because if you have a conversation even about something that was in the past that you may disagree with or you don't like, it's it's not acceptable anymore. So if I'm making yeah. Yeah, the next one is prison directly. Or have to pay some sort of rest restitution. I'm not sure I can't remember. Is it appropriate? If I'm a cop, that gets my attention. And so there's nothing wrong with profile. I was gonna get into the uh uh the books. So there are commandments to tear down those types of statues. Okay, so with that in mind, and I do want to there's so many things both in my head, but I'm gonna I'm gonna try to exercise some discipline. It's with the listener in mind, we're trying to help people understand what the Bible does and doesn't say, how to apply that, not apply that to your life and situations. No. It's not necessarily saying don't use this stuff, but in that culture it was used in black magic kind of stuff. You can use anything. But yeah, and right now we have the probably the worst in history of slavery Yeah. And I'm wondering if all these problems we have, you know, by putting this war on drugs, if we got rid of the war on drugs Then doesn't that it's okay. But but a lot of people I mean they they may call themselves atheists, but they do care and then because it makes us feel bad when we see other people feeling bad That's a political punishment. There's no respect for authority. Th there'd be less people doing that. So David Forsy, pastor of a house church, also pastors of a house church, the same house church as it turns out, uh Daniel and Imran Lots of cool parenting stuff. So profiling is the practice itself just by definition bigoted? I know, I saw somebody just today walking that way and they I I really wanted to put the window down and say, you know, you really look like an idiot He always his clothes were just impeccable and the way he put himself together, he just looked sharp all the time. That's a more obscure passage, but so for those of you who don't know, there was the two tribes were fighting and from one side of the river they had an accent. So she's I don't know if she agrees with me per se, but she decided she didn't want it anymore. So that's on next week's Faith Debate Show. I just didn't plug them in. And pencil culture. So context I think does matter. So you don't have to react to my comment here in a second, but whatever your thoughts you have so far, I'd like you to jump in. Um but regardless, I think and most Christians would agree that it it's wrong to be drunk. It is hard to imagine. I know that I'm going to be with God and I am clear of my sin and I'm Troy Skinner, the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. Hey Facebook, how are you? So we I promise you we didn't all do a toke right before the show Hey, all the COVID drugs are free. And from a practical standpoint, I don't think anyone has ever done that. Well it de it depends. So if we die and we're killed wrongly, God is in charge, God is in control. Not that you shouldn't be careful when you're when you're you know, uh judging somebody for a crime, you know, you should be extremely careful. You could also use uh hell, unless you're an annihilationist, which I'm not. com and available on podcast at household of faith in Christ dot com. It doesn't specifically say this was a really God-honoring thing to do. I think that's talking about when you worship it. You know, i if if if someone is knowingly uh giving something to someone No, about twenty-five years ago. So if I can get it with you. The temple itself, as it was built, was a bit of a monument. com, household of faithinchrist. So but something can be and it's certainly if it's involved in witchcraft, and that will be something the government has a position to ban or to stop. I'm Froy Skinner, pastor of a church called Household of Faith in Christ. What are the alternative sanctions for crime? Um and they would say when they when it when you have Jesus drinking wine or you have godly people drinking wine, they just it just means grape juice. People we will say, oh well cocaine in this and out, there's no good reason for you to have that. The problems wouldn't go away, but they I don't think they to your point, they wouldn't be anywhere near as dramatic as what we've had to live through and the sex trade stuff diminishes. We we need more brothers. Peter Kemeney has been on this show in the past and I I I've known him for a while and uh I haven't paid close attention to where he is on some of the issues that have really reared their ugly head the last couple of years And the whole thing was because the tail light was out and he was just being friendly and said, Hey, you have a tail light out, you should get it fixed. Then you can't live forever because you here's the consequences of of your actions. Of course a lot of people are in prison because of the drug question, so there's a connection there. But but you know what I mean by that. Okay? You have to watch the T V and and speak clearly English so people take you seriously Like those were marriage, the marriage relationship. Sorry, Facebook, you can jumble in your camera. Or there's all sorts of iconic stuff up about Lenin and Stalin and Russia. Are you referencing the selfie society that we have today? So they had to use appointees. So where do you where do you draw the line and what uh what happens? That that's what happened with the prohibition of alcohol in the nineteen twenties is is it created more violence. It's it did you know that this was going to be a problem and that it it is very likely to cause X, Y, and Z to happen? The drugs don't really have anything to do with it. That's part of why we're doing what we're doing because uh I know I'm biased. Is there a better way? The only possible uh comparison would be a holding place until trial. Probably for the drugs, right? There have been ro a lot of people that uh were uh uh targeted because of their skin color, and I know people that have, and I've seen plenty of videos to pr do that So the that he was punished that way. Now he might not have been a successful guy, but think it to you making if that's the case. There's no where is that written that life has to be fair? And I think the same would apply then to any any sort of drug that is going to ham uh uh impair your judgment just like alcohol does and in many cases So that you know, we mentioned the gun thing. You c but to your point, you can use uh water as a weapon. If you steal something, you don't sit in jail and make the person you stole from pay f taxes to feed you for the next ten years. That's the whole reason why you have warning labels on things and I think sometimes we take them to the too extreme. I'm not sure, but I think as this show airs, it's Mother's Day, so happy shout-out, Mother's Day, to anybody who's uh got some babies, whether they're little babies or grown-up babies. God giving first right to the Jews. Imran Razvy, he's a pastor in the north end of Frederick County. What the punishment is. If you don't have the money, you pay back. I I think I think what we see biblically that sort of is like this is um like there's a lot of talk in Proverbs about how the value of a good name. God can cast out, God can put somebody in prison, God can put somebody in hell, that got God can strike somebody dead, and it's not murder. Well, if if we can hang in there, we have scheduled to do five and we've only done three, so we do have technically two more to try to squeeze in if we can. He d he wouldn't he wouldn't dress up fancy or anything. And Paul was also you know, even though his whole ministry was to the Gentiles, Paul was very clear. All right, well I guess that's going to be the last word. Benedict Arnold's play. I would love to see that. Whether you know it or not, you've got a guilt problem. Do you wanna take this on the radio or you wanna Um the Rio of the subject? Adam and Eve were you have had the ability to live forever, and then they said I want to thank the gentleman as I'm sitting here to my right. I think the practice that Imran view were off mic, but he says just good police work. I wonder if this might be helpful uh to you know the listener th and this show I mean as much as it strokes her ego to be on the radio and One will be idols. The Bible says if you murder somebody, the punishment is death. And it would have other implications potentially too, because this is because this argument's been around forever, in my lifetime anyway. And if you feel like you're an exception to that rule, please reach out to me. Call Troy and he'll tell you. Unless you want to run for public office. So I get this lined up. Alright, let me put this over here. Right, there's no medicinal use, there's no recreational use that isn't Is it wrong? Because then if they are, then they'll do a better job raising the kids. I'm gonna press forward just because of the time. No, that's what successful people do. I mean I should have been patted down or something. One of these things is not like another. I'll start putting your cell phone out there, I don't know. And that's why they're out of alignment. Follow us online at householdofinkrist. Or they care about i w you know they're various things whatever they're in you know uh influencing whate whatever their reason they're famous they may be a music star or whatever. So anyway I just saved you can save your email. Or in that I forget the name of the city, but in China. If you mu uh rape uh rape somebody, you die. Um I misread you? Pulling up my socks. But Yeah, the restitution model. It had nothing to do with race, it had nothing to do with color at all. Jesus came for the Jews. He goes to LA. Well, welcome to the show if this is your first time. It's not drawing attention to God. You can seek honor, and that can be a very godly thing, but to a Western mind sometimes when you try to seek honor, it very much looks like you're See the issue is we are civilized and speak for yourself. If you know math. But and you know, if you're concerned you change your behavior. So you can you can give me a shoot me a text or call me or shoot me an email, whatever, and I'll connect you with any of these guys if you want. Is is there biblical sanction for tearing down these things? You know, so you can change and make up history when there is nothing to remind you of the true history. Hey, you know, actually maybe not everybody can uh feels guilt on the call. All any and all. Do I want my children doing drugs? And you know what, Troy? That's a different story for a different uh show. Because you often see people complain, oh, there's so many more people of this skin color incarcerated than people of the other skin color incarcerated. I thought of two more by the way. These guys are also pastors of local house churches. Now part of that flowing from that would be stamping out abortion. And I think now because in the West u usually we have the guilt and and in Should they be regulated by the government in any way? Cocaine, marijuana, whatever, any different um drugs. Notice how he used me as the example there. Of course, we have screwed that up with our sin, and so we do have to have regulations and discussions about this to figure out how to navigate it. And David Forcey, I don't think he's like really hip and cool. The taser didn't work because the guy was a very big man and didn't work and he started fighting him and ended up being killed by a by a gunshot. Well that would be being sent into a prison, if you will. Yeah. Well, with some time in between 55 minutes. And the cops are like, what, what, what? We were talking about that a little bit too and how that even a show like ours is at risk because we're truth tellers here and the truth tends to get canceled. But I'm going off the top of my head, so I I may I have a blind spot and if I do you guys will fill in the blank. Uh huh. But I think there certainly is a way that you could you should be able to um show It it is some places I think. If he doesn't want it to happen, it won't happen. We have a website, House HiltafaithInChrist. I mean I understood that was a fad. Now some people just do it because of color. The New Testament says that they will know us, believers, by our love for one another. That's the example of a time to tear it down. So it's actually not the way they would practice it in the Middle East, but it's a it's a weird American version of honor and shame, combined with a weird version of guilt and innocence. The doing cocaine not as an ear eye and throat doctor might give somebody cocaine to open up their nose pathways, which they do or did at some point in the past and very You can use anything. That that that probably has happened, you know. Darn it. And if your son has all those holes, that's fine, whatever. Uh the ones I noticed were heart transplants. But compare that with the Washington Monument, which is just a big giant white stick. I didn't have time. Is it good? It's clearly you're supposed to wear certain clothes for a wedding in that in that context. So and it was a battle for years. Any of the Well Lincoln. Right? Okay? So if you're in Frederick County looking for a house church, you don't have too far to travel. If they uh It actually says it should be killed for Yeah if they kidnap the person right then death would be the appropriate And maybe it's well deserved. We're actually going to talk about some of that stuff on the faith debate in coming weeks, by the way, talking about parenting and family issues and that sort of stuff. So it's not it's not that there's the people are not equal. I'm thinking about that Eddie Murphy movie. Uh but the sp the specific question is being should Christians uh volunteer to be injected by shots that were developed using aborted babies? They have a ministry. Alright, I'm gonna say goodbye to Facebook. A lot of the patriots these days are really nationalists, they w they they're after this country. Um and then when it comes to how to deal with I mean I we we talked about this before. I think the the biblical model is that the the punishment should fit the crime. Alright, David Davis deals a thousand bucks from me. You're gonna have a lot of opinions on that. Not because I revere slaves or want slaves or th you know I Yes, like the FDA, for example. Who cares? So what we do need is a short holding spell, quick trials. You decide how do you want to be treated and act that way. But I I would advise people get the neck tats and stuff, like they go all the way up to their ears on their necks and stuff, like you can't hide them Benedict Arnold's a bass to Benedict Arnold. If you're trying to get more followers on Instagram, that's that's an honor thing. We talked about that last week. We're we're really not as weird as as people might think. If you have the money, then you just pay back with interest. Families have their role. 167. Other than the people in this room, of course. Or you can uh you know check out other blogs and video content and trusted resources and all that sort of stuff at MyChurch's website. No, that's it's okay. And there's no purpose to it other than to cause meaning like a mustard gas kind of a thing. So if somebody locks somebody else in a cage and they get caught, then their punishment should be to be locked in a cage. And if you die wrongfully for this sin that you didn't commit, it's still a sin that you committed. And the there was no re the resurrec I mean revolution there, there was no armed revolution. It sounds like there's a generalized uh agreement here, so I want to play devil's advocate. So uh those of you that just hearing the radio don't know who I am, I am brown of skin color. Right. So certainly people can fall in love with and worship the statues This is what slavery was and this country had that and we should take a minute and think about that and and really be able to have that conversation with our children. That should be the focus. Why? They're still in this this school uh cafeteria. And you know now I don't want to turn this into an advertisement for churches. Uh I was reading an article by the uh this uh uh cop pulled over a black gentleman because his tail light was out. The problem that it would not work so well here in the US is because there's a complete breakdown of family. Is it bad? You said some people That's my prerogative. You would dress up like you're going to chur like you're going to somebody's well, even going to somebody's wedding. If you didn't know something about baseball, you were not an American. Example in the Bible where there's profiling, but there there probably are if I suppose You're in a neighborhood where there's 4,000 people that live within a few city blocks, and all of them are black. Because it doesn't fit. Like the point of a statue is so that you remember uh a person, you know, or or and event That's World War II Memorial. Um in and the Washington Monument, as you said, there's some Bible verses on there and things like that. Medicines, drugs, uh does not matter. Right? I mean you got a list of twenty-five warnings, only one of them's really legitimate, but y but you ignore even that one because the other twenty-four are so foolish or Exactly. Uh and the logic of it Call me and I'll apologize if I need to apologize because I I forgot the name of your ministry for crying out loud two seconds ago. Right? That's what the Bible says. That's a that will be a hole in the house church game if you're not careful It do you don't have to be here in the US and and do that. It's late for us. We are uh recording the faith debate tonight, so you're getting a sneak peek of what's going to be airing on the radio uh during during the month of May. And the only part of him that they were sure was not a traitor was making it wrong. So they have it's a form of nationalism also. So uh to me uh this topic He wants us to choose him, but everything is here. A lot of parents will discipline their children by putting them in timeout. I don't think we have the gospel in that one. You make assumptions. Uh I'm drawing a blank. Put twelve stones on top of each other so that your children will ask you and then you can tell them what happened. Um a lot the there we see that with the Passover when you do the Passover, which is not a monument, but that's an example of time But I can't remember the verse. My father was out of work for six months looking for work and doing So it's and it was actually structured that way on purpose. You could have a lot of guns or no guns, but let's say you have a lot of guns. You could intend to murder people, you could intend to defend your family, you could just like collecting guns. He's like, Yeah, but I I just can't be in favor of capital punishment at all 'cause is saying because I could be wrong and then I'm i depriving them of life And so he didn't want that. Right. But when I went through all the uh safety says things, I went through so fast, no problem. I'm Troy Skinner. wfmd. And the conservatives, they just never figured that out. It's because it's not about arrogance. But yes, they they may not be saved. If you want to sit at home and smoke a joint or do cocaine and that's what makes you happy and It's the people that are doing that are criminals and they should be punished as those they're they're hurting, harmfully hurting somebody else. It's not their the government's business. Uh I I I I hope the audio is good enough. You know, not necessarily everything about that person. They appointed people to as judges, they appointed people to positions So I can get a social media strike for those things. That's what it's all about. I think it could make things better as far as less violent. Yeah, well yeah, yeah. 9HD2 and on the internet at WFMB. But the um Well but go ahead. It's like, are you kidding me? I remember going driving down the street one time and there was a nicely dress I mean sharp dressed black man that was, you know That was that was Daniel, by the way. Make sure they come down hard on that and not Yeah, we need bazookas. And those that are following him are indwelt by his Spirit and have those things you're chasing after No more crying, no more tears, no more pain, no more sadness, no more nothing in glorification. But that's the thing. The first day that the planes were flying, I had to fly out for business And he's like, it's 98 degrees outside. You can check them out at concordbylove. If you don't know who Jesus is, let me tell you, he's the guy that rescues you from your guilt, because you've got a guilt problem whether you know it or not That's kind of the gist of what I was getting. That's just a different definition for the word pride though, I think. It is, it's cute. They're cast in to prison and and guards are stationed to keep them from getting out of their prison back into the garden They're like, Oh well that's his business. We'll talk about that next week on the Faith Pay. We're all part of doing something together. So I don't know, that's a kind of a lot of random talks. And I just saw too many people her age that they get a third hole and then six months later they get a fourth hole and then they get a fifth hole and a sixth hole. I'm Troy Skinner. Should they be canceled? I do understand I mean it's it's clear anybody that's read the Bible knows that there are monuments and there are you know God sanctioned uh uh So I don't think it needs to be shaped like a person for it to become an idol, and that's always a danger whenever you have any monument, but In America, there is absolutely no reason I'm just um I think I think Daniel makes some good points. And if somebody wants to damage their body, they can damage their body without a drug. And I was joking at the time, like, you know, we need more SUV control laws. I if I did not do my job, if I knew and he has a history and that's why, you know, uh it biblically you should stone your child that is that is a drunkard, right? We profile three P suits. Jesus was Jewish. It's all uh either archived directly there or linked from there to all the places where it's archived. Oh Ben McDonald's leg I mean some would argue there's there's Bible verses on it and stuff like that, right? The Second Amendment is for any and all weapons. And if we're going to legalize drugs, uh what I heard you just say right now is they shouldn't be free. Um Yeah, I mean what is the punishment for attempted suicide? Right. They're a collector. Right. Alright. Well, there's so many instances of people being saved in prison. I'm gonna keep my eye on them and then they maybe prove to be a criminal and they end up in jail. One's maybe iffy. I don't usually take the last word, but I'm taking the last word today. I'm not suggesting that you are wrong at all. It's not having the gun, it's what you do with the gun, right? People don't even realize it. We're not talking about mothers today though, although we're talking about mothers who might wish that they could go see their kids a little easier because they might be buying bars We want to rehabilitate them. Now the children But Jesus was not uh sinning. Well, is the issue more uh you know why I I mean certainly we we make distinctions all the time So if you're in an area where it's Uh and then he had a string of parenting books. And so I wanted to frame this. Yeah. I'm not sure if I should take that personally. Maybe there are too many bad cops out there, but I don't think so. Maybe it's semantics, but yeah, I mean what we I mentioned our website, Household of Faith in Christ. There's if fair meaning everybody get an equal thing, no everybody is not equal. That's a that's an indicator that you could tell. If you want to. So should it So here's another thing and if we could I want to get some uh That's why there's such a danger to the fruitfulness of our future as a country. One of the things that the left has really figured out, they figured out this out many, many years ago, is that they cannot change this country and the foundations it was built on and the biblical I think it's actually possible to c to get saved without understanding guilt at all. com. We just struck a nerve with the free will wants us to choose him No, I don't. Just not sure how many hours are left you don't have anymore. Yeah. Something so people can now if you want to reach David I mean I usually do family worship at uh I mean we already pushed it to ten. I mean sitting on a big throne. So then then when the crime is committed then you punish the crime. Well why wouldn't he get us care because the that person that's having their life end is just a random combination of molecules that happen to come together with no meaning Right? Is it If you actually do the work you're assigned to you, all that stuff is now considered racist. Guilty by association is in a very uh And I so there's nothing wrong with being white. Uh so what would be some examples where it's appropriate to take that down would And we didn't even get into it, but you know, I I'm one of my other Because I gotta pay for his m food and clothing. To the firstborn. But while I was there there's this lady in a wheelchair, a ri an elderly white lady 5 hours from right about now, then we'll start up again. That should be a real sweet spot for you guys. There aren't many instances. And that's different. You know, I uh Right does raise that question, right? So it doesn't it doesn't help, it doesn't fix anything, right? Um but if Daniel d was to commit that crime and kill somebody and he should be Individuals have their role. So if we can hang in there that long, if we can, great. It says there's neither Jew nor Greek, uh bond or free, male nor female, in Christ. It doesn't specifically say whether that was a uh wrong of them to do. What's that white guy doing in an all-black neighborhood? And when he would drive, he said, Look, when I drive home, okay Right? Well you change that. Um yeah, I I think I think when I so so I think we have instructions about, you know, biblically how I thought you they wish they had a bazooka. It is kinda like signature, yeah. But secondly, he will have had a chance to either be saved or not saved. You need to be very sure and have proof that somebody committed a crime before you punish them. And the person has no opportunity to make restitution if they're behind bars. This is different than the crime punishment here, but that kind of That's taking uh pride and being arrogant and superficial and all that. Now you need to be prepared to challenge your assumptions if you if it's if there's evidence to show that your assumptions are incorrect. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Uh are you talking about like the jingoistic nationalist tendency that a lot of people have It's not because we're under the influence of any sort of illicit uh drugs. I'm just sparing you an email. com, and we can connect from there. Two two weeks ago. Assuming that he's still where he was, I would probably recommend his church So now I probably gotta pay him more than a thousand dollars in depending on you know you divide among all the taxpayers and so on. But for crime th and there's also a lot of people say, hey I think uh I think maybe something Did you ever see a picture of a sporting event from like the nineteen thirties or forties? And it's not foolproof I think it was um 48 no, it was a 48 hours. Uh but I can't think of a time when there was a statue of a person So even though the Washington Monument is just a big white stick, I'm Troy Skinner and uh joined by three other pastors, Imron Razvy, Daniel Razve, and David Forcy. So that could be a jail. The fads come and go, I get it, whatever, but how is that still going on after all these years Well he was wearing a single garment that was one woven without a seam, which was a very expensive thing Beverly Hills Cop. Doesn't mean that people who have a lot of holes in their body aren't serious about life, but there are there are enough of them that you is this a serious person Music, music. But very uh all the other things in the crimes are based on actions Yeah, probably it was your fault Um and so I think I think that's a good point. Right. That's that's a different type of profile. Thanks so much for watching along if you're still on or if you're watching this later. Um and you actually are feeling like you're worshiping when you go there in um and and so that is Yeah, tay tear those down. You know, that's my job to help you uh do that. How are we gonna defend ourselves against that if they want to force their will on us? And not twenty years later. What does the Bible say? Exactly. So I think those will be those will be good. com. I'm the pastor of a local house church called Household of Faith in Christ. And and you know, when the Bible talks about it, the Bible the God plays out the scenario. com and wfmd. You can connect to that podcast later or I think that there there is so I'll give the political answer and then the then the biblical basis for it, but Anyway, you y you were right. I'd like to know other churches that are biblical and haven't given them over to the spirit of the age. And and I and I my my point was, okay, but I'm not But but back back to the original question though with with the jail is com. I can be biased if I want. So that it's not an absolute tell, but it could be a tell. They they might be a neare duel. Those are those are the the main things that I think. You you have the example of the statue of the uh flag at the Iwo jima, right? Yeah, yeah, for sure. I'm not saying that those are wrong. Drugs. And that's where people people will come back and say, Hey, aren't you a Christian? Well that's creating a criminal of people that were not criminals. Same thing with wine. Yeah. Conquered by love. I get it. So barring Jesus Christ dying for our sins to eliminate that death sentence for us Welcome to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD and 99. Right, but you know what? Put a more of a a fake debate pastoral spin on this issue. I had a friend that uh who he was taught as a young child by his uncle, he said, Look, if you want to succeed in this world Um Introduction to Adoption, you had a series of books about that, and then some books that weren't about an introduction to adoption, they were just maybe how to live out a life. So it'll all I think look at some. And so in the absence of God that that gets replaced. A lot of uh people that would identify as patriots and they being very proud of America. Now we should stamp out abortion. We know the issues, okay? It's a city of like twelve million people and people are like wailing Exactly. Maybe. The government didn't do that. That might be our first documented case of profiling, right? I I went on your website and and looked at all the different titles and I tried to It was so many how so many times taller than it was wide, right? Right. Mm-hmm. It had everything to do with appearance. Exactly. They might be Christians. Well, doesn't the person feel ashamed because they're guilty of something? I feel like I am I understand pretty well your argument, so hopefully an somebody listening understands where you're coming from and and uh Or has or has been at certain points in history. So I think we're we should hopefully be in agreement that that biblically there is not a stance for prison as a permanent But here's the here was my my answer. Of course, this radio station has a website, WFMD. And there's a wisdom in that. Would we be upset if somebody tore that down? But what about you go to the MLK uh down in DC But do I think it's the government's job to regulate them? And most of the slavery is done through drug use and being getting people getting especially young people addicted to drugs and being If you murder somebody, you die. org. She never did and she s she s you know, all but swore. Um all all through the the It's addictive, it c maybe makes you feel a different way, but it's it it's not gonna make you hallucinate, right? I think in this context, I think we're all on the same page, there could be a s uh a semantics argument to be had Right. To the firstborn. And I think it's been to her betterment. Oh. Uh we really appreciate you spending part of your Sunday morning with us If these were statues of some sort of So even with slavery, if we can turn that and say, hey, this was not a godly thing, how the slaves are treated He's apparently the druggy in the room. So I think that connects with what you're trying to say with the drug thing. Here we go. His son Daniel Razvi is a pastor at that same church on the north end of Frederick County. He doesn't have a website. It's not the government's role to extend So I I I think what makes it difficult is the society that we live in where uh I'll do it in a different order this time. Absolutely, yeah, yeah. But I think the way the story plays out, it's like that's that's being clever and wise and Which one? And so I was thinking that we could do uh But what all we care about is the activism. And that's I mean I think we're out of time for really getting into the into that. Again, they're not committing a crime by just hoarding it, by buying And the interest is 300 to 500%. And that's the priority. And of course They were a p political person or the aristocracy or something. And if you look successful, people will start to think you're successful. I was gonna well you if we didn't actually get there, I was gonna say, so are there some biblical examples Is your marriage hitting bad cell areas? Should have left well enough alone with the microphone. I can't now and you just triggered this Daniel so thank you. Does that make sense to you? So what would that be? Right. I'm I so Everybody's comfortable. We have set a lot of resources that can maybe be helpful. That's disgusting. Yes. I I would re- I would rephrase the that though This time we're going to be tackling Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB and on the FM at 99. Yeah, Lincoln. Should those be torn down? It's about honor. And if you'd like to know a little bit more about them, you can find out some information about them through Or w if you're giving substance to someone with an Right. Is that the gist of your argument? We want them we want to give them a chance to be better, to become better. Uh well and but even even spiritually, right? So I I think I think it depending on what the time That's interesting. The church has its role. Till then, 167 and a half hours from let me check my watch. Okay, but how does that help anybody find that person And Jews are God's chosen people. If we weren't here you'd have nobody to talk to so you would start over. The point of is to remember the victory in that battle, not the They just have a different vision. If I'm i i if I if Right. Has a website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Not you need to make right what you did wrong. You can never bring the person back. So a couple of weeks ago we were talking about I think there's wisdom in appropriate profiling. Right? We've got the Razbeys, Imron, and Daniel. And I've known these gentlemen uh on and off for a number of years. We're gonna change the name, give it a name so we every time we come by this place we remember it. And so we've had a lot of changes, a lot of shift to the left, not from actual laws that have been passed, but from regulations and from Yeah, no, no, no. No. It created this whole underbelly, this you know, these these mobsters who were selling drugs or the alcohol in the speakeasies and I mean, baseball, m motherhood, apple pie, you know, that was Beverly Hills Cop. So how do we fix that? Those are what people are worshiping. Yeah, and that's gonna be our As in yeah, you find happiness enjoying Christ. Or the freebies. Conquered by love. We got, you know, north, south, and center pretty much covered for you. No, we're weirder than However, Jesus Gotta get you something. That's the shame. Um just recently our great governor uh didn't didn't uh sign it but let the bill pass that Yeah, not t and not twenty years to w wait to die. So are they a school church or a home church? So that's where I I come in is biblically Exactly. But that's why we do it or don't do it is because of eternity We're all networking together as house churches, we're serving actually as So yeah you know so the so the point of of setting up a You're right, the people use that and they say I'm proud of you, but that's actually a different definition. And Christians listening to this are probably gonna have a v wide variety of opinions. You can have the wine, you can drink it for Passover. There's a couple others actually that are beginning to enter my that I I feel like might be okay You walk up to somebody and they talk fast. I'm saying when they're out of priority. But yeah, I hadn't They should enforce the ones that actually hurt somebody. So they I mean is is the prison model Um but as a temporary holding place until trial and conviction Right. To the Jew first, then to the Greek. That's is a comedy. The guy's wearing a trench coat. I mean when I was you know my daughter, she's an adult now and you know, married and starting her family and all that sort of stuff. That'll work. Exactly. And the public policy r thing for with drugs is I I really do think that We should still advocate for people not doing them. Thank you, uh, Imran, Daniel, David, I'm Troy. So that's why it's it's not uh something that the Christians should be quite as That's more racist racist So that was a a sh a chivalrous kind of a profiling sort of a Basically what I know about law enforcement I've learned on television and and movies. I don't know that I I I I I have much of a position on that other than as it applies to my daughter So that both there's a couple things that come to mind uh biblically. I don't think But I do want to say this first. So we uh think um I'm talking about like you get somebody some famous Instagram influencer who has a million followers That's that's that's correct, but this there's a different Uh well well, I mean greed greed will lead people to to do harm to others without You could be you could kill somebody that So that's the same It has nothing to do with specific kinds. No. I just said this actually uh earlier this week to somebody and I actually preface it thing saying okay I'm biased And so we catch him, we try him, he's guilty, we convict him. I didn't do that. Or they'll disown them. Could circumcision Something you'd have to be naked, I guess, to tell that, but uh that that would be a an example. Um I I think that a a right, good um But it's they're all very corrupt versions of that. Also on the FM at 99. It's all been conditioned that the institutional model is the way to go If anything he feels so sorry for the family, like oh that's But they all they all have mothers and there's so many of these mothers crying and wailing If not, we'll figure it out. com That's if you're saved that's what that's what matters. You know, that's that will be a positive kind of a profile org. com. You're you didn't you I don't think you can see the clock that I can see, but uh we are running out of time But it's more important to sneak in the gospel than sneak in the signature. I mean a lot of people were saved uh when they were brought over here against their will as slaves We talked way too much, have too much about the forward. If They might be really smart, but English is like the sp There's yeah, there's a lot of examples in the firstborn. And so one of the tests was they would ask them a question about Major League Baseball Lincoln's sitting on the big throne. I don't remember people Hindus coming f uh and building this country So biblically d the Bible commands us to act in a certain way and so I think that it will be Can can can the can should Americans be allowed to own bazookas? I felt like that would kind of flow Well my answer to that biblically is He wasn't even gonna give a ticket There there are actual consequences that are gonna happen. If it comes back, let me jump in. No, maternity is all that matters. It was like when I when I was a little kid, you got dressed up like tr well now it doesn't mean anything, but And in fact, uh one of the things that makes you racist is if you dress nicely You're talking to this lady, what about me? Um but those are all worship places. You know, taking that uh We're gonna want we fortunately we have a little bit of time. Until next week. As opposed to Republican versus Democratic. Um but oh yeah, the warning labels are He's hip and cool in other ways. I think there's too many bad journalists out there They uh even people that were unlocked. Because if he was white, if he was Chinese, if this they would have said something It's anywhere in the world if you're doing that, whatever color you are. And and she's like, Well even the dogs eat the crumbs from the master's table and he says your fate has is healed you. We have an example of uh of the Shibalef Was it Beverly Hills cop? So I think we could tackle that. I forgot to bring uh to hook up the microphones. They always wanted to stick with let's try to pass the law, let's try to pass the law. So it's honor and shame, which is not the same thing as pride. Yeah. org. You catch the person Well we're all biased, but you said some people end up in jail because Well, they went to jail because they were a criminal. They might be a troublemaker because oftentimes you see somebody So it's it's not about what they're wearing, it's about what the what led to that. Next week's show, uh, we're going to talk about vaccines. Till then, God bless. It's actually m funny you mentioned Benedict Arnold. Memorials. Um you know I mean you've I I mean that wasn't uh Um you're correct. If you stop giving free things away to people that haven't earned it, then they won't come here for free things But It also has temporal ramifications. And people that want to get tattoos and stuff, same thing. Yeah actually my maybe my wife should come in the next time We can talk about the woke stuff. Um We know who he is. The context is still important, right? We would articulate that and define it a little bit differently among ourselves probably. I think that's uh I think that's on the Docker for a show we're going to be doing. But there's no penalty for not having a fence on your roof. Yeah, but there's I I mean there there are certain things like that have no And you need to have an actual system of restitution rather than punishment So you could travel anywhere you want, but anybody that n uh I think it was thorough kind of. People don't get dressed up for that. And I don't have my headphones. And the and the traditional American pastor would say those people are arrogant and prideful So you know I I think it would be maybe there are Um I know I believe without a doubt that The whole parable of you know the the you got all the people off the street to come in for the wedding And that's profiling. And uh one of these days we're going to have to get uh David Forcey Try those. It's interesting th the you're saying we have uh you have a guilt problem for people who are listening. But I think it there's a shift happening in the culture and cancel culture and woke culture Well if if if it can be well it i it So now post The church didn't do that. Anyway, till next week, what are we talking about next week? I had planned to do five, but if we're gonna do the vaccines thing we might only do four of those. So let me one of the We're or we're actually and I think David your point is not that you should go be a globalist instead of being a patriot. But there's still something about that. But Death I mean this country was built on having a quick trial We need to save our kids for eternity Should they have even ever been erected? We've all read the Bible, at least three quarters of it all the way through at some point in our life. People didn't drink less. com Oh my gosh. Okay, so if it was racist then that wasn't a sin. What does this remind you of? And his testimony really was godly. How do we go forward I mean there's really shouldn't be any limit as far as Don't worry about it. Yes. Hmm. But that's not the main takeaway when you look at the Washington I think something worth considering is to um And so if you c if you can agree with that, listener, if you can agree with, yeah, that's a problem But you should definitely be held responsible for any actions you do while you're under the influence It was the other one if he's a police officer. Yeah, I think that was it. Big big drug cartels Absolutely not. And and responding responding in kind, right, is not does not mean the That's God's prerogative. Why would you want to make life harder for yourself? I usually do it at nine with my kids. So we're not dismissing that. Uh feels like a stretch to try to make that connection. Right. I think What would I do without ya? No no no no but but there's a reason, right? Okay, I I asked the question or Or we need to And I d I hear So I'm I'm in in favor of very harsh punishments for murder and and and things like that. The best way to successfully kill yourself is to try to kill yourself, or I think you get caught Did you hear that voice? And if I don't pay restitution of I may have to work another twenty five years trying to pay uh for th the And in your better dreams. It was ther I think it's definitely positioned as it's a very clever And there's a contemporar more contemporary version of that, uh as I understand it during World War Two. So Yeah. So when we think that the answer is activism, God bless. There's plenty of other ways to do that. I say how many times have I said it? I want to pull um We're not so community and familially connected com, and the RASVs that got mentioned here if you want to check out the resources Nobody gets dressed up for anything anymore. We talked about this briefly uh before, but but there's Yes. Um I mean it's a It's good to remember history in its in its Yeah, I mean some things are just so dangerous that it There was no On uh there's an argument Jefferson? And until you actually do something illegal, then there shouldn't be any punishment I encourage you to check that out And he was a very successful guy and he w he wanted to walk into a room and everybody said, you know what? And it was just a s stick. And that's actually pay them back. But uh I was having this conversation with an atheist And if he is, then life isn't ending. It takes them out of society. So anyway, that would be how I go about trying to answer that macro kind of question. It's what ultimately matters. All the men are wearing jackets and hats and they look like they're I'm just gonna I'm not gonna arrest him So also in the Bible there are actually commands to tear down statues and monuments You know, we are guilty 9 HD2. He's the lawyer. Or the pants hanging down at their knees. They couldn't say the SH, they could only say the S He said, No, no, you're clear, fine. She didn't really swear, but she all but promised me that when I'm old enough and I'm on my own, I'm gonna get If if I if I give you uh m the keys to my car And as a risk. But But when I get close to my Don't you love people? They drank the same, but now they were there was a lot more violence associated with it. I'm sure I'm forgetting some good churches. Oh God always forgives. And I don't have the other ones. But I would agree that as far as our usage and w uh abuses I I I I guess I'm thinking, you know, there are uh And Daniel you were really fired up, so go ahead. So I'm going to give you a chance to do that. Yes. And so that's where the And so yes, I would legalize all drugs. Use a basketball lingo It's not small interest. Or the next one would not So I'll put my cards right on the table Gives double the inheritance of everybody else. God bless Okay this is a person. Right, but that's not center. But that is the topic today, drugs. Sure. But the biggest thing in in the drug problem is really the the breakdown of the family. How hip and cool is that Yeah, that's yeah. But some people don't like that Particularly if you looked as good as me, you know what I'm saying? We should be just I can't now think of a time where it's God honoring So is there a place for uh And then there's another spot in I think uh But it works in the reverse. We're talking off air, you know, that's the is that the only thing that ever matters, you know We have a website, Householdofaithinchrist. But this this show if it's doing its job Like a month later, I don't Exactly is the argument. Uh n I everybody treated me very well. That's more of the libertarian view. He was just gonna give him a a s uh a warning to get it fixed. And And I do think that Uh you can just understand shame, which some people would Right? Maybe we should be careful about how these drugs are dispensed There's like six people or seven people in that image and we probably know who all those people are. Yeah these these are the places of worship, these are the places spiritual significance But to your first point about jail So that's just stupidity Get the tattoos, whatever. Now if X, Y, and Z doesn't happen, then And I just So that's the comment I was telling you to bully your socks off. Eternity starts at the beginning though Um So David, are you uh I think next week we're talking about Let me I'll just try to do without headphones at all. They have their own website there. Why would you want them taking drugs and ruining their lives So it's not the You can Or you can waterboard somebody with it And the reality we all profile it's not just dress or skin colors, we all profile in our But really the biblical thing is if you steal a thousand dollars from me So that but that's that's So there are monuments. So I think it's gonna be important for us to help. But this is I think a real good pastoral moment Nope. I don't have a strong opinion of Is that on? I've come No, the the left doesn't care about passing a law It's because you're chasing after something you want to have Yes, God forgives. What's the analogy I'm looking for? He lost his leg in the war fighting for the Americans I mean he was uh And most people it's just on instinct who needs a bazooka. Uh and things like border crossings. I don't think you need to look for a house church That's a more specific That one was just a stick also Okay, he looks like a The problem the problem of God is This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. But the the point is 9 HD2. I remember it, I'm ninety And that was their look Because we all are profiling at some level, aren't we? He says Sure. It's the church that meets at Imran's house. And if he's not saved And so Like so they're pro they're making a decision So Oh that's not fair to the fourthborn child I mean that could be a subject for a show probably. Yeah. People have got their pants hanging down around their knees But if you go with the Can you think of any instance There's an argument I've heard made that some of those statues What's the godly way to clarify none of us are globalists? That's right, he's a lawyer. Many Christians actually believe it's a Yeah, that's on. One is um Because they're in a position of shame, they're not honorable. I'll give it a plug, conquered by Love. I I don't disagree, which is Um and not not too many more recordings I mean it's not the government's What are we going to do right in here? I so I don't know that we have And now Right now You're gonna lose my audio here in a minute when I plug this in. So we're gonna want to because we uh That doesn't mean there's no consequences Yes. Oh It's country's on top and God is like Anyway, prison. com, if you'd like to check us out. Because if we can't and that's what's happening with this can At the most it could not get worse than this. 9 HD2. But at at least In the colonial times, what did they do when somebody stole? Um and people that are w Yeah, so that's dangerous. But but rather our our Is that Before you know it, they got a whole bunch of And so m with that in mind I think the family should be Or if there was a st statue of Uh That's really the only example Alright, so leave us alone. But I was gonna You should uh Um I don't know. Right. And um I So org. And people and people Till next week. Um But