Welcome to the live stream portion of what we do here at House of Faith in Christ each week. If you'd like to learn more about us, you're just finding us on social media randomly. You can find us online at householdofynchrist. com. Household of Faith in Christ dot com. We are working our way through a series in the book of Revelation. We're in chapter sixteen today. We'll be starting Looking at that chapter, particularly the first four verses today, so you want to get your Bibles ready for that. And we're going to be in a number of other uh short passages of the Bible too. I don't expect everybody to be able to turn to those uh quickly enough, but uh you'll be all over the place at uh uh between a half a dozen and a dozen other script scripture references. Lots of scripture in today's message. And so let me just start by saying whether it's Revelation 16 or Isaiah 66 or Deuteronomy 28 or any of the other places we go, we are dealing with words that are God's. He has spoken them. And God, of course, He doesn't make mistakes. He is inerrant. He is infallible. He is authoritative. And so we need to understand that God's word is as the inspired word of God is inerrant, it is infallible, it is the fully sufficient rule and guide for our faith and for our life practice And so I encourage everyone to receive it as such and for those with ears to hear. So We're about to embark on an examination of the images in uh in the revelation that it shows us here in chapter sixteen about the the pouring of the seven vials or the the seven bowls or the jars or the flasks or whatever English word your particular translation is using for the seven last plagues Now in the run-up to this description, we had a few reminders that were emphasized for us in chapter 15. First, God is holy. In and of himself, by his very nature, God is holy. Second, God is holy And all the nations, all people everywhere, they will acknowledge this holiness when all is said and done. And third, God is holy. Not merely his character, but also the character of his actions. All that he does is righteous, just and holy. And so we sing our Lord's praises. The King's Choir sings praise on earth in heaven today, right now, forever And we ought to keep this in mind now because what we're studying here in chapter 16 reveals all the more reason to sing about the eternal judge and his perfect judgment. And this isn't simply one man's opinion. This is the path down which the Apostle John has led all of us in this love story that is the apocalypse. With the twin scenes describing God's chosen ones singing a very old new song in chapters 14 and 15, which brings us to the opening of chapter 16. And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven angels, Go your ways and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth. And the first went and poured out his vial upon the earth, and there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark of the beast, and upon them which Worshipped his image. And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea, and it became as the blood of a dead man, and every living soul died in the sea. And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and fountains of waters, and they became blood. We're going to pause there. Most often the first four vials would be addressed as a unit, but there are times when just the first three vials are treated as a unit. And part of that is because of the break that we see in the text with the words found in verses 5 through 7. And so we're going to be following that pattern in our series And as you might have noticed, I am reading today from the King James Version of the Bible. And this is not because I believe that the King James is the best translation of Revelation chapter 16. In fact, I don't believe that But I'm reading from it because I've been pointing out some KJV issues in recent sermons, quite frequently, because there are a number of issues in the book of Revelation as related to the King James. And I just want to make it clear I'm not anti-King James. I'm anti-King James only, but I am pro-King James as much as I'm pro-NIV or pro-ESV or pro-N-E-T or pro whatever, as long as it's a decent translation. Now not all the translations are especially decent. But all of the decent translations, and the King James is one of them, all of them can coexist. And you know what? We are blessed to have them. We have an embarrassment of riches on this From in the English language. Anyway, we now turn to the text. And the first thing I want us to notice is the great voice out of the temple. This loud voice is the voice of God. This is the execution of God's plan. And his angels take his instruction. And we know for sure that this is God's voice because the very last sentence of the previous chapter told us that no one else could be in the temple. Until the seven last plagues were poured out. Only the glorious presence of God is there. And you might have noticed I just referenced the great voice as a loud voice. And that is how we should understand and interpret what the King James is saying there when it uses the word great. We should consider this to be like what is found in other parts of the Bible, like in Isaiah chapter 66, where a translation like the English Standard Version captures it well with these words. The sound of an uproar from the city, a sound from the temple, the sound of the Lord rendering recompense to his enemies. See, this is a roaring crash from the temple The angels, boy, they act when they hear it. And with this roaring crash, we can sense an escalation within the recapitulation of the cycles we've been talking about, how there's this repetitive pattern, and yet while it repeats It's moving upward. There's an escalation. Things are heating up in the Revelation. We remember the altar in the temple, thinking back to earlier in our series. And beneath the altar there were the souls of the martyrs, and they were crying out to God to avenge them. And on the altar the were presented the prayers of the saints rising like incense and In chapter 8 there, it almost felt as if the angels were acting at the behest of these prayers. And there's a sense in which that's okay to even think that way. But here we are, eight chapters later, and there's no doubt, not even a little bit of opportunity to have any doubt at all about what it is that's going on. These vials are poured at the direct command of God. And so the first angel goes in verse 2 and pours the vial upon the earth where the people live. Where the people work. Earlier we saw judgments that befell the earth and they devastated the grass and the trees. Remember that? Well, this time it's mankind. It's not grass and trees. It's mankind hit with horrible sores. And these are like the boils of the Old Testament. In Deuteronomy chapter 28, they're described. The Lord will smite thee with the botch, that means mess, of Egypt, and with the emorge, and with the scab, with the itch, whereof thou canst not be healed. Emerods, that's not a word we use very often these days. Emerods, it's it means hemorrhoids or tumors. Handful of verses later in Deuteronomy. The Lord shall smite thee in the knees and in the legs with a sore botch that cannot be healed, from the sole of thy foot unto the top of thy head. Yikes. This is talking about the sixth plague that hit Egypt. Back in Exodus in chapter 9. And the Egyptian connection is precisely where the revelation author wants our minds to go. Because the Greek word that's used for these source in the Revelation, the exact same word that is used for Boyle in the Septuagint, the Greek translation of the ancient Hebrew text. And not only for Egypt, but also for Job, when he was struck from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head with sore boils. And we see it elsewhere, like in the New Testament, too, where the physician Luke he uses the word in chapter 16 of his gospel account to describe the condition of Lazarus the Beggar. Remember he had the uh the the dogs come and lick his open sores One of Christ's parables? I mean this imagery, it'll get one's attention. It's gross. It's painful. It's pathetic. Like sin. Sin is gross, painful, and pathetic. And this spiritual component of the plague is not to be overlooked. Because the Greek words that the King James translates as noisome and grievous, they're actually most woodenly translated as evil and wicked. Translators have struggled over the years to try to figure out the best way to capture this in English. And so some Bibles, they use the words loathsome and malignant. Others use foul and painful or nasty and terrible, you'll also find disgusting and ugly, bad and stinking, horrible and harmful. Festering, repulsive, fierce, dirty Point is that God is meeting out I for an eye justice The evil, wicked people received something which could be described as evil and wicked. Now all of us who are brothers and sisters in Christ, we will be happy to hear a calming reminder at this point. As with the ancient Israelite story back in In Exodus, it is only the ungodly who suffer these torments. It affects only those who have taken the mark of the beast and worship its image. Now the third verse brings the second angel, pouring the second vial, or bowl. And the water turning to blood here is similar to what happened with the second trumpet, if you remember, back in chapter 8. And in each case, in chapter 8 and in chapter 16, the revelation here with the the water to blood plagues It is bringing us back to the first Egyptian plague in Exodus 7. And the third vial mentioned in the very next verse, it also connects with that first Egyptian plague. We need to understand we talk about this Water turning to blood. This is not like a mere magic show kind of thing. This is serious business. Like those loathsome, putrid sores. This plague on the seas, on the on the rivers, it has a direct effect on mankind. This is metaphorically hinted at with the phrase, it became as the blood of a dead man. Like the Nile and Egypt, water. It's a source of sustaining life. But now It embodies death. This is an example of eschatological reversal, as it's called Everything at the end gets turned upside down, inside out, it's all backwards. Because unrepentant people insist on living in bizarro world. Rejecting reality, mocking the natural order. But the moment's coming. When time's up That blood from a corpse line in the text today is important. This is the image of the finality of death. There is no return. These vile judgments, these bold judgments, they're much like the trumpet judgments in so many ways. You talk again about that recapitulation of the cycles, but There's a highly critical difference here. The trumpets, they they brought partial devastation to the purveyors of evil. Now the devastation is complete. Earlier, there was still time to repent. Now the bell tolls. The clock has struck midnight. And as I've already mentioned, the impact on humanity, it had been mostly indirect before, but now direct impact. And what's rather amazing, if you peek ahead, you look to verse 11 in chapter 16, you see that the reprobate, their response is to blaspheme God. So at least part of what that means is that they understand, they know these judgments are coming from God. And yet they refuse to acknowledge his authority. They are so darn hard-headed. Not completely unlike the hard heads who ignore the problems with the jab. To put a contemporary spin on this. But having said that, it's all too easy for us to slip into, boy, I'm so glad I'm not like them. But are we really all that different? How good are we at softening our hearts daily Are our hearts made to be softer and softer as we progress in our sanctification? Or are they like petrified wood in a way? Yeah. There's still aspects in which, yeah, we've been given new hearts, and yet, if we're honest, there's some aspects of our lives that are still rock hard Like these enemies that are identified in the Revelation. Do the consequences of sin lead us to repent? They should. For a saint, I'd go so far as to say they must Have you ever done something to diminish your reputation? You know, tarnishing one's rep, that's a consequence of sin. So when you've done something that wasn't good for a reputation Did the consequences turn us from the wrongdoing? Or did our selfish self-interest pride rise up within us and in spite of the damage, the consequences, we double down? What are some other consequences of sin? Losing a job because of uh drunkenness or tardiness or laziness or something like that? That's a that's a consequence. Well, is our response in a situation like that to blame the boss who had to let us go? Or do we own our mistakes and reform our ways? As it says in Proverbs chapter 10, lazy hands make for poverty, but diligent hands bring wealth. Another consequence of sin is sassy children In Ephesians 6, Paul writes, Fathers, do not exasperate your children. Instead, bring them up in the training and instruction of the Lord. And Paul again writes something very similar in Colossians chapter 3. Fathers, do not embitter your children, or they will become discouraged. Exasperated and discouraged children. Are difficult children. When our kids misbehave, Is it our habit to blame them, or maybe to blame our spouse, or to blame what they learned on TV or learned at school or something like that? Or do we repent And do we improve at encouraging them and training them with patience and gentleness? Instructing them with love. Enjoy. Another consequence of sin in our society is the nagging wife. Proverbs 12 teaches, for a husband a disgraceful wife is like decay in his bones. Do we read in Proverbs 25, better to live on a corner of the roof than to share a house with a quarrelsome wife Now I can vouch for my wife she is not nagging, she is not quarrelsome, she is not disgraceful. But she needs to work at continuing down that path. And whether you are married or not, ladies, don't be disgraceful. Don't be quarrelsome. Instead, do what it says in Titus chapter 2. Urge the younger women to love their husbands and children, to be self-controlled. And pure, to be busy at home, to be kind, and to be subject to their husbands, so that no one will malign the word of God. Some men like hearing that read. But husbands, if your wife is not as mature in her walk with Christ as you would prefer, Have you taken time to consider what you have possibly done to stunt her growth? Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. That's Ephesians 5. Husbands, in the same way, be considerate as you live with your wives and Treat them with respect as the weaker partner and as heirs with you of the gracious gift of life so that nothing will hinder your prayers. That is 1 Peter chapter 3. Proverbs 31 famously says, a wife of noble character is worth far more than rubies. Honor her for all that her hands have done, and let her works bring her praise at the city gate. Do you value your wife more than rubies? In other words, more than your job, your paycheck, more than the items you own, the hobbies you you have, the initiatives you're engaged in, more than the many things you assigned a very high value in your life. Do you honor her above those things? Do you bring her praise? Are you considerate? Gracious respecting her as the weaker vessel. If you want the wife of your dreams, then you will do these things And if you are too selfish to work at changing your approach, well then you get to suffer the consequences of your sin. Yay you. Seriously, that would stink for you. And for your wife, too, for that matter. And for everyone else with whom you share your life, as a matter of fact. That's bad. But as bad as it is, it is not the worst news Refusal to turn from your self-determined way, to follow after the God-determined way. If you won't do that, well, that's to possibly face eternal consequences. I mean, look, the kingdom of God is at hand If we won't repent from what God's word clearly calls sin, then what does it say about us? But even if we are among those destined for heaven rather than hell, when Christ returns, what do you want Him to find you doing in that very moment? Honestly working hard at your job or tearing down your boss behind his or her back Do you want him to find you investing in the future of your family by playing and laughing with your children? Or do you want him to find you screaming at them from a place of out-of-control and security? You want them to find you complimenting your spouse in a way that shows gratitude and humil humility or Instead find you diminishing your spouse with your words, with your attitudes. Diminishing them by watching actors who are revealing to you their birthday suit. Perhaps even having sex on that glowing screen in front of you. Do you want to find you maybe even diminishing both men and women in general? You know, therefore, maybe uh you know, if you're not married to a future spouse, if you're denigrating men and women in general, you're denigrating your future spouse. Or you're denigrating maybe your own uh present and or future son or daughter. You diminish them by doing the kinds of things we're talking about here. You diminish them by listening to song lyrics that effectively turn humans into Collection of object objectified body parts. So then we get into the habit of judging someone else not by the content of their character, but by the curves of their derriere. What do you want to be doing when Christ returns? At that very moment that he returns. Wouldn't you rather be caught in an act of obedience to your Lord than in a moment of unfaithfulness to your Savior? You know, if you're one of those uh blessed people who lives a pretty darn good life, and so you mostly are honoring your Maker and in your walk, the way you live your life, well you know what? That is most excellent. Keep at it I encourage you because you will experience even more blessing. And yet when it comes to the good things that God has already given you, there is so much more wherein that came from. By comparison to the holiday FC that's coming, your satisfactory life, which might be satisfactory only by your own meager standards. is little more than making mud pies in a slum, as I borrow loosely from C. S. Lewis. Don't be a half-hearted creature who chases drink or chases sex or chases ambition or chases comfort when infinite joy is offered. Let's not be so easily pleased. Can you see the truth of all this? Are you blind to it? Serious question. Not everyone who professes Christ is actually a real deal Christian In today's generation, we've seen a number of very high-profile pastors, even, who have left the church after deconstructing their faith, as it's called. And there are far too many others who they give every appearance of being false teachers because they deny the truth of God's word. They end up promoting the devilish doctrine that, as it turns out, our majority pagan culture is absolutely adores. Well, many of these ear ticklers. They live otherwise pretty moral lives as far as we can tell. But they might end up facing judgment that's described here in the latter chapters of the Revelation. Yeah, one one might say that these poor lost souls are lost souls because they're not appreciating The need to make the Bible the authoritative and fully sufficient rule and guide for the faith, our doctrine, what we believe But what about those who are failing to appreciate the need to make the Bible the authoritative and fully sufficient rule and guide for life practice? What we do, the way we comport ourselves in life. You know, I know quite a few people, I'm sure you probably do too. They they can give nearly perfect Sunday school answers to Bible questions. Their doctrine is good. But they sleep around or Maybe they uh they have sex a little more monogamously than that, but it's not with somebody they've married. Or some other sorts of ongoing moral failings. You know, I mentioned uh recently, I think it was a couple weeks ago, how the Trinity is a gospel issue. If you lose the Trinity, you lose the gospel. Well, there are people they can actually articulate what is often considered to be a rather difficult doctrine to explain. They can articulate it in ways that are understandable even to middle schoolers. They know the doctrine. But when they're at home, they're cursing out their spouse. Are we saved by correct doctrine Some are tempted to say yes. Well, if yes, then by accepting the hypostatic union The person would then have all the out they need as a parent to refuse to repent from physically abusing or emotionally neglecting their son, their daughter. If they're asked, hey man, did I just see you behave rudely, be be sinful toward that person that you supposedly love? Is that what I just saw? And they could say, well actually yeah, you you did. I did that, but it's okay that I did that because I believe that there's actually was a historical Adam and Eve. So I'm good. Don't be deceived. Not by the devil, not by the world. Not by your own heart. God knows those who are his, and those who are his hear his voice And you know that you hear his voice when you submit to heeding his voice. Now, as a point of clarity, this isn't what saves us from damnation, but it is evidence that we are saved from damnation. This is actually the classic Reformation issue, isn't it? To be saved, to be rescued from our sin, we must be justified. And you know, Rome, the church in Rome, it says that justification equals faith plus works. And the Protestants, they corrected this misunderstanding of Scripture. They got the church back to the Bible, which says that faith equals justification plus works. Faith alone brings justification by the grace of God. But faith is never alone. It is always accompanied by good works By the fruit of the Spirit. Is your professed faith accompanied by increasing measures of the fruit of the Spirit? Let's all be sure that we're getting the answer to this question correct. Don't be deluded to believe what's false about your need to behave in accordance with biblical truth Otherwise, punishment comes. Punishment that fits the crime. So as you examine your situation, do you find that your life is marked by noisome and grievous sore spots? If so, is this because you have noisome and grievous habits, evil and wicked habits which have taken root in your life You know, fruit is generally the distinguishing mark of belonging to God. And sin is generally the disgusting mark of belonging to the beast. To refuse to change, to resist repentance, to blast theme the Creator this way That's what it is. If you refuse to change, refuse to repent, you are blaspheming the Creator. Your rejection of his counsel is basically you tell him, God, you are not the boss of me Don't do that. You don't want to ever say that If you count yourself a Christ follower, it is my heart, it is my hope that you have been reminded today. Of the call on your life to repent unto blessed obedience. And if you don't count yourself a Christ's follower, well, my heart, my hope is for you to also repent today unto blessed salvation. Either way. What are you waiting for? The kingdom of God is at hand Christ comes back soon. Let's pray. Father, you're such a good God. You're so good to your people, so much better to us than we deserve. We thank you that you have given us your Holy Spirit to illumine our minds, to guide our steps. To live lives that are honoring to you and the reputation of Christ and his church. We acknowledge that we are not perfect at this. There is only one sinless, and that is Christ Himself. But we know By your steady hand we are being ever increasingly conformed to his image. And if the day comes, we will sin no more Because we are joined forever in glory with our Savior and King. Yes, that you help us to identify the areas in our life where we have weakness. Where we fall short. Where if we're honest, we must admit that we are stubborn. That we've allowed strongholds of sin to take root. We ask that today you would help us to take fervent and immediate steps to root that out of our lives Knowing that we can do it. Because in Christ it's already done. We thank you that you hear our prayers. We come before you, Father, in the name of your Son. And so that's what we do. We pray to you in the name of our Lord, our Savior, our King. our high priest. Jesus Christ. Amen. All right, I'm going to uh shut down the the stream. Again you can find us online if you're interested at householdoffaith in Christ dot com as household of faith in Christ dot com. Till next time God bless