Looks like we are rolling. Welcome to the uh live stream portion of what we do here every week at the Household of Faith in Christ. If you'd like to learn more about us, Or have access to some really good resources, not all ours. We link to other people's really good resources that we have vetted for you. You can find that at householdofinkchrist. com If you want to reach out, all of our contact information is there as well, Household of FaithInChrist. com. Now if you've been paying attention to things in the church Uh last week or two there's been a lot of buzz about um what's being called the the Asbury revival. And so before we get into the sermon, I just want to have just a couple of minutes of thoughts to help you think through because there's some bickering that's begun to take place uh in in church circles and particularly online. And so I just wanted to uh Really what's coming down between the bickering are those on the one side who are saying, This is a revival, it's a move of God. And And it's okay, looks like we're back. It cut out for a minute, but it looks like it's running again. That's really strange. I think we're okay. If you want to grab her phone and just confirm that it's still running. Anyway, there are other people who are saying that it is not a uh it it's not a revival. There's no reason to think it's a revival. There's a lot of uh uh unbiblical things that are happening there. And there are some that are in the middle that are trying to moderate that a little bit and are trying to say, well, you know, let's wait and see. And that seems to be a pretty good approach, actually. Let's kind of wait and see to see exactly what it is and what comes of this because you can often tell what's happening by its fruit. However I think we're having the challenge with uh how to understand this asteroid revival because we're asking the wrong question, because we're using the wrong language. Uh the word revival uh does not exist in Scripture. So that causes a problem. People are saying, so biblically speaking Speaking, is this a revival? How would we know? Because the word revival doesn't appear. Now the word revive does, but not in the context we're trying to use it here. Paul uses it once and he's talking, he's writing a letter after being visited in prison to in uh churches who were d doing good things and they were raising money for the poor and they were encouraging him and he said, I am revived by this. He's encouraged by this. So that's one where revival is used or revive is used anyway. And there's also revive in the sense of somebody being brought back to life from the dead. They are revived from their state in death. But again, that's not really what we're talking about. So we're asking the wrong questions. And so as a point of clarification If we were to ask biblical questions where the Spirit of God is moving, are we seeing repentance Are we seeing contrite hearts? Are we seeing people proclaiming the Lordship of Christ and now He is now the Lord and Master over their life and they're going to commit to that and they're glorifying who God is and they're witnessing uh to the truth of the gospel and and the necessity of the gospel. Uh there are a lot of good things happening there's uh at these uh at the the college campus. There's there's there's prayer and there's singing and there's an attitude of worship and all of that And that's all good. So we can see that that's the case, but where is that coming from and where is it going? The biblical questions are, are we seeing can are we seeing People who have once called themselves in the past Christians who are rededicating their lives to Christ to become obedient where they haven't been obedient before, that's a huge win. And if somebody wants to call that revival in today's parlance I'm fine with that. I always get a little bit hedging my bets when we're going to use language that's not biblical to describe things. But if we can say we've seen a move of the Holy Spirit uh where people were drawn to repentance and were drawn to dedicating their life in service to Christ and to the advance of the kingdom. We should all be celebrating that and if we're asking that question and we're seeing the answers to that question, well then we're not going to be bickering with one another because we're going to see it right there. We're trying to ask uh uh answer an unanswerable question though, in my opinion, when we ask the question, is it a revival? How would we define that biblically when the Bible doesn't even use the word we don't have a definition for it from Scripture? But if what we're seeing are transformed lives, if we're seeing um Not just an emotional exuberance and a state of euphoria, which is part of what you're seeing online, but we're also seeing uh real change. And this and this needs to be clarified, not just for this revival, if you want to call it that, but in our lives. This is what concerns me as a pastor. If you're looking at this stuff online saying, wow, the Lord is moving, look at that revival, and you're not then also saying, where's the revival, if you want to use that word, in my life? Do I have a contrite heart? Am I witnessing the truth of the gospel to those around me? Am I on my knees in prayer? Am I worshiping God authentically truly? Where's the revival where I live? Where's the revival in my family, in my community, at my school? If you're not asking that question, you're just a bystander watching it play out on social media, you are missing the point of what the scriptures teach. So if you want to use the language of revival, okay, fine, for the sake of argument, let's use that language of revival and let's apply it to you That's what we want to see. So if you are inspired by what you're seeing at this college campus and you're going to apply that apply that into your life and those the lives around you, then hallelujah, I'll get behind that 100% Uh if you're going to say it's not a revival because it doesn't meet the standards of what you think a biblical revival is, okay, fine, then how are you at instituting the kinds of things you think would be a biblical revival? in your life and in the lives around you. That's where we've got to go. We need a transformation in individual human hearts And when we see that across the board, one by one, two by two, four by four, a thousand by a thousand, and it starts to grow like the ripples on a pond, Then we can look back and historically say there was a move, a religious, Christian, biblical, Holy Spirit-led move that took place in the United States back in 2023. And we're going to know it's true because we will see individual lives changed. And that's what I'm hoping for you, for everybody who's here, for me. I want to see individual lives changed and committed to Christ. And then we can say we've had a revival, if you like. Again, I'm not a fan of the word, but you've got to sometimes use today's language to be understood. So I hope that's helpful if you've been trying to figure out how to understand what's going on, what is it? Let's not fight about it. At the very least, let's hear what other people have to say and let's try to offer biblical language uh biblical arguments, biblical understandings, and not let's make it about our experience or our understanding or our view or I think this. That can be helpful, but that's not where those the arguments gonna be won. The argument is going to be won by the arguments that God makes in his word Now speaking of which, let's get into God's word now. We're going to be in Revelation chapter 16 today, picking up where we left off with verses 5. Singly and in battalions. And that phrase might sound vaguely familiar to be Kakespeare's Hamlet, which I have uh you know borrowed and repurposed what Shakespeare wrote. It's interesting that saying that it cut out and cut back in again. We're having some sort of signal issues today. That's weird. Because I'm on the Wi-Fi, I'm almost positive So I don't know what's going on. Hopefully this is going to come out okay on the screen. But if not, you know, that's bonus. We're really doing this for those who are here. So anyway. Um Revelation 16, the other passages I'm going to be citing and reading during the sermon. I want to remind us all these are the words of God. They are breathed out by God. God doesn't make mistakes, and so God's word is inerrant. It is infallible, and it is sufficient, fully sufficient. as the rule and the guide for our life practice, what we do, and of course for our faith, what we believe. And so I just want to remind everyone that that's what it is and encourage everyone to receive it as such and for those of ears to hear. So through the pages of the Revelation, we have noted a repetitive cycle of visions. We've been talking about this quite a bit throughout the series, how there's this cycle of visions. But it's a repetition with difference And one of the differences between the events is an escalation of the plagues. And we know God is patient, and we know that everything that He does in His patience, it should get our attention. And when it doesn't, well, God then steps on the gas a little bit more. It's like what we see in Leviticus in chapter 26, which we're going to be reading later today as a congregation. First the disobedient are sent to their room. And then they have their cell phone taken away. And they're grounded for a week and so on. Only it's much more dramatic than that in the Revelation where we see the first bowl or the first vial, it pours out an absolutely horrid plague of boils Which is similar to the sixth plague that's visited upon Egypt in the Old Testament. You might recall that episode from Exodus chapter 9. It had a direct impact even on the Pharaoh's own sorcerers. The magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils that were on them and on all the Egyptians. So those who were most given over to the beast of the day, God smote them. Just like in Revelation chapter 16, those given over to the beast, God smites them. So there is an important connection for us to note between what Moses recorded and what the Apostle John has recorded. And there's an important connection as well between what John records here with the regarding to the bowls or the vials Depending on your translation, you might have bowls or vials in your Bible. And what John recorded earlier in this very same book. As with the trumpet judgments, we we see the first four um bowls affecting the major, the four major aspects of the world. I mean they get clobbered, right? The the the things on the earth and then the sea and then the fresh water and then the sky. And as we progress through chapter 16, we're going to notice the first four bowls. They're more general in nature And the final three, they're more specific. And this specificity will be heightened even more when we march through chapters 17 through 20. And this is all going to be pointing us back to The Exodus, as well, for example, the imagery in chapter 17. In verse 14 of that chapter, we can see it alludes to the battle between God and that beastly Pharaoh Which we see in Exodus chapter 15. But this time, it's not localized like in Egypt, it's cosmic in scope. There's all these connections to what Moses wrote, all the connections to the Exodus. If you want to better understand the revelation, well then you want to better understand the Exodus. Because John is showing us that this is a great cosmic exodus that he's describing for us. So unlike what came before, this isn't partial judgment. It's full judgment. It's final judgment. It is done. And this is all met with the approval of the saints and the angels. And not only do they approve, but they glorify God for it. And such too should be our attitude. We should be glorifying God for what we see in the pages of the Revelation Now we covered the first four verses of Revelation chapter 16 in our last sermon, so we're going to pick up today with verse 5. Here's what verses 5 through 7 say. And I heard the angel of the water say, Thou art righteous, O Lord, which art and wast and stalt be, because thou hast judged us For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink, for they are worthy And I heard another out of the altar say, Even so, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous are thy judgments. This is praise. It's praise from everyone and everything, actually. Look at verse 7. Even the altar gives praise. Now the King James Version, which is what I am reading again for this week It can kind of give the impression that maybe an angel is speaking from the altar using that phrase, I heard another out of the altar say. But if that's what you're envisioning, that it's an angel speaking, that's not correct. Because the Greek, upon which our English Bibles are based, it simply says, I heard the altar reply. The altar reply. The King James adds the words another out of. Those aren't in the Greek. The King James it also adds, O Lord, in verse 5, in lieu of what will be more accurate, O Holy One. And there's actually another addition that the King James Translation makes in verse 5. The original Greek it says, You art righteous, O Holy One, who is and who was. The KJV it adds and shalt be. Now we've talked about this sort of thing before. Some of the English translations that we have, they they kind of ignore the Greek text in this case, and in a similar case, like we saw in chapter 11 of the Revelation. And these translators they add shall be or is to come to the end of the phrase that merely says in the Greek who is and who was And these translators, I'm pretty sure what they're doing here is that they're trying to mirror what is said in the Greek in Revelation chapter 1. But John, he purposely leaves off the is to come or the shalt be out of the latter parts of the revelation. And why? Because by this point in the story, God has already come. It's not that he's coming, he's here, visiting judgment. Like what's written in verse 8. And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun, and power was given unto him to scorch men with fire, and men were scorched with great heat, and blasphemed the name of God. which hath power over these plagues, and they repented not to give him glory. Now this judgment with Fiery echoes language that is found in other parts of the Bible, like in Joel chapter 2 and Isaiah chapter 66, and in Malachi chapter 4, where verse 1 says, For behold The day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly shall be stubble And the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. So what's the purpose of this? To rebuke from God. And what's the response? For those who are being spanked in such a way, receiving this rebuke from God. Blasphemy. Their response is blasphemy. Thus they mimic the one whose mark they bear. They join with the mouth of the beast in speaking great blasphemies. They curse God's name. They refuse to repent, just as we were told when the sixth trumpet was sounded. Their attitude of anger at God, it will sadly remain forever. And this is why they will remain in hell forever Interestingly, with all the uh direct correlations by the revelation to the Exodus from Egypt, there is no burning heat counterpart to be found in the words that were written by Moses. And there's also a small divergence from the darkening of the sun that came with the fourth trumpet. as the fourth bull or vial, it brings instead an incredible solar flare rather than the darkness. So once more reminder that there is a repetition and a pattern of repetition within the symbols, but there's also some difference and there's an escalation. I mean just wait till we get to the next chapter and Revelation 17, verse 16, where the harlot who's also called the whore, or the prostitute, the one who has been in league with the beast, she will burn with fire. And then we see the same thing said of Babylon in chapter 18. But meanwhile, back on the ranch, the saints are kept safely shaded. You remember? If you don't, I want to remind you, Revelation chapter 7, where verse 16 says, They shall hunger no more, neither thirst anymore. Neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat. Christ's bride is cared for, given shade, so to speak Christ's enemies, they suffer from a lack of shade, so to speak, as God removes from them his hand of common grace. And let's not forget, this is happening to them because they are worthy of this form of justice from heaven. That's the way the King James puts it in verse 6. In other words, they get what they deserve. As it's written in Isaiah 49, and I will feed them that oppress thee with their own flesh. And they shall be drunken with their own blood as with sweet wine, and all flesh Lord am thy Savior and thy redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob. They reap what they've sown. As they measured out evil, evil is visited upon them. Now before any one of us should get self-righteous at this point, we need to be reminded, I think, that we deserve the same thing We're worthy of the same thing in and of our ourselves and our own actions. Our record of performance, it is worthy of uh of getting drunk on our own blood It is only by the providence of the Father's plan in sending the Son, and by the obedience unto death of Jesus our Savior, and by the grace of the indwelling Holy Spirit, it is only by these things that we we don't join the reprobate. So the path that we travel, it should become increasingly worthy of this astounding, undeserved gift. As we live lives that proclaim you are righteous, O Lord, our perfect judge. The worthy God, Lord Almighty The Holy One, true and righteous in all that you do. Instead of getting drunk on our own blood. Followers of Jesus, we should be getting nourished in our souls by the very blood of Christ. Instead of facing the fire of judgment from the altar, our prayers should rise above it all as incense before the Lord. Instead of suffering permanent death at the hands of God's enemies God's people, we we enjoy the satisfying irony like that that was enjoyed by Esther and Mordecai, if you know that story. They were honored in an ironic sort of way as their antagonist, Haman. hung from his own gallows. Yeah, this all calls to mind portions of Psalm 79. How long, Lord, wilt thou be angry forever? Shall thy jealousy burn like fire? Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen That have not known thee, and upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy name. Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name. And deliver us and purge away our sins for thy name's sake. And render unto our neighbors sevenfold into their bosom their reproach wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord. So we thy people and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks forever. We will show forth thy praise to all generations. You know, a moment ago I uh I mentioned that trumpet four uh and bowl four or vial four they differ in what happened with regards to the sun. But this is rectified in verses 10 and 11. And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast, and his kingdom was full of darkness. And they gnawed their tongues for pain, and blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and repented not of their deeds. There's a small literary note that I want to mention here, the title God of Heaven, that is used in verse 11, it appears nowhere else in the entire New Testament except right here. And in Revelation chapter 11, verse 3. That's it. The only places it appears in the entire New Testament. Now it does appear in the Old Testament. Actually in both Hebrew and Aramaic, as it turns out, about 20 or so times, so it's relatively frequent. And one of those key usages is located in Daniel in chapter 2. where it underscores the supremacy of Israel's Lord, who is the revealer of mysteries. The God of heaven is the revealer of mysteries, according to Daniel And I think that's exactly the theme that John is trying to highlight by using this phrase here in the revelation. He's highlighting for us that the God of heaven is the revealer. Of mysteries. This is the revelation after all. So as I have said before, the better we understand the Old Testament, the better we will understand the revelation The fifth bull or violet reconnects us once again to the Egyptian plagues, the ninth plague in this particular case. Here's a description of this penultimate plague. It's in Exodus chapter 10. It's verses 21 through 23. And the Lord said to Moses, stretch out your hand toward the sky. That there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even a darkness which may be felt. So Moses stretched out his hand toward the sky, and there was thick darkness in all the land of Egypt for three days They did not see one another, nor did anyone rise from his place for three days. But the sons of Israel had light in their dwellings. Now something that's a little bit interesting to me is giving you given all the political arguments of today, uh you have the the scorching sun of Bowl number four, and then you got the the utter darkness of bowl number five and the accompanying coolness would come with that utter darkness. It's almost like we have global warming and global cooling coming at us back to back here in the Revelation Who knew? Global climate change right here in the revelation. But even more interesting than that, and really more on point. Worldwide darkness, it is associated with God's judgment in the Old Testament. You could look and see this in Isaiah and chapter 60 and in Joel chapter 2, for example. And it's specifically Is used in in in relation to the second coming, like what Jesus says himself in Mark chapter 13, but in those days after the that tribulation the sun shall be darkened. And the moon shall not give her light, and the stars of heaven shall fall, and the powers that are in heaven shall be shaken. And then shall they see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with great power and glory. This is the return of God Almighty. And we see that title used twice in Revelation chapter 16. God Almighty. We saw it earlier today with verse 7, and we're going to see it when we get there in verse 14. And you know, there's part of me that, oh, it's the right word exactly, but kind of fears that We've all heard God referred to as the Almighty so many times in our life that I just wonder if we possibly, maybe, just a little bit, just a tad, tiny bit. I mean did it jump off the page at you when we were reading it together just, I don't know what, ten minutes ago? Did it You really should have. Almighty, it means in a dictionary definition sort of a way, it means one who has power over everything. God is Almighty. And this means the Son of Man is in total control. The heavenly hosts, the movements of nature. The powers throughout history, whether they be political or otherwise, they answer to him. He has everything at his command. Talking not too many days ago. Part of what this means is that when tragic things happen, caused or at the very least allowed these things to happen But it's always in ways, sometimes only in ways that are known to him, but always in ways where he's able to use these tragedies for good. The world might confidence at the whole each and every one. So you can trust him. Even in an environment of palpable spiritual darkness. Trust him And that's what verses 10 and 11 are talking about. Palpable, spiritual darkness. People given over to a domain of delusion and confusion, as someone once put it. It's a world where people prefer their pain. And men love darkness rather than light. Because their deeds were evil. Devastating blow against the seat of this evil power. The fifth angel he pours between the Beast Oval Office and the current Oval Office, but I play. This uh is really antithetic to the way it will be with the new heavenly Jerusalem. There will be no more hard hearts there, right? No more defiance towards God, no more dealing with those who insist on staggering in their darkness to their own destruction. consumed by the heat of their own passions. Instead, the kingdom of heaven will be populated exclusively with citizens possessing contrite hearts. Who bathe their Savior in adoration. And we should do so now. Even now. The way we navigate this world, it should stand in stark contrast to those who grow increasingly vehement in their anger towards God. Our lives should be markedly different than those of the damned, who see the very throne of their worldly God punished, who who suffer so badly they know their own tongues. Seeking relief from their spiritual pain Do you see the connection, by the way, with that image? With what is featured so much on the news these days? Day after day we see stories about it. The spiritual pain, it is so heightened that these minions of the beast, they chew their own tongues. They self-mutilate. In an effort to soothe the sharpness of their spiritual brokenness. If only the poor, misguided, lost souls of today's generation, if they would merely confine themselves. The people describe in Revelation, they would rather chew off their own tongues than sing God's praises. Metaphorically, they mangle their tongue, which is to mangle their words, which is to mangle the truth, which is to mangle the world. And they can see what they're doing is bad. They can crumbling world. They can see it They can see that maintaining allegiance to Satan and his puppets is futile. Or do you prefer futile? And yet they refuse to repent. And despite the entrenched nature of their position, which makes it appear useless to say anything to them. We are called to warn them. You are to warn them because you are to love them. If someone warned you once, maybe more than once So now it's your time to return the favor. It's time to pay it forward, as the bumper stickers say. Because the Bible makes clear there is an escape available from this real-life horror film. As history shows In the Israelite Exodus from Egypt, God, he is able to deliver his people from the hosts of earth. Represented in Exodus by Pharaoh and his army. And as history shows us, at the cross of Christ, God, he is able to deliver his people from the host of hell, too. And as history will show us of earth and hell forever As we read the revelation passages that cause our minds all these horror show images, we we start to think, man, this has to be it, right? I mean chapter 16 must be the end of the book. Don't you think? It can't get any worse. We must be at must be at the end, correct? We're taking all the way to the seventh seal and then all the way to the never really can be sure when it's going to end And we're brought to the cusp, you know, brought to the bottom of the ninth, two outs, two strikes, and then suddenly a big hit extends the game. And then in the bottom of the tenth inning, again, two outs, two strikes, same thing happens. In the 11th inning and the twelfth and so on, you know, there was a baseball game once back in the 1980s that lasted 33 innings That's almost four games worth of baseball in just one game or sixteen. It kind of has to be the last one, right? Well, there will be a chapter 17 and then a chapter 18 and then an inning 19. And so on. Now all of us, I think, we've read the book before. And if now you can just thumb ahead in your Bible and see what would that have felt like It would have felt like life. Challenges keep coming in waves. Wave upon wave upon wave of challenges. And we never know when they're going to end. But there is hope. Always there is hope. Because we serve a great when he talks to us we respond When God talks to anyone, they respond. The everlastingly rebellious, they respond with increasingly hardened hearts Those destined for everlasting glory, they respond with increasing our response, it is always either suffering or hardening. The Word of God never returns void, as the scriptures teach. So let's each take stock of ourselves. Are the trials you face? Are they softening you? Or are they hardening you We either respond with repentance, or we respond with, ultimately, blasphemy. We see that in today's passage pretty clearly. Especially verses 9 and 11. And you know, the unrepentant, they might feel like they're getting away with the rebellion. I mean, their life, it seems to them, just fine It's not perfect, you know, whose life is perfect, but it's good enough by their uh unambitious standards. But There is no getting away with anything. Ultimately. God sees the ways in which your life is not just fine. And he measures things quite a bit differently than you do. Because he uses a perfect standard. And if you're not careful, you stand to be rather surprised when the Messiah comes unexpectedly as would a thief. You know, as I mentioned the last time we gathered for a sermon, there is an eschatological reversal that's coming, where the so-called rich become poor. And the one who self-describes as a thief. In Revelation 16, verse 15, he will come to claim the fullness of his true riches. Do you believe this? Does your walk reflect that you believe this Or is your life pretty much like those who blaspheme God? As we saw it today in verses 9 and 11, and that we'll see again at the end of this chapter Is yours the life of a blasphemer, or is yours the life of a believer Which one is that? Father, you are magnificent. You truly are the Holy One. We can't even fully grasp the magnitude of how almighty you are. Your ways are so far beyond our ways, and yet you have chosen to reveal yourself to your people in a way that we can comprehend, that we can understand. We ask that you would help all of your people to respond to the truth of your word That we would live lives of humble obedience, that we would make a positive impact around us by proclaiming the truth and the necessity of the kingdom of God. We know that you love us so much. And we do love you back, but We ask that you help us to do so even more consistently, more fully. And to demonstrate this by our our to demonstrate our love for you by Showing love towards others. And part of that showing love is proclaiming the hard truth, warning them of the peril that they face. That deep down in their hearts they know they face. We ask that we'd be useful to you in drawing to the surface these nagging doubts and concerns they have in the depths of their soul. And that we'll be privileged to see lives transformed right before our eyes. To see you and your spirit work and to know that you didn't have to use us, but you chose to use us Giving us a front row seat to the miraculous work that you do in lives one by one. All these things we pray in the name of our precious Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. I was noticing as I was glancing over at the uh live stream screen that there were a lot of times when it seems like it was cutting out. I have no idea. So we'll see how how much of this video made it through. Hopefully it's watchable. We'll find out later. Anyway, till next time. God bless.