Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ live stream. This is actually a representation because listening back to the most recent audio sermon we had. There was there was a technical error that made it all but unlistenable. So our apologies. So for posterity's sake, I am uh representing our message on uh the last part of Revelation sixteen. Uh message I titled God's Fury. If you're interested in learning more about Household of Faith in Christ, uh you're encouraged to go to our website, Household of FaithinChrist. com. It's in the midst of a makeover. It's gonna have a very different look and vibe and feel and hopefully more intuitive navigation and that sort of thing uh hopefully within the next uh a few weeks. We'll see how quickly that gets done. But anyway, we'll be in the lookout for that. Again, our website is household of faith in Christ dot com. So we are now heading down the back stretch as we today finish our look at Revelation chapter 16. We've uh navigated through this chapter and realized that we have been here before within the pages of the Revelation In chapter 9, for example. And we're going to be here again within the story of the Revelation, taking us into chapter 20, for instance. And of course, we have been here before in other parts of the Bible. One of the big themes of the bold judgments in this last book of the Bible is that the plagues come because the wickedness of God's enemies has now been filled to the brim. This theme can be seen way back in Genesis, also, the first book of the Bible. Israel's patriarchy has promised a great land, but Abraham, he was going to have to wait because the iniquity of the Amorites was not yet complete, as it tells us in Genesis chapter 15. So if we try to visualize the spiritual reality of the situation, it's like God is holding out a vial or a jar of some sort, you know? And the Amorites uh way back when and they they pour all of their idolatry, all of their violence, all of their their other evils into it, and when this witch's brew is bubbling up To the very edge of the bowl or the flask or the sensor or whatever you want to call it that's in the Lord's hand, the Lord then pours it out on their heads. Jesus, he makes similar use of an ideal like this in Matthew chapter 23. He tells the Jewish hypocrites, go ahead, fill up then the measure of the guilt of your fathers. Go ahead. See, there's a gap between the utterance of God's promise and the patient fulfillment of that promise. And the gap closes, and more added to the to the ranks of the redeems as times progress, and the gap closes as Evil men and women reject their Creator and sadly pile up curses for themselves. Curses that are held steady in the cup of wrath And when the time is precisely right, that cup is poured, and those who belong to the beast, well, they get what's coming to them. And happily those belonging to Christ get what's coming to them too, and what a glorious, blessed day that is. In the meantime, we have the privilege, yea, the privilege, I say. Of living in a world that has its devilish seat of power thrown into confusion, bringing darkness, which of course is the opposite of enlightened wisdom. As with the trumpets. The bowls of chapter sixteen there were sh were shown the land get battered the w The water is spoiled, the uh we see the site the smiting of the sun, we there's all this language about hail and and fire and the Euphrates and unclean spirits, the despotic rulers, the tormented people, and this all prepares the way for the rebellious to gather their forces. For their suicide mission. They don't seem to understand, but the the battle that they so arrogantly believe will put them above God is their end. This battle is where they meet their permanent demise, the fools. Why can't they see their peril? Well, we know why. They're blinded by sin. They need to repent. We need to tell them. Warn them. Stay away from spiritual Babylon. Don't be in league with the dragon or his beast or his harlot. The false prophet spews the lies of Satan, who is the mastermind behind this Kool-Aid drinking fraud. And while the battle is spiritual in nature, it plays out in the practical. We all feel it, with political powers and cultural influencers and economic interests, even false religions. And apostate elements within the midst of the church. The spirit of the age is the spirit of Antichrist. It is a spirit of three frogs, an unholy trinity, bringing demonic influence over the whole planet Now Jesus warned that false messiahs would deceive many. And boy has he been proven correct. He warned us also that the day of reckoning was coming. And so did his Old Testament prophets, who proclaimed like they did in Joel chapter 2, Great is the day of the Lord and utterly terrifying. Who can endure it? Well God's people can endure. Just as they endured what Assyria and Babylon did to Jerusalem once upon a time, just as they endured attacks from Egypt and Rome. See, there is always a remnant. And the remnant will be preserved to greet Christ when he returns. And we hold on to that hope. Because our King has told us, I am coming. So we are blessed. Washing clean in the blood of our Savior. As we talked about in our most recent sermon, we're talking about the white robes. In verse 15 of chapter 16, there's a blessing. It says, Blessed is he that watcheth and keepeth his garments. It's the third of seven such blessings in Revelation. The first two, by the way, are in chapters three and four. The remaining four are found in chapters 19-20, and then there's two in chapter 22, the final chapter. So may ask, are you feeling blessed, brothers and sisters? Are you? I hope so. Because you are, if you're a follower of Christ. Make sure, though, that you're keeping your garments. Those who don't keep the spiritual garment are the apostate Christians. This harlot with no garment is destroyed in her nakedness. This is all related to a terrifying metaphor of war, and boy, it it should cause you to examine your situation. That's not just rhetoric. Examine your situation. Ask yourself, is Jesus, the Son of Man, your Savior? Is he? Is he also your Lord? Not just Savior, but Lord as well. The answer to both of these is yes, well then You won't end up dead on the battlefield of Megadoh as did Israel's King Joram way back when. And that's a guarantee Well, physically, of course, we all face the prospect of death. What I'm talking about now is spiritual death, because the son, he loses not one that's given to him by the Father, so we can take comfort. You should take comfort if you're following Jesus. You serve a big God, a very, very big God. And he wins the last great war, which is truly the war to end all wars. So once more for emphasis, it's been a theme in recent weeks for us. There is one last battle, and in so many ways you're in it. So now let's read more about it. Revelation chapter 16, verses 17 to 21. And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air, and there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven. from the throne, saying, It is done. And there were voices and thunders and lightnings, and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake and so great. And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell, and great Babylon came in remembrance before God to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found, and there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, every stone about the weight of a talent, and men Blasphemed God because the plague of the hail, for the plague thereof was exceeding great This is the very word of God, inspired of God, therefore it is without error, it is infallible, it is fully sufficient as a rule and guide for our faith, for our life practice. I invite you to receive it as such, and those with ears let them hear. After noticing the progression of events that are described in the various visions of Revelation, here in chapter 16 we see more of the same And before we had John, he he he showed the uh the seals being opened to reveal that which had previously been concealed in God's foreknowledge. And then with the trumpets they sound with the announcement of these things. And now the bowls are being poured out, indicating the arrival of God's stored up cup of Wrath and so the end is seen by John. Again John saw the end in chapter 6, in chapter 11, in chapter 14. Now here we are in chapter 16, where even Armagadden is mentioned in this chapter. And then there will be even more to say about this, especially in chapters 19 and 20. And it can almost begin to feel just a little bit anticlimactic as we read through the book. But the way to properly experience this complex narrative is to think in terms of A really great roller coaster. Your clattering boxcar slowly climbs higher and higher. Goody cluck, cluck, goody cluck, and your anxiety increases as you ready yourself for that inevitable plunge. And then it comes. And you raise your hands and you scream and you realize all your loose change is flung out of your pockets. And you think, wow, what a rush. And then you realize the ride's not over, and so your heart rate ramps up again. Your your blood pressure Once more spikes as you plummet down yet another steel cage hill, you whip across an embankment. You're barely able to catch your breath and you think, whoa, what a rush I am so glad it's over. Only it's not The roller coaster makes yet another massive climb. And now as you fly through space and time, you see light disappear and food and water sources are wiped out and other systems sustaining life are impacted too and then suddenly the very air people need to breathe, it is struck in ways that you can't fully comprehend. And so terror. overtakes you. And you scream out, stop the ride. I want to get off But it's still not over yet. The seventh bowl judgment is now being poured on the prince of the power of the air, the very devil himself. The plague striking the air, it has so many symbolic possibilities. The air is the realm of Satan, as we read in Ephesians chapter 2. And the air in ancient Greece was believed by some to exist in two distinct parts. They said that there was pure air high above, and then there was impure air that was down near the ground. The the the common air, the the air that the people breathed, it was said to be inhabited by unclean spirits And it was understood to be very much unlike that rarefied air that existed way up on a higher plane, almost like a Gnostic kind of idea there. And so it wouldn't be no Great Shaykhs to think in terms of that common air that's inhabited by unclean spirits, that being under attack by a holy God. And you know, John, he possibly has people like this in mind when he gives us his description in Revelation 16, because his description of the vision makes it absolutely clear that this plague It covers all the air. John describes the shaking of the entire creation. This includes the whole entire atmosphere Right, not just some little part of the air down close to the ground. This is why in verse 17 it ends with the phrase that functions as an as an exclamation point. It is done. Phonito. There's something about the Greek construction in this sentence that brings emphasis to this point. For us to fully capture the import of the phrase, you would have to translate it into English as something like, it has been and will remain forever, done. It is flawlessly accomplished. It's concluded. The goal's been realized. There is nothing more needed. Nothing at all. That's it. We're all finished here. What else do you want to know? Students of the Bible reading this part of chapter 16 very often will immediately think of Christ at the cross when he says it is finished. And there Christ signaled the end of two things, his suffering, and the completion of everything that's needed for the beginning of new life And God, in Revelation 16, saying from his throne, it is done, this is also signaling two things. One, we have reached the end of the time for repentance. And so the end of God's merciful patience. We're going to hear this phrase one more, last time in Revelation chapter 21, signaling There the fullness of the final judgment on the one hand, and on the other hand, the beginning of eternal resurrection, life in the new heaven, and the new earth. And this is goose pimply kind of stuff. And what we read in uh verse 18, that should sound pretty familiar. It's the same clothes that we read. for the seven seals, with the voices, thunders, lightnings. Just like we also saw the mountains and the islands moved in Revelation six, and now here again in Revelation sixteen. So what we're seeing with this imagery is Is the presence of God in His fearful majesty bringing judgment We saw similar things in Revelation 4 and 8 and 11. We find similar things in Judges chapter 5 where it says The earth trembled and the heavens dropped, the clouds also dropped water, the mountains melted from before the Lord, even that Sinai from before the Lord, God of Israel. There's more of the same in 2 Samuel 22. Then the earth shook and trembled. The foundations of heaven moved and shook, because he was wrath. There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth devoured. Coals were kindled by it. He bode the heavens also and came down, and darkness was under his feet. Those lines from King David also appear in Psalm 118. And in Exodus 19, we have a famous scene from the Pentateuch. There were thunders and lightnings and a thick cloud upon the mount, and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud, so that all the people that was in the camp trembled. And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God, and they stood at the nether part of the mount, and Mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke because the Lord descended upon it in fire And the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mount quaked. You know, something that helps us to really feel that last text I just read, there's something incorporated there by Moses in verse 16 and in verse 18, he uses the same verb for the words that our English Bibles translate as trembled or shook or quaked. And what this word means is to be terrified. They're trembling, shaking, quaking with terror. Even Mount Sinai, in a literary personification, is scared. Just like we see the islands and the mountains scared in verse 20 of Revelation 16. And you would shake like a leaf too, I imagine, anyway. I assume if you were confronted by the potent presence of your Maker arriving as the lawgiver and law enforcer. Consider Psalm 68. The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God. Even Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel. Psalm 77. The voice of thy thunder was in the heaven. The lightnings lightened the world. The earth trembled and shook. Or Psalm 97, His lightnings enlightened the world, the earth saw and trembled, the hills melted like wax at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. Isaiah 2. And they shall go into the holes of the rocks and into the caves of the earth for fear of the Lord and for the glory of his majesty when he ariseth to shake terribly the earth. Isaiah 5. Therefore is the anger of the Lord kindled against his people, and he hath stretched forth his hand against them, and hath smitten them. And the hills did tremble. Isaiah thirteen. Therefore I will shake the heavens, and the earth shall remove out of her place in the wrath of the Lord of hosts, in the day of his fierce anger. And how about Jeremiah chapters four and ten? I beheld the mountains, and lo, they trembled, and all the hills moved. But the Lord is the true God. He's a living God and another everlasting King. At his wrath the earth shall tremble, and the nations shall not be able to abide. his indignation. Here's one more. Mayhum chapter one. The mountains quake at him, and the hills melt, and the earth is burned at his presence, yea, the world and all that dwell therein. Who can stand before his indignation? And who can abide in the fierceness of his anger? His fury is poured out like fire. And the rocks are thrown down by him. These passages, they all have something in common. They are theophanies, theophanies, appearances of God when he comes as law enforcer. It's a rather striking contrast to compare these with the angel of the Lord addressing Elijah as we read in 1 Kings chapter 19. And he said, Go forth and stand upon the mount before the Lord. And behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains and break in pieces the rocks before the Lord. But the Lord was not in the wind. And after the wind, an earthquake. But the Lord was not in the earthquake. And after the earthquake, a fire. But the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire, a still small voice. I find relaxing contentment when pondering the meaning of this. In contrast to the violent Theophanies of Judgment, as a preview of hell, perhaps Judgments that bring whipping wind and earthquakes and fire and all the rest. Instead of this, we receive the gracious gospel. In a soft, quiet voice And that's what the sheep who hear that voice get. Peace. Shalom. And those who reject that voice get complete destruction. Represented by the great city splitting into three parts. To understand that interpretation of the three parts, we hearken back to Ezekiel chapter 5 Where the unfaithful Israelites, they're divided into three parts, a third dying of pestilence and famine, a third killed by the sword, a third scattered to the wind and chased down. The Great City in verse 19, it's almost definitely Babylon. In fact, a number of our English translations, they insert that interpret interpretation right into the text. But some may think it might be Rome or possibly even Jerusalem. But you know what? I think it's in a sense both. Both of these cities, I think, are representative examples of spiritual Babylon. This pagan world system that had earlier in Revelation been identified with Sodom and Egypt, you might recall. And this system, it meets its demise With total destruction. Civilizations, culture, commerce, it is all wiped out. This is full judgment, not the 10% judgment that we were shown back earlier in Revelation chapter 11. So all the world cities, they fall with symbolic Babylon. They're all interconnected, you see, and so they they all fall. We see them all ended. And we're going to get some additional details about how how all of that will play out in the next couple of chapters. But at present, here in chapter 16, we're merely g being given a preview of this We've already had some things to say, by the way, as we now are getting closer to wrapping up our look at this part of chapter 16. We're looking at chapter 20, and we notice we've already seen how the similar language was was uh Revealed to us in Revelation. And it's kind of similar language, by the way, is also found in Luke chapter 3, where it says, Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be brought low. And the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough shall be made smooth. So the main point we emphasize with these verses is that There's no place to hide. You can go high high high atop the mountains, the mountains are brought low. You're gonna go deep in the valley, the valleys raise up They're gonna try to get in a n in i in the crooked way and hide and be misdirection where you can't be seen so easily. Everything's made straight. You kind of mix in where everything's kind of rough and and difficult to discern one thing from the other, all that's made smooth. There's no place to hide. Even the most remote, secure locations will disappear as a place to which the reprobate can flee. Because these locations, well they flee themselves. The Greek word for uh to pass from view or or vanish The word that's used in this verse, what it means is to flee, to run away. Symbolically, even inanimate objects, fly off in fear. This includes mountains, the largest things on earth. They vanish as if they never existed before. And the islands too. The isles sought and feared. The ends of the earth were afraid, drew near and came. That's a verse from Isaiah chapter 41. What's being illustrated for us here with this idea is that the very creation passes away because God's wrath, his judgment, his strength is so fierce. And now the final verse for today, verse 21, it amplifies these realities. Hail weighing a talent falls from the sky Some English translations. They try to do a conversion here, a mathematical conversion, thinking they're helping us. They'll put things in terms of pounds or kilograms, something like that. But when they do this, they're actually helping us to miss the point. See, the talent was the largest known biblical unit of measurement for weight. And so what we should understand here is that the hailstones are the heaviest hailstones your brain can imagine. You think it's hard to carry something that weighs 75, 100 pounds? Well, you just try carrying something so heavy you can't even weigh it. That's what we should picture here. And if you did some research, by the way, to to learn and see uh the the kind of devastation that hailstorms have have wrought throughout human history, you might be shocked at what you learn. It's absolutely devastating. what hail can do. And so the plague of the hail, it is a true calamity, exceeding great, as the King James puts it As it was in Exodus 9 with the outpouring of the seventh Egyptian plague. Only at the very end, here in Revelation, it's much, much worse than the hailstorm of 3,500 years ago. Because you see, it's it's as if the thunder and the lightning and and the earthquake and everything else that's mentioned here is painting this picture of we should understand that everything is being blown up. The very foundation of the world is being blown up. And now the foundation stones that have blown up, they now come raining down on you. With imagery like this, does God have your attention yet? As we wrap up the sermon for today, I want to point out something that we see three times in Revelation 16. The unrepentant blaspheme God in verse 9, in verse 11, in verse 21. So instead of holy, holy, holy, what we get is blasphemy, blasphemy, blasphemy. And this is the reality of spiritual war. If you're not living a life that says, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. If you're not living that kind of a life, well then You're dying a death of blasphemy, blasphemy, blasphemy against the name of the God of heaven. You're on one side or the other. There is no middle ground So let's take stock of our situation. Genuinely inspect your behaviors and attitudes. Genuinely do so, honestly, authentically, transparently, at least with yourself. Are we really soldiers ready for battle? Are we really homeowners busy being watchful? Are we really preparing for a gog and magog type scene like that that is described with the closing words of Ezekiel chapter 38? Are you standing at attention? Well let's read and find out. Ezekiel chapter 38. Ezekiel 38 beginning with verse 19. For in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath have I spoken. Surely in that day there shall be a great shaking in the land of Israel, so that the fishes of the sea And the fowls of the heaven, and the beasts of the field, and all creeping things that creep upon the earth, and all the men that are upon the face of the earth shall shake at my presence. And the mountains shall be thrown down, and the steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground. And I will call for a sword against him throughout all my mountains, saith the Lord God. Every man's sword shall be against his brother, and I will plead against him with pestilence and with blood. And it will rain upon him and upon his bands and upon the many people that are with him and overflowing rain and great hailstones, fire and brimstone, and thus will I magnify myself and sanctify myself And I will be known in the eyes of many nations, and they shall know that I am The Lord. Know that He is the Lord. And live your life accordingly. Please join me in prayer. Father, we praise you and thank you that you have everything completely firmly under control. You have a plan. And we praise you and thank you as your people that that plan includes us, that you love us so much that you sent your son to pay the penalty we should pay So that we might have life, that we'd have eyes to see and ears to hear. And out of our gratitude for who you are and what you've done in our lives, we ask that you would, by the power of your spirit, steer us evermore into the paths of obedience because we know that there we find the paths of blessing and we want the fullness of your blessing, Lord. And help us to warn those who do not. Truly know who you are. Help to bring them to a place. And use us as vessels for this so that they will know that you. Yahweh, our Lord. All these things we lift up to you in the name of your Son, our precious Savior and Sovereign King, Jesus Christ. Amen. So I'm going to wrap up the stream now. If you are interested in learning more and finding out more about what we are all about as our church, go to our website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com, Household of Faithinchrist. com. Till next hangwas