Hey Facebook. Thanks for joining us on the stream. We're recording um the plan is to record five shows this evening that will air uh next month on WFMD. So you're gonna if you're watching the stream, you're gonna get a sneak peek at the stuff that's gonna air on the radio uh I think throughout the the month of June. Well starting actually Memorial Day weekend. So Okay, my back turned to you for most of the time on the stream. I apologize, but I gotta pay attention to the recording stuff. So anyway. Do you have any comments and stuff? I might not interact now, but I will I promise I'll interact later if you want to leave any comments on anything that we're saying on the stream Right. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMB. That's right. You know that's true. This is a big way. Thanks for starting the your suburb. Well for me woke up hours ago. So spending, maybe not starting, but spending some of your Sunday morning with us here at 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, longtime host. Coming up on 18 years we've been doing this show. They haven't kicked us off yet, so shh, don't tell anybody They don't know we're on the air. So if they find out we're off in a minute a t a minute and a half, I'm sure. Um we're gonna be a little bit shorthanded today, but you know, I think Daniel uh by the way, why have the right mic say something? Hello Oh, I think that's not the right mic. Try say something again. Hello. Hmm. Say something again. This is the microphone. Oh there we go. Okay, now we got the right microphone. And you'll notice hear this funky music? Yeah You know, we live in an internet age now and uh the radio station that pays royalties so they can it can use commercial music and all that sort of stuff. So the music we use in the past has been broadly available commercial kind of of music. We've had three different theme songs in our coming up on 18 years. Now our fourth. Why have we changed? Because we just changed to the new one when we changed the format with the uh the standing set panel of the Razveys and uh David Forcey and and me, we've kind of a s an established panel week after week and we changed the music with that change in how we're doing the show. But you know I realize I kept getting uh little little flag warnings from the Internet police because even though the radio station is paying for copyright The rights of all the music on these various platforms. So I went with royalty free music uh moving forward. So that's what it is. Kind of up peep, kind of fun. Anyway, I mentioned the Razbies in general. Daniel Razby is one of the pastors at the Church of East of Imrans. And I don't know if you're involved with the ministry or that's just your parents thing. Are you involved with that as well? Yep. Okay. The um Conquered by Love Ministries online at Concord by Love. The uh the the ethics questions around the shots. So this could be all shots. Yeah, not just COVID. Great. There's the COVID shot which um I I think is probably mo most forefront on most people's minds these days and whether or not there are uh there's uh a bordal fetal tissue involved either in the in in the ingredients or in the testing or in the development or whatever and what are the ethical questions and Um it's not something that's gotten a lot of attention compared to what one would expect. It's gotten some attention, but it hasn't gotten a lot of attention. To be honest, I don't know that we've tackled it yet on this show, certainly not since we've gotten this new panel, and I'm not sure if before that we talked about mandates specifically. I know we talked about mandates a couple times, but Right. And this is related because if it is an ethical, religious objection kind of a thing, then being mandated to do something that goes against your religion goes against your conscience. is something that we want to be informed about. So the way I framed it was, should a Christian volunteer to be, because I'm I'm just off the off right off the bat I'm going to say nobody should be forced. Right. Regardless. So the question for the Christian then is, I'm with you. If you're if you're being forced and you want an advocate, I'm your advocate. I don't think anybody should be forced. But should a Christian volunteer to be injected if the shots, any shots, were developed using aborted Babies. So what say you, Daniel Rasby? Well let's let's I'm glad you use that last phrase, aborted babies, because they are babies. People say aborted fetal tissue makes it sound very sterile and very not uh And I cleaned it up even more so than I might normally because to be honest, murdered babies is what I'm what I'm trying to do. Murdered human beings. Right. Um I'm laughing as you say that just because the insanity of it all. Now there is there is a caveat though, and that is at least officially and the You know, there's all sorts of conspiracy theories all the time about whether things are continuing to be done, but at least in theory, most of the medical research that is done using dead baby parts um is not now today being done by killing more babies. There are more babies being killed due to abortion, but most medical research is using cell lines from babies that were already done died like forty years ago. Um and so that is that is a distinction. Some Christians feel that's not a distinction at all. Um some feel it's a very important distinction because there's you're not actively participating in New death. And you might compare that to, you know, w the US hired a lot of uh Nazi scientists uh after World War Two so we could win the space race and these were scientists that were guilty of a lot of horrors in uh World War II. Um and regardless of hiring those people, we we build research on uh on the billing box of other research conducted by By very immoral and evil people in the past, not just from Nazi Germany, but other you know, places in the past. People torture and kill other people and then they use that uh knowledge they gain during those things for medical research. So the question is then can do you have to throw out everything? Do you have to come out with scrap from scratch with a new research Maybe we should stair step it a little bit. So let's let's say that there's a new and let's not use anything that's currently on the market so that we don't have to worry about people think we're picking on a particular issue. So six months from now the world is introducing this brand new miracle shot drug that's gonna like add fifty years to everybody's lifespan and make them you know look like ro not just Not just be alive hanging on, but like robust life for fifty more years. And uh all you gotta do is go get this shot and you're gonna be when you're a hundred it'll be like you were fifty You know what I mean? And uh but they had to uh you know use the body parts of dad murdered babies uh in order to make that happen. And and they had to do it this year, right? They have their final testing on it. So it was it's fresh. This is new So given the the the incredible upside, people living longer, living better lives, there's there would be a lot of ethicists making a kind of a moral equivalency argument. Right. Can a Christian trying to be obedient to what the Bible says make that sort of a moral trade-off? Well I would say no, because now if you're talking about you were directly killing a life in order to prolong your own life. Um that doesn't seem like a biblical concept, right? Biblically we're supposed to lay down our life to protect others. Um So it seems kind of the antithesis of what a Christian should be thinking about or doing. And if if there are ladies being killed actively in in order to provide this advancement of w whatever it is, then I think that should give you pause to begin with. If there are actually baby parts in the uh the thing itself that you're taking, whether you're swallowing it or uh putting in the ear in your blood or whatever, and you're actually injecting yourself with uh human uh parts, you know, there's th that's that's a whole nother issue. And you know, I think most Christians should instinctively think, okay, something's wrong with that, you know. Um So Christians shouldn't participate in the development of it. for sure. I'm hearing at least that much. And then once it's out on the market you're saying, Yeah, it's like you put 'cause it's so fresh and new. But what if somebody said, Well I'll be me. I'll be I'll be the guy, right? I'll also Hey Daniel, I mean come on. I didn't kill the baby. I mean they already killed the baby. They killed the baby back in January. I had no idea they were gonna kill any babies, but they did, and now here we are, it's October And there's this miracle drug kind of thing and I mean y I can't be held accountable for what they did in January. I I shouldn't take advantage of the fruits of that? That's that's the argument people use about this the the cell lines, right? Right. And when you make it January now it sounds oh okay, well that doesn't sound as good. But if it's forty years ago maybe that's so and that doesn't mean that the answer that you're you're giving or the thought that goes through your head uh uh fetal uh uh cell lines. So if you are gonna be a little bit more than a little bit. If you look it up online it's it's Astounding how many things we use all the time we don't even think about it that has a connection to the uh the baby killing mills. Right. So I think you can certainly hold it a consistent position with saying you don't want to have any ingredients going into your body that are parts of other human beings, um certainly ones that were murdered. Um there's a whole nother argument to be made about the transplants and things like that. which is we don't really have time for on this show. Um that I think is a little bit different a concept, especially if somebody's voluntarily giving a part of their body and they're still living as a result of that, right? Can tri uh donations and things like that. But I don't know, uh d yes, the there were atrocities committed back whenever it was, whether it was a few months ago or a few decades ago. And are you profiting from that? And the the question is What I I think what kind of message does it send, right? As a Christian are you uh are you saying, look I'm supporting that this this is a good thing Or if are you actively saying, Look, this is a terrible thing, it's murders that were done. Um now we've gained this knowledge which I mean we can prove to be true by other means as well. You know, this this uh what Whatever the medical thing is, let's just say you can prove that something works and this it's good for you, and you can prove it in other ways besides the ways that have already been proven by using those uh uh aborted uh babies, well I I would say that okay, well, just because somebody gained that knowledge originally by uh committing a sin, um, that doesn't mean the knowledge itself is wrong too have um if you're actually using the uh the the the baby parts to build whatever you're trying to build and that's that's a little bit different I think. Um the per so I and I'm it sounds like you and I have an awful lot of overlap in how we're thinking about this. So far I'm not sure. I mean maybe I wasn't paying close enough attention. There's a little nuance here or there that we could pick at and disagree on. But I I feel like I'm agreeing with where you're coming from, which means whatever I'm gonna say, you're gonna agree with where I'm coming from Uh but let me ask if this is also true then. Because of the level of agreement I think is here, I'm wondering if you're gonna say, yeah, I'm I'm I'm there with you. I'm trying to figure out where the line is. So clearly killing a baby is wrong. Yes. Unambiguous, completely wrong. So those who killed babies. And just to for our listeners, a baby is somebody that has been That's what that's how. Killing the baby is so it's murder. So we're good we're agreeing there And somebody who knowingly commissions that that be done so they can make a profit or a big name for themselves or something, they're participating in those What you and I would describe as murder. Not everybody who hears what we have to say is going to agree that that's murder. But I would say the Bible says it's murder. Yes. So they're guilty. But what would the biblical argument be? This is where I am. This isn't me trying to be cute or I gotcha question. I'm really wrestling through What's the biblical argument for saying it would be a sin for you, Daniel, for me, Troy, to to benefit from somebody else's Sin they intended it for evil, but maybe God intended it for good for you, for me, whatever. So where does the line get drawn? That that phrase that you took it comes from Joseph, right? Right yeah. He meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. Right, yeah. And at the end of the book of Genesis. Right. And eventually his brothers actually profited from having sold him into slavery, which was wrong in the first place. Um so I guess their lives are saved because they get to move to Egypt and have all the food they can possibly want. Exactly. All because they sold them into slavery. Exactly. So why exactly, right? So that selling and selling into slavery is okay to profit problem. Well Well that in that case, in that case, God meant it for good. And I think intent does matter, but intent is not the only thing that matters because the ends do not justify the means. Right? But intent does matter. We have a legal concept in the law in what was your intent. And the Bible has the same concept because it talks about in the in the Torah in the Old Testament, it talks about If you sin intentionally, presumptuously, or if you sin and you didn't realize you sinned, there's a totally different restitution you make. You're still guilty and you're still in a position of shame having committed that sin, but the intent does matter, right? So there there's a whole section, I don't remember uh what chapter I think In Leviticus, it talks about if you if a soul sins presumptuously or a soul sins out of ignorance, those are two different things. And you bring an offering and you say, Look, I'm sorry, I re I didn't realize I I did this uh after the fact, right? A as opposed to oh you did this intentionally, now you're gonna have the more severe punishment that's associated with that. Um I think that's That sounds like something that would apply maybe to like an Abbey Johnson You know, uh famous uh pro-life advocate. She's not uh on the abolitionist team, she's more on the pro-life team, and those who are involved in those arguments know what I mean by that. distinction. She was the woman who her it was her life story that was part of the movie Unplanned. Uh that that came out how many years ago is that now? several years ago now. Um and it got rated R because of one scene, which it's crazy 'cause I've seen some PG thirteens that were way more graphic than the than that movie's R. Let's face it, it got rated R because they don't want big kids and young people to understand that it's murder. But she's somebody who was participating in it and then realized, oh my gosh, I don't know what I I didn't know what I was doing and now I know and I and I repent. But again, that's somebody who's involved in the killings. You and I haven't been involved in the killings. So is it is it a sin for you and I, for the person listening to this show, is it a sin for them to get an inoculation for something that these killed babies were used in the testing and the ingredients and the what have you that's the th th those are two different things though. Testing and ingredients are two different things. Right? If you're actually putting the baby parts in the into your body versus you've you tested uh while committing evil acts. That that's I definitely see that as a difference and and th it's probably an important distinction to make, but again, you know, this is this is the faith debate where Christian pastors somebody says, Well, help me understand the biblical argument. So what is how would the Bible dis define that distinction? And I'm sure it's there Sure. And it feels icky and wrong. And I want to find the biblical argument because I feel but that's ecogesis. I don't want to I don't want to find the Bible and have it agree with me. I want to agree with the Bible. Right. And I I don't know so is it ever wrong? Some people, you know, they they get stranded out in the middle of nowhere in the middle of winter, and there's some famous stories about these sorts of things where they end up surviving because they eat the flesh of their dead comrades, right? They they they become cannibals for a season to survive. Is are are they in sin from benefiting from the flesh of their dead buddies? You know, it's it's related. But that question assumes that the Old Testament laws on kosher uh apply today. Because that would be a food law. So how is it different if you're in children? So that's another another topic for another time. But uh again that's the Uh I I don't know what I'm saying. Is there a difference between taking in the dead body into your mouth or taking in the dead body into your vein via an ejection? Is there a difference? Well did you kill that person? And now we're getting to that question. Right. What if I didn't kill any of them? Right? I mean this is the this is the challenge, and these are the kinds of things that people who are looking for a religious exemption from getting some of these shots. They're making these arguments and they're getting pushback from, oh, what are you kidding? It was forty years ago and you know you had nothing to do with these babies these babies have been dead since before you were born. And you're worried about this? And come on, that's not a legitimate religious exemption. And yeah, I I would like to have an ironclad kind of way of helping them think through that. And I'm not so sure that this is an area where we have ironclad. Killing the babies is wrong. Profiting from the killing of babies is wrong. Treating baby parts like they're commodities, like they're not actual human being body parts, is wrong. All of that is the technology now to do stem cell research from living adults. You can harvest some cells from living adults and continue to and you don't kill them, it doesn't hurt them at all. And you can use that in research. And in many c cases do the exact same research that they used to do by using dead babies. And they it didn't all it wasn't always abortions. I mean there were miscarriers and they they it they uh um captured those um dead bodies and use them in in research, just like you use a cadaver of a of an adult person that dies in research. Um s you know, somebody that dies a natural cause So it's not all, not all of the cell lines and things are are are from abortions, but most of them can be traced back to a couple of specific abortions that occurred in 1990. seventy or seventy-one or something. I don't remember the exact year, so don't you know quote me on it. But there supposedly in the research that I've done, there's really just a couple specific babies that were killed at that point and then they just keep reproducing cells from those babies. So then now the question is were they actually are they actually dead or are we still um you know, because it's it's cells that have the same exact DNA of those those original uh babies in their living cells. Um so are they uh are we keeping them alive for the purposes of continued medical research. And there are other ways where we have benefited without even knowing it probably Well us, you and I, other people might know it, but we don't know. The Tuskegee uh experiments about uh on on sexual uh transmitted diseases and stuff. I'm sure they learned some things from that that people benefit from today. Should they not benefit from that because of what they did to these poor people? A lot of our medicine uh the medical knowledge from the mid-twentieth uh century comes from what Nazi science is. scientists did by uh torturing and killing juice. Right. And they found out things about the human body that w are actually useful bits of knowledge to know for medical science, even though the the um acts that they were committing were completely horrific and evil acts. And so then the question is, okay, well now you read this fact in medical school, you go to medical school, you hear this, this is what the human body does, and this is why we know it Oh well now do you have to forget what you just learned or find it some other way in order to for it to be valid still? I I I I don't know. I I think there is there's a point at which you can't undo the past And you just gotta move forward and say, Look, I'm not gonna support any further um atrocities, it's not not worth it. Right. Uh Yeah, I think we want to be careful. I mean, there's a lot of guiding principles and I do want to give some people you know if you have some thoughts too about some of the uh different kinds of religious exemption things you could angles you could take Sure. We can share that. But I do want to say our God is not a ridiculous God. No. And so we can you know I think it is important was to think things through To the point of does it get to a point where it's ridiculous? So if somebody murders somebody and they fall dead on the ground and their their dead body decomposes and causes a rich environment for fertilized area and then later on some wonderfully ripe, rich, beautiful tomatoes come up as a result of that and you eat the tomato, oh you can't eat that tomato. That tomato tomato only grew because that guy got murdered and now you're a murderer. That's abs Absurd on the f so we w we don't want to be absurd and that's why I'm not sure that that's the best argument. Sure. So we we've got like just a few minutes. If we need to carry over to the next show we can, but uh with the um The COVID vaccination specifically, um you know, there's arguments whether you can call it a vaccination because it doesn't do the same thing vaccines uh historically have done. Uh you know, w whether it's Right. The World Health Organization, the C D C would call them a vaccine, but they mostly change the definition of vaccine. whether they are or are not effective, but they or you know, but but the idea is that they're a little different than like the smallpox vaccine. However, with that I think the strongest argument as a Christian is the remo reason that I c can't take it is because it's being mandated. That's that's number one reason, because I believe in the Bible and I read the Bible it's it says very clearly to me that in some future time There will be a government that requires something to be done to my body in order for me to be allowed to buy or sell in the economy and transact in the economy. And even if you don't connect it with the mark of the beast, the body the you know the Christian body it's uh it's the dwelling place of the Holy Spirit, it's a temple. Mark of the Beast. Let's be clear. No, but there are there are are you you don't spend as much time on social media as I do probably there are people that call it that. They're out there. Um I would not call this the mark of the beast. However, I I mean I could You could call it a dry run or you could call it preparing people to be able to do that. I think the because it wa it is being required in many jurisdictions in order to be allowed to to have the privilege of interrupting acting in the economy, that is the number one reason I would say why a Christian should very have a lot of hesitation. Um and you can argue about the the different uh s uh you know abortion and and so on. You can also talk about the ingredients or the efficacy and say, look I I'm not convinced or whatever I've seen the evidence or or I haven't seen the evidence and I'm not convinced. That's something that you gotta determine and it is your responsibility to treat your body like a temple. Jesus said that our body is a temple of of of God and and we need to be a treat it right. That's why why you don't shouldn't be smoking, shouldn't be doing drugs, and you should eat healthy and and all those different things. And so that goes with medicine too. You should be only putting things in your your body regardless of anything that in you know i if even if it's sh it's sugar, if it's tobacco, whatever whatever, you need to know that this is this is good for you. But we're gonna we're gonna wrap up there and if there are other uh shock related vaccines and you know research related things that we want to bring up next week we can, but we're gonna stay kind of on topic because as we're doing these shows This week's and next week's show. We uh there's been a draft. I uh there's I I think it's been in the news. Something said about a leak maybe from the Supreme Court. I I haven't heard much of it. Like towards the end of newscasts and things maybe, as I mentioned a couple of times. Uh we're we're gonna talk a little bit about uh that and the big you know abortion uh related uh question pro-life and all that stuff. sort of stuff. So anyway, this is the Faith Debate. Daniel Razby, thank you for just the two of us today. We got to really flex our muscles and stretch out a little bit this week. I don't know if he'll be here for next week's show or not, but probably the show after that, if not next week, Dave Before C will be joining us. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening to Faith Debate. You can follow us online, of course, at WFMD. com Or you can find out about all the social media stuff I mentioned and links to resources and podcasts and links even to the podcast of this show at householdfaithinchrist. com. Again, it's household of faith in Christ dot com. That's the name of the church, Household of Faith in Christ is, the church that I pastor. Anyway, till next week, thanks so much for listening. Have a beautiful, wonderful Memorial Day weekend. Till one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from now, God bless you. Alright, let me uh switch this back. It is really hard to to to draw line. I hate gray areas. I hate gray areas and they're hard believer because sin really feels like it should not be a gray area. But there are there are sin that that do and and and we don't have to go as extreme as murder to find them. You know, take vine for example. Is lying always a sin? No, clearly biblically lying is not always a sin. Right. There are gray areas where lying is actually a righteous thing to do, and it's explicitly called out in the Bible as Rahab did the right thing by lying and hiding the uh you know the spies and so on. And there's other situations as well. Uh David uh I mean uh um David was commended by Jesus for going and eating the shoe bread and stuff which was a deceptive thing. He said, Look, I'm on the king's business Right. So there's there's definitely times in the Bible to lie, even if the general principle is it's wrong. Now it's a lot more dangerous I think when you're talking about something like murder. And that's the that's the issue is now we're talking about and I'm gonna wrestle it's something people specifically ask me and I'm trying to help them think through it and I I ended up Pretty much what we ended up doing that show is, you know, it feels icky and if it feels icky to you, you've got to follow your conscience because you do not want to sin against you, right? If you're convicted that it's wrong. And Paul talks about that. It i i it's it's funny when you see articles. And the articles like, oh see this pastor goes on the record and says that the the the vaccine should not violate a Christian's conscience and it's not a sin. So go Yeah but hey well but he's not his Christian his conscience isn't my conscience. Exactly. Exactly. Um they they they have this idea, the media has this idea that What somebody reads the Bible and says, Hey, this is what it says, and here's he all he's a all self-official and not everything. That's what you should believe not necessarily. Um, you know Well Paul says what's a sin for one person is not necessarily a sin for something uh somebody else. There are things that are unequivocally sins, but then there are stuff like this where look your conscience doesn't allow you to do that. You know, if you're weak enough that you can't eat a food without proving that it hasn't been sacrificed to idols. Well then you shouldn't be doing it. That was his uh example I think in the time period. Your Facebook went offline for like not now, but it did for uh about five minutes or so Really? Yeah, because they're trying to reconnect or something in a few years. Really? Oh. Oh, the probably the best five minutes. Yeah. Uh bummer. Alright, so we're gonna uh jump into the uh Facebook minute for evil, but goddamn for good. Exactly. Oh what what just happened? Oh it's not exist, you want to continue? Uh-oh. Did we delete it? No, I hit the wrong button, that's all. I I back I sort of back out. Okay. There we go. Okay. So we're talking about row now. Yeah. So I don't really have any prepared thoughts. This is going to be a very box of thoughts. Yeah, I think I'm gonna lean on you to do that The thing is we gotta make sure they know you know because they might have been released by the time people hear this. Well this is gonna air June fifth, and based on historical norms it wouldn't be until later in June, but in this case it might be. profile cases to like the end of the session. Right. But we can talk about that even on this show to help explain the time stamping. So let's do it. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Now why would they say something like that? This is the faith debate. Uh 930 WFMD and yes, I'm sure it's true. And you know what? Whatever they say, I probably don't agree with them either. You know, it goes both ways. It's in a free country I think. Used to be anyway. Anyway, thanks for listening to Faith Debate and uh spending part of your Sunday morning with us here at 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skidder. I am the host of this show and the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ And I'm joined this week again by Daniel Rasby, one of the pastors at the church that meets at Imran's house, and he is also involved with a ministry that they've had going for a long time now, maybe twenty years, something like that, or longer. I don't know how long it goes It's been a long, long time because I've known about it for at least the last fifteen years, I think. It's called uh Concord by Love Ministries and uh their website is conqueredbylove. org. So if you're listening last week's show, and if you weren't, where the heck were you? We missed you. I know it was Memorial Day weekend and all that, but come on. You've got to carve out your time for some fate debate, you know? Otherwise we don't feel the love. Like in this new music, I like this new music. Daniel can't hear because he has no headphones on. Anyway, we're gonna say goodbye to the music. Last week on the on the show, and if you missed it, you can you can check it out on the podcast. Uh we were talking about the uh not just the shot But shocks in general, vaccines and and uh how dependent m many of them are on uh abortive fetal tissue and that sort of thing, what the ethics and are of that and what the Bible says about it and those sorts of things We didn't really put a very fine point on it, but to be honest, I think that's because we're trying to be biblically consistent, and the Bible doesn't put a fine point on that particular question for us, so we're we're we're we're left to navigate that. But related to that question, of course. is the idea of babies in the womb having their ends their their lives uh their lives ended, having them be terminated. And there's and I was joking last week, like there's been something in the news about that I think recently Um now we record these shows in advance. So uh as we record this, the uh Alito draft has been leaked. Um that was a very recent thing to the recording this show. Right. But the uh the final version isn't out yet, and who knows what else could have possibly changed. But we do know so it it's been released. Uh there has been a bunch of reactions, some of it very violent and like hideously insanely ugly, like just bizarre kind of reactions and uh which I guess we would expect given the day and age that we live in. Uh so that's kind of the context in which these remarks are made. Now historically you were we were talking before the start of this show. Historically it would still be several more weeks probably before the final version of the Right. Usually they wait until the very end of the session for the most high profile cases. So there's the the abortion one is also a big gun case that they might wait a while on. Um again As we're recording this, they might have released the official on both of those. And maybe they changed it. Yeah, maybe they changed it. And wouldn't that be something? Let's talk about that, because that's what I want to talk about first. So it's never happened before in the history of the Supreme Court that a complete draft opinion has been leaked. At best in the past or at most in the past you've gotten uh uh whispers of which way the court might lean on a subject, but that's that's It's kind of ironic that there's been kind of an oopsie like this on this one, huh? Yeah. Um so it's a bad thing because now it it creates a lot of distrust with the uh in the court and the the court justices are actually very collegiate on uh uh uh on things they're very very close family even though they vehemently disagree on a lot of subjects uh group that gives bird famously said before she passed a couple years ago that we vote nine to zero on many more issues than we vote five to four. So we actually do agree on many, many, many different things. It's only the ones that are five four that we really uh that that those are. That's not like a line. Is that true? Historically true. It it is true. Almo almost all the cases or many more are are very heavily slanted, you know, seven, two, eight, one, nine to zero, uh, rather than the five four. The five four cases are the ones that you hear about because those are the most controversial and those are the ones that are newsworthy. A nine to zero not really newsworthy because everybody expected this is what's gonna happen. Um so that's the the point though is is that they actually are very friendly with each other as a and com contrast that with what you see in Congress and and the Senate and people get really angry with each other uh publicly. The Supreme Court justices generally don't do that. This type of a leak I would say is gonna stoke a lot of distrust in the court because of that. And I don't think that's gotten enough attention. And I've actually heard some people go out of the way to poo-poo it. They'll say, well, I mean the the case itself has so much more important than the leak And we're talking about murdering babies, so yes, okay. Granted, like nothing's gonna be more important than that than I can imagine. However, that said As far as long-lasting impact on our way of life and the institutions that make America run, this really has potential, in my opinion, to be devastating. And we're not even feeling that devastation yet. But to your point, if you can't trust it anymore, what's that what is that going to mean going forward? And and that's that's why I hope they figure out what went wrong with that and and stop the leaks so there's no more leaks from the Supreme Court. What do you think did it? I I would say that there there's no point there there's no incentive for any on anybody on the conservative side to leak uh uh the Yeah, why bring all the hate on themselves early? Right. There's no there's no point. The the only point would be for one of the let's say clerk uh one of the liberal justices to leak it for two purposes uh uh one or both of these purposes is that I can think of is that But uh in order to stoke a lot of anger and pressure to uh you know to the justices to change their opinions before the actual vote uh before the actual uh release of the of the the real opinion. That's number one. And number two, if that fails to give them an extra couple months, all the politicians, Democrat politicians, to pass laws in each of the states or on the federal level to enshrine abortion somehow. how. Um so though that would be what what I think. But who knows. So let's but I want to talk about what exactly is happening with this draft opinion because a lot of people they read that and like, oh this is what's gonna be be released. And maybe it may be very similar to that, but I can almost guarantee you it's not gonna be that opinion that gets released. So if you look at the it was it was just a draft. It was a dress draft, it is addressed draft and it just a draft, but it was also a draft from January. And this was leaked in what May, end of April, May time frame and I heard it was a draft from February, but it was from January. Feb sorry, February. Yeah, you're right. February, but it's the first draft, right? So this was the first attempt to get all the other justices to sign on to Olido's opinion. Right. What we know is a couple of things. They all vote, you know, have a preliminary vote after the oral arguments and then when they they figure out which way is probably gonna go, then they assign somebody to write the opinion and then they see if they all agree with it. If they don't then they make some adjustments and they read it again so they can all agree with it. The fact that Alita was writing the opinion which was a big surprise to me. That's a big surprise. It tells us that Roberts is not in the majority. Because Roberts is uh uh he can assign the opinion to somebody else but he doesn't usually Because he's a chief. Exactly. He's a head hunch top. You wanna ruin up The most senior justice that's on the majority gets to write the opinion and he can defer to somebody else. So in this case, Thomas probably deferred to Alito. Um because he would be more senior than Alito on this case. Um why would that be? Uh maybe. That that that would mean that Roberts sided with the left side of the court. And I was expecting Clarence Thomas to ring it Maybe uh or possibly they would have asked uh she wouldn't be senior, she'd be like a re the most junior member, but why not have the woman write it? Right. I don't know, and there may there may be competing opinions that they're trying to decide, you know, maybe both uh and and there's certainly going to be concurring opinions. So you may see this end up be one of the concurring opinions and uh Uh maybe maybe uh Clarence Thomas writes the actual majority opinion. I don't know. What I am hoping does not happen is that Roberts makes the change and decides to actually jump to the majority anyway. And everybody's thinking, well why why wouldn't that why would it be a bad thing for Roberts to to join the majority? Well because then Roberts is probably going to want to ride the write the opinion himself and he is likely to have it much more toned down and not to actually fully overturn Roe Wade. Um because Roberts is much more of a moderate justice. And and so hopefully you're feeling very generous today calling him a moderate Yes. Much more moderate, not not uh Serious. Seriously the sides of issues that he's taken over over the last ten years have not been moderate. No, no. Certainly not. But early on he was more moderate slash conservative, but Right. Not since we're going to be able to do that. And that's actually hoping that that that's not the case. The division that that's in the court stays the way it is through the release of the opinion and we'll see. Um if the opinion is anything close to what's been leaked, then I would say that's a good thing with a couple caveats. It doesn't eliminate all abortions everywhere. A lot of people think oh this immediately prevents all abortions. No it doesn't. It just says the constitution, the US Constitution does not protect the right to have an abortion. And one of the things this does, because of all everybody freaking out and letting their hair on fire and the fact that abortion still won't go away. Uh it just demonstrates the lie that we've been told your whole life, most of my life, that this is the law of the land. It was never the law of the land. Yeah, what Roe V. Wade said was that there in the in the US federal constitution there was a supposed right to kill your baby, and even though it doesn't actually say that in the Constitution. And because of that, all the states have to abide by it because of uh the doctrine of um uh uh uh uh of all all the states have to be uh pro provide the protections that the federal government So if they eliminate that, they reverse that and they say, okay, well the federal government, the federal constitution at least doesn't have anything to say about abortion. Well now the states get to say it absent any federal law, and the federal government can still make a law about it, one way or the other. So I would support a law from the federal level saying that abortion is murder and And you should be prosecuted for uh for murder if you commit an abortion. Um and a lot of people say, Oh well the states should definitely be the only ones to follow The states should make such laws as well, but murder is murder and and so certain things are not uh i you know, not okay for some states to say, well We're not going to do this. But I think there's like I don't know how many states, but a lot of states have springboard laws that are supposed to take effect if Roe v. Wade is overturned. take effect automatically and thus banning all abortions in that state, which is a great thing. That means for the time being at least, if this gets released, there will be on day one the thousands of lives saved. It raises lots of questions. are but i but you're you're a legal guy you've got your uh you know your legal degree and all that you're a lawyer. Um what what uh what's the likelihood of the or or how would you imagine different states handling extradition Like if I live in Oklahoma where it's illegal to kill a baby and one of my people leaves the state to go kill the baby and then comes back into the state, into my jurisdiction, I could arrest her, couldn't I? Because she's a citizen of my state. Well most of those states have laws that say you can't do it in the state boundaries. Which So if if the w lady from Oklahoma goes to California to get her abortion and then goes back to Oklahoma or refuses to go back to Oklahoma, Oklahoma wouldn't have any standing to ask for extraditions. Not not under any laws that I know of. Now it'd be great to have such a Law, right? We we may we have it about m murder. And that's the thing is a lot a lot of these states they don't go far enough, right? They might say, Oh, you can't have an abortion, but they don't go far enough to call it murder and actually try Treat it like murder and prosecute it like murder because if it is actually the killing of a person that there's no justification for, no self-defense, no saving of a life or uh you know, those various justifications for killing that y that they're illegal. Then it is murder and so then you should treat it like that. So that then the extradition stuff would would matter, but I don't I don't see any laws currently on the books or even being planned or promoted that say anything like that. Okay, so that might kibosh that potential issue. Because I was thinking about all the complications. People they have a whole different idea of sanctuary states and sanctuary cities, right? Right. So that's interesting you th that you're saying that uh the the the the local jurisdictions have to abide by the the higher jurisdictions. Well the w why are why are there restrictions about where people can carry their guns But the federal rule is you have a right to bear arms and yet uh in local jurisdictions you're oh I don't bear arms here, so why aren't they? Well that's that speaks to to what the definition of bear arms is and the Supreme Court has held that bear arms doesn't include carrying a gun, unfortunately. Um they're wrong in that. That's that's a really bad decision. Um I mean the whole point of the Second Amendment is to have the citizens be able, if a revolution would be needed in the future, to successfully win a revolution against the U. S. military Well for that the citizens would need tanks and machine guns and fighter jets and aircraft carriers and all that stuff uh with no permits and and stuff. So that's that's really what the Second Amendment's about is is to have for the citizens to have their own military military. Um so for even in Scalia's the opinion for in uh in Howard in two thousand eight about the the guns was that oh well certain military things can be excluded Well that even that is not the purpose of the Second Amendment. So I disagree with that. But uh that's that's why some states have restrictions because the Supreme Court has said you can have a lot of restrictions. restrictions. You just can't restrict the right to own it in your own home. Okay. Well that was a little bit of a rabbit show, but I brought it up my fault. So back to the uh to to the decision, the illegal uh draft of of the opinion. Assuming that that holds, it wasn't just a roe versus Wade, but it was the Casey decision as well, right? That that there were Casey were both bad. So the and anybody saying that a Supreme Court decision must stand forever is forgetting Plessy versus Ferguson and Brown versus Warner. education. All these bad, bad decisions that were very racist and Though the it is possible for it for it to be a bad decision. Yeah, because the Supreme Court is not infallible and so they should they can and should recognize when they've failed in the past and correct those failures. So that leads to this next question I was leading into, actually. So if Roe falls and Casey falls, does gay marriage fall? A lot of liberals are suggesting that that's next. I would say uh I hope so. As a Christian, I hope so because almost decision, right? Yeah, Bur Burgerfell Or Burgerfell I don't know how it's pronounced, but yeah, I mean 'cause as a Christian, you and I both believe homosexuality is a sin. Um and certainly you can't call it marriage if it's not One man and one woman, and I mean a bi biological man, biological woman. We have to say that again now. All these disclaimers we have to add and qualifiers to our sentences now. It's just getting longer and longer to say what the definition of marriage is And so yeah, I I hope so. It's it's way too premature I would say to to make predictions about that. Again, we haven't even seen whether this is released yet So where we live it's not gonna change almost anything. No, because Maryland has a law that is a fallback from Roe. Maryland says that if Roe is ever overturned, Maryland still guarantees And they're talking about put I think that if I'm not mistaken, it's either already be on the ballot or they're fighting to get on the ballot. Yeah. I think it should be on the ballot this year for to add to the Maryland State Constitution. Yeah, to that you can kill your baby after it's born. Up to yeah, up to and and including you know after right after it's born, I think, is is is how that can be interpreted. It's not explicitly saying after it's born in the law, but the or th in the language of the amendment, but the way it's written is so ambiguous that you could certainly justify killing after they're born. So this could be a a state that allows people from other parts of the country to travel to. Yeah Yes. So to your point abortion won't end because places like Maryland would still provide them. No. And that's why y you would need some sort of federal legislation about that, um, or you need some other Supreme Court decision is saying is stating that uh the constitution protects the life of the unborn because the uh everybody it should have equal protection. All uh people in the United States should have equal protection and so that should extend to unborn as well. But it does the problem with that argument is the language of the Fourteenth Amendment where he says all persons born or naturalized in the United States. if you haven't been born yet then it's kind of hard to say that what those rights are supposed to extend to you. You know something that uh as I think about it should have been said last week and most definitely now must be said this week because uh We're talking about the ending of a life of an unborn child, and we've been using rather direct uh some would argue inflammatory language in doing that. And I don't want to um I don't want to miss the opportunity to sound a pastoral note. It's it's very possible based on the t statistics that there's at least one woman somewhere who will be within the sound of this My voice, your voice. Well hear what we're saying about this and and calling you know an abortion a a baby murder and and uh and we should treat it like murder and the legal code should end and that's all true. Uh but e even if um even if a woman kills her fifteen-year-old child Mm-hmm. Which everybody I th unambiguously would call a murder. Well, give it about six more months it might change. But for now, unambiguously that there's still redemption available. Sure. So you wanna you wanna talk you wanna you wanna put on the pastor's head? There's nothing nothing bad enough that you can do that Jesus isn't good enough to cover. And uh that doesn't mean we should intentionally go out and and do all these sins. Um but if you are covered by the blood of Jesus, it it covers all of your sins, past, present, and future. Um because It's entirely from his grace that you're saved and nothing you can do can change that. Now without his protection, you're going to hell even if the worst thing you did was, you know steal a toothpick from a store twenty years ago. You know, th th then you're going to hell. So the littlest sin is gonna prevent you from getting to heaven and the most egregious sin you can think of, and for me murder would probably be that that most egregious that I can think of, can't keep you out of heaven if Jesus wants you there. But Jesus is is only going to be covering those who are called, those who are accept that um the gift of salvation. So do you want to clarify more? No no I I I don't I don't think anything to be clarified. I think I I I will just add on a a little bit, just make sure that you know our heart is heard on this Um Daniel I think would would admit right away that he's a sinner. Yes. I'm a sinner. I've committed sins I can't even count that high. You know. So this is when we're talking about something like killing a baby, as as horrific as that is, I'm not saying that somebody who's done that is a worse person than I am. Um they've committed a worse sin than I have. in that because I never murdered somebody. But the collection of my sins uh all added up are pretty darn heinous. Uh and you know, the Bible tells us if you break one law you you're guilty of having broken the law, the whole law Right. So uh it's as though and and uh if you harbor hatred in your heart towards someone, you know, it's as though you've murdered them in a sense. Uh those would be Jesus' words. And so in that sense I'm a murderer, because I have hated people in at different times of my life. So the the point in all that is I I'm purposely using Stark language myself. I think Daniel is too, because we want to drive home The point that this is a serious thing, shouldn't be taken lately, and we need to stop the the nonsense of killing our our our offspring. We need to stop it. However, if you're someone who has done that It doesn't mean that we hate you. It doesn't mean that we wouldn't uh you know welcome you and your repentant heart into our churches. Um That's the key phrase, the repentant heart. And it doesn't mean that I wouldn't welcome you into coming to talk to me short and and and work through and say, you said it was murder and I'm guilty of murder. What are you saying? And I'd be I would love to talk with you through that and show you that you know what You, just like the child that was killed, made in God's image, therefore immensely valuable. So the defense I put up for the child is the same defense I would put up for you I want you to understand how special you are. I want you to understand how special that child is. And I want you to feel the weight of the fallenness of our human heart. And you should feel the the the the resonance of your guilt. You can't run from it. You gotta you've got guilt. You've got to feel it so you can deal with it. And how do you deal with your guilt? What do you do with your guilt What do any of us do with our guilt? There's only one thing any of us can truly do to solve the guilt problem, and that is to lay it on the shoulders of Jesus Christ. who pays the price for that guilt at the cross, and then better than that, he gives you his perfect righteous record through his act of obedience, it's called And so then you are no longer seen as guilty. You're seen as righteous by God. And then you can live a life progressively being sanctified, progressively, uh pursuing a more holy life out of gratitude for what Christ has done for you and you'll be enabled to do that better and better over time through the power of the Holy Spirit that comes to dwell inside each believer. Ultimately to the point where We're in glory with Jesus forever, and there will be no more murder, no more abortions, no more guilt That's the Christian message. And I want people to hear that. And so why why are you being so mean-spirited about the baby killings? Because murder's horrible. And we need to call it what it is. And so we we're using historic language to to kind of throw some cold water in people's face. But because because we want people to wake up and And start living the right kind of lives. And so if you have any more questions about that, or if you want to yell and scream or whatever, you know, you can contact us. I'm easy enough to reach. You can go to my website, Household of Faith in Christ I go to householdfaith in Christ dot com. My contact information is there, and I would love to have a conversation with you and and hear your side of things. And I I've had these conversations with a bunch of people over the years and it it's heartbreaking uh in some cases, but you gotta shoot straight with people. Anyway, uh we've only got uh about a minute left in this show, so I think we're gonna put a bo is there any final thought you wanted to sneak in before we move up? That's a good good summary I think. So we'll wrap up this show. Again, you can contact the ministry that Daniel and his family are involved with and their church. Their ministry is called Conquered by Love Ministries, and their website is conqueredbylove. org. It's particularly good if you're raising a family and struggling to do so, or if you're trying to have a good marriage and trying to figure out how to do that, uh they've got really good resources, that's kind of their wheelhouse. And go to my website as well, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Householdofrist. com. We've got links to vetted resources for you there and all our podcasts and social media links and a blog and all that sort of stuff Thanks so much for listening until uh next week. I think we're going to talk about end times next week. Till then, God bless Are you you were there? What's up? Hello. Hey, how'd you get in? Who was trying to avoid calling abortion murder, right? 'Cause that was called abortion murder. That's what we had to do this now we were we were calling abortion murder So since you weren't there, you didn't have to go on on the rec you didn't have to go on the record and give your thoughts about the subject. I think we already know your thoughts, so uh you're okay. Yeah, I don't know what else you could call it. Alright, well you're still live on Facebook, so you are on record now. Yeah, we are on Facebook. And um by the way, uh I mean if you want if you're more comfortable here I can move things around. But we we can get a tighter, better shot if you want to sit there this time. Alright. I won't bite you. Not hard anyway. Not intentionally. Although no, if I do bite you, can Troy, can you profit from that biting? But selling commercials or something. That'll go viral YouTube uh I think you're special there. Can you profit from a sin that somebody else committed in the past Is there a biblical uh argument for that? 'Cause that was the fetal cell line issue, right? If there's no babies still being killed, but you gained medical knowledge by using the those abortions forty years ago Right. Okay, well what happen what if those abortions happened yesterday, you didn't kill them. That uh now it sounds a lot worse, you know. Or and then forget abortion when there's something else, right? If if if somebody murders somebody or tortures somebody or that's that's uh you know an adult, not not a not a baby. Right. Or something else steals from somebody and and they use the that to advance science or medicine or whatever Can you profit from that? Yeah that's that's hard because how far removed do you have to be from it? That's hard because uh you know we we all Yeah, because there's there's there's like nothing that hasn't been painted by center ultimately. Right. Troy gave the example of if a guy gets shot and then he just was left there to decompose and it makes it really fertile ground and fifty years later some tomatoes grow there and you eat a tomato. You didn't have to participate in the murder of that you know, of course not. And he said God is not a ridiculous God. That's that's going to so many so many extremes to say, okay That's obviously well, if that's obvious then what if it was forty years ago, thirty years ago, what was yesterday? What if you watch somebody uh kill you know that that there's there's There's many different gray areas and I don't like gray areas and stuff and we want to be careful because that the the the opposite of the ridiculous argument I was making is the kind of argument that the woke crew makes We've benefited from the sins of people that live before us, and so we're guilty of benefiting from those sins that came before us. And that's not really what the Bible speaks is. Right. So it it makes for a huge that's a whole privilege thing, right? Yeah. If you were born uh with in a home that had an income and uh two parents and in a good uh location and then you are guilty of slavery from hundreds of years ago or what's uh is Father's Day the twelfth of June this year or is the nineteenth of June? Is it is it the second Sunday in June like uh like Mother's Day is the second Sunday? Yeah June nineteenth. Okay. So not this one but the next one will be Father's Day. So this one will be Nothing funny. So were you busy uh busy chopping down trees? Yeah. Yeah, well I'm sure this is a really busy time of the year. Yeah. Everybody wants their stuff cleared out after all the winter damage and stuff, right? Yeah, I feel like there's not a stuff. Even during the winter? Uh it's hard to tell which would be a good thing. All right. Well let me get play see we were gonna talk about end times stuff. And I'm not sure the best way to do this, so I'm gonna I'll I'll begin the show and I'll start putting Yeah. Yeah, well I we've we've never talked about it on the show. And I don't have many. And I and I don't I don't tend to major on it. I don't hide from it, but it's um um I like to major on I like to major on the things that are of ultimate importance and so this would not fall into that category in my opinion. It's not something that I would dis Fellowship over or anything like that. Uh that's good because I think we might this leave. I mean yes you would, but only at a If we're talking about like the very basic issues related to enzymes. Okay. I'm not sure what those are, but they're right. Oh, yeah. Well yeah. Or that he's already come back, I might I think I'd have an issue with that. That's the Well or some people think he came back in eighty seventy. Right. I mean in a sense I think he did actually, but they're saying that that was it. You know that was Anyway, so you ready to just kinda jump in? Yeah, let's do this, sure. You guys on two shows? Oh beat going on mine. Okay. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of W I kinda like that they say that. Well says we're still still live, so I'm going to assume Sorry. I'm I'm with you. I I don't I'm I'm gonna assume it's still going to be on on the internet, social media stuff. Well we sell our books online, that's the idea. But we don't broadcast like I don't brought uh talk to you about holding events and stuff and I didn't I don't put those on Facebook or social media or anything. Um what um what was the Amber alert about? I don't know if uh I I haven't an Amber alert is usually a uh kid child, yeah. Which I suppose goes all the way up to like eighteen So yeah. Who knows? Alright, so we'll do uh what should we do interpretation of revelation first since we were kind of there already, or do you want to come back to that as the last one? And talk about Israel first. Uh actually, do we have that many more? What time is it? About nine o'clock now. I think we have if you guys did two before I got here. How many have you done with those two? Oh so there's only one more. Oh we'll try to squeeze them both in then if you if uh you'll see I don't know, we might not have that much to say after all the stuff we've got. Let me just make sure. Oh I got lots of stuff to say about the end times. Yeah, we just have one more that we schedule to do. with you I think it's if you want to stay extra late and do another one we can so we'll but uh go on if keep talking so let me see. This is a this is a uh special solo episode Daniel. Yes. The views of this do not represent the views of Troy Skinner. Twenty six. He left the room. Double left the guilding. Yeah, so this one's gonna be uh the last Sunday in June. Is that last one was Father's Day? See see disposationalists tend to really feel like the church is replaced Israel as God's chosen people and I'm I'm very vehemently against that idea. No, I don't think that's what they or that they well not as God's chosen people, but that Israel is is really not Um, uh no I think that's well I don't yeah. During during the dispensation. Right. Well that the church is the new year's real is the idea. Yep. Um Right, and I don't know. No, no, no, no, no, no. Dispensationalists wouldn't say that Some would I know some that would. Yeah, maybe not. They might just be confused Americans. I still don't know which one we're gonna start with first. Well you have to start with interpretation, right? I feel like we were talking about interpretation at the end of that show. I think it makes sense to Continue in that vein. And just provide some guiding principles. Because I've got some things I think might be helpful. You might have some pastoral things that be helpful. And then we can move it over to Israel. Keep it going, but if this cuts out on us before the show ends, my apologies. That battery's only got what it's got. You know what I'm saying? Because we're going long. These guys twisted my arm Making me stay long. So what's the first Sunday in July? Could say look at a calendar for me? didn't write down that date. Third. The third. Yeah, the day before the fourth. The date it used to mean something. Yeah, the the the hundred forty four thousand they skip Dan and they have Joseph listed twice because they have Manasseh and Joseph. Joseph, Joseph presumably being S Ephraim in that case. Um so then they have Manasseh and Ephraim separately and no Dan. Right. And who's listed first? Uh Judah. No, but it d it does that is a common thing throughout scripture that Judah supplanted the firstborn right. Never in the never in the listing of the tribes is Judah first in the old testament In Revelation. So that's the first clue as a reader. Judah's first? No, Judah's not first. But Judah is is is first. No, I'm not understanding. No, I understand all of the theology that's packed into it, but that's an indication that okay, this is not your normal listing of the tribes based on birth order. The Old Testament lists the the tribes two ways. Either it's birth order or allotment of land. Those are the two way the lists work out. And Revelation doesn't tap into either one of those. And like you said, he mentions one tribe basically twice and leaves Ephraim out. At least Dan out. At least well mentions uh and he also says Joseph. Right, so he leaves Ephraim out. Well Jo And uh Ephra Ephraim and Assad are the two sons of Joseph. I know, but he names one half tribe and not the other half tribe. That's on purpose because of Ephraim's uh gross sin in the Old Testament. So they're kicked out That's an that's a symbolic way of saying that not all Israel is Israel. I mean there's so much loaded into the hundred and forty-four thousand. You can preach twenty sermons on it. Anyway. Get me fired up. No, I know, I I can tell. You really don't like that I believe that a hundred forty four thousands of literal people. No. No, you can you can be wrong if you so can you. So can you. And you just assume you know what John's thought was, and that's why I said I didn't say I didn't matter than anger. No, you didn't. You said uh frustration there frustrated, like, come on, how many more clues I how many more crumbs do I have to stride along the path to make you follow it? And to me he'd be he'd be saying we how how uh you know um unseen you have to be to to to try to pull out all these little threads where I just I told you the plain truth. It's what this is. That's what it is. If you're trying to make it mean a whole bunch of things, if that's what he intended to write, then why didn't he just write something didactic? Why did he write he choose to write it in an apocalyptic form? He chose that for a reason Alright, Israel. Israel. Talk about the placement theology? Suppressionism? Yeah, well yeah, we'll want to make sure we define uh our our terms there as well. That's where I I've I've I've w where I said I disagree with dispensationalists is most dispensationalists I know also hold dis Or or replacement theology. Uh and I'm against the polling program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff. One minute. Get used to it. I think we're gonna be saying that every week on the face to face show. And you know what? I'm okay with it. This is the thing. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us on this what used to be a momentous kind of celebratory weekend here in this country. Fourth of July weekend, Independence Day. Independence. Remember independence? It's a vague memory. I mean the independence of Israel.