Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ uh live stream. Actually, well, I left my water in the other room. I'm sorry. I might end up needing it. I feel a little dry already. We are in Revelation today, uh as has been our habit in recent months. Or in Revelation chapter 17, be looking at verses 1 through 4. So if you want to get your Bibles ready, you are welcome and encouraged to do that so you can read along. A message today that is titled The Great But Not Good Harlot. By the way, I should uh since we're on the stream, um if you want to connect with us via email or text or phone call or learn more about this or just in prayer or you have a theological question or something. Go to our website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com, it's household of faith in Christ dot com. It's right there on the counter, no? Oh, that was earlier. Thank you. So we have arrived at the fifth major cycle of judgments, which cover uh chapters 17 and to 19, and it's a section of Seduction and destruction. Where the beast of the earth and the beast of the sea meet their end, taking us up to the cusp of Satan, also meeting his end, which happens in chapter 20 And these three storylines, these three demises of the enemy, they are presented sequentially in the narrative, but it's better for us really to understand them as happening somewhat simultaneously in history. John's giving us a series of episodes that run parallel thematically rather than running in strict chronological order. And this succession of story arcs It gives us the final three of Revelations as you outline it with seven cycles of judgments. These are the final three. And in them we see a counterfeit church. That is full of corruption. And as Babylon stands in stark contrast with the Bride of the Lamb, who was made pure by her bridegroom Babylon worships the world and worldly things and attacks on behalf of the dragon through power and persecution and seduction. Conversely, the pride of Christ rejects the demonic unholy trinity of Satan, instead remaining dedicated to pure worship of the Lord, keeping her heart yearning for godly things. So with that as our introduction, let's begin reading about the counterfeit church in Revelation 17, verses 1 through 4. And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying, Come, I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute who was seated on many waters. with whom the kings of the earth committed sexual immorality, and those who live on the earth became drunk with the wine of her sexual immorality. And he carried me away into the wilderness in the spirit, and I saw a woman seated on a scarlet beast that was full of blasphemous names, having seven heads and ten horns. And the woman was dressed in purple and scarlet and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls, holding a golden cup in her hand, full of detestable things. and the unclean things of her sexual immorality. This is the very word of God. I encourage you to receive it as such. Those with ears, let them hear. In verse 1, we see one of the seven bowl angels come to John and speak. Now we're not told which of the seven angels But it might be the last of the seven because this section of Revelation is kind of the unpacking of the seventh bowl. By the way, those who correlate the seven judgment angels with the seven angels of the seven churches, they see this angel here in chapter 17 as one of those angels that was first introduced to us way back in chapters 2 and 3 for what that's worth. Whichever angel it is, he comes bearing an audible message. The words, I will show you, begin something like a formal introduction to the whore Hey John, come on over here. I got someone I'd like you to meet. But first, let me tell you a little bit about her. She's a harlot. She's a lady of the night. She's Lady Folly in contrast to Lady Wisdom in Proverbs 9. And just like Lady Folly and all the other ladies of the night, she is attractive to the flesh. She's attractive to the world. She's adorned with power, pleasure, pearls. She's even a mother for crying out loud. And she cleans up nice. She's a temptress. Let's spend some time reading her bio. First thing we can say is that she is a great prostitute. Among some other things, perhaps, this at least means that she is very talented at batting her eyes at the world, giving that come hither look to the flesh. And the flesh of the world, it falls under her spell. Because you see, she's not just any old streetwater. She is the street walker. She is the great prostitute. And she has a well-connected clientele. As we can see in the text, she sits upon many waters. Verse 15 in this chapter will later explain that the waters holding her up are masses of people all around the world. In other words, she is well watered, she is well provisioned, she is well careful cared for by the well-to-do in the world. And there's a small wordplay that's being employed by John in verse 1. Ancient Babylon was a city that was said to reside upon many waters. You see that in Jeremiah chapter 51. Because this city had built a system of canals that ran from the Euphrates throughout the whole surrounding area, and so from a distance it kind of looked like it was a city upon many waters. So John here is making a direct connection between this harlot and evil Babylon that he writes about in this section of Revelation. And what John is reporting to us is a negative image, the polar opposite of the true Church of Christ. Coming up in chapter 21, four chapters from now, an angel will again summon John's attention. And he will say, Come and I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb. And there are a number of notable parallels between the two descriptions in chapters 17 and 21. Both women have gold, both have precious stones, pearls, fine linen. It almost seems to be a reflection one of the other. But they are opposites. What the harlot has is temporary, hollow, destined for destruction. And what the bride has is permanent, genuine, destined for eternal glory In verse 2, I want us to be sure that we notice who it is that gets into bed with this prostitute. The kings of the earth do. The high and mighty. The 1%. The Ivy Leaguers. The people at the top, the leaders of the so-called free world, the rich and famous. The Epstein Island crowd. And I can almost hear the applause in the distance now from the peanut gallery as they they gabble up all that red meat I just tossed their way. You give 'em hell, Pastor. You tell 'em. Oh, I'll tell them all right. Because God's word tells them And we must preach the full counsel of God. But preaching the whole counsel of the Lord means that then I must also be sure to bring to your notice The other people who get into bed with the prostitute. You do when you're not careful. Verse 2 doesn't shine a spotlight on kings only. The verse starts with evil kings, but then it ends with the people who live on the earth Do you live on the earth? Okay, then this verse might be talking about you. And indeed it is, if you've allowed yourself to imbibe the whore's wine. To get drunk on the prostitutes, sexual immorality. It's our nature to quickly think, oh, well, that's not me. And maybe it's not. But are you sure? Are there areas in your life where you give other people or you give other things the love that is due to God Are you loving worldly things more than heavenly things? Are you desiring and chasing rewards now on earth at the expense of treasures which await in heaven? You see, this fornication that's being talked about in Revelation chapter 17 is idolatry. It's not Merely the clearly heathen who slide between the bed sheets in the red light district. Professing followers of Christ do it too. All too often. And when a so-called Christian engages in this idolatry, there's a word for that. We call it apostasy. You've sidled over to team harlot when you love yourself more than God Do you do this? Of course not. So why you can honestly say that you do not love your cell phone more than your spouse. Or your career and your hobbies more than your kids. Or your money more than the church. Or your time more than people Can you honestly, truthfully, with God as your witness, affirm these statements? Do you love your movies more than you love your neighbors? Do you love winning more than serving? Or love experts Or others who are said to be specially anointed more than you love the Lord's God-breathed word Are you still certain that you don't love yourself and therefore the harlot more than God? In verse 3 of today's passage, it transitions us along with John to the desert wilderness where the woman is no longer seated on many waters, but now is seated on a big red beast. I don't think his name is Clifford. There are quite a few things to say about this scarlet hue of the beast. Let me begin with one that was very much talked about during the Reformation and actually in the several centuries that followed the Reformation. Red is the color that's reserved for popes and the hats of cardinals in the Roman Catholic Church. And so some have been very quick to make a beastly popish connection. And you know what? Fair enough as far as it goes. The church in Rome did turn into a church state, and hence, through this sort of sacralism, they behaved as a harlot, empowered by and given over to worldly affairs For many generations, the Papists, they relied on worldly power to execute their dictates by brute force. While at the same time positioning the Vatican to control princes and their armies. And their tentacles still today, they're far-reaching, extending practically to all nations and all walks of life. And from Rome's golden cup, if you will, the Catholic Church has poured out the abomination of indulgences and unbiblical absolutions and annulments. And has fattened their coffers in the process. With their promised array of tokens and vestments and buildings or second and none. And the church in Rome has blood-stained hands from many wars, many cruelties. Many lives lost due to the damage that's caused by liberation theology, which has been pushed with her approval And this is why some have called the Rome Church the mother of abominations. And if you want to see the truth of some of these things I'm saying, that this institution has ridden high in its own supply. Simply take a vacation tour to see what it is. It's all around St. Peter's Basilica. This church's official doctrine leads people into idolatry Well, also rejecting people who have true faith, rejecting them as anathema. And as we will hear later in the revelation regarding the harlot. A bunch of power brokers, right? A bunch of people who feign love for the church in Rome. They actually hate the Rome Institution in their heart. And so they ultimately seek her destruction. So as you can see, there are reasons that people look at Rome and they see the harlot. Because they have contributed so much to people viewing them this way. But then so too have the Eastern Orthodox Churches. And plenty of Protestants, too. As an example, consider the spiritual fornication of the present-day Neo-Marxist churches. All across this county, all across this country, all across this world. Consider even the very birthplace of the Reformation as it is often said to be. The Lutheran Church in Germany, it caved to the Third Reich 80 years ago. And it's caving again to the Fourth Reich these past few years. As did the rest of the church around the planet pretty much. And why do they do it? Why sell out? Well they want to be attractional to seekers, perhaps. And as it turns out, you know, wealth and luxury, it's attractive to people. Yeah, this would likely be the most innocent reason for them selling out. Wrong-headed, but possibly somewhat benign in motivation. However, sadly, it appears that baser instincts stand behind these unbiblical harlotries. The one selling their soul is the devil. They want acceptance. And they want the power that goes with that acceptance. So you give a little kiss to Caesar, and the emperor gives the prostitute a big pile of cash on the false prophet's nightstand. We all recognize with money often comes power. And this lust for gold and lust for being able to boss others around. That's far more than mere syncretism. It's not just going along to get along for some practical, expedient reason. It's hoping sometimes the their best motivation, what they say is their reasons, they're hoping to make the path a little wider. For the converts to Christianity. But it's not this. It's not merely tolerating or even accepting the science as an example. It's celebrating the scientism. It is forcing others to live in accord with what man says rather than what God says. The church doing the bidding of evil politicians, well that is just almost never going to end well, if you don't mind me going out of the limb when I say that Any form of a state church entity, this side of glory, is a form of fascistic faith. It is the faith version of fascism. It should go without saying, and yet it clearly needs to be said, this is bad. Sacralism. That's what it's called. It's a manifestation of Babylon. So all of that is one aspect of the word scarlet. And another is that scarlet, it denotes luxury, royalty, splendor. It's one of the colors of the Roman Empire In concert with purple, it is also the color of nobility and wealth, status. So this prostitute that's described in Revelation chapter 17 is a successful prostitute. So much so she'd probably prefer to be identified as a call girl or m maybe a professional escort, you know, something a little more upscale And I'm sure most of us have also heard of the scarlet letter. Such a phrase exists in our lexicon because scarlet is also the color of sin. And it's the color of blood. So all the prestige, all the power, all those pretty things, they are the ill-gotten gains of the whore. And hardly worth the effort, as we'll discover in later this chapter. But this Jezebel, oh, she enjoys her position while she still has it. She is positioned atop the blood-stained beast. This suggests that she has possibly she might be able to exercise some modicum of control and guidance over this politically charged animal But uh let's not take that idea too far, because this seductress also relies upon the strength and the girth of the monster for her support and for some measure Of safety, see it's a symbiotic relationship. It's not completely unlike that of a rider atop a big horse Now the rider can direct the horse, right, if the horse is willing anyway. And the rider is somewhat safe from dangers on the ground while the rider's high up in the saddle. But the horse, he can throw off that rider in an instant if it wants to. In storytelling, this is called foreshadowing, by the way. Will this horse toss its rider and trample her? Well, we'll just have to wait and find out. But before we uh fall too much in love with the horse analogy, let's understand that this beast in Revelation It is no sleek, gorgeous, domesticated farm animal. It's ugly and dangerous. And this could be why John is taken into the desert wilderness. Where the church was said earlier to have been taken, had fled there for safety. Remember that in chapter 12. In addition to this safety from danger aspect, The fact that John sees the beast in the wilderness would would indicate maybe that the harlot has pursued the church there, joined her there. Perhaps as a means of blending in, even. And if the true church is in the wilderness and the false church wants to look like the true church, well, where else might the false prophet go? The false church, the Jezebel, the wicked prophet, the Balaam, it can pretend to be part of us if it joins us in the desert. And this is why discernment is so critical. Pastors they have big congregations, best-selling books, hearty endorsements from others, and so we might be prone to think, no, there's a man of God. But not necessarily. Podcasters have lots of subscribers and they make lots of guest appearances on other shows that we like and They write some really good articles on specific topics that we find interesting, and so we might be prone to think, now there's someone who's in tune with God's Word, but not necessarily. Those said to be anointed as prophets might have big broadcast followings. They might maintain a reputation for being a prayer warrior. Maybe they've made a prediction about a future event that appears to have come true, and so we might be prone to think, now there is a spirit-filled man after God's own heart. But not necessarily. God, in his word, gives us a charge in 1 John chapter 4, beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits. to see whether they are from God. For many false prophets have gone out into the world. And elsewhere we are given the positive example of the people in Berea. They listened to what Paul and Silas had to say. They did so with all eagerness, the scriptures tell us. But then it says that they nobly examined the scriptures every day to see if these things were so. That's Acts chapter 17 See, the Bible is a standard. We must turn there to test even our own understandings. And we must be willing to change if Scripture says differently than what we think we know. And sometimes, so it can get complicated, the religious folks themselves, they will work to bolster what they say by appealing to the Bible, which makes us more likely to support their beliefs. However, so many times they isolate proof texts that are taken out of context. They cherry-pick verses that are made to fit their interpretation. They generalize teachings errantly by applying principles from Scripture to areas of life that are not bound by those principles. And how many times have you found someone to be persuasive? Only to then learn that an honest reading of the Bible exposes that what they're saying is the opposite of what the inspired text says, or if it's not The exact opposite is still wrong. This hasn't happened to you a lot. I mean a lot. And I encourage you to engage in more testing of the spirits consistently, always. Some people think the Pope is always right. God's word says otherwise. Some say someone like Tim Keller, he's almost always right. We have learned otherwise. Same with John Piper, John MacArthur, Billy Graham, A. D. Robles, John Harris, Joel Webbin Even me. Yeah, me. If you're not testing what I teach against the teaching of Scripture, then you have invited yourself to be deceived Not that I would ever purposely deceive you, God forbid. I don't want to be like so many other charlatans in the world, but even if it's just a mistake that I utter. Don't allow yourself to be deceived by that. So the next time someone says to you, the Lord has told me that, dot, dot, dot. Check and see if it perfectly aligns with the text of Scripture. The next time someone says to you, the Bible clearly teaches that. Check it out. See if it's true. Next time someone says, look, it says right here in the text. Actually look, read, see if in full context it means what the person wants it to mean. Let's not allow ourselves to be spiritually manipulated, not even by accident. There is a harlot out there who aims to beguile you with her beauty so that you don't notice the beastly blasphemy. And I understand human nature. And so you see John's description in chapter 17 of the seven heads and the ten horns, and you think Well, I know I spot that for a million miles away, so I'm safe. No one's gonna pull the wool over my eyes looking like that. But that's what John sees when he's taken away in the spirit It's reminiscent of Ezekiel chapters 8 and 11, by the way. Incidentally, this is the third of four times that John is in the Spirit in Revelation. The other three are in chapters 1, 4, and 21. And because of this, John and the Spirit. reality, let's please make a distinction. The blasphemous bestiality is not exactly what our worldbound vision reveals But this world's eye see is more like the mysterious woman, dressed in a sexy evening gown. All doweled up with makeup and jewelry, her hand wrapped around an expensive drinking vessel that contains an intoxicating beverage And you might look at her and you might think, ooh, la la, I like what I see. And this happens all too often because the harlot is so darned good at getting people to drink from her cup. Getting drunk on luxury. This is how governments all around the world have learned to control the general population. It is not just China that it fattens their citizens for the slaughter. with bread and circuses. It's not just China. NFL Sunday ticket anyone? Smartphones anyone? An endless array of streaming content anyone How about something that's not quite so narrowly dated, something maybe that's considered more conventional over a whole lot of years? How about 2. 5 kids and an adorable spouse on your arm for when you're out in public? Anyone? And compare all this with what the harlot has to offer with what is found in 1 Timothy chapter 2. Likewise also the women, we men, should adorn themselves in appropriate clothing with modesty Self-control. Not with braided hair and gold jewelry or pearls or expensive clothing, but with good deeds which are fitting for women who profess godliness. And 1 Peter 3. Let your adornment not be the external kind, braiding hair and putting on gold jewelry or putting on fine clothing, but the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable quality of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is highly valuable in the sight of God. And it's men, too, by the way, who are to adorn their lives with appropriate clothing and modesty, self-control, good deeds, gentleness. Godly behavior that reveals that you have the Spirit of Christ in your heart As sinful people, we can take pretty much anything and we can find ways to justify it in our mind. We can take even godly righteous things and we can twist them. in such a way that they become the actions of a prostitute. Or gigolo, if you prefer. So the next time you're ogling the accoutrements of the whore, pause. Grab your Bible. Take a closer look. What's inside that shining golden cup that the harlot holds? Well, John tells us in Revelation 17, verse 4, the cup is glittery on the outside, but on the inside is full of detestable things, unclean things, the things of sexual immorality. Idolatry. It's a whitewashed tomb. The outside of the cup is sparkly, but the inside's full of greed. Self-indulgence. That's what Jesus says to the hypocrites in Matthew 23. He's not talking about you, is he? Are you guilty of being a hypocrite? Are you guilty of being spiritually gullible? Have you have you forgotten what your dad taught? Appearances can be deceiving Have you forgotten what your mom taught? Never judge a book by its cover. Have you forgotten what your own life lessons have taught? People aren't always as they seem. I mean heck, have you forgotten what Disney taught before they went woke? The villainous queen in Snow White, she was a striking, powerful woman on the outside. But was devilishly demented and insecure on the inside, which was exposed when she took the form of a haggard old witch In Beauty and the Beast, a handsome, respected young man appears to be quite a catch, until his consuming rage on the inside manifests and transforms him into a grotesque brute. Don't be deceived. Don't be Pinocchio believing the lies of those he had assumed were his friends. I recognize we believe ourselves to be quite a bit more savvy than a wooden puppet come to life. After all, we can point to all the fabrications that are coming at us in today's technology. You know, and we count ourselves wise because We don't get tricked by 'em. You know what I'm talking about. We don't fall for phishing scams or or uh spam calls or mock websites with all those virus laden links. We don't allow ourselves to be fooled by makeup and facelifts and lens filters. We're hip to all that. And so these things are being warned against in the revelation. It could never happen here Until it happens here. And look, Jesus knows that his people can on occasion Get somewhat beguiled. This doesn't automatically mean you're not saved if you should Once in a while temporarily get snookered and realize, whoops, that was not the way of the Lord. But we have to admit, getting caught tolerating frauds, this is something that makes Jesus displeased. I mean, go revisit the letters to the churches. Particularly the letters in Thyatira, Laodicea, as a reminder that Jesus can be made to be displeased with his people You don't want to displease Jesus, do you? So if you've been taken in by any of the enemy's confidence schemes Repent. And Jesus will forgive you. Turn from uncritical trusting of yourself. Turn from unquestioning trusting of other people. And turn to trusting the very word of God, which the Holy Spirit illuminates for the Christian to understand. That's our best defense against the devices of the harlot. Let's pray. Father, we praise you and thank you that you have given us your word. And it is the standard, the rule, and guide for our faith and life practice. And we do beg your forgiveness for not always abiding by the truth of your word, the truth of who you are, who you've made us to be. And we know that there is a lot of brokenness and evil in this world, and it is aiming to tear down your people. And we are so grateful and thankful that you you sustain us in and through that. That you have a plan and a purpose for us to bring us to glory. We know that in our own strength we would fail, and when we try to do things in our own strength, we do fail almost every single time. But we know that we have the Holy Spirit dwelling within us, and you empower us, you guide us. And you open our minds to your truth. And you motivate us to live out that truth. Come what may, knowing that you are sovereign, you are in control. So we have nothing, nothing to fear. Because you're a good God. And you're making us to be a good people. And we praise you for that. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. So hopefully the microphone held out. My battery was running really low, but hopefully it made it to the end. I guess I'll find out later. Until next time. A God bless, you can visit us online at Household of Faithinchrist. com if you like