Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ and the live stream portion of what we do every Saturday. If you'd like to visit us online, we and Encourage you to do so at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's household of faith in Christ. com. The website is actually undergoing a bit of a makeover, so it's gonna have a very different vibe and look and feel and hopefully be a little more intuitive to navigate than it is now. We expect that hopefully to be done in the in the coming weeks. So today we're picking up our study and uh exposition of the Apocalypse with chapter 17, verses 5 and 6. To be sure that we uh are keeping things in context, we're going to read all of the opening verses of Revelation 17. Beginning with verse 1, a verse in which we see a reference to the seven angels of chapter 16. And so this links the seven bowls, including Armageddon and all of that, to chapter 17 and 18, where the focus is on the unfolding of the judgment of Babylon, the fall of the beast and the false prophet extending all the way out to Christ's second coming. So, in short, we are witness here to the truth that God's wrath comes, the judgment is final, and with good reason. The text of Revelation 17, verses 1 through 6 describes the opening of the scene for us. And one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying, Come, I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute who is seated on many waters, with whom the kings of the earth committed sexual immorality. And those who live on the earth became drunk with the wine of her sexual immorality. And he carried me away into the wilderness in the spirit. And I saw a woman seated on a scarlet beast that was full of blasphemous names, having seven heads and ten horns. And a woman was dressed in purple and scarlet and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls holding a golden cup in her hand full of detestable things and the unclean things of her sexual immorality And on her forehead was a name written, a mystery. Babylon the Great, the mother of prostitutes and of the detestable things of the earth And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the witnesses to Jesus, and I was greatly astonished when I saw her. This is the very Word of God, and because it is breathed out of God, we call that being inspired of God. It is inerrant, infallible, it is fully sufficient as the rule and guide for our faith and our life practice. Those with ears to hear, let them hear. So in our most recent sermon, we already worked through verses 1 to 4 Which uses for the first time the name Great Prostitute, which is one of the two beasts that was conjured up by the dragon back in chapter thirteen And with this imagery, John is once more hearkening us back to older portions of God's Word. Idolatrous adultery of spiritual prostitutes is a major theme in the Old Testament. We find this sort of language in Jeremiah chapter 3 and in Ezekiel, especially chapter 16. 20 and a Nahum, particularly in chapter 3. It's famously an extended illustration in the book of Hosea. Just look at chapters 4 through 9 in particular. And if you haven't done so of late, read Isaiah chapter 23, will be of special interest here. And in these sections of the Hebrew scriptures, we find Nineveh described as the harlot city, and so is Tyre. And so also is Jerusalem. Wherever we find the false prophet seated in power with the nations, seated on many waters, as Revelation puts it, that's where we find the whore of Babylon. This Jezebel from inside the visible church consorts with the powerful beasts, political alliances depicted in Revelation 17 by pictures of the seven heads and the ten horns. You've got to be careful, because sometimes a bite comes from the hand that feeds you. God has demonstrated over and over again that sometimes He intends that evil powers end up doing his purposes, accomplishing his ends, including that his enemies destroy each other. This is what the Apostle John witnesses in his vision as he is carried off to the wilderness to see what's what with the adulterous whore. It's reminiscent of the book of Isaiah, addressing the fall of Babylon. And it is no stretch for us to make that connection, particularly given that the beast and the harlot are together called Babylon in this portion of the Revelation. And here's what is written in Isaiah chapter 21 as a bunch of bad people do a bunch of bad things to a bunch of other bad people. The oracle or the burden of the wilderness of the sea, as storm winds passing over in the Negev, it comes from the desert, from a frightful land. A hard revelation is told to me. The treacherous Deals treacherously, and the destroyer destroys In similar fashion to John being whisked to the wilderness that we see in this passage, John will also be taken to a grand mountain view in Revelation chapter 21. To see there not the promiscuous false prophet that he does here in chapter 17, but the presentation of the faithful bride of Christ At her wedding, we are introduced to this woman, the bride of Christ, back in Revelation chapter 12. And the great prostitute stands in stark contrast to her. And I believe it's noteworthy, having brought it up now, to notice something in this mountain imagery of chapter 21. For the enemies of God, throughout the pages of the Revelation. We're shown the mountains brought low. They're either crushing the reprobate or they're melting away entirely so as to rob the bad guys of their hiding places. But for God's people, they are lifted high upon the mountains. That's interesting, isn't it? Images can mean more than one thing depending on the context. Wilderness, for example, that's bad for Babylon. It's a dwelling place of demons. It's otherwise uninhabited. But wilderness is also an image of safety within difficulty for the body of Christ. And yes, believers have physical suffering, but they have spiritual protection. And Babylon and her promiscuous partners, they have a destiny of desolation. Stripped there of spiritual protection. The derelict monster might believe, might even might even appear to sit upon many waters. But in the end, it's a mirage. Because the dragon and his seducers are in reality surrounded by nothing but hot, fruitless sand. The fraud meets her end in the desolation of the desert after living the life of luxury for a comparatively short time. But how ironic it is The enemy we're talking about in this chapter has features that match the beast of chapter 13, and as pictured in chapter 17, might be described as wearing the raiment of royalty. With sumptuous accessories, along with purple and scarlet fabric. But this is a mocking of legitimate royalty Not completely unlike on the flip side the mocking of Jesus when the Roman soldiers they adorned him with a cross of pain and a scarlet robe of shame. But again, how ironic Because the Lamb of God is the real deal. But he's treated disparagingly Meanwhile, the pretender to the throne seemingly has access to loads of cool things like gold, silver, precious stones, pearls, fine linen, purple cloth, scarlet silk Scented wood, ivory, bronze, precious bronze, even iron, marble, cinnamon, spice, incense, ointment, frankincense, wine Olive oil, fine wheat flour, domesticated animals, sheep, horses, carriages, servants, and more. This is a list that is pulled directly from the next chapter in the book of Revelation, chapter 18, verses 12 and 13 specifically. And Satan uses these sorts of things. To lure you. His golden cup, it looks so good on the outside. Come follow me, I'll give you the world. But if we listen to him, we forsake Jesus, which is to commit spiritual adultery. And so we'd be guilty of violating the commands of Exodus chapter 20 and Leviticus 20. And Leviticus 18 and Deuteronomy 5. And, well, I mean the list goes on, trust me. We need to recognize the devil specializes in the bait and switch. Do this, you'll be happy, but you won't. Do that, you'll be like God, except no. Do this other thing, you'll rule the world. And as Tears for Fear sang during the Reagan years, everybody wants to rule the world. But the devil lies. Because he's a liar. That's who he is in a nutshell. That doesn't surprise you, right? We've seen the pattern of successive repeated beasts of persecution since even pre-cross days. Belteshazzar comes to mind as the beast of the apocalypse, a composite of the four beasts that are described in the book of Daniel. We all know the accuser is the father of lies. We know this. But why is he an untruth teller? How often do you pause to ponder the answer to that question? Why does the enemy lie to you all the time? Because you bear the image of God. And so He hates you. He seeks to seduce you so that he can kill you permanently You need to understand. There are no civilian casualties in the war he wages. Because there are no civilians. Everyone is fighting this war, whether they're aware of this fact or not There is no Switzerland. No one is neutral. And so the harlot puts on the perfume and hikes her skirt and shows a little leg and says, Hey, big boy. The false prophet puts on the charm and adjusts his powered tie and flashes of pearly white and says, Hello, beautiful, let me rock your world. And the target, the prey. The people who look like you They think, well, maybe just this one time. That one time can be so very deadly There was a story circulating decades ago during the beginning of the AIDS crisis back in the 1980s. In the story, someone buys a drink for someone else in a nightclub. They chat. And they dance and they laugh and they head to a hotel and they get naked. And the next morning one of them awakens in bed alone. Such is life in pickup culture. There's this message that's scrawled on the mirror. It jumps out at the person who's alone in the bed. In bold lipstick letters are written the words, Welcome to the World of AIDS. The fornicator who had snuck from the room in the middle of the night was HIV positive and dying from a contagious disease that back then had absolutely no treatment whatsoever. This evildoer wanted to spread infectious evil. Why would anyone do this Hate, jealousy, wounded pride, rage That's the enemy. And he's gunning for you. He's not wearing goofy red spandex. He's not carrying a ridiculous pitchfork. He's not showing his wicked intent by revealing horns on his head. No, he's wearing a Rodex or high heels. He's carrying a briefcase or pom-poms. He's masking the schemes behind clever makeup and misdirection. And your only protection is the one true God. The Lamb of God. Spirit of Christ. Worship falsely. And you die. Another way of saying all this is that false worship is self-destructive. And destructive pretty much of almost everything else in your orbit, actually. It's been said before, it needs to be said again. The beast captures the allegiance of everyone who does not have their name written in the book of life And the good news is the elect of God have their salvation secure. They bear God's very name upon their very person. But the inverse of this fact is also true. Having now told you about that message written on the Hotel Mirror back in the 1980s, let's now look at the message that's cited in Revelation 17, verse 5. It's written on the great harlot's forehead. Now, this seemingly quirky identifying marker, it might have a historical connection, as it turns out. There are people who seem to know an awful lot about such things, and they teach that in ancient times it was customary for prostitutes to wear a headband that had a name written on it. I assume it was the name of the pimp to whom they belong, but I can't say that for sure. But anyway, this idea, I think it helps uh to explain a passage like this. And other passages too, like Jeremiah chapter 3, verse 3, where the text there reads, Therefore rain showers have been withheld and the spring rain has not come, because they're under judgment, right? Under discipline at least. Yet you have the forehead of a woman prostitute. You refuse to be ashamed, it says in the text. And so John making use of that image from the culture of his day is seemingly plausible. And if that is what he's doing, well, that's pretty clever. But what's the point? Well, let's recall that God puts his seal on the foreheads of his people. We read that in Revelation chapter 7. And in chapter 22, it is the very name of God that is shown to be on the foreheads of his servants. Because we belong to God. We are slaves to Christ if we're following Him. Everyone else. belongs to Babylon the Great, the mother of prostitutes and of the detestable things of the earth, as it says in chapter 17. Everyone not in union with Christ is a slave of the kingdom that is opposing the kingdom of God. They are slaves in unity with the worldly city. Christians belonging to the heavenly city are sustained by the blood of Jesus. The reprobate rulers are drunk with the blood of the saints. And with the blood of the witnesses to Jesus, as it says in verse 6. The harlot is stoned out of her mind, having turned her soul over to constant inebriation. Constant In verse 6, the Greek uses the present participle. That means that drinking the blood of others is continual for these bloodsuckers. Adrenochrome is the Harlow's steady diet. Interestingly, There was once a custom among some barbarians, they would drink the blood of their enemies. They did this as a means of getting revenge. It's pretty sick stuff. But it's not really any more sick than today's satanic stories that we see rumored on the internet. And even if those rumors aren't factual and practical, even if we know the unassailable truth of the devilish devices in the spiritual You understand that this false prophet who's given over to prostitution is your enemy, don't you? Do you also understand that while the political beast stands outside the realm of spirituality, the religious beast stands in the midst of the church? As an increasingly popular present-day news commentator has pointed out repeatedly in recent months, the calls are coming from inside the house. And when Steve Day says this, he's very often generally talking about rhino politicians or influencers in the broader culture. But it doesn't end there. The calls are coming from inside Big Eva. Inside the Vatican. Inside the seminaries. Inside the very pulpits of far too many local churches And how painful it is when someone appearing to be on our side is actually fighting against us. Just as the rest of the world does. Tim Keller, what have you done? Andy Stanley, how did you get so lost? The seminaries, the denominations, the parachurch organizations. Why did you go woke This hurts. It's like being married to a bad spouse. It hurts. It's like getting plowed under by a business partner. I made a living for years in the business world. So I have stories. Many, many stories. Businessmen and businesswomen with great public reputations. Pillars of the community. serving on charity boards, raising money and awareness for not-for-profits, pictures of success on the outside. But you get closer and you see that they lie. They demean, they demand, and they end up crushing your heart if you're not careful. I could probably do an entire sermon series on this theme. I certainly wouldn't run out of any illustration examples, that's for sure. People in league with the harlot are not as they appear. Because the harlot is not as she appears. She masquerades as a mystery So when we discover who it is that has slipped into our good graces under false pretenses, we stand astonished Greatly astonished, as does John at the end of verse 6. And once more we see a connection to the book of Daniel. As the Old Testament prophet was also distressed, only to be relieved by the words of an angel, as is John. The Greek in verse 6, it uses the same word for the verb and the noun, so it would most directly be translated as, I wondered with great wonder, or I marveled a great marvel, or I was astonished with great astonishment. See, it's tough for us to wrap our mind around And so we wonder with John, how could this whore be such an unfaithful woman? But as with all mysteries, the only answer is what God reveals in his word. And one such mystery is Christ and His church. That's one of the more profound mysteries. And now in Revelation 17, we're given a counter mystery. Instead of Christ and his church, we're shown the world and its harlot. No, a mystery is basically just another word for a secret. Johnny uses the word four times in this book. The first use was way back at the start in chapter one and it pops up again in chapter ten, and now we see it twice. In chapter 17. In verse 5, the mystery is depicted in the vision. And then in verse 7, the nature of the mysterious vision is revealed. Which is good, because like I said, mysteries require revelation from God for us to understand. And our intention is to dive into all the specific specifics of that particular point next week, God willing. But we're heading down the home stretch. I'm going to be getting to the conclusion here in a moment. But before we do that, before I wrap up for today, I want to take just a brief moment and I want to address language usage, because there were some last week, there's some this week, there's going to be some in the coming weeks as we wrestle with Chapter 17. When using saucy words like harlot, Whore. Prostitute. We might see some eyebrows get raised here and there And to the eyebrow razors, let me just say I agree. The words are shocking to our sensibilities. They should be. Because the behaviors described by such words are shocking to our sensibilities. Or they should be. If you're more concerned by a syllable or a combination of syllables that would escape the mouths of people like me, if you're more concerned about that than you are the wanton perversion that is on full display and applauded by the spirit of the age, well then I have a list for you. Isaiah 1, verse 21. Jeremiah 2, verse 20, and pretty much all of chapter 3. Ezekiel 23. Hosea 2 verse 5. Hosea 3 verse 3. Pretty much almost all of Hosea Micah chapter 1, verse 7, Nahum chapter 3, verse 4, and when you're done reading those, if your eyebrows are still raised, let me know, and I will provide you another list, a much longer one. The Bible uses strong language sometimes. But with that address issue now addressed, I think I should offer some balance. In Ephesians chapter 4, verse 29 is a commonly cited verse for instruction on this subject. The Apostle Paul writes, No rotten word must proceed from your mouth But only something good for the building up of the need, in order that it may give grace to those who hear Now the word that the Alexum English Bible went there went with there was rotten. I'm using the L E B for today's sermon, by the way But it also could have been useless or corrupt or depraved or perhaps the best word here might be worthless. No worthless word must proceed from your mouth And also of interest in this verse is the phrase, something good, for the building up of the need. And not to get too technical, but the final genitive in the Greek here is tes charias. So that means it points to the need of the moment. In other words, the need of a particular person or a particular group of people in a particular place at a particular time within a particular context. Do you understand? So as to give grace. Give grace to those who hear. So in practice, what this means is, at least this, pick your thoughts. See, not all words are suitable for use in every possible usage. And some words, honestly, they lose their sting when they're overused. So therefore my pastoral advice is to avoid flinging out words such as whore and harlot like candies from a pez dispenser. Don't run around yelling at everyone, calling them a prostitute because they're fornicating under consent of the king, if you catch my meaning Some words are targeted heat-seeking missiles. Those are very expensive armaments Don't make them worthless. Don't don't waste them on squirrels or mosquitoes. And intuitively intuitively, I think we all know this, right? So use wisdom. And yes, there are times you can go nuclear with your word choice. But they're rare. Dropping bombs indiscriminately, it robs the words of their potency. And I don't want followers of Christ to become verbally impotent. Through carelessness. We need all the saints in the war. Fully armed. So let's keep our powder dry until we really need it. And so yeah, we use some uncomfortable words in today's sermon and last week too, and next sermon is to come, like I said. Because this passage invites it. And this moment in history within which we find ourselves, it demands it. People need to hear We might possibly need to be shocked out of our collective slumber. Time is short. So many are lost. We're on a rescue mission. And delightful style points or not, people need to hear the message Repent. The kingdom of God is at hand. So that excurses thus ended. Let's turn to the conclusion of the sermon. Do you want to be loved by the world? Be careful. The world is seductive There is a connection between the spirit of Jezebel and the spirit of the great prostitute. And so the glamour and the glitz, it's so often just pure poison. I mean haven't you seen what the big book deals and the movie deals and the circuit speaker deals have done to so many men of the cloth even? Be careful. Proverbs 16, it says, All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes, but Yahweh weighs the Spirit. See, God isn't fooled. He's able to judge the reflections and thoughts of the heart, it says in Hebrews 4. 1 Thessalonians 2, it says We are approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, and thus we speak not as pleasing people, but God, who examines our hearts. 1 Corinthians chapter 4, it says that when Jesus comes again, he will enlighten the hidden things of darkness and will reveal the counsels of hearts. And then praise will come to each one from God. If the motives are wrong, then the behavior is like that of the apostate church. And we don't want to be the whore. We instead want to be the faithful woman of Revelation chapter 12. I know some they hear messages like this and they think this is me just preaching at you. It's directly a main point of the Apostles. We can actually see it with a rhyme. The correspondence of the sounds and accents and syllables, it's unmistakable when we draw the comparison in Greek. And I've included a lot of Greek in today's message. I'm not trying to overdo the Greek, but this is this is pretty cool. Speaking of the prostitute and the beast, we would say in Greek, hey pornekai cephereon And speaking of the bride and the lamb, we would say in the Greek, Hei Numphekai to Arnion. Do you hear it? Hey porne cai tetherion. Hey Numfa Cai Cetherion. Arnion, rather. Hey Porne cai tetherion, heinphi cai to Arnion. They rhyme, the rhythm's the same. Now, to capture the same thing in English, we'd have to take a few slight liberties, but what we would come up in doing so would be something like this. The witch and the beast. And the bride and the priest. There's a correspondence. And there are opposites The harlot, that witch, is openly antagonistic to God in her heart. The world can't always see it. But God can. Are you antagonistic to God in your heart? How would you know? Well, the false woman persecutes The true woman is persecuted. Which best describes you? Are you sacrificial? Attitude of a servant, willing to lay down your life and be persecuted? Or are you on the attack, cutting people down to size with your repiar width, your sharp cutting words with the voice of the accuser coming from your mouth? As you persecute. For the sake of the good name of Jesus Christ and for the sake of all who follow him, I hope you're not beguiled and therefore antagonistic to your Maker. It's been said by some that a worldly-minded Christian does more damage to the church and to the faith of others than does the atheist. Don't tear down the body of Christ in this way. Instead build her up by embracing righteousness rather than worldliness And seek counsel from others and heed that godly counsel and press into the teachings of the Bible and learn how you can get to the place where you more consistently approach this ideal. As poignantly put by an old theologian named Auberlin, the church passes through death of the flesh to glory of the spirit The beast passes through glory of the flesh to spiritual death. Remember those headbands I mentioned, the ancient prostitutes wore them, what they represented, and God's seal on his people. Whose name is on your forehead? Father, you are so good to us. We thank you for the truth of your word, for the assurance we can have in Christ. We thank you as we head into the holy week ahead of us. We thank you for what this means. We thank you for the reminder of the truths. And we know that those who follow Christ share in his victory. He has victory over death. He has victory over the harlot. And in union with him, so do we. We ask that you would help us, through the power of your Holy Spirit, to live out lives that reflect this truth. It's in the wondrous name of Jesus Christ that we pray Amen. I'm going to wrap up the uh stream here. Again, if you'd like to visit us online, you're welcome to do so at householdofinchrist. com. Until next time, God bless.