Well good morning. Thank you all for so graciously welcoming me here into your pulpit this morning, and I want to uh thank Pastor Chris Jackson for the uh the the the honor. of uh entrusting me with a great responsibility is not something that I take lightly. And so uh my aim is to endeavor to be faithful to God's word And to bring the good word uh to you this morning. And I bring you greetings from Household of Faith in Christ and know that we will uh be praying for you as a congregation and for you. your mission and ministry here. As you can see in the bulletin, the text today is Revelation chapter 5, the entire chapter, verses 1 through 14. So if you'd like to be able to read along and see what we're doing and open your Bibles, uh I would encourage you to to do that now. And um When we grapple with God's Word, when we read God's Word, I would like to remind you that it is God's Word. It is breathed of God. It is inspired, inerrant, infallible. It is the fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and life practice. I would encourage all to receive it as such, and those with ears let them hear. So as I read chapter 5 in God's Word of Revelation, I am reminded of something that I had an opportunity to do about 30 years ago. The World Cup came to the United States back in 1992 And uh Orlando, Florida was one of the host cities and I happened to live in Orlando at the time and so I secured a ticket and I I entered the old Citrus Bulls Stadium and I gotta tell you what I experienced that day, it must be something like what a foreign exchange student experiences. I have uh been to a lot of uh American sporting events, I've been to huge sports concert events in my life, but attending this World Cup soccer match, it was bordering on culture shock for me. In the enthusiasm of the fans, the the singing, the chanting, the unbridled joy of being there, the loudness never subsided. The flag waving never subsided. The action on the field, it often looked to me like nothing exciting or productive was happening. My fuzzy memory thinks that the final score of that game was one to nothing. One goal scored the entire time. Baka passing the ball around aimlessly as far as I could discern. Almost always in the middle of the field, nowhere near either of the goals. People in this country they complain about baseball. Too boring. Not enough action. Well I gotta tell ya, baseball is a fireworks display compared to what I could process taking place before me as two foreign nations played what most of the world calls football. But fans, the fans of the game, the fans of these teams, they knew what was happening. Way better than I did. And they were excited by the progress toward the goal that was basically indiscernible progress to me. And I think that's kind of how it is with God. He knows the whole game. In fact, the outcome of the game is known. God wins, incidentally. In our life of kicking things back and forth, never entirely sure we're making any real progress in this world, God sees what's happening. He knows what's what And the audience in heaven has a perspective that lets them see just how very true this is. And they praise the Creator. And they praise the Redeemer with unyielding devotion. And we're not in heaven ourselves right now, are we? But we have been given a glimpse of it. And we have been made citizens of it. If we follow Christ. So let's join the chorus. And let's invite others to join the chorus An invitation that begins with repentance. This heavenly perspective. on who God is and who we are and how we are therefore to respond to him. This is primarily what The verses of chapter 5 are all about. In fact, it's what the 25 verses of chapters 4 and 5 together are essentially. all about. When I reach chapter five in the book of Revelation, when you read it too, I think we realize that an interesting placement within the book of Revelation. There's a shift that takes place in this part of the book. And it's tempting, kind of hard, but certainly Not so hard that the temptation doesn't overtake us to say that this chapter is a bridge chapter. Now it's hard to say that because there's a swirling structure. in the book of Revelation. The twenty-two chapters, the imagery and the and the vision, they kind of swing back around and they recur again and again. And it's a difficult book sometimes to to map out, to outline. But when we do so, we can see actually chapter 5 is a bridge chapter of sorts. For instance, what we read shows us that the The direction and the conclusion of the prophetic message of the remaining chapters, chapters 6 through to the end, is outlined for us here and tells us that there is a problem And no one can solve it. But there is actually one. And the Lamb has solved it, and he has solved it forever and everything. With blessing and honor and glory and power, and riches and wisdom, and strength and all things good bestowed upon him and coming through him as God sits upon the eternal throne However, this chapter by itself is not merely a bridge to the remainder of Revelation. For one, it records for us the second half of one lengthy vision within the collection of visions in this book of the Bible. Chapters 4 and 5 together begin or introduce what some like to call the second act of the Apocalypse, the book of Revelation In this introduction to the second act, it takes us from a focus in chapter 4 on creation right into a focus on redemption and recreation in chapter 5. And we see the two chapters there being intimately intertwined with the presence of five songs, each of them thanking God for being who he is. And what's interesting as we read, we can note there's a building of a momentum. There's a gathering storm of praise with higher velocity winds and increasingly loud booms of thunder, if you will. So I want us to take a moment right now and I want us to be sure we don't miss the beauty of this progression, this gathering storm of praise. So in Revelation chapter four, so if you're in chapter five, turn back just a little bit. Chapter four, verse eight The Apostle John writes for us. And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him, and they were full of eyes within, and they rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was and is and is to come. So there are four proclaiming this praise. Then a few verses later we read about 24 doing the same and falling down before God as they do so. Revelation chapter 4, verses 10 and 11. God's word there tells us The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship him that liveth forever and ever, and cast down their crowns before the throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord. to receive glory and honor and power. For thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. And now let's turn to Revelation chapter 5, where verses 8, 9, and 10 say And what do you take in the book, the four beasts and twenty-four elders, and they fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of the saints And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain. And has redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. And has made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. So you see the four beasts are still there. And the 24 elders are there, now with harps and with the prayers of the saints. And what comes next is thousands upon thousands of angels joining the singing of the new song. Here are verses eleven and twelve in chapter five. And I beheld and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the feasts and the elders, and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing, and now things reach its full intergalactic crescendo. The beasts and the elders within God's high court of wisdom, and the angels and the followers of Christ, and in the end, the whole creation. Every creature, everyone, those on the earth, those under the earth, those in the sea, those in the heavens, all of them. They proclaim for all to hear that the Lamb who was slain is worthy. He is worthy. He alone is worthy. Here's verse 13. And every creature, which is in heaven and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I say. Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne And unto the land forever and ever If you're not inspired with a rising up within you of adoration and devotion, if you're not maybe even a little kind of goose-temps The fire of the Holy Spirit burning in your bosom. If you are not presently enraptured by the magnificence of Christ The Son of God, the Lamb of God. Then I have failed you today as you're preaching. Or your spiritual death. In need of new birth. And given those two options, I surely hope it's the former. I hope it's my failing and not your spiritual deadness that is the issue. This is a portion of Scripture that really emphasizes the majestic kingship of God. In chapters four and five, the word throne is used well over a dozen times. In chapter 4, verse 2, behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne. Next verse. And there was a rainbow round about the throne. Next verse. And round about the throne where twenty four or four and twenty seats. Next verse And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and voices, and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne. Verse 6. And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal, and in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne were four beasts full of eyes. Verse 9, these beasts give glory and honor and thanks to him that sat on the throne. Verse 10, the four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne. And cast the crown before the throne. Chapter 5, verse 1. And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book. Chapter 5, verse 6, and I beheld, and lo in the midst of the throne stood a lamb. Verse 7, and he came, he took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne. Verse 11, and I beheld and I heard the voice of many angels. Roundabout. The throne. Yes, yes, yes. Verse 13, blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon. the throne. In Revelation chapters four and five, there are five songs or or expressions or doxologies or whatever it is you want to call them. And these declare the praises of our Trinitarian God. Note how in verse uh one and seven of chapter five there's reference to the father on the throne. And verses six and seven, those refer to the Son of God who is the Lamb. And then we see God, the Holy Spirit, in verse 6 of chapter 5, with the description of the horns and the eyes. This is an echo of imagery we saw way back in chapter 1. In verse 4, I understand you've been doing a revelation study as a church during the week. Maybe you remember touching upon that imagery when you were back in chapter 1 in your study group. And it's no accident that there are seven qualities that are described in this passage. seven being the the number of holy completion, holy perfection. The first four of them are power, riches, wisdom, might. These speak to God's resources. And the other three, honor, glory, blessing, these speak to the right response to these excellencies. And the bookends of these five doxologies or songs, numbers one and five, the first and the last, they each they each mention the divine eternity. of God, the divine eternity of his rule. And in between we see the emphasis of praise on the enthroned one, which in this context is the Father in verses 1 and 2. But in the next two verses, verses three and four, those place the emphasis of praise on the Lamb. So the Lamb receives this level of praise. It's a level of praise that is reserved for only God Himself. Because a lamb of God is not merely truly human, he is also truly God. To both the Father and the Son, there is ascribed glory, honor, and power. And note that to the Son, because of what he did in the person and work of Jesus Christ, there is also ascribed wealth and strength and wisdom and blessing. In Latin, this stuff is called the Great Te Deum. That is short for Te Deum Laudemus. In English, that means, oh God, we praise you. Given the repetitive nature of the book of Revelation, it is no surprise that we will find more wondrous hymns of praise as we move forward into the test as you're doing your study. to them. For example, in addition to chapters four and five, chapters seven, eleven 15, 16, 19, these are all home to other hymns of heaven. Seven chapters with these hymns of heaven. I call this heavenly today on the hymns of heaven because what we find in chapters 4 and 5 here in Revelation is the view of things from heaven's perspective. We can contrast this with like Acts chapter 1, verses 6 through 11. I'm not sure if you recall that portion of the New Testament. If you want to turn there quickly, you can read along. Otherwise you can just listen. And as I read, in case you're not off the top of your head remembering what happens in chapter 1, verses 6 through 11, but there we have the Apostle Luke. He writes for us things from an earthly vantage point. So picking up with verse 6 of Acts chapter 1 from the hand of St. Luke. When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, Jesus, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said to them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father has put in his own power, but Ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witness unto me both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? The same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. So that's an earthbound perspective. We try to peer into heaven. See on earth right now we see but dimly, as through the bottom of a glass. Oh. But in heaven it's perfectly clear. God's in charge. And so he is greatly to be praised. He is most worthy of praise. And so it is right and good that all of the heavenly hosts praise God. And that we join in. As we see elsewhere, including not just New Testament, even in the Old Testament. Even though we don't see the absolute fullness of this here and now on earth, we've got struggles and challenges. But despite this, we should rejoice. All the same. Someone who knows a thing or two about agriculture, certainly a heck of a lot more about it than I do, he once shared the attitude of a farmer. You know, when the the ground is tilled, the seeds are properly planted, and the fertilizer and the irrigation, that's all done exactly the right way. That ground, boy, it can still look rather fruitless for a while. But when the corn is harvested Well that full ear of corn is in the farmer's hands at the at the feast. The farmer rejoices. And yet that illustration kind of already makes sense, right, as far as it goes. We consider that heaven awaits believers But the illustration actually even goes further. Because even when a single blade of that corn plant begins to pop through from the earth, And just becomes a little bit visible in the midst of the growing season while that farmer is still wiping the dirt and the dust from his brow, tired and weary. He rejoices then too because he knows things from the perspective of a farmer. He knows. Rejoice. The harvest is on the way. It's underway. And it's going to be big and glorious. We should be singing and shouting praises to our Maker and Savior at least as loudly and proudly as so many people do for so many other things. Like World Cup Soccer matches, for instance. Right, right. And people are hooting and hollering and clapping and cheering and they're waving flags and You know, they're they're encouraging their their candidate of choice. And they get up and they brag about their home state, right? The great state of Georgia, home to the heavenly peaches. McEls of fools themselves wear goofy hats? Well let me ask you. Will you wear a goofy hat for Jesus? Will you allow yourself to be thought of by the watching world as a fool for Christ? Today I'm honest. Oh, God, we praise you And because of this we can, as it's written in Isaiah chapter forty two, sing unto the Lord a new song. And his praise from the end of the earth. Ye that go down to the sea and all is therein, the isles and the inhabitants thereof Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift up their voice, the villages that Kedar doth inhabit. Let the inhabitants of the rock sing. Let them shout from the top of the mountains. Let them give glory unto the Lord and declare his praise in the islands. The Lord shall go forth as a mighty man. He shall stir up jealousy like a man of war. He shall cry, yea, roar. He shall prevail against his enemies. Mmm, that is so good. We can join with Psalm 96 as well. Oh, sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Sing unto the Lord. Bless his name. Show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people, for the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. Malthy Babcock wrote about 120 years ago, back in 1901, a more contemporary hymn phrase. It's called This Is My Father's World. And we'll close our message by sharing just a couple of short stanzas from that song. This is my father's world. Let me ne'er forget Though the wrong seems possible strap. God is a ruler, yet This is my father's world. The battle is not done. Jesus who died shall be satisfied. And earth and heaven be one. Father, we praise you. By the prompting and leading of your Holy Spirit, Lord, we ask you would help us to sing your praises all the more. Do we have faithful in sharing the good news for the lost and lonely world around us that is cheering for so many of the wrong things? Help us to be vessels, to steer them into the truth, to be beacons of light, beacons of hope. Let us not be shy and bashful about the blessing we've received. Because of the blood of Jesus Christ. We ask you to forgive us for our past shortcomings and you would embolden us in the future as we progress in our sanctification. And we proclaim with goofy hats, if need be, that Jesus Christ is King. He is Lord, He is Savior, and He has redeemed those who are His And because of these things, we we love you. We adore you. We seek to honor you and bring glory to your name. As we pray to you now, in the wondrous name of Jesus. Amen.