And it looks like we are running. Hello, Facebook. We're breaking form a little bit. We're actually starting on timer, maybe even a minute early instead of a couple of minutes late. Yeah. And our goal with these is to have them run in the ballpark of about an hour But we've gone long quite a few weeks in a row, really long last week. That will not happen this week. In fact, maybe we'll even wrap it up a little bit earlier today to try to make up for having run long so many times. Anya. Uh Angela was gonna be here. She was on her way and she called and her car is not working, so she's getting roadside assistance and we're gonna find out what's going on with her So uh it's it's just the the four of us, including our dog. Tyler will probably wander will probably wander into the frame here in a little bit. Yeah, the joke. Yeah, okay. What did the big flower say to the little flower? Uh sometimes I can guess the punchline. I can't think of a punchline for that. Hey Bud. Hey Bud. Why are fish so smart? She said, hey little bud. Oh. Like like Killigan's Island? Yes. Why? Are fish so smart? Yes. Because they're always in school. They live in school. Yeah. Where do cattles go on Friday night? Um Friday night's cows go. Hm I can't think of one. The movies. The movies. Well see if I can get it because nobody goes to the movies anymore now. All right, well down. Yeah. What day of the week are most twins born. Tuesday. Yes. Well now I have to do one more. Why couldn't the pony sing a lullaby? Because he was a little horse. Why was the Easter bunny so upset? You won't get this one. No. The Easter bunny was so upset because he was having a bad hair day. Are you kidding me? Like it? Yes. Why are frogs always? They're always so happy. Frogs. That's a good one. Um Uh I can't think of one for that one. They eat whatever bugs them. They eat whatever bugs them. Okay. That's a good one. Alright, we'll end on that one since you finally didn't get So now we're doing jokes and telling stones? Alright. So if you want to get uh your Bibles ready, we are gonna read We talked about doing it last week and we didn't. We're going to do it this week. We're going to read uh from the book of Joel. We'll probably read the entire book of Joel. It's relatively short. And it was really on Dina's heart last week. She read it a number of times. I've now read it a couple of times myself, uh within the last eight days. And it really does feel like Like it's for our time. Is the lighting okay? Usually throw on a bunch of lights and make sure the lighting is good. Do you think the lighting is okay? Uh maybe it's a little bit more. Sure. We'll do that real quick. Kyle Brody is joining us. Hello, Kyle. Hello. Let me uh turn on these lights. There you go, you're good now. That's good. Oh no. Unless Angela was here, you want to go check? I'll double check. Hold down the floor for a sec. Yep. So if you wanted to get out your Bibles and turn to the book of Joel, that's what we're going to be focusing on this evening. Um Danny's watching and your sister's watching. Okay. She hears things sometimes. Poor dog. And she doesn't hear when she's supposed to. Yeah. She it's okay for you to be. She's fifteen, which they say is a hundred and five in dog years, so she's Doing pretty good. Yes indeed. So I'm gonna pray and kind of get it started. Then we're going to uh read from the book of Joel and then we're going to have a discussion. And because we don't have Angela here, if you'd like to participate via the comment section of the discussion that will be of course more than welcome. Father, we thank you for bringing us together to honor you. to draw attention to your gospel, to be rooted together as your people, bound by the blood of Christ. We thank you for your plan, for your process Providence, for the assurance that you are in control, even when it seems to us that the world is spinning out of control. We ask that you would soften our hearts and illuminar minds. Minds as we press into reading your word this evening, and that you would give us encouragement and insight as we discuss what's happening in the the world what's happening with your church and what your word reveals to us. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. So, uh do you want to start reading or only to start reading? I think starting. And then, you know, if when you when you need to take a break or when you get to chapter two or something, you can Okay. The word of the Lord that came to Joel, the son of Hethul. Hear this, O elders, and listen, all inhabitants of the land. I'm reading, by the way, from the NASB translation. As anything like this happened in your days or in your father's days, tell your sons about it and let your sons tell their sons and their sons the next generation what the And what the swarming locust has left, the creeping locust has eaten. And what the creeping locust has left, the strip Surfing locusts has eaten. Awake, drunkards, and weep and wail. All you wine drinkers, on account of sweet wine, this is cut off from your mouth, for a nation has invaded my land mighty and without number, its teeth are the teeth of a lion, and it has the fangs of a lioness that has made my vine a waste and my fig tree splinter It has stripped them bare and cast them away. Their branches have become white. Wailed like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the bridegroom of her youth. The grain offering and the Drink offering are cut off from the house of the Lord. The priests mourn. The ministers of the Lord. The field is ruined. The land mourns. But the grain is ruined. The new wine dries up, fresh oil fails. Be ashamed, O farmers, wail, O vine dressers, for the wheat and the barley, because the Harvest of the field is destroyed. The vine dries up and the fig tree fails, the pomegranate, the palm also, and the apple tree. All the trees of the field dry up. Rejoicing dries up from the sons of men. Gird yourselves with sackcloth and lament, O priests. Wail, O ministers of the altar. Come, spend the night in sackcloth, O Ministers of my God. For the grain offering and the drink offering are withheld from the house of your God. Consecrate a fast, proclaim a solemn assembly, gather the elders, and all the Inhabitants of the land. Tell the house of the Lord your God and cry out to the Lord. Alas for the day, for the day of the Lord is near, and it will come as destruction. From the Almighty. Has not food been cut before your our eyes? Gladness and joy from the house of our God? The seeds shrivel under their claws. Storehouses are desolate, the barns are torn down, for the grain is dried up, how the beasts groan, the herds of cattle wander aimlessly because There is no pasture for them. Even the flocks of sheep suffer. To you, O Lord, I cry, for the fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and the flame has burnt Burned up all the trees of the field. Even the beasts of the field pant for you, for the water brooks are dried up, and fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness. And I'm going to be reading now, beginning with chapter two from the NIV. Blow the trumpet in Zion, sound the alarm on my whole But all who live in the land tremble, for the day of the Lord is coming. It is close at hand, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and blackness, like dawn spreading across the mountain Mountains a large and mighty army comes, such as never was of old, nor ever will be in ages to come. Before them fire devours, behind them a flame blazes, before them the land is like the Garden of Eden. Behind them a desert waste. Nothing escapes them. They have the appearance of horses, they gallop along like Calvary. With a noise like that of chariots, they leap over the mountaintops Like a crackling fire consuming stubble, like a mighty army drawn up for battle. At the sight of them, nations are in anguish, every face They do not jostle each other, each marches straight ahead. They plunge through the They rush upon the city, they run along the wall, they climb into the houses like thieves they enter through the windows. Sun and moon are darkened, and the stars no longer shine. The Lord thunders at the head of his army. His forces are beyond number. And mighty are those who obey his command. The day of the Lord is great. It is dreadful. Who can endure it? Even now declares the Lord, return to me with all your heart, with fasting and weeping and mourning. Rend your hearts, not your garments Return to the Lord your God, for he is gracious and compassionate, slow to anger, and abounding in love, and he relents from sending calamity. Who knows? He may turn and have pity and leave behind a blessing. Grain offerings and drink offerings. For the Lord your God. Blow the trumpet in Zion, declare a holy fast, call a sacred assembly, gather the people, consecrate the assembly, bring together the elders, gather the children, those nursing at the breast. Give the bridegroom leave his room and the bride her chamber, let the priest who minister before the Lord weep between the temple porch and the altar. Let them say, Spare your people, O Lord. Do not make your inheritance an object of scorn, a byword among the nations. Why should they say among the peoples? Where is their God? And then the Lord will be jealous for his land and take pity on his people. And I'm going to pause and let you pick it up. The Lord will answer and say to his people, Behold, I am going to send you grain, new wine and oil, and you will And I will never again make you a reproach among the nations, but I will remove the northern army far from you, and I will drive it into a parched and desolate land. And its vanguard into the eastern sea, and its rearguard into the western sea, and its stench will arise, and its foul smell will come up, for it has done great things. Do not Fear, O land, rejoice and be glad, for the Lord has done great things. Do not fear, beasts of the field, for the pastures of the wilderness have turned green, for the tree has borne its fruit. The fig tree and the vine have yielded in full. So rejoice, O sons of Zion, and be glad in the Lord your God, for he has given you the early rain for your Vindication and he has poured down for you the rain, the early and latter rain as before. Wine and oil. Then I will make up to you for the years that the swarming locusts has eaten, the creaking locusts, the stripping locusts, and the gnawing locusts. My great army which I sent among you, you will have plenty to eat, and be satisfied, and praise the name of the Lord your God who has dwelt dealt wondrously with you. Then my people will never be put to shame. Thus you will know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am the Lord your God, and there is no other, and my people will I'll jump back in here. And afterward I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy. Your old men will dream dreams. Your young men will see visions. Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days. I will show wonders in the heavens and on the earth, blood and fire and billows of smoke. The sun will be turned to darkness in the moon Moon to blood before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved, for on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there will be a deliverance And the God has said among the survivors whom the Lord calls. In those days and at that time, when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem, I will gather all nations and bring them down to the valley of Jehoshaphat, where I will enter into judgment against them, concerning my inheritance, my people Israel, for they scattered my people among the nations. and divided up my land. They cast lots for my people and traded boys for prostitutes. They sold girls for wine that they might drink. Now what have you against me, O Tyre? And Sidon, and all you regions of Philistia. Are you repaying me for something I have done? If you are paying me back, I will swiftly and speedily return on your own heads what you have done. For you took my silver and my gold and carried off my finest treasures to your temples. You sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greeks that you might send them Far from their homeland. See, I am going to rouse them out of the places to which you sold them, and I will return on your own heads what you have done. Sons and daughters to the people of Judah, and they will sell them to the Sabians, a nation far away. The Lord has spoken. Proclaim this among the nations. Prepare away War, rouse the mighty men, let all the soldiers draw near, let them come up. Beat your ploughshares into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears. Let the weak say, I am a mighty man. Hasten and come All you surrounding nations and gather yourselves there. Bring down, O Lord, your mighty ones. Let the nations be aroused and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat, for there I will sit to judge. And all the surrounding nation to judge all the surrounding nations. Put in the sickle for the harvest is ripe. Come, tread for the wine press is full. The vats overflow for their wickedness is great. Great multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision. For the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. The sun and moon grow dark in the Stars lose their brightness. The Lord roars from Zion and utters his voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth tremble. But the Lord is a refuge for his people people and a stronghold to the sons of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God dwelling in Zion, my holy mountain. So Jerusalem will be holy Holy, and strangers will pass through it no more. Of Judah will run with water. A fountain will flow out of the Lord's house and water and will water the valley of Acacias. But Egypt will be desolate, Edom a desert waste, because of violence Judah will be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem through all generations. Pardon. The Lord dwells in Zion. We have read the word of the Lord. Those who have ears, let them hear. Amen. So well I'll let you speak for uh you you touched on it last week a little bit, but why don't you share why you were so drawn to this at this moment in time and then we'll we'll talk a little bit about about it and things related to it. Um well I it was a couple of weeks ago when we were just praying and um the Lord put that one verse on my heart for I will restore the years the locusts have eaten. And I thought, well I hope so, Lord, because it just seems like we've We've lost our way. And I thought, okay. And then as I prayed in uh Preston was praying, I felt like the Lord was saying, You need to read the whole books. Read all of Joel. So when I did it just became completely and totally illuminated to me that this is a warning against us, the church, the true church, that we need to get right with the Lord and repent and um and and we've lost our way. And so this is actually a call back. So if you were reading along and or or at least trying to pay attention to the As we read uh along through the book, there are some aspects of of the imagery and the language of what's going on that really s sounds a striking note in our context. It would seem it seems that the world has lost its mind and I've heard some people on social media and even in person who are wondering aloud like is this a judgment from God? Is God judging America? Is he judging Is he judging the nations? Is he judging the church? Is he judging everybody? And we can't know the mind of God at some level. I would say yes, he's always uh He's always righteous and he's always uh judging uh passing judgment for those that uh are rejecting him. He turns them over to the hardness of their own heart and those that are his. He he judges in a way that is disciplining and drawing them back to himself. So in a sense that's probably true. Are we in the are we in the end times? We talked about the end times a few weeks ago during this face Facebook live session that we have. And the easy answer from a non-millennial view, which is my view of the end times, is yes, we're in the end times. We've been in the end times end times for two thousand years. But are we in that acute moment? You know, there's the last days and then there's the last day. And how close to the last day are we within the last days? Only Only God knows, and it's a fool's errand to try to guess, but it certainly does feel urgent and dramatic. And yet, Joel, we don't really know for sure when the book of Joel was written. Written because we don't really know for sure when Joel the prophet lived. Most uh would seem to agree that it was somewhere around 800 years before Christ. And about uh six hundred years after they entered the Promised Land, to give you some sense. So If something twenty eight hundred years ago could be this dramatic, if it reminds me of Ecclesiastes where there's nothing new under the sun. And what we have here is it's it's It's speaking to what's going on in Judah at the time. So the the the people of God, which in our context the people of God would be the church. The people of God, they had been ushered into the promised land 600 years or so earlier, and they became, well, almost immediately, became disobedient, recurringly disobedient, and God was patient, and finally there were consequences to their ungodly behavior and choices over time. And so then Joel comes along with this prophetic word saying, Hey, this is gonna be bad for you. You better repent. You better fast and pray and weep and mourn over your sinfulness, or this really horrible stuff's gonna happen. But then there's a word of hope in the middle of the book that indicates that God is a God who will relent from that that judgment on his people if they would only turn to him. But then it returns back to some negative language because are the people really going to turn or not? And also that ending language That's really negative towards the end of Joel. It's talking primarily about the enemies of God's people. And so this is talking about what's happening then It's I think we could apply how it's happening to us now, but big picture, this is the historical park of the Bible. We start in Eden, Eden is mentioned in the Book of Joel. We start in Eden where everything is just the way it's supposed to be. Adam and Eve, they haven't sinned yet, but they have the ability to sin And they do. And then, pardon the play on words, but all hell breaks loose. And so we're living in a broken down world now as a result of that. And And there's a picture of Eden that's provided with the promised land. That's a new Eden. And the people are ushered into that. But they mess that up too. And so now Christ comes and he ushers in his Kingdom, which is a a precursor to the ultimate renewal and rest restoration of the new Edom, Eden, which will be the new uh renewed heavens and earth But of course the church is messing that up too. So God keeps giving his people good things and we are sinners and we keep screwing them up. And so it keeps pointing us back to the promises of God. The promises of God. Joel is hearkening to the promises of God here. And in the ol the whole New Testament, when we read that, we're talking about the promises of Of God fulfilled in Christ. Christ is the promise of God. He is the fulfillment of all the promises in God. So everything rests in Him. And so as a word of encouragement, Could Jesus come back before I finish the next sentence? Yes, and there's a big part of me that hopes that that happens what happens. But if he doesn't, we have this promise that the Lord does restore the years of the locusts. 8. But it doesn't necessarily mean in the here and the now. And so if something really bad happens to a believer in Christ when they're 30, it doesn't mean that by the time under fifty, everything's gonna not only be hunky dory, but ten times better. Not necessarily. That promise that the years will be restored is about all Ultimate fulfillment. It can sometimes God does work in a way where we feel that fulfillment and that promise in the here and now. But primarily what we're be to be focused on, what we're to be having energies uh directed toward is what's to come. And to go about the business of doing kingdom work now so that people can see glimpses of what's to come even in the here and now in this Ramshackle world that we live in We have disorder all around us, and we have anger everywhere, and we have a loss And that shouldn't surprise us. It doesn't surprise me. I've been living in the same broken world forever, and so have you. Something that has been a surprise however and we're transitioning into a main thing that I wanted to talk about today. Something that has surprised me is the response The church has lost its way historically. I mean the church, you could argue, was here in Judah. Joel's talking to them, they had lost their way. people lose their way. And in more recent centuries, we have uh we had all sorts of church councils uh in the hundreds of years following uh the time of Christ Christ on earth. And those those councils were called together to put into effect some correctives because God's people had lost their way. And then there was the Reformation that took place. Um, you know, Martin Luther and John Calvin and all those guys. And that's because the church had lost its way and there needed to be a corrective. And the church has continued continue to lose its way. And what are called the mainline churches, the big denominations in the Protestant movement, you know, the the big Lutheran denomination, the big Presbyterian denomination. And I say the big because there's a whole bunch of Presbyterian churches, but there's uh there's one big one and then a bunch of smaller denominations. There's one big Lutheran denomination and a bunch of smaller smaller ones. So the Anglicans, the Episcopalians, the Methodists, these main lines what they call the mainline, these big denominations, uh they have lost their way in large measure. And so what we hung our hat on for most of my life was the evangelical movement, the those who wanted to get back to the fundamentals. They were preaching the gospel. They were holding true to the inerrancy of Scripture. They were bold in proclaiming the truth of God. And now that's changed. And that's a bit of surprise. We've had some pretty high-profile evangelical leaders in America who have renounced the faith. They're not just teaching bad sermons. and leading people astray by accident or mistake, they're now claiming that they're not Christians, they're renouncing the faith. It doesn't make sense to them. They they reject And there's been a lot of them over the last eighteen months or so, and there's a lot of them now still preaching, still leading churches. The part of me wonders if maybe they should renounce the faith because they're not preaching the gospel. The gospel is hard. The gospel is a stumbling block to God's people and it is an offense and foolishness to those who aren't God's people. So if you're not sharing God's word, God's truth, in a way that is kind of turning your world inside out and upside down, there's something We as a church, meaning the church, have gotten so comfortable with trying to follow after the marketing mix of a Starbucks and a Panera bread that we've lost the gospel. And we've made all these little miniature compromises along the way that maybe we didn't realize what we were doing, but Now all those min little compromises have added up to one gigantic compromise. We don't even know who we are anymore. The church is not about the style of music The church is not about the color scheme of the walls of the church building. The church is not about the youth programs. The church is not about how good your drummer is. The church isn't about any of those things. The church is about Jesus Christ and the faithfulness of his bride. The church is about proclaiming the gospel faithfully and doing what they are The church is called to do as a church, which is to administer the sacraments, the Lord's Supper and Baptism. And as an extension of those two things, if it's doing those things well. preaching the gospel of administering the sacraments well, it's going to automatically have to exercise church discipline because you can't have good practice with the sacraments and you can't be faithful to proclaiming the truth if you don't exercise discipline. To train up the people to follow after God and to hold people accountable. If you're a churchgoer, have you ever Had somebody in leadership at your church pull you aside and challenge you for a sin in your life? Have they held you accountable? Have they helped you to walk through the challenge of overcoming that scenario I'm willing to bet that almost nobody who's hearing my voice right now has had that experience. Why not? How many attend a church where there's no what's called fencing the table? For the Lord's Supper, where it's explained what the Lord's Supper really represents, and that those who aren't part of the family of God shouldn't participate because this is reserved for those who belong to Christ And if you don't acknowledge at this stage in your life that you belong to Christ, you need to have stain. It's more common to hear that, but I've been to too many churches where they don't do that either And then baptism, the biblical model for baptism, if somebody comes to faith in Christ, it was like a rush to the river. You're a believer, let's get you baptized. But now when you We put it off, we hold off, we we wait, and we want to turn it into something like some sort of a pageant and make it about the person who's being baptized rather than the one who's doing the baptizing, the spirit. So the church is so inside out and upside down. I and and if you've been listening to these Facebook posts that I've or these uh videos, these uh live streams that we've been doing It it's not a secret to hear you know it won't be surprising for you to hear me say uh some of the things I've already said and the things I'm gonna continue to say. The church has not done a particularly good job in handling the coronavirus. The church has not done a very good job in handling the whole Black Lives Matter movement. The church has not done a very good job of helping people to discern difference between those who have Christ and those who don't. The church looks just like the world. And that's not new. Maybe that's part of what my awakening is. I'm realizing the church has been so derelict and city for so long, and I knew it was a problem, but I don't know that I realized how big the problem was until recently. The divorce rate among professing Christians is not really any different than the divorce rate as a whole. You can talk to Christians about any slu any slew of social issues, and their opinions are about the same as the opinions you find in any poll taken of abroad. swath of Americans. There's no difference. There should be a dramatic difference because Christ's call is a dramatic call If you have a pastor that you watch online or that you, you know, is is leading your church or that you like to read their books or you listen to them on the radio, and what they're telling you Talking about is you having a more fulfilled you and having a stronger marriage and better finances and being all that you can be and overcoming your obstacles and slaying your Goliath, whatever your Goliath and your life is and all that sort of stuff, then you are listening to, reading, paying attention to, and being led by a pastor who is not preaching the gospel. not the gospel. The gospel is about laying down your life. It's about dying to self. It's about Surrendering all, giving up everything. Be willing to physically die and become what we call today a martyr for the faith if necessary. We are called to a total reversal of focus because our focus as sinful people is on ourselves. And so if you're hearing messages preached to you and taught to you that are about yourself, You're not hearing the gospel. The gospel is about Jesus Christ and what He has done for you in spite of yourself. And you are to lay down everything for And then if God chooses to give you some of that back, that's a fam. But we shouldn't necessarily expect it. We can pray for it. We can wish for it. We can like it when it happens but if we're not living sacrificial lives and we're not living Christian lives and we have too many pastors that aren't calling us the sacrificial lives. The root of suffering and I'm being very general and broad, so forgive me for that. But we as Americans don't like to suffer, and I'll be the first one to admit it. We like We like our comfy couch, we like our beautiful homes, we like to not make waves, we we don't like confrontation on a whole. And so with that in mind, the church has compromised that aspect of following Christ. For the joy set before him, Jesus went to the cross. He didn't sweat blood because he was overjoyed with the fact that he had to go through such suffering. He just knew that the outcome was better than what was going on and that's kind of where we've lost our way. We don't have a focus on on heaven and on the fact that we are not citizens of this land. We're focused too much on this land and I am speaking to myself when I'm saying this, guilty as charged. And I'm constantly having to repent from And to renew my mind and to know and to then say, Lord, in the day when I am called to stand up for you, I need your spirit to do it for me because I will deny you. I'm sorry, but it's it's true. And that's sad for me to have to admit, but I don't trust myself. And so I'm thankful that he doesn't leave me as I am that that he does continue to perfect me in the faith and it's not up to me to do that because if it were up to me I would be in hell. No doubt. No doubt about it. And if it were up to me, I would deny Christ. I have denied him. I've denied him in conversations. And they say, oh you didn't know deny we just didn't really you weren't trying to be in somebody's face with it. No, I denied him, actually. And I think that's where we as a church As brothers and sisters in Christ need to call one another out on that and be like, look, you did deny Christ, but it's a God who is for you. You know Repent and then turn back to him and he'll give you another chance. Just don't deny him next time. the Bible teaches. It's hard and every day you have to be reminded, Paul tells us in the New Testament that we are to die to Christ daily. It's a daily thing and it's hard. We're promised that it will be hard. In fact, we're pro and it's the promise isn't even like a threat. It's it's almost that's a glorious promise. Like you have a chance to share in the sufferings of Christ. You have a chance to identify with your Lord and Savior in a way that is unique when you suffer. And so we need to em embrace it while we grin and bear it kind of thing. But because it's hard, we need to come together as believers and hold each other accountable high How do you do that outside one another? And how do you encourage outside of fellowship? And we're not fellowshipping as the church right now. What we're doing right now is an example of That so many people are doing church virtually. Now, this isn't technically, hasn't been a church, what we're doing. This is a supplement. However, I think that that's about to change if anyone would like to join in with us. You have to be within driving distance for it to make sense. But I I think that um what I'm feeling a need for our community to have is do you have have intimate direct fellowship and for a church to hold itself accountable and to have ordained leadership uh at the head. And as it turns out, I'm ordained and I've been in leadership in the in a variety of contexts in the church over the years. When the pastor well if you count an elder as a pastor in this biblical argument I've been a pastor of three different churches over the years. And so I'm I guess what I'm saying is household of faith in Christ might be the fourth church uh where I will be Pastor. So if you live near here and you know some other people who where I live in Frederick, and you know some other people that are pining for coming together in fellowship for holding each other accountable, doing life together, living life together, holding each other to the fire, iron sharpening iron with unapologetic uh embracing of the truth and preaching that is gospel oriented, then private message me on on Facebook if you want, or if you have my phone number, you can call me and uh we'll talk about the details. But the idea is that we would have a gathering in our home on Sunday Sundays in the afternoon before we do our Facebook Live thing. And if enough people are interested, maybe we'll have a meal together. We can break bread. We can actually turn that meal into a Lord's Supper uh celebration and remembrance and we can have a time of prayer and a time of accountability and sharing and uh uh uh a time of of of friendship and brotherhood and sisterhood in Christ that's that's deeply rooted and growing from those deep roots. And then at six o'clock we would go to Facebook Live and that's where we would have the message. So if you don't don't live near Frederick, we'll still be doing this, but you would be hearing then the sermon. And I kind of like this idea of us opening with some sort of a message. Today's message was directly from the Word of God. Can't you better than that. And then having a dialogue about it. So um I'm thinking that next week at six o'clock we'll have a sermon. I'm not entirely sure exactly what the sermon will be, but I'm leaning towards uh focusing on doing a sermon series on uh first John. So if you want to get ready for that Maybe you could read the first chapter of 1 John. Well, first John's pretty short, you could read it all of 1 John for that matter. But I'm thinking we might do that beginning next week. And after I'm done sharing God's word with you, then we will have a discussion. Whoever happens to be here in this room and and you via comments in the comments section. So that's kind of where I think we're going. And I hedge my bet only because I want to be obedient on this and if between now and next week I feel uh what uh what strikes me as a clear impression or clear word from God to do something different, I I want to be nimble enough to shift, but I'm feeling like the direction is that that's what we should be doing right now. And so uh until I say otherwise, I guess that's what we should plan for for next week. Do you have uh any comments or comments? Um Kathy is watching, she says good evening, Dan Don Hartman is watching. Um Kathy says we're spoiled when we were talking about the church. The message of the cross is messy. It's not a pretty picture. It's one of total sacrifice. Too many churches want a pretty picture. So I was just agreeing with that. And the spoiled thing, I want to pick up on it, perhaps then we can finish with more challenges in a minute. Oh There's nothing wrong with having blessings. Yeah, God blesses there are numerous stories in the Bible of people being blessed by God in ways that outstrip even maybe what we feel like we're blessed by With. There's nothing wrong with being blessed. The problem is the expectation of the blessing and the the chasing after the blessing for our satisfaction. Like we're not satisfied if we're not Well, we should be satisfied in Christ. We should draw our satisfaction from Christ. And then any additional satisfaction, if you will, any additional blessing that God wants to pour into our lives on top of that is fine. And it used to be like as recently as a few years ago that you know Joel Olstein is a poster child for this, you know, he liked to poke like he likes to poke fun at Joel Oldstein's messages. They're all, you know pop culture or feel good messages and you know you're you can be a champion. What's that? Pep talk. Yeah, but yeah, spiritual pep talk kind of thing. Uh but now it's not just Joel. I don't I I I don't wanna besmirch the name of somebody that I really respect, his his ministry and a lot of his teachings, so I'm not gonna use the name of of this next individual, but somebody I have high regard for and is so solid in so many ways. I recently saw him on a secular television show, uh a news interview kind of a program, and he He was asked about whether or not Hindus and Buddhists and Jews who don't believe in Jesus Christ if they're going to hell. And he tap danced, surprisingly, shockingly to me, around the question and and he didn't exactly deny Jesus, what Tina was saying. He answered it by saying, well, if, I will answer it by saying, if. If the Bible is. And if Jesus really lived, and if Jesus really died and rose again, and if he really ascended into heaven, and if he is the Son of God and all his promises that we read about in the Bible and have been taught by the church for all these years. If all of that is so, well then, you know, that's what I believe, that's what the word seems to say. But for the Buddhists and the Hindus, this is the part that got me so s Concern. For those people, I don't know the mind of God. You know, for me to try to guess what God's going to do with those people, it's really not up to me. It's up to God. And the only way to the Father is through the Son. God's word makes it clear. And I want to give him the benefit of the doubt. This is what I'm talking about. So we want to be we've surrendered contextualization and embraced relevancy. We want so bad to be relevant because we want people to like us and we want them But also we want to be liked because we want to be winsome. We want people to trust us and and think well of us so that we'll have influence in their life and then somehow through our influence we can coach them them into the kingdom of God. And it doesn't work that way. We don't coach people into the kingdom of God. We don't influence people into the kingdom of God. We think Much too highly of ourselves if that's the case. We can we can help God can use us to help lead them to the water, but God's the one that makes them drink. leads into the water again. Yeah, but he works through means and so he he will use our foolish efforts to his own ad his own reasons. And so that pastor that I'm talking about, instead of saying, if this and I don't know mine of God, if he had said something more like, well, it's a hard truth, but the scriptures clearly teach That there's one way to the Father, it's through the Son, and that Son is the man God, Jesus Christ. And the reason we all need him, it's not just the Hindus and the Buddhists and the Jews and the name anybody who's not actually a Christian. It's everybody. They need him because we're all sinners. The Buddhists are sinners. The Christians are sinners The only thing that's different between the Christian and the Buddhist is the Christian is a redeemed sinner. That's it. Well, our end game is heaven. That's the big difference. Well yeah, because we'll redeem sinners. Yeah. That that's a pretty big difference. And hopefully we see a difference in the way we walk out our lives then because sanctification uh begins to take root in our lives. and we become transformed over time and increasingly get better and better in our walk. So if that sounds interesting to you, then that's what we're going to be aiming at here. In our house church. People walking the walk, helping each other and holding each other accountable. And not doing in a legalistic, mean-spirited, argumentative kind of a way, but doing Doing it in an honest, transparent way. And that might not come very easily. That might not come right away. We're gonna have to work at it. It'll be messy, just like we're messy people. It is I I titled this Facebook post about, you know, all what we have now at this time is the remnant church. And all of Ever had is a remnant church. That's a theme throughout scripture that God's got a remnant for himself. And that's been driven home in a big way right now. The big megachurches, most of the people attending those churches probably aren't Christians. Only God knows their heart for sure, but boy, I wonder. Even the smaller churches that have a hundred people in 'em, m most of those people might not be Christians. I'm beginning to think there's a lot of pastors who might not be Christians. I've always known there was a remnant. How small is the remnant? We don't know. So maybe the House churches are the way to go. I don't know. And I'm not trying I'm I'm not naming names here, so hopefully I'll keep me from getting in trouble. We don't know anybody else's heart. God knows. And only God knows those who He has called to Himself. Only God knows. But based on the evidence or lack thereof of fruit and faithfulness, And uh commitment to proclamation of the truth, uh, and standing up and being willing to be different from the world, based on those kinds of indicators, it does make you wonder. And so And that's why the book of Joel actually spoke to me so much because the prophet Joel is like, okay, I'm calling the church out right now, but how good is our God? that he says, repent and I will gladly take you back. So this is you know our opportunity to repent. You know, we're not any different be sadly. Um hopefully in the sense that we're different that we're recognizing it and that we need to recogni and I'm telling you now More than ever in my lifetime, this is the hardest it's been for me to be a woman of faith in our community because it's not popular. It is not popular right now. So you are going against pop culture, but I I encourage you that I will walk with you and we We will stumble together and encourage one another and um and pray for one another and cry together because you know it's it's hard when you get rejected, but Christ was rejected. rejected. So that's my encouragement to you. Um you will be rejected. But you don't you don't have to be rejected alone. Well before we cl I'm gonna ask Ian to close us in prayer in a in a moment, but before we and we'll see if there's any additional comments or shout-outs that we have to do. do that a word of encouragement or charge really to you if you belong to a church where you actually have a faithful man of God who's preaching the gospel, standing for the truth, holding people accountable, making decisions disciples for Christ, then you need to support him with prayer and encouragement. You need to don't assume that he knows he's doing a great job and that you recognize it. Go and tell him him that you appreciate what he's doing and how God is using him for good, and you need to be willing to come under submission of his leadership and headship for your local church. That's a real problem. There are too many people that are church hopping and church shopping because, oh, I don't like the way that person sings in the choir, so I'm gonna leave that church and go find another I like the flavor of coffee at this other church better than that one. Or sometimes it's you know, I I don't like that the pastors you know always making it about Jesus. As crazy as it sounds, people have that kind of attitude. So many people they don't they don't want a pastor. Yeah God, people are sheep, they need an un Under Shepherd, Christ is the shepherd, the pastors are the Undershepherd, and those sheep need an Under Shepherd to help to guide them and protect them. And the sheep, too many of them, don't want it. And I hope it doesn't. I'm sure if you're watching this, it doesn't describe you. But I'd let you describe some other people that you know, and your pastor's dealing with them. And sometimes your pastor is dealing with them and they're the majority or they're the power brokers. They're the ones that are calling the shot in the church, believe it or not. We have a lot of A lot of churches that fit the profile of what's described in the book of Revelation and the churches that were failing. You know, and what uh John even calls synagogue. Gods of Satan. There are a lot of really bad churches that are led by good pastors, but the pastors are up against it, and they need people like you who are faithful, who will pray for them and encourage them and help him in the fight to root out those enemies of the gospel. to take back God's church from the wolves in sheep's clothing. So if you've got a good pastor, let make sure he knows that you recognize that he's a good pastor and that you love him and appreciate him for it. So any additional comments or shout outs? Um just uh Danny says she wished that she lived closer our Danny to rejoin us. Um and then Kathy says that the church panders because they don't want to lose money or followers. Um Um well it's one of the reasons if we do this thing in our house, we don't need a lot of money. We already have a house, so we don't need to pay rent or anything. Right. And if we're small in number, then we don't have to worry about all the the extra overhead Yeah, especially with the economy fighting failing. talk about it. We'll think through the financial part of it. But I gotta tell you my inclination right now, my leaning is to not um become formally recognized as a church by the government. Ever. Which will mean that contributions that we as a church, uh however we would manage any sort of financial things that the church is involved with wouldn't be couldn't be written off when you do your taxes. Might not matter as much now because they've got the standard deductions and most people don't out tithe the I think it's like twenty something thousand dollars. Interduction, most people aren't out tithing that so um but anyway I I feel like it might be good for us to be off the radar as far as that goes and be fully independent and not fall prey to the charge of, oh well you're just doing that because you're afraid of losing your tax exempt status. And our quick response would be what tax exempt status? We don't have one. It might give us a lot of freedom and it might a lot a lot might allow us to do some things in faithfulness more readily and easily and not be so tempted. to compromise. Hopefully we can give in to those temptations, but why bring in the temptation? It's so easy, as we're seeing right now happening in the world around us, it's so easy to give in to the temptation. And so why put ourselves there? That's it. All right. Well, as promised, we're going to wrap up a little bit early to make up for having gone so long last week. Dina's going to close us in prayer and And we'll bid you adieu. Heavenly Father, thank you for this precious time together. I ask that each person watching that will go back and watch will be blessed. I pray that you pour out your spirit upon them that they would hear you specifically whatever they need to hear that you would be speaking with them and they would know. And we have just been a twelve that has been used so they hear your voice. We are united through the body of Christ. We are united through the Holy Spirit. We are thankful. We are thankful that you always preserve a remnant. We are thankful that you are faithful because we are so unfaithful. Search our hearts see the offense ways in us that we might too repent and turn to you and have your faith shine upon us once again. We know that you discipline those you love. So we thank you and we welcome that, knowing that you always keep us. Thank you that you are the one Who keeps us. It's not up to us. We ask that you would be blessed by our actions this week. We ask that you would be glorified through everything. We do and we say, we pray that we would be not led into temptation, that we would not deny you, but that we would stand firm in the truth, knowing that you are our strength and you are our power. Deliver us from all evil, Father. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. It's too bad, Angel. couldn't be here today, but and she was actually an inspiration for the move in the direction that we're going. She said to me a few weeks back when we were talking about the state of the church and and our dissatisfaction with how things have gone for both of us in the church and she said, you know what it is about you is you know what I like about you is you you try you stand for truth and you don't want to play And you're tired of trying to deal with people that want to play all the time. They want to play church rather than go by the business of being the church. And you know what? That's exactly right. That that spoke to me. Angela's saying that hit me like a ton of bricks. And I was like, you know, I'll bet you there are at least a few other people who are tired of playing church and want to be the church. And if that sounds like you and you live within driving distance of here, let's be the church together. Until next week, God bless.