Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ and our live stream portion of what we do each uh weekend here. If you are curious to learn more about us, go to our website, Household of Faithinchrist. com. And we I've mentioned this a few times. We're in the midst of a makeover on the website and we're getting really, really close to launching the new site. And uh I think the Peanut Gallery can vouch for it. I think it's going to be a pretty cool improvement. Uh it looks pretty cool. I think it's very intuitive and hopefully very helpful to you. That website is household of faith in Christ dot com. It exists now. There's gonna be a new version of it. coming up soon. You can access all of our teachings there, our doctrinal statements, resources, that sort of thing. So if you're looking for help or if you're looking for a church, connect there and see if we can't be an aid to you. So, today we once more approach the seventeenth chapter of the apocalypse The opening portion of what might be said to be the fifth vision of the end. Chapter 17 through to the start of chapter 22 in the Revelation essentially summarizes and concludes all that John saw before. In the start of this section, it opens with a reintroduction to one of the seven bold judgment angels, and that helps us to see that all of this here is tied together. And therefore, I think it might be best for us to picture this last section of the revelation that we're entering now as playing out simultaneously with the seven bowl plagues. In Chapter 17, the propagandist beast, the beast from the earth, the prostitute, is defeated In chapter 18, we will see that the first beast, the beast from the sea, the antichrist world system, also defeated In chapter 17 of Revelation, it's said by many to be the most difficult chapter in the book of Revelation, perhaps even the most challenging, complex chapter in the entire Bible And so we are taking it slow. We've had two sermons thus far in this chapter. We've covered six verses. And there will be several more sermons to follow in this chapter. In fact, I believe there will be four more after today. Because we want to be careful. Interacts of Jesus. We want to be careful to try to bring clarity rather than confusion. Now that said, today's sermon might be the most challenging of all the sermons in this challenging chapter. So I'm just going to ask your your patience and uh and and you press in and and and and try your best to pay attention Because when you're alluding to things we've already talked about, alluding to things that are coming up, try to show how they all fit together, and then make an application into our lives today. And so there's a lot going on. So track as best as you can, and uh we can review it later if you need to. In the first six verses of this chapter, we saw the harlot sitting on many waters and on a beast as well, because the waters and the beast are symbolically pretty much one and the same. And we can say the same thing about the hills or the mountains that are in verse nine, incidentally. They're all kind of pointing to the the same thing. And speaking of that beast who's carrying the harlot It's almost as if this monster is one and the same with the dragon as well, because they're pretty hard to tell apart. I mean both of them are scarlet colored, for example And we should note that the beast, by the way, it's red all over as the scarlet hue of the harlot is conferred to the beast, so there's an association there. But the red is all over the place. And the the names of blasphemy, they're they cover the entire body of this beast. It's not just written on the head, as was the case back in chapter thirteen. So this indicates to us that by chapter seventeen It is not merely the leaders who are given over to blasphemy, but it is the entire body politic that is given over. Remember that the dragon himself, in earlier portions of this book, was described as having seven heads and ten horns. That was back in chapter 12. And now here in chapter 17 we see that the devil, in a sense, has delegated these things to the first beast. This is the political beast. Representing government, economics, even really society as a whole in some regard. Now the second beast, the harlot, it rides atop this monster, drawing strength and status from it. And so the religious beast is working in concert with the world. And another world image in the text is the wilderness. And the church and the great prostitute, both the true church and the false church, they both live in the wilderness, right? We're to be in the world, but not of it. So we're in the wilderness. So they have a lot in common. And that's not all they have in common. Each of these women is spectacularly dressed. The Bride of Christ. The faithful woman of chapter 12 is clothed with the very sun, you might remember. You don't get much more spectacularly dressed than that. But the adulterous woman, she's dressed pretty nicely too, clothed in purple and scarlet and gold and so forth Now, the woman representing the true church is the mother of the man-child who is be born to shepherd all the nations with an iron rod. This is Jesus Christ, of course. And the woman representing the apostate church, she is also a mother of prostitutes and of other detestable things on the earth, the text tells us. So it's interesting they both have offspring. But the true church, the faithful woman, she has one offspring, one seed And all of us who follow him and depend on him for our salvation, we're in union with him that one seed. However, the harlot is a parent who is perpetually pregnant, prodigiously popping out progeny left and right. With their proclivity to politically prosecute and persecute the poor people of faith. Hoping to persuade by working in partnership with pillars of power. A lot of P words there Well with all those P words and all the rest that we've said now in today's introduction, hopefully that has served to get us pretty much back up to speed since we have skipped our message last week, getting us back up to speed here in our sermon series. So let's jump into the text for today, starting with verse 7 of chapter 17, and continuing through to verse 11. And the angel said to me, Why are you astonished? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast. That has the seven heads and the ten horns that carries her. The beast that you saw was, and is not, and is going to come up from the abyss, and he is going to destruction. And those who live on the earth, whose names are not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, will be astonished when they see the beast that was, and is not, and will be present. Here is the mind that has wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits, and they are seven kings. Five have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come. And whenever he comes, it is necessary for him to remain a short time. And the beast that was and is not is also himself an eighth, and is of the seven, and he is going to destruction As complex as that passage is, it is the Word of God. Breathed out of God, inspired. And therefore, inerrant, infallible, it is fully sufficient, all of the scriptures taken together, fully sufficient as the rule and guide for our faith and our life practice. So those with ears, let them hear. As I teased in the last sermon, this week we're going to begin now to untangle the various aspects of the mystery of this mysterious woman who is saddled up riding high on this truly epic monster. This monster is the same beast which had received the wound of death in chapter thirteen, and then apparently healed from that wound. So again, this is the beast from the sea, representing things in the human sphere, like politics, one-world orders, great resets, things like that. It's powerful. And it appears to have supreme dominion over all of mankind's affairs, symbolized by the Ten Horns. And this is an enlightened beast filled with what passes for worldly wisdom, symbolized by the seven heads. So here we should think the science. We should think the Trust the Experts crowd, uh the credentialed class, the The postmodern secular humanists with all their reinvented language from their present-day neo-Gnosticism, and all the rest of the people who want you to open your mind wide, like they have, so that you can see with your own two eyes that what you see with your very own eyes is not in fact what you actually see at all Because boy, they're so smart, aren't they? There's an oopsie there, by the way, so sorry that I used the word boy just a second ago. No misgendering, no dead naming, uh no misogyny was intended Of course, my expression of innocence proves my guilt, so there's that. This is the kind of smart stuff these people are trying to force onto us. This is what the beast is all about. Anyway, back to the core of the sermon. While the beast from the sea is focused Steadfastly uncompromising. It's like a dog with a bone, will not let go. The beast from the earth, a little bit different, more of a shapeshifter. This false prophet prostitute. It's tricky. The harlot represents the spiritual and the religious spheres, and we can throw into that philosophy and psychology as well, I think. And this woman loves luxury. Loves notoriety. And so she tells people what she thinks they want to hear. And the result is that sometimes what she says actually sounds rather lamb-like because it turns out sometimes people want to hear things that sound kind of almost like the truth. But then there's other times that she sounds just like the dragon is giving a speech. And it can be a little bit disorienting 'cause Seems like they're right sometimes, but then there's this other thing over there and I don't know what to believe or who to believe or what's going on and so we marvel oftentimes This is our context in the here and now But think back. Think back to Judas Iscariot. Judas betrays Jesus. And we read about that and we take that in stride. We don't really marvel because that happened like you know 2,000 years ago. But then a best-selling Christian author, a former megachurch pastor, someone like you know Joshua Harris, he deconstructs his faith in a very public manner. And we're very surprised. Didn't see that coming. Or if you don't know who Joshua Harris is, or you can't think of any pastors who have fallen, think about, you know, the singer of one of your favorite Christian bands or one of the other band members. Who have fallen away from the faith. And our mouths stand to gape. Never saw it coming. How about Rabbi Zacharias? He dies, and so does his international ministry with him. Because it turns out Rabbi might not have ever actually believed. What he himself taught all over the world for so many years From whence comes all the evil? Probably the same place that derailed the career, and more importantly, the eternal life of Charles Templeton. You know that name? Do you know his story? Chucky Templeton, he was one of the most prominent evangelists of the previous century. Charles Templeton began in the ministry in the 1930s, and by the 1940s, dare I say, he was bigger than Billy Graham. No joke. But by the 1950s He just walked away from preaching. And more importantly, much worse, he walked away from Christ. And shortly before his death in the year 2001, he said in an interview, I think it was his last interview, that Jesus was the most important man who ever lived. And he missed him. That's what he said. Jesus was the most important man who ever lived, and I miss him. Charles Templeton knew who Jesus is, and he still died an atheist. But at least we knew this about him over the last 40 years of his life or so, so he couldn't beguile us anymore. We knew what he was all about. But what about all those atheists today? The present-day Charles Templetons, who also know who Jesus is, and yet they still are right now actively starving their flocks of truth. And what about all the harlots who don't lead in churches and ministries? What about them? And what about you even? Those who live on the earth, the ones whose names are not written in the book of life, they are fooling not only others, but they are working at fooling even themselves. To the point that they stand to be astonished. How many do you think might be astonished that they belong to the whore of Babylon who rides atop the beast from the sea I wonder how many have allowed themselves to be self-deluded by not belonging to a faithful Christian church, or if they do belong to a good church. But they don't really come under the spiritual headship of that truly biblical church. How many? I wonder. I do. In verse eight of chapter seventeen We notice a third time that the book of life is mentioned in the Revelation. We're going to see it a few more times before our trek through this sermon series reaches its conclusion. And this is the best part of the sermon today, so you'll want to lean in and pay attention to this. Because having your name written there in the book of life. That is to hear the Lord say to you, I will not forget you. Look, I have inscribed you on the palms of my hands. That's a phrase of Barrow from Isaiah 49, by the way. And what wonderfully good news that is. Wondrously good news. And it's the gift of God. And you want to know something? There are ways that we can work to confirm that we actually have this gift. To confirm that we don't merely think that we have it. The Apostle Peter, he tells us in the first chapter of his second epistle, and I'm going to be reading Picking with the last half of verse 5 through the first half of verse 13. Applying all diligence Supply with your faith excellence of character. And with excellence of character, knowledge. And with knowledge, self-control. And with self-control Patient endurance. And with patient endurance, godliness. And with godliness, brotherly love, Philadelphia. And with brotherly love, agape love. For if these things are yours and are increasing, this does not make you useless or unproductive in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For the one for whom these things are not present is blind, being nearsighted, having forgotten the cleansing of his former sins. Therefore, brothers, be zealous even more to make your calling and election secure. Because if you do these things, you will never, ever stumble. For in this way, entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be richly supplied for you. Therefore I intend to remind you continually concerning these things, although you know them and are established in the truth that you have, but I consider it right, for as long as I am in this habitation, to stir you up by a reminder. Be reminded. As someone else wrote, meekness is might Sacrifice is sovereignty. Losing life is gaining it. Meekness and love appeal with resistless force. End quote. You want power and influence? There you go. Meekness, sacrifice, laying down your life, these things are resistless force And we have to stay at these things diligently. Having a good day today, that does not mean that you are free to have an evil day tomorrow. This is a day-in, day-out battle. We must all fight to be steadfast and purposeful, growing in our sanctification, because the evil one doesn't take a day off. He's persistent. First he's coming up from the abyss, and then it seems as though he's not, but then he swings back into view once more. And just when you think he's fallen, he storms back again. You let your guard down and you get sucker punched right in the kisser. This is part of the interpretation of verse 8. The beast that you saw was, and is not, and is going to come up from the abyss, and he is going to destruction, and those who live on the earth, whose names are not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, will be astonished when they see the beast that was and is not and will be present. With this counterfeit trinity, we see here that there is an ebb and flow in persecution, this world power, doing the bidding of Satan, the prince of this world, once was As in his existence in pre-cross history is at least one application. But then it is not Meaning, at the very least, that it is no longer in the exact, precise same seat of idolatry and tyranny in the church age that it had been once before And yet, it does not go quietly. It arises from the abyss And perhaps here we have a hint of that counterfeit false resurrection, by the way, arising from the abyss. But it is destined for destruction. In the lake of fire. In what is to come at the last day. Perdition awaits. And until then we are told at the end of the verse that this Antichrist monster will be present, it says. Now some English translations they say something like is to come there, or others they say something like and yet is The words in Greek are chi peresti, and it's a fascinating little phrase. It's the kind of phrase that former President Bill Clinton would really love. Because it all boils down to what the meaning of is The definitional meaning of the original text is something like at hand or having come or arrived to be near, or perhaps the best translation is shall be present. as in to sit constantly beside. And so the beast is But sometimes in a sense sort of isn't, and yet it persists to hang around. What what sort of an entity could fit such a description? It sounds all so very esoteric, it's trying to nail smoke to the wall, you know? Well verse verse 9 here I think it helps quite a bit. Here is the mind that has wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits, and they are seven kings. Now, as we have learned in recent weeks in our sermon series, or perhaps been reminded if we already knew. These things. You didn't learn them. We were reminded of them. The symbolic meaning of mountains or hills in scripture is oftenly pointing to worldly power. And we see governments and nations referred to as such throughout the scriptures. There are loads of examples, a wide array of Bible verses. In fact, I downloaded a whole bunch of those examples to you in recent weeks. So I'm not going to uh belabor that point and bludgeon that dead horse any further. Plus I don't have to. Because verse 9 explicitly makes the connection for us, right? It calls the mountains kings. And some they they read this and they think we should look for one specific world power that's being highlighted particularly here in verse 9. And so they notice the seven hills, and they immediately think of Rome, which is famous for being surrounded by seven hills. But as we've talked about in the Revelation series so many times, there's this numerology kind of thing, right? This symbolic numbers. kind of thing. And so seven, we know, is also the number for universal completeness. And so It's possible, I was suggesting probable, that we are to look for a successive line of kingdoms or kings which form a chain in human history, not just a single government like Rome. But in response to this, there would be those who would then say, well yeah, it it is Rome at the start of that chain. And then it continues throughout the years up to, let's say, Napoleon or some other big world power like that Now, interesting possibilities, they abound. And I could go on for hours and hours with all the different speculations people have. But let's check out verse 10. Let's see if we can find some additional clues to help us to figure all this out. It says, five have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come, and whenever he comes, it is necessary for him to remain a short time. So five kingdoms are no more. Could they be Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, Meadow Persia, and Greece? We've discussed this exact same list of nations in previous parts of the revelation, you might remember. And those are five major world powers leading the way to number six, which is Rome. The empire that was still atop the International Pecking Order when the New Testament and the Book of Revelation, therefore, was written. So maybe this opens the way for that final Antichrist to symbolically be the seventh kingdom that's still to come in the future for only a short time. Now many of the the teachings that you'll hear or that you'll read uh for this part of the revelation, they will attempt to make a lot of educated guesses about the different nation states that are in view. And a lot of their guesses aren't about the nation states so much as about particular individuals as they try to connect the historical dots. And so some of the names of the men on a list like this would include Nebuchadnezzar and And Alexander and Julius Caesar and Augustus and Tiberius and Caligula and Claudius and Nero and Galba and Otho and Vitellius and Vespasian and Domitian And Titus and Hadrian and Constantine and so many more. And I have to admit, I find schemes like that to be rather unpersuasive. You probably weren't counting just now, but the names I just listed represent 15 men. And it wasn't even a full list. Could have been much, much, much longer. Now how many names do we need again? Seven? Hmm. Fifteen or even more than fifteen. That isn't seven, is it? Look, it's not as though we're not talking about specific world powers. It's not that these powers do not include Egypt and Nineveh and the Persians and the Syrians and all that. But the imagery in the revelation is quite likely not to be reduced to this, is what I'm suggesting. And again, keep in mind that seven is a number of completeness and universality. We just talked about that So, if seven is symbolic, if it's a representative way of including all kingdoms at odds with the kingdom of God, what would that mean? In that context, what would it mean that five have fallen? Well quite possibly it means that the majority of the threat is behind us. In fact, a supermajority, as it turns out. But that we still live in a season with a threat even now. And that this sixth season, this sixth king, is followed by at least one last one that represents the last kingdom, the seventh of seven. at the very end. And that is at least one way that a biblically faithful interpreter could view things. But having just now possibly solved the problem of accounting for the seven hills, we then run into verse 11 bringing up an eighth king. Are you kidding me? And the beast that was and is not is also himself an eighth and is of the seven, and he is going to destruction. This is tough sledding. Let's not be shy about admitting it. So I'm going to humbly offer you my take, and then I'm going to hope in your graciousness that if you should happen to interpret all this just a little bit differently than I do, that you will be patient with me. My best understanding is that this eighth king is the sum total of the seven successive kings. In other words, number eight is the beast itself, the embodiment of all seven heads on the beast So if we process the symbol symbolically, then this works. If you don't want to look at it symbolically, then you have a different scheme in mind altogether, right? So we see the first seven, the text tells us they fall in one shape or form or another. But the eighth one doesn't tell us it falls, it tells us it's it's destroyed. Now something falls and get back up. But when it's Destroy, that's it. It's kaput. To clarify, I'm not saying that there were exactly seven. And then there were precisely like a number eight that arrived as the last pseudo-king standing. I'm saying that there were seven And then eight. And then nine. And then thirteen. And then twenty-two. And then whatever other number you want to throw in there at the end, and that all of these are then presented to us as Number eight in the Revelation. It's not that John didn't know how to count. I'm suggesting that John isn't expecting us to count. He doesn't want us to count. He wants us to think more conceptually, more artistically, more metaphorically. These beastly images they're given to us as a composite, not entirely unlike how Daniel gives us a four-beast composite in the Old Testament. And so this is all rather complex, I get it. But the application actually is very simple for us. At least one application anyway. There's nothing new There's nothing new under the sun. God's enemy has been at war with God and God's people. Pretty much since the stars. And it stays this way pretty much until the end when Christ arrives and he says, all right, that's it. Okay? We're done. No more. It's finished. To help illustrate how true it is that there's this universal unchangeableness of things in the pre-glory human history. I'm going to close with words from a sermon was delivered not in the United States, but in Europe. And not in the 2000s, or not even in the 1900s, but back in the 1800s, so quite a while ago And I want you as I read this paragraph from that sermon to see how very relevant it feels even today. Here's what that previous generation had to say. When St. John wrote, the spiritual warfare was by cruel, horrible, widespread, and bloody persecution. Rome was drunk with blood, as confirmed by historic fact. Now in our day, the secular anti-Christian spirit manifests itself and still makes war with the Lamb. It kills holy habits, wounds conscience, defiles the thoughts, stuns religious sensibilities, mocks at religious earnestness. It has corrupted public opinion, poisoned the atmosphere which daily the believer has to breathe. Its influence is as real and deadly to the souls of men as were the bloody laws of Rome to the bodies of the believers in the church of the first century That could have been written today. And yet, as we'll be reminded in our next sermon in this series, from the upcoming verses, the Lamb will conquer them the ungodly, because he is Lord of Lords and King of kings. And those with him are called and chosen. And faithful. Amen and amen to that. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for The revealing of your truth. For the confidence and encouragement it can give us. For the knowledge that we can glean from this, that as complicated as it can seem for us to try to figure out how to knit it all together, we know that you understand it perfectly. And you've got a plan. And you've got everything set up that will happen in your perfect timing. And in the end, righteousness wins. And those who stand with Christ declared righteous by his blood, justified by faith in him and what he has done. will live in eternal glory in a righteous existence and those who reject that gift and maintain their attitude of rebellion to the very end, that they also Will have righteousness in their story as justice is meted out. We thank you for the truth of this. For how it helps us navigate this world, knowing that the bad guys don't get away with it. And yet there are bad guys like us that are deserving of that same punishment. And you give us what we don't deserve. Because of Christ. And it's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Alright, so I'm going to shut down the stream. And you can join us next week if you like, around the same time. Typically, it's live streamed on Saturdays. Till then. God bless.