Welcome to a special edition of the Faith Debate. It's kind of like a fireside chat uh edition of the Faith Debate. We haven't done very many uh interview guests in this in the uh storied past of the Faith Debate show. We've made a few exceptions over the years, and this is one of them. And uh actually I meant to uh tell our s our guest I was going to change something up a little bit, but he'll be able to to roll with it. Uh what you're about to hear this week and hopefully over the next few weeks of programs on the Faith Debate is For lack of a better way of putting it, a profile in Christian courage. With all of the little weenies that are out there in the world today who will not take a stand for what is right and true and good and beautiful. We start to wonder is there anybody that will do that? And there are. And if the man who's the guest on today's show can do it, so can you. Anyway, this is the Faith Debate. You can listen, of course, on the radio at WFMD and or online at WFMD. com, and you can access all things related to the Faith Debate Show at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's Household of FaithInChrist. com. I am Troy Skinner, and if you're listening on the radio, thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. And if you're listening via podcast, thank you for spending part of whatever part of the day. it is uh that you are in right now that is spending it with us. So um Dr. Fuller, Dr. Russell T. Fuller. uh made some waves and uh got some additional notoriety a few years ago because the world was going crazy And he made note of that and pointed it out to some people who were in a position of power in his life. And he took that chance and it changed the direction of his career We'll see if he thinks it was for the better or for the worse. And change the trajectory of his of his entire witness, in my opinion. So uh Dr. Russell T. Fuller, and he just goes by Russell or Dr. Fuller or Russell Fuller, that sort of thing, but I'm mentioning the Russell T because his website is RussellTfuller. com, and so I would encourage you to check that out at some point, russell tfuller. com, and you'll see why that's important to know in a moment. So the first thing I want to do is ask you to explain why you became kind of sort of in your own way famous or in certain circles infamous about what is it three years ago. So, you know, r but we don't need the whole story 'cause I'm sure you could go on forever and ever, because it's a really expansive kind of a story. But generally speaking, what are What were some of the circumstances leading up to uh that moment that your life changed? Yeah, I was a professor of Old Testament at the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville Kentucky, and that's the largest seminary uh in America and perhaps even the world I think. And so I was an Old Testament professor there. And when I was brought in, I was hired in 1990 And the school was heading toward a conservative direction under Albert Moller, who's still the president there. And so he brought me in and some other professors in to put the school in a different direction. But it wasn't another ten years. And all of a sudden the school was no longer heading in the proper direction. It was starting to head back to a more liberal direction. And the first time that really caught my attention is when Al Moeller accepted sexual orientation Just a couple of years earlier he had written about that topic and said, hey, that's the linchpin of the homosexual community and what they're trying to get across in America and to, as it were, normalize. uh something that's really against nature and obviously against God's law as well. And uh but then within just a couple of years all of a sudden he flipped on that And now he was defending the notion of sexual orientation. So that was the first thing that caught my attention that uh things could be uh moving in a different direction. Then later on We were in a faculty meeting, and in that faculty meeting, a certain professor brought up a video that he found on YouTube. with one of our professors in which they were arguing for critical race theory. And he he made a You know, he says it was quite alarming and he was uh he thought that uh video was uh something that needed to be mentioned and I could tell Muller was very uncomfortable. When that professor, Mark Carpinger, brought that up, Moeller, I could tell, got very tense about it. And so as soon as it was that meeting was over, I went up to Mark Mark Carpinger and the faculty who brought this up and I said, what are you talking about? What videos and I didn't even know what critical race theory was at that time And and I forgot the year. It was probably something like twenty sixteen, seventeen, somewhere in there, I think. And he says, Oh, you've got to see this. And so he it's on YouTube and he and the uh it had uh Matthew Hall was a part of it. And it's still it's still on uh YouTube. And he was a higher up provost maybe or something? At that time I think he was the dean of Voice College, which was associated with the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. It has a college attached to it. So it was a very important position. Very important. So um Uh for the listener, just to help, m I think most people who pay attention to this radio show kinda know some of the players and the terms and stuff, but just really quick. Critical race theory, we're not going to go into weeds on that. We've done a number of shows on that in recent years and there's a whole slew of podcasts and other resources beyond the faith debate to learn about that. But basically uh from a biblically conservative point of view, that's an encroachment of theological liberalism that infects the understanding of the Bible and therefore affects the church and the teaching and presentation of the gospel. It confuses the gospel. So it's a big issue. If you want to know all the details of that, you can get yourself educated on that if you need to. And Al Moeller, for those who don't know He's a big name. If if uh if if Protestants uh had things structured like the Roman Catholics, he would at the very least be one of the big name cardinals. Right. He's a big shot. And so his voice carries weight. He's had a radio ministry for years. He comments on so these are heavyweight. And then his one one of his lieutenants, uh Matt Hall uh is also in the mix, not exactly at the level of heavyweight um uh that Al Moeller would be at, but still these are big names and so you're recognizing some problems with these big names And so I just wanted to frame that. So what happens next? Um and again, Matt Hall was probably at that time, even though he was dean of the the college, he was probably the you know the second most important man uh at the seminary or at the the whole organization so to speak the school. Because Muller was really fond of him And so I went and looked at the video. And when I looked at it, of course, I started hearing about critical race theory for the first time, because I um really had not kept up with anything like that. And so I I was alarmed. I was a I was shocked at what uh I was hearing And we had a uh that faculty meeting we were debating another faculty member who was pushing postmodernism. which Moeller had always said it will never be tolerated at this institution. But yet we had a professor, Jonathan Pennington in the New Testament, who was clearly teaching uh uh the uh postmodernism. So that was at that meeting as well. And so after that, um And so the concern at that point becomes the CRT, critical race theory, you know, it it it they they em put an emphasis on systemic racism. What you're saying is the beginnings now of what feels to you like systemic liberalism infecting the institution, right? And so you're like, what do I do? And you're probably trying to figure out who's on my side in this, who's seeing things the way I am. That's probably part of what's going through your mind. Yeah, somewhat. But again, you know, I've already seen where Al Moeller is accepting things like sexual orientation. If you were to go to one of his the meetings that he was behind was something called Together for the Gospel. And at Together for the Gospel they were pushing critical race theory. They were pushing uh Sam Alberry. and his uh you know accepted sort of side B Christianity. Moeller was completely there. And so I mean he was giving away uh Albert's book, promoting all of Albert's book No, it's all interrelated, but some side B, we have talked about this on the Faith Debate, but not as much. But that has to do with the uh uh homosexuality kind of question and whether you can be a gay Christian or what it means to be a sin. If you're homosexual, is it a sin? Is the behavior a sin? Is the identity a sin? So it's part of that milieu. So if you if side B is new to you as a listener You can go online and you can do a a search on side A, side B, Christianity, and you can get up to speed on that. But it's all part of the same complicated mix of liberal influences. So anyway, by side B what they're talking about. is you can have a gay orientation and it's okay. You can even have gay desires. It's okay as long as you don't act on them. If you're a side A, you're fully I don't know how to say that, practicing gay, however you want to say it, uh and still Christian too. So side A and side B uh uh i is really both anti-Christian. Uh there's not a good side, a bad side. There it's it's bad side and a uh if there was a side C it would be conservative, right? The conservative biblical traditional view. So side A is everything goes Side C is no, what the Bible has said for all these years is what is true. And then side B is trying to play the middleman. Find some middle ground kind of a thing, which has its own problems. So you're seeing that in the mix too. I'm seeing that in the mix too And then we had a a a professor we hired that was pushing, you know, the Old Testament teachers mythology. So we had all those things going. So you could see the direction of the school, even though, again, to the donors of the institution And uh Mueller would still talk in a very conservative way. But you could see what was going on as a faculty member. And again, you can look at YouTube and see the liberal teaching of the faculty. faculty is pretty radical. So Moeller. This is all shocking even now to a lot of people. Healthy reputation amongst conservatives. And they give them every benefit of the doubt and they hear somebody like you come along and even now, today, when there's even more reason to have doubts, they they're they're gonna be suspicious of of where you're coming from and where he is and I mentioned that just to show how much weight the Al Mollard brand really brings so I can we can kind of frame this to understand you know what your personal situation was what you were up against as you're beginning to have concerns and doubts about all of this. I'm just framing that for the listener because I want them to understand, I want them to feel it. I want them to viscerally put themselves in your shoes Right. And say think about somebody who has control over your career, or or at least your c at least your present job, right? Your income, your stream of income. And is incredibly well liked and respected, is very well known, is arguably famous, certainly in Christian circles he's famous. Yet all of that, and you're like, I'm not sure what this guy's doing. And so imagine what that would be like. Imagine your boss is really rich and famous and powerful and you think your boss has lost his mind. What would you do? I want you to uh as the listener, I want you to feel the weight of that. So anyway, go ahead. Yeah, I mean, Moeller's p public pers persona was one thing. But what was actually happening on the campus was something quite different. And so again to donors, to the average Christian, he wanted to come over as a real Bible-believing Christian, holding to the scriptures. Holding to orthodoxy, confessional, he would use all those kind of terms, inerrancy, you know, but at the same time, he's hiring faculty members who deny inerrancy And not they wouldn't say I deny inerrancy, but they would say the Bible teaches mythology. But do you believe in inerrancy too? Oh yes. Mythology and inerrancy, you know, because they knew the right, there's certain things you gotta say. You've got to believe in inerrancy of Scripture Even though when you believe in mythology, postmodernism, critical race theory, these things are all antithetical to the Christian faith and to the doctrine of inspiration or an So out of one side of your mouth you're saying one thing, the other side of your mouth you're saying something else. But what the real crisis came is when Al Moller wanted to promote Matthew Hall to be the provost of the institution and the clear, his clear heir, he was going to be the next president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. And at that moment, I knew I had to make a decision. Either Take a stand at that point, or else what's the purpose of taking a stand in the future? If you allow this to go through, this is really showing where the school is Where it is right at that time, how liberal it was going, and how liberal it's going to continue to go. So to me, I felt if if I don't do something now, What's the purpose of doing something in two or three years? You know, we're always, wait, this is not quite the time for the battle. Well, this is the time for the battle So when you're thinking through if I don't do something now, it's it's now or never, what is something? What's the something? What what were you dis what were you having to decide between doing and not doing? In other words, he was about to um He was about to promote him to the second highest position at the seminary. And so his influence at the seminary, uh I'm talking about Matthew Hall. So you're saying somebody had to speak up uh and raise concerns about that. Correct. So you're just debating what do I raise those concerns now or do I wait till he's already in the position and raise the concerns after the fact? Well, it's basically obviously if if you make Matthew Hall who's going around calling himself a racist. And the reason why he's a racist, of course, is he believes in critical race theory. He wasn't a racist. Well and it's not hyperbole. I've seen the videos you're talking about, and and you can look them up yourself if you if you're interested, listener. Uh he's on record saying that he's a racist. This isn't hyperbole. And it's like, wow, and and why are you a racist? Because they've redefined what everybody means by racist, and you're just inherently racist. Right. So he's not guilty of any specific racist thing that he's done, but he by definition he's a racist because he is who he is. And he would argue that you're a racist. Oh sure. That I'm a racist. Right. But we're all racist. We're all racist. Even though I'll tell you this later on, uh at his church he was uh they had a special meeting about him And uh a a person asking, are all white people racist? And he goes, well, no Well now the problem is, well, why are you one at this point? You know. So again, he caught himself in so many contradictions on this. On the one hand Uh we're all racists. On the other hand, well, not all of us are. Well then why are you a racist? And as a pretty well-known contemporary apologist likes to say, inconsistency is a sign of a failed argument. Yes, it was So it was it was in other words, you know, some people will always say, well, you know, let's this is not the time t to to make the the play, but I really believed it was because costs. Again, this the reason this was the time is he's going to be promoted. And I was in a position as a full professor. to and I was being asked officially by the institution, what is your advice? Should we promote this gentleman or not? And so to me, I felt obligation to uh to speak what I really thought about this because really that was part of my job. This was uh I was a part of a what's called the full professors, and we're the ones who either recommend or do not recommend someone to uh get a promotion. And so I was being officially asked. And so I felt like I ha at this point I must do my duty. And I can I mean maybe I'm oversimplifying this. Sometimes I do that B but okay, there's political pressure, there's social pressure, right, peer pressure, uh there's financial pressure maybe, because you're like, boy, if I tick off just the right people here. I'm gonna lose my job maybe. Who knows? Or it's gonna alter my career track at at the least possibly because these are powerful, well connected