Welcome to the live stream portion of what we do each weekend here at the Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. We're continuing our series in the book of Revelation today. After a one-week hiatus last week, we'll be uh looking at Revelation chapter 17. So if you want to get your Bibles ready, uh we'll be picking up with verse 12 so you want to find that part of Revelation 17 Message today is titled, God Has Imposed Term Limits. And maybe we should too, but that's another conversation for another day. So let's just uh dive right in. Assuming everybody's ready, dive into the sermon. There are beasts. Throughout the world. In fact, the secularist sec that's a hard word for me to say today. The secularist world system is probably more accurately described as the Satanist world system. And this is nothing new I mean sometimes it feels new because of the ebb and the flow of history. Sometimes it seems as though the beast has you know once was, but is no more. And everyone is surprised then when the beast re-emerges to again affirm that it will be present until the end of time as we know it. The fall of the wall in Berlin that symbolically represented the uh fall of communism, the USSR We disbanded as satellite Soviets, and so we had yet another reason, even more reason to celebrate the end of the Cold War, the end of the communist threat. But it came back. Well, it never really went away. This has always proven to be the way that things are. Hegelianism gives way to Marxism, gives way to Leninism, gives way to Maoism, gives way to socialism, gives way to leftism. Different labels, different twists on the evil, different this, different that, but it's the same tyrannical evil. Nazism, fascism, globalism, fourth wave, feminism Scientism. Transism. These are all isms embraced by bad actors who want anything But God is all the antithesis of God and godliness Now, those of us who are more lucid than the spiritually insane will sometimes ask the pagan witches. If you jettison God and godliness, what would you opt for instead? And they have no legitimate answer. All they know is what they want is not God. In other words, not reality, not truth, not meaning, not purpose, not hope Nothing but a hamster wheel of narcissistic nihilism. This is what the beast offers. An abyss. Because the abyss is the source of everything represented by the beast. The Bible teaches this truth. But the beast won't always admit this fact of the matter, at least not out loud anyway. Instead, they do things like the 100 Flowers campaign. Did you learn about that in your government-run schooling in your history class? I'm going to guess no. Or if you did, it's been a while, so I'll refresh your memory. Back in the 1950s, there was a middle-aged man who had, not too long before that, risen to power in China. His name was Mao Zedong. He was a communist and a not so nice guy, but I apologize for being redundant. In 1956, he launched a two-year movement that he called 100 Flowers Because Chairman Mao said he wanted a policy of letting hundreds of flowers bloom and a hundred schools of thought to contend to promote flourishing and progress. And in this spirit, all the people were invited to share what they really thought, without any fear of recrimination. And the citizens, particularly the intellectuals of the day, they were greatly encouraged, and so they they spoke their mind. They pointed out flaws. They suggested solutions. They really were living out the American ideal of free speech. Then came the crackdown. Everyone who had been critical of the regime during the campaign, critical of its beastly ideology, they were rounded up. Waves and waves of people duped into showing their cards because they believed the lies of the beast. They were arrested. Hundreds of thousands had their lives ruined or ended. Or both. First first ruined and then ended. These free thinkers, they were publicly humiliated. They were sent to re-education prison camps. They are forced into hard labor. And many of them were even executed. This is what happens when the beast is believed. The best one can hope for is a temporary false piece that functions as a setup. The Satan-led demons from the abyss, they want you to let your guard down during those times when they make you think that they've left the scene. They come and they go, it would seem. So there are times that the beasts, they appear to have died. Only to be resuscitated again in new forms. Sometimes you can't see the horns on their heads. As they wait the perfect time to pounce. But then when the moment seems just right to them, then they show their ten horns. And they impose their will through purely brute force, if necessary. Egypt did it. Rome did it. The CCP does it. Those are the kinds of things that are in view within the Revelation, chapter 17. Picking up today with verses 12 and 13. So if you've got your Bibles ready, you can read along. In the ten horns that you saw are ten kings. who have not yet received a kingdom. But they will receive authority as kings for one hour with the beast. These have one opinion, and they will give their power and authority. To the beast. It's a short passage today, but it's part of the full canon that we've been given from God. He's breathed this out, so it's without error. It's infallible. It is totally fully sufficient to tell us what we're to believe and what we're to do. So those with ears, let them hear. In this chapter of the Apocalypse, we see aspects of Antichrist's kingdom And some men, like John MacArthur, for instance, they understand the kingdom of Antichrist to be specifically kings number seven and number eight. That were mentioned in the verses right before those that we just now read aloud. And in this scheme, the seventh king is Antichrist prior to his apparent death, and then the eighth king is Antichrist after his apparent resurrection. And it's an interesting idea. It actually might be the prevailing prevailing idea within the American church, not necessarily around the world, but uh around these parts, that might be the most popular view. But it's not a view that's necessarily airtight. It's certainly not the only way that we could view these things. So it could take some time to examine some of the other ways that we might process all of the information that's in this section of John's vision. The ten horns, who are ten kings. That's an image that reminds us of the fourth beast of Daniel in chapter 7. But in John's vision, it's not just the fourth beast that he sees. Instead, he sees a composite of all four of the Daniel beasts. And speaking of the book of Daniel, we might also be reminded of the Nebuchadnezzar dream with its statue having a divided kingdom of ten toes made of iron and clay. We talked about this last week when Dr. Fuller was here, you might remember. Some feel that John here is applying this imagery from Daniel to Rome's moment in history. Since there were ten provincial governors for the empire, these ten were Italy, Achaea uh Asia, Syria, Egypt, Africa, Spain, Gaul, which we call France today, Britain, and Germany. Now some they don't want to just look just at the past, they want to look at today, and so they're going to look for a list of ten that fits today's situation. And so they might point out the examples of uh the United States, China, Russia Uh United Kingdom, the European Union, Africa, India, Asia, Arabia, Latin America. That's ten. And we could have some fun trying to do this with individuals, not just nations or regions. And we could name particular rich and powerful people that are around in this generation today. So we can include Klaus Schwab Elon Musk, Bill Gates, George Soros, Prince Charles, President of the United States, of course. The head hancho at the Federal Reserve, the top dog of the United Nations, the leader of the People's Republic of China, and maybe even throw in the other World Health Organization leader. That's ten We could even do an alphabet soup version of this. Hub up CIA, FBI, the DOJ, the IRS. NIH, CDC, the N-I-A-I-D, Fauci, uh Ethny Fauci Stomping Grounds, uh the HHS, the DOD And the WEF. Now we only need 10, so I didn't even have to include like the KGB or or any others that might have popped into your mind. The exactness of the number 10, to me it sort of misses the point. Because this is a book, remember, that is overloaded with symbolism and numerology. The Ten Horns, I think, might actually represent the seventh king, if you will, as a representative idea. It suggests a fullness of power Having a complete earthly domain. We might even decide that we're going to lean in this interpretive direction when we realize that we have seen an expansion of meaning throughout this book as we progressed from the seventh seal to the seventh trumpet to the seventh bowl and so forth. So what I'm trying to get at is something that's been a a theme throughout this series, I want us to continue to try to take in the big picture. At least every once in a while to step back and process the overarching themes so as not to lose the proverbial force for the trees. So what I'm suggesting is that it's at least possible that the concept that we are to glean from all of this is that Not all the world, or maybe not all of history, or maybe not even all of a particular moment in history is necessarily dominated by one single human power. Sometimes perhaps it's a confederacy sharing one common purpose with partnerships of convenience due to their common enemy, which is God. We must never forget that ultimately God is their primary enemy. Never forget that. So even when the individual bad guys They appear to be separate entities. They're really all working for the same side. They're all wearing Satan's team uniform. That's the Red Dragon of chapter 12 in Revelation. The dragon with a boatload of crowns and horns, you might remember. In chapter 17, the crowns aren't mentioned, but we do still see the horns, ten horns mentioned, and we see kings in this picture, and kings typically are wearing crowns And it says that they rule for only a short time, for just one hour, it says in verse 12 of chapter 17. Is this a reference to the brief three and a half year period? that was talked about earlier in the Revelation. Could be. Believe it or not, I think it could also be talking about all of world history. Especially the church age. Seems a tad odd to say this when we measure things and our time spans from a human perspective, but let's not forget that all of human history, all of it, is just a blink of an eye when we compare it to the vastness of eternity. I mean consider the closing remarks of the Apostle Paul in his Magnum opus, the book of Romans in chapter 16, where in verse 20 he writes, And in a short time the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet. And in 1 Corinthians chapter 7, the same apostle says in verse 29, but I say this, brothers, the time is shortened. Even staying with what we have that John's written for us here in the book of Revelation, we have in chapter 6, verse 11, and to each of them a white robe was given, and it was said to them that they should rest yet a short time. until the number of their fellow slaves and their brothers who were about to be killed as they had been were completed also. In Revelation chapter twelve, verse twelve, the devil has come down to you having great anger, because he knows that he has little time. Even in the very end of the Bible, if it's this conversation, it says, the one who testifies about these things Says, yes, I am coming. Quickly From God's perspective, concepts such as soon, quickly, short time, one hour, three and a half days They don't automatically mean what we might think that they do from our earthbound perspective. Even things in our own daily lives actually don't easily fit our preconceived notions all the time. You know, in my own household I could offer an example. You know, the example of my son. He lives with a set of challenges, as we all do. In one of his areas of struggle it has to do with impulse control. And now he is uh much, much better in self regulating all of this, but maintaining self control under stress is still very difficult. Fortunately, he's learned some things about himself, and we have learned some things about him too to help him to navigate life more calmly. But there have been times in the past when he wasn't in the safety of those who know him best. And this meant that he was being set up for failure. And so He well failed. One time, he destroyed a television Another time he broke the gear shift right off the steering wheel of a car. Another time he kicked and hit and screamed and threw his glasses halfway across the store. Plenty of times when he did that. And almost always we heard the same story. His assigned caregiver would report back to us that the behavior came out of nowhere. The outburst was sudden, no warning. That escalated quickly, as the saying goes. This was the perspective of the caregiver. But we know better. From Tyler's perspective, it wasn't a short ramp-up. His anxiety had been brewing under the surface for quite a while. A loud noise here, an unsettling startle there, an environment that felt unsafe or unpredictable. Or both. And his nervous system, it eventually went into hyperdrive. His body was actually sending signals the whole time that he was headed for an overload. But the people not knowing him as well as his family and closest friends do, they they didn't pick up on the signs. And so from their perspective, it happened quickly. Suddenly, without warning. No, there were warnings. And in a similar way, there are warnings all around us that the beasts of this world are ready to cannibalize society. To those who know not the signs of the times, they have not eyes to see. The piles of bricks gathered in strategic stacks prior to downtown violence in our nation's city's streets, and then in one hour. There were BLM riots with bricks bashing through windows, and everyone went out shocked. Reminds me of the 1989 World Series. Now for as long as we've known that there is a place called California, we've known that California is susceptible to earthquakes. There's pressure underground, we're told, as the tectonic plates they grind against one another, building up pressure, and every so often there's a sudden release of the pressure. And the entire landscape, it rumbles violently. This happens. We all know this. Why anybody wants to live in California full-time is something that's always kind of baffled me If you call California home, you will experience an earthquake. These natural disasters, they are preparing to do their damage over time, and then Suddenly the ground shakes. Everyone's surprised. That's what happened in 1989. An earthquake busted loose as the San Francisco Giants and Oklahoma Athletics were about to begin game three in what was billed the Battle of the Bay. The two major league baseball cities are connected by the Bay Bridge. And a portion of that bridge collapsed during the earthquake. So did other bridges and buildings and more. And scores of people died in those moments. Moments that came suddenly Life is short. On this planet it is anyway. But there's a renewed planet that's in the works. Glory awaits the follower of Christ. Living in the new Jerusalem on a renewed earth forever. You know, the ones rejecting God, they exist forever too. In damnation. It is forever in heaven or forever in hell. Forever is a mighty long time. It makes every other time frame short by comparison, doesn't it? Knowing all of this, do you still find yourself sometimes thinking, how is it? That our culture has blown up out of the blues, has jumped the rails out of nowhere these past few years. How did it happen? Well it's not really out of nowhere, you see. It was brewing for years in the sins of the flesh All the atrocities of the Roman Empire, they must have felt rather sudden too when they befell the individuals who had no ears to hear back then. I'm sure the table is getting turned on the people who were involved in the French Revolution. It's kind of shocking to those victims. Examples of the beasts not only attacking God fearers, but also attacking themselves are numerous in number. Et tu brutae? Let me help you to make more sense of the world around you. The beast Wants to destroy you if you bear the mark of Christ in your life. As the Lord preserves you But in the process of working to destroy you, the beast eats its own young even And so no one who is outside of Christ is safe in the way that they think they are. They're not spiritually or physically safe. Now this reminds me of another story. Got lots of stories today. I was working at a radio station that had very dysfunctional leadership. Salespeople, they were sniping orders from their colleagues, sniping. That's what the rest of the world calls stealing, you know, in the non-sales world. And co-workers in one department, they hated people in the other departments. And they'd say nasty things about others and you know, always making sure to say these nasty things behind their backs. And they'd lie about someone in order to uh save their own skin, or sometimes just to throw their quote-unquote friends under the bus with the boss for the fun of it. I mean they would do mean things to one another. There's a time when one woman, she she locked a man, one of her teammates, supposedly. inside a porta potty late at night in the dark at the conclusion of a big concert event. And who knows how long he would have been left there I was the one who found him. And when I opened that door for him, he was completely freaked out. The terror and the anger in his eyes. was real. And I shared some of these kinds of workplace details about this work environment with uh a big shot at another company. And he said, come work for me. Why would you want to work where they eat their young? I will never forget that conversation. Now I didn't leave the company, by the way, not then. I remained at that company for quite a stretch after that conversation, in fact. And my reason for staying was clear to me that whole time that I was there. And it's the reason that I told this guy who was trying to recruit me into his company. I said I believe I'm supposed to stay. I believe I'm supposed to be salt and light there. So sometimes we're to stay. And sometimes we're to leave. I did eventually leave that company. So I said this to the guy who was trying to recruit me into his company and He responded with one last morsel of advice for me that was profound enough. I think I should add it here to this story for you. He said, all right, hear what you're saying. Just be careful. While you try to influence the corporate culture for the better They will be working to influence you to become like them. And that's the life of a Christian, isn't it? We need to engage culture. We need to put ourselves out there. We need to be salt and light. But we need to stay rooted in the Word of God and firmly tethered to the gospel truth. One way to do this is to maintain community with other believers. We must be running the race to the very end, or we might just prove ourselves not to be Christian at all. But instead we'll prove to be just like them. Cannibals consuming what's beautiful, making it ugly. Like locusts. Tearing down instead of building up. Like earthquakes. And the path of destruction, it is often so much shorter than we think. And so it doesn't take a very long drive. The pier is short. And this is part of why I grow so concerned for my brethren when they close their churches out of fear. That's why the woke virtue signaling is such a noteworthy leading, noteworthy leading indicator. Because before you know it, a once respected man of the cloth, these platforming pagans in the pulpit. You know, one day you're a respectable scholar and the next day you're teaching the Old Testament is nothing but myth One day you're correctly unpacking the exegetical meaning of a biblical text, and the next day you're completely misapplying that text because you fail to realize that the facts on the ground show us that the world right now is postmodern. And so your application, if you're one of these, becomes the people should vote Democrat and they should get the jab and they should mask up and they should apologize for being white. Being male, being American, being Christian, even. These pieces of advice from the false prophets, they're couched as being moderate or reasonable or loving. But what's moderate about winking and nodding at sexual dysfunction and dysphoria that leads a person to poison and mutilate their own body and Often even take their own life. What's reasonable about adding to the chorus of lies that destroy economies and put people on the streets unable to provide for themselves or their family? What's loving about partnering with propagandists to facilitate wars and human sex trafficking and addictions? Tell me, what is moderate, reasonable, or loving about any of that When the church around the world has become like the world, that's not loving. That's babble. Let's not call it Christianity Or even Christendom, which both simply means a society that is primarily influenced by and therefore committed to Christian ideals and principles, although the word can mean quite a bit more than just that. Whatever our world is now, it's not that. It's not Christian. It's not biblical. It's Babylon. It's the beast. It's the harlot You recall those Old Testament stories when ancient Israel, nearly as one, as a whole, they would commit spiritual adultery. And today we flip the pages of the good book and we read those stories, and so often we find ourselves, at least I do, we ask, what do you mean they didn't cut down the Asherah poles? didn't remove the high places. What are you talking about? How could they be so dismissive of God, so blind? What's wrong with these people Well, that's us now, in a general sense. That's the visible church today Embracing social justice as Sheriffs. Worshiping self at the neonastic high places The church around the world, it has become like the world. It's hard to tell them apart. Christendom is dead. But the true church, what is sometimes called the invisible church, the actual body of Christ, it lives on. And so I implore you to check yourself before you wreck yourself. Don't be in league with the beasts of Babylon Make sure you're part of the bride of Christ by being faithful to your bridegroom Let's pray. Father, you are so good to us and so patient, far more patient than we are Help us, Lord, to understand, or at least to accept better, your timetable And your provision for your people as things play out in this nutty, crazy evil world. We ask that you would help your people to ever increasingly have eyes that see and ears to hear. That we'd be humbled, that we would seek your face in repentance when necessary. May we seek to serve you and to honor you, to glorify your name in all that we do in our lives. Help us to not fall prey of the devices of the evil beast. but to be useful to you in the war that you're waging against it. We praise you and thank you that you have preserved your word for us to to study it, to wrestle through it, to apply it into our lives. We thank you for the illumination of your Holy Spirit so that we can understand more deeply the profound truths that are found therein. We praise you and thank you. We lift up this prayer in the name of our Lord, our Savior, our King. The bridegroom to his church, the bride, Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Amen. I'm going to pause the stream. Again, if you'd like to find us online, it's household of faith in Christ. com. Household of Faithinchrist. com is the website If you have any questions or comments, put them in the section underneath and I'll be glad to get to them later. All right. And some people have mentioned that there's audio sync issues. I just want to let you know those audio sync issues are a Facebook problem. I don't know what's going on with Facebook. We're probably going to be switching streaming services pretty soon. Hopefully that will solve it. But Facebook is having real issues with the video and the audio syncing up. Um so, you know, I've tried to address it but there's only so much one can do. At least there's only so much I know how to do. Okay Say that maybe somebody else is much better at this technical stuff than me. Anyway, it's well everybody's better than the sexual stuff than me. Who are we kidding? Anyway, till next time, God bless