Welcome to the live stream portion of what we do every weekend here at Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. We're going to be continuing our series in the book of Revelation. So if you want to get your Bibles ready, we'll be in chapter 17 today for a sermon I have titled Where the Wild Things Are. Hope I don't get in trouble for copyright because I think that's the name of a book, right? Where the wild things are. So and it's not an accident, obviously that was in my head. That's where the idea the idea for that came from was from the book. I don't know if I can get in trouble for using the same title as their book. Anyway, again, our website is household of faith in Christ dot com. You can find all sorts of resources there and link to previous messages in this sermon series if you're interested in going deep. in a study on the book of Revelation. So the Harlow of Revelation 17 is a wild thing. Clad in gorgeous array, offering an enticing cup. She is a wild thing, drunk with the blood of saints, as she poisons all the earth's inhabitants. This wild thing is a mother of abominations, bearing names of blasphemy in the wilderness. Of course, in the wilderness She's a wild thing, ruling with kings, making merchants rich, and yet hated by the very powers she builds up in her presumptuous self-security. This wild thing is comprised of people who were made to be glorious image-bearers of God. but has taken the image of a beast. This fraud who claims divine authority and wisdom is a shameless hussy. Boldly advertising with a message on her face that she is a prostitute She's in league with a 666 Antichrist system, this entity that's falling short of the 777 number of perfect holiness. An evil empire, stridently at war with the heavenly kingdom, the lamb's kingdom, ruled by one whose number is 888. Perfect holiness and then some. In verse eleven of Revelation 17, we're told that The seven wicked kings of the dragon form an eighth king. And this strikes me as possibly one more attempt by the liar to weakly imitate Christ. You might remember it's possible we could take someone's name, like Nero, for example, and and we can assign numbers to the letters in the name. This is called gematria. And using gymatria, you know, there are there are arguments that can be made that Nero actually is Antichrist, either in fact or at least in type. Well, using Gematria, we see that the number for the name Jesus is 888. The one who was raised on the eighth day, he goes beyond even the number of holy completion Our Lord is more than perfection. The beast is less than perfection. And that's who we're reading about in Revelation 17. An adulterous woman with beastly power and blasphemous names dressed as a seductress. of seven kings from the abyss and destined for eternal destruction. And John, he's told by an angel, as we pick up now with verse 12 And the ten horns that you saw are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom, but they will receive authority as kings for one hour with the beast. These have one opinion, and they will give their power and authority to the beast. These will make war with the lamb. And the Lamb will conquer them because he is Lord of Lords and King of kings. And those with him are called and chosen and faithful. It's the very Word of God, breathed out of God. It's part of our holy canon comprised of 66 books that are fully sufficient as the rule and guide for our faith, for our life practice. We can trust in them because they are God's word. They are without error. They are infallible. So I encourage all to receive them as such. Those with ears, let them hear. War is being waged. Satan wages his war through the beasts who are beholden to him. He works through means, as God so often does. And Satan's means are the William D. Beautiers of the Empires of the World, the Empires of Daniel chapter 7, the empires of the devil's disciples. Everyone is a disciple, either of Christ or of Satan. Have you professed the name of Christ? For you taken the name of Christ. Be sure that you have not taken his name in vain. As a Christian, you bear his seal. You are to be an icon of God And that's what it is to be truly human. Don't be like the beast. Does your life resemble that of someone who has had the breath of life? breathed into them by the lamb? Or does it resemble a life having received its breath from the goat? Mankind was formed from the dirt of the earth and filled with life by Yahweh. This is even more profoundly the case for those who are filled with the Spirit of God unto salvation. The dead men walking, we we see them as as a beast from the earth using an image from the apocalypse, filled not with life, but with death By the hand of deception. The mark of the beast, the seal of the lamb, these tell us where each of us stand. Antichrist's mark on the hand, on the head, it suggests that all the demonic soldiers, they turn over what they do and what they think to sin. Instead of being marked with priestly markings on the right hand or the right toe, as we see demonstrated in the Old Testament, instead of wearing what are called phylacteries on the on the head or on the hand as as reminders of the Shema, reminders to always listen to God, a practice that is still uh in in place and has been for many, many years for very many Jews. Instead of very publicly letting everyone know where you stand when you're conversing with someone face to face, instead of all this, do you shun the marks of the stigmata? in your walk. Stigmata, it's a word that means mark, spot, even brand. It's often used to speak of the wounds on Christ's hands and feet, the stigmata. With the Apostle Paul, do you bear on your body the marks of Jesus? That's what the Apostle writes in Galatians 6. The ones waging war in cooperation with Lucifer and hence bearing his mark, they're all of one mind. That's what the text tells us. They're of one opinion, they're of one mind. Hate God. Hate what and who God loves. It is a pretty simple worldview, really, isn't it? When we join their ranks, even if it's only in seemingly isolated moments, we put ourselves in a position to hear Jesus' words from Acts chapter 9, as he asks us, Saul, soul. Why are you persecuting me? And then we're reminded from the pages of Matthew chapter 12. The one who is not with me is against me, says Jesus. And the one who does not gather with me scatters. So accept the Apostle Paul's invitation and 1 Corinthians in chapter 11, verse 1, become imitators of me, just as I also am of Christ, it says St. James did. He tells us so in chapter 2 of the letter that bears his name. In verse 18, I will show you my faith by my works. Someone else once said, when men are unfaithful to God, they are untrue to themselves. That quote isn't fully sufficient, but it is true, actually. If you're an image of God You're bearing his seal upon you. Well then your faithfulness to the beast is unfaithfulness To God and His His image, that seal that He's given you. Are you faithful? That's a silly question, really. Of course you are. I should clarify. Are you faithful to your Redeemer Or are you faithful to your accuser? How can you know one way or the other Are you drawing children into the truth of God by the example they see in you? Are you demonstrating to others that you are walking the path that is marked by hope and contentment? Is yours the life of charity? If not, it is not the life of love, because charity and love they can often be used interchangeably. Are you the rich young ruler of the synoptic gospels who went away sad? Even though he seemingly kind of sorta knew Jesus, seemed to know that Jesus was good. And the young man he knew the commandments and he believed that he was keeping those commands, but he went away sad. Is that you by chance? Might you say things aloud or in your heart? Like, Jesus, you are good. And I know your commands. And I try to keep them perfectly. Well, unless, of course, discomfort or inconvenience could possibly result from my obedience I think this is many of us. Far more than we care to admit. As a result, Jesus will ultimately tell those of us in this situation, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. The person in this situation will go away sadly. Great sorrow because he had many possessions. Probably possessions like internet access, and video game endorphin crutches Seriously, crutches. Used by people who can't cope with what's real. And so they enter the matrix of simulacra. for hours on end. Or they escape intimacy with actual people in the room with them, exchanging real relationship for a faux relationship with one of our other possessions. You know, those handheld dopamine dispensers, otherwise known as cell phones. And what about our other possessions that possess us Addictions to various metaverse media feeds. Text messages Maybe stacks of cash we have stowed away somewhere. And all sorts of other things that tell us, if we're honest, that we Deplorably bear the image of Caesar rather than the image of Christ. Far too often. Now hearing all this listed out, I wonder what you might be thinking right now. Are you thinking, man, this sermon's laying it on sick? Pastor boy, he's truly a stuffed shirt, isn't he? He's so out of touch. He doesn't know how the world works today. He just doesn't get it. I mean he's pointing out things he clearly believes could be getting getting in the way of of my salvation. And my godly relationships with others, but all these things he said, they don't apply to me. So, whatever. Or are you thinking, I don't know that I like hearing all these things. And the fact that I don't like hearing them, I think maybe this has exposed my heart in some way. And so I had better seriously examine myself and figure out how I can become a consistently better Christian. As the Apostle John writes in his first epistle, in chapter 2, and by this we know that we have come to know him if we keep his commandments. The one who says, I have come to know him and does not keep his commandments is a liar. And the truth is not in this person. But whoever keeps his word, truly in this person the love of God has been perfected. By this we know that we are in him. The one who says that he resides in him ought also to walk, just as that one walked. So what does this have to do with Revelation chapter 17? Everything. Verse 14 emphatically informs us that shots are being fired. The spiritual war is intense. And God wins. Because Messiah Jesus is Lord of Lords. Because Christ Jesus is King of kings. And if you are with Him, it's because you are called and chosen. And faithful. But if you're unfaithful, you are deceived. You are a traitor. But it doesn't have to remain this way. You could turn right now, repent, ask God for forgiveness. Because St. John he says elsewhere in his first epistle, I am writing these things to you in order that you may not sin. And if anyone sins We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. He's advocating for us. Is Jesus your King or not? Is He Lord over you? Are you battling shoulder to shoulder with him and therefore sharing in his victory? If so, you will partake in the marriage supper of the Lamb. The one that we read about in Revelation chapter 19. Be faithful. I implore you. I'm begging you. Be faithful. I don't know how else to say it. Serve him. As you have been called to do. Dedicate your life to him as his chosen servant. Follow him faithfully. And as I say all of this, it is not lost on me just how difficult this can be. It can be very hard, and it can truly bring great hardship In today's environment, as we try to take a stand in the strength of meekness with the Holy Lamb of God. But you know, it's hard for the lamb too. When he offered himself to be slaughtered. It was hard in the early years of the church for our brothers and sisters in Christ. Pagans, they called believers back then atheists. Because the faithful bride of Christ refused to worship the emperors, refused to worship the idols of the Greco-Roman religion. So they were called haters of mankind because they withdrew from an ethic uh ethically, here's the word I'm looking for, ethically compromised social life. Well, that sounds a little familiar, doesn't it? These ancient saints, they were ostracized. ostracized for failing to post a black square or blue and yellow flag as they're stolen by experimental jabs Nor could they keep from starving without flashing the sign of solidarity with insanity. You know, by wearing a pagan talisman to to cover their mouth and nose. See, nothing's really changed in all these years, has it? But I want to remind you through all of this to be encouraged. Jesus loves you. And one of the ways we know that Jesus loves us is that the demented world calls us bigots. First they hated him, so of course they hate us. They call us science deniers. They call us things so bad that to be honest, I don't really feel comfortable mentioning them in today's sermon. My wife actually, she had an experience recently that helps to illustrate what I'm talking about. In a public forum, she advocated for friends to bring accountability to their relationship. You know, tell your friends the truth. If they do something that's unbecoming of the person that you know that they hope to be, well then you have to pull them aside. You help them to see the blind spot in their life. You notice something bad, you gently point it out to them, out of love. This is what biblical friends do. It's far better than stuffing problems, you know, sweeping them under the rug until it all eventually just slips out as gossip or some big blow-up of some sort Well the backlash that my wife received on social media for advocating for this is pretty mean. They said she clearly had need of a brain. And she's so judging. And she should, well, be canceled, basically. Why would you dare to say anything at all, dear friend? Who do you think you are? Well, she thinks she's a person who's called to love her friends. Despite what the online trolls and scoffers have to say. Despite what any non-Christian or unbiblical person has to say, actually. I mean whether they're online or not, the world doesn't know what it's talking about. And there are so many knuckleheads in the world. So many. And this can sometimes open up a sliver of doubt in our weakness about what God's Word says. Or we can maybe temporarily be pushed to forget what it says. But professing Christians, is that you If that's you, listen up. Professing Christians cannot cave to this pressure. Well, we should not. All too often we we see or even experience the realities of caving to peer pressure The church in Pergamum did it earlier in the book of Revelation. We saw that. So too the church in Thyatira. Elsewhere in the New Testament, the church in Corinth. How about localizing it a little bit? We've seen it with a church in Maryland. But there are often times. Wonderful benefits, even from an earthbound perspective to holding firm in the faith. You know, it is said by some pretty darn smart people that just fifteen percent of a Committed population will influence the greater society. They say maybe it could be even a little less than 15%, maybe something closer to 12% will do the trick Well, unfortunately, it does not appear that we have anywhere near twelve or fifteen percent of the people in our area who are all in for Christ. And this is one of the reasons why I have continually harped on us all to get better at knowing the gospel so well that we can easily and frequently share it with others. Even sharing it with other professing believers. Because so very many of these self-identifying Christians, they don't fully understand the gospel that they claim to embrace. Embrace. And you can help them. And what a difference it might make if you do. Sociologists and historians, some of them anyway, they tell us that possibly 20% of the Roman Empire was Jewish. That's actually an astounding figure, isn't it? And that's more than fifteen percent. And just look at the special treatment that the Jews received for a very long period of time, the a time that encompassed all of Christ's earthly ministry, actually. And in the immediate aftermath of his death, resurrection, and ascension, that special treatment allowed them to worship the way they wanted for the advancement of the gospel. And just look at what this meant for the spread of the gospel. Because 20% of the population were God-fearers. Christianity at first was considered by Roman society to be a sect of Judaism, so they got the same privileges extended to them that the Jews received. And look at how it all plays out And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse. And the one seated on it was called Faithful and True. And with justice he judges and makes war, and his name is called the Word of God. And the armies that are in heaven dressed in clean, white, fine linen, were following him And he has a name written on his outer garment and on his thigh, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And the beast was seized. And with him the false prophet, by which he deceived those who received the mark of the beast and those who had worshipped his image. The two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulphur. That's from Revelation 19. Haven't gotten there yet in our sermon series, but we will soon enough. You see the outlaws, they're brought to justice by the sheriff The gang that's rounded up. It is formidable, to be sure. As it says in Revelation 16, they are the spirits of demons performing signs that go out to the kings of the whole inhabited world to gather them for the battle of the great day of God the all-powerful. They're formidable, but they are no match for the Lord of Lords, for the King of Kings. And that's the name for Christ when he comes in judgment at the end. And yet even now our King prevails as he enables and empowers his church to carry out and complete her mission. Now granted, many saints are felled in the physical. There's no shortage in history of martyr stories. But in this warfare of apparent rising and falling, the Lamb is actively defending his bride and defeating his bride's enemies. He is protecting us spiritually, and oftentimes physically too. And at the very end, we get to experience the already achieved victory in new, beautiful ways. But you know, we get the blessing of experiencing it even now. And it's usually in those moments when we're most faithful Now as we press toward the close of today's message, I want to point out a translational issue that's at the tail end of Revelation 17, verse 14. The Alexum English Bible reads, He is Lord of Lords and King of Kings, and those with him are called and chosen and faithful. Now the L E B is what I've used for today's sermon. But really, pretty much Almost every other English Bible would say pretty much the exact same thing. The vast majority of our Bibles say those with him are called and chosen and faithful. But there are a few outliers among our English Bibles that actually stay a little more true to the original Greek. Because the word R isn't present in the Greek text. It's a small thing But it's interesting as we note this tiny difference how it actually helps to highlight the truth of what's being said here in a really nice and really encouraging way. If we remove the word R, it doesn't really change the meaning, but it does help us to see more deeply into the meaning from the English. So we can match what's being said in the Greek. So if we were to remove the word R, we would have a translation to be something like the Lamb in his victory will be accompanied by his called and chosen and faithful ones Or we could say, the Lamb will defeat them, his enemies, with his called chosen, and faithful followers. Or we could say With the Lamb and his victory will be his call, chosen and faithful. Or we could go with something like this, which is actually probably my favorite. And they that are with the Lamb, called, chosen, and faithful, shall overcome. Remain faithful to your calling and to the one who chose you and you shall overcome. It shall come to pass. Shall, it means something that will take place. It is a guaranteed promise. The fulfillment of an obliged requirement. In other words, it will be done. Because in a way it's already done by the Lamb Lamb, that's a surprisingly meek figure, isn't it? Just as is the figure of the Christ child in the manger. The Godman wrapped in swaddling clothes. Just as is the figure of a man stripped bare and be eaten practically to death before being hung on two pieces of wood displayed for the ridicule of unrepentant sinners, dying a death for the salvation of repentant sinners. You know, in the book of Daniel, it is a relatively small stone, a small rock that fells the beast empires In the book of Revelation, it is a pure, innocent lamb lifted up on a cross, who casts the Prince of this world from heaven so that he no longer has any standing to accuse the lamb's flock. This accuser has been defeated by the Good Shepherd. And so the enemy seeks revenge by attacking the faithful sheep. And really everything else that gets in his way. But all of his efforts, fueled by his vanity, are literally vain attempts. Because when Jesus wins, his called, chosen, faithful, wool balls with feet, share the win. If we're with him, then we shall overcome. And that is such very good news. So fear not, even on stormy days. Do you think that the sun positioned at the center of our solar system is worried about cloudy days no matter how black the skies might appear to be? Of course not The sun isn't bound by our small and narrow earth-bound perspective. Did you know that scientists teach that The Sun represents 99. 8% of all of the mass within our tiny little part of the Milky Way galaxy. That leaves just 0. 2% for everything else, including the very largest planets and all the moons and the rings and the asteroids and the comets, whatever. So the sun is big. Compared to us anyway. But how big is the sun really compared to the entire universe? How big is the sun compared to God? So trust God. He is good to his word. You need a reminder, his son sacrificed excruciatingly for us. And he is able to do what he promises. He's a big God with a great plan That he put into place before he even made everything that exists in creation. You have every motivation to be faithful. So get right with God and then live a life that demonstrates that you intend to remain that way. Pray. Father, we are so grateful and thankful that you revealed your truth to us. That you are a big God with a great plan. And you have called us, your people, to yourself, so that we would be ambassadors for you, that we would be image-bearers for you We thank you that you're a patient God, that you're a forgiving God. So we humbly ask for your forgiveness for our many failures on these fronts. And we plead with you that we would draw greater strength from your Holy Spirit living within us to be better ambassadors, better image-bearers, to share the good news of the lost, broken, evil world. And leave the results to you. Because we know you're in charge, you're in control. And what come what may, it's what's best. Because you are sovereign. We love you. We ask that you help us to love you better. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. I've got to shut down the stream. Within the next few days anyway, you can find it on Sermon Audio and Odyssey and then post it all my social media from there. So anyway, until next time, God bless.