Welcome to the live stream portion of what we do every weekend here at Household of Faith in Christ. We're going to be in Revelation chapter 17 again today. So if you want to Get your Bibles ready. You can follow along. I would strongly encourage you to do so. If you're not too familiar with who we are and you'd like to learn more about us, go to householdofithinchrist. com. That's Household of Faith in Christ. You can uh link to all the previous sermons in this uh Revelation series from there as well, by the way, if you're if you're interested. And I know the book of Revelation is of particular interest uh in recent years. It's always been of interest, but it seems like it's even even heightened interest. So we've been working our way uh gingerly through the 17th chapter in the Revelation. And as we've done so, we've touched upon a number of important themes. And one theme is that you will serve somebody. As Bob Dylan saying, you gotta serve somebody And that's the title of today's message, by the way, gotta serve somebody. Christ or Anti-Christ? Which is it gonna be? We live in a culture that first trifled with God's truth, and then culture trampled God's truth And some in society they push back against the avalanche of negativity by trying to clean up their life, to get their act together. And you know what? That's excellent. I am all for people uh refusing drugs, giving up pornography, uh steering clear of adultery, just saying no to those who want you to celebrate their sodomy I'm all for those things. If only more people would turn over these kinds of new leaves, well then the world would be a much more decent place to live, that's for sure. But it's not enough. Because those things are not the gospel. When an alcoholic stops being a drunkard, that's not conversion. So while it's good, it's not sufficient. Changing what's on the outside can be immensely helpful, but changing what's on the inside is what's necessary. And all of us people born as sinners, we all need to have changed hearts. We need to be given a new heart. And only God can do this. And you know what? He has and does do this for his elect, and that's the good news. When our hearts are changed by God, we find that we still wrestle, don't we? We still wrestle against sinful desires and the sin inducing pressures from the world's wizards. And from attacks from the devil's demons. So we do well to remind ourselves that we must account for both the external circumstances that are around us and the internal tendencies of, as the Greek calls it, the sarks, the flesh. When the pressure from outside is strong, and the conviction from our conscience is weak. Well, that is a potent combination. And we must work to limit the damage that comes from both sides. And that's what's going on in the apocalypse. The beast pounds away with a relentless air attack and a doggedly determined ground game. The powers and principalities, they want to shake your mind. And they want to shake the attitudes of your heart. The world that hits you in the kidneys with devastating body blows to try to get you to give up the fight, to willingly bow the knee to the Emperor of Babylon. They tell you that things like buying and selling, they are not possible without their idolatrous permission. And what's interesting to me about that Just one more example of how the Lamb of God most definitely is who he says he is. He doesn't answer to these dark forces, does he? I mean, they say no buying, no selling, no purchases at all, unless Ungodly beasts say it's okay. And Jesus, he says, Oh yeah? Just watch me. And he purchases the freedom of his bride. Twas obvious we should worship Christ. He is Lord and King So worthy of our worship, and yet we collectively don't do this very well. Even individually we don't do it consistently well. And so the result is that we get the leaders we deserve. God uses rotten emperors to discipline us And if we're really honest, actually, as bad as the slave drivers in the world are, they're better than we deserve. Because God is gracious to us. He doesn't give us what we truly deserve. And you would think that we have learned by now to lean on him for our sustenance. But seemingly we are rather dense. Instead, we see large swathes of the church for generations now having trusted the American government to sustain us. All while the faithful, quote unquote, gather for worship services at least once or twice a year, you know, Christmas, Easter, the Kriester Christians. They're all in with cultural Christianity, or as I call it church humanity. Now, intelligent people, they have debated for many, many, many years whether the United States is a Christian nation or not. That question is now moot. When a nation murders tens of millions of defenseless babies, mandates experiments that kills pretty much everybody else, or at least is intended to. Rob people of their livelihood through crushing taxes and red tape and lockdowns and burdensome regulation? When a nation turns off the reading lamp on the Bible. Snubs its nose at truth and reality. Attempts to lie, cheat, and steal its way around not only God's written law, but God's natural law too. When a nation does this, it is not A Christian nation. If it once was. It's not anymore. We live in the post-modern era, the post-Christendom era, and so that which could not happen here has happened here. This is our present moment. Because God's people have too often turned a blind eye. And a deaf ear to the realities envisioned by John in the Revelation. Will we start to listen? Do we have eyes to see what John saw, what he reported to us, or will we seek to take matters into our own hands once again Fighting against a soulless, cultural, neo-Marxist critical theory with a fresh push for sacralism. That's when the church essentially becomes the state. The state kind of essentially becomes the church. They are distinct and separate, but they're so deeply entwined with one another that it's hard to tell them apart. Now, granted, there will be no church-state distinction in glory. Hallelujah. And, you know, ancient Israel that we read about in the Old Testament, it does provide a type, a picture of this future glory for us. But when we try to pull that future eschatological reality into the now, it's suicide. In all of post-cross history it is it is always proven to be the case And so the critics, they are right to whack the church on the side of the head when they start using this unbiblical sacralist club. It was a saying my old boss years ago used to say it all the time, at least once a week, do good, avoid bad. Well, good, that's the state using the steel sword to punish evildoers and to protect what is godly Good is the church wielding the word of steel, if you will, to announce the arrival of Christ's kingdom and to beckon people to follow King Jesus. What's bad? Everyone ignoring their lanes, refusing to stay in them. And because it's bad, that's what the beast does Smushing civil authority and religious authority together into the same blender and then flipping the on-switch. Sacrilism is a partnership by religious powers with the ways, the cultural powers of the world. In chapter 17 of the Revelation, it says, don't do this. As a proof, we mustn't do this, but also as individuals. To ask ourselves, are we in alliance with the beast? I pray not. And I pray we will all warn others of these dangers. They need to hear the warnings. That was a rather lengthy uh introduction. More of an opening statement, I think. Let's now pivot into today's specific passage passage as we uh pick up with an angel still talking to John. Showcasing important truths about the horribly great harlot who is depicted as being mounted atop her beastly partner in sexual immorality and also on many waters. So Revelation 17, verses 15 to 17, reads. And he said to me, The waters that you saw, where the prostitute is seated, are peoples and crowds and nations and languages And the ten horns that you saw, and the beasts, these will hate the prostitute, and will make her desolate and naked. And they will eat her flesh and will burn her up with fire. For God put into their hearts to carry out his purpose and to make a unanimous decision and to give their kingdom to the beast. until the words of God are fulfilled. This is part of the Christian canon, our Holy Bible, which is fully sufficient as the rule and guide for our faith. And our life practice. It is such because it is inspired of God and therefore infallible, inerrant, and I encourage all to receive it as such. Those with ears, let them hear. So verse 15 mentioning a Babylon of peoples and crowds and nations and languages, this reminds us of the original Babel. Where God confused their tongues when the people they they sought to build a tower dedicated to the deified heavens. Mankind Still today sinfully driven to build their own stairway to heaven. We have the power. We hold the key. Consider once again the example of Pope Prostitute. We spent some time recently addressing some of the uh faults and failings of the Roman Church. The pontiff's mitre. It's believed by Catholics to give the head of their church physical keys to spiritual authority. And as Tierra crowns Pope Fascist, as I like to call him, and his predecessors for that matter, with imperial temporal authority. Whatever authority he thinks he has, it is temporary. Verse 16, it shares with us that the supposed friends of the prostitute, they turn on her, they strip her bare. Now, whether or not it's Roman Catholicism in your mind that stands as a representative example of the harlot, there are religious false prophets in the world today. We don't like them very much, do we? Do you dislike this whore? Well, guess what? So does the beast They're both beasts, but the first beast, the political beast, hates the second beast, the religious beast. They're so closely tied together, and yet one hates the other. Even destroying the other half of itself. The religious beasts help fuel the political beast through pro propaganda, yet the big red beast that bites the hand feeding it It's like uh those love family pets such as the pit bulls we hear about in the news from time to time, mauling the family member who had been the one giving that dog food and water. It's like the Lord Himself says in Ezekiel chapter 23: Look, I am stirring up your lovers against you concerning whom you turned away, and I will bring them against you from all around. After using the harlot for all she is worth, the beast destroys her. seizing all power and worship for itself as the beast of the secular political system. Consider how even today we see the present-day feminists, how they've been turned on by the other leftists. It doesn't mean anything to be a woman anymore. That doesn't matter if you're a woman in a world that's now trans. The trans movement has overtaken the feminist movement by leaps and bounds. As you mentioned before with the a horse analogy, you know, the rider sitting high atop that horse gets thrown to the ground by that horse. The apostate church. They rise high atop world powers. The church syncretizes with the world You know the world that even will go so far as to accommodate a form of being Christianized sometimes. And because of this Christian influence, the world actually benefits from the mutual compromise. But the church suffers. The true church suffers greatly This kind of scenario feels very familiar in our day and age, but it's not new. Just recall how the religious leaders of Jerusalem they used the worldly powers to crucify Christ, only to have these same world powers then turn and destroy these Pharisees and Sadducees and the rest of Jerusalem. And now that we're thinking in the macro, let's apply these things in the micro. The two beasts, they are united in a way that makes them together basically one beast. The two have become one, in other words. And then there's an ungodly divorce. So how does this resonate within your life? If you're married, in what ways do you turn on yourself? Because again, if you're married, then you are one with your spouse. When you tear down your husband, tear down your wife, you are tearing down an aspect of yourself. This is self-mutilation, self-loathing. And if you hate yourself, you hate God. Because you are made in God's image. Now if you're not married, take note of the principles that are still in play for you. If even married couples Can go to war with one another. How much more possible is it to feel the pain of such a war in your business dealings or your close friendships or even the relationships with the people you you're hoping to one day date Be careful. Do not be unequally yoked. Don't bind yourself to someone who hates God. Because they will hate you. In the end they hate everyone. Even themselves, when it comes right down to it. And so they will eat your flesh and will burn you up with fire. Preach to them. Minister to them. But do not get bound up together with them. Do you know that Per flesh in verse 16. It most literally means masses of flesh. So what's implied Is full carnality and abundance of carnal possessions. It's a carnival of carnality It's easy for us to say in our thoughts when we hear this sort of language, well, I see nothing about that to make me want to join with them in anything But we are fragile vessels of clay. And we can too easily be molded and shaped in ways that occasionally will surprise even us. As a kind of simple example, my family and I, we recently watched an action-adventure film that was called Uncharted It was an okay movie, it wasn't great. But it had, you know, big budget special effects, and it had some very famous actors like uh Mark Wahlberg and Antonio Banderas in it Apparently the movie is based on a video game, which might help to explain actually why every single character in the story is a bad guy. All of them. I mean sometimes you start to feel as the viewer that maybe one or two of them, uh you know, the characters, they're they might be nice people, you start to think, but no, they then prove themselves these scumbags just like everybody else. But here's the thing. Watching the story play out on the screen, you start to root for them. You want them to steal the treasure. You want them to get away with it. So I'm watching the movie, I suddenly dawned on me. I have become emotionally attached to criminals. They're beasts. And I wanted to ride with them in their evil mission. I got suckered in because my guard was down because I'm just looking to escape. I want to watch a good shoot-em-up movie, that's all. And I allowed the beast to groom me for a short while My face or motivations got played. And I was lured into their spiritually dark world. Now fortunately, it it wasn't like the welcome to aid story that I shared. a few weeks ago. I mean the whore gets you into bed with her and gives you AIDS, that's pretty hard to overcome. But even having my thinking conditioned by devilish directors and propagandist producers and antichrist actors and monstrous movies, even if only for like an hour or two, that is still greatly dangerous. It is never smart to open your mind wide and let in whatever someone wants to throw in there. Oh. Never forget that verse 16, it says, the beast will make her desolate. This means completely ruined. The beast is 100% sold out to completely ruining you. Do you get it? Remain spiritually vigilant. These sorts of warnings, you know, sometimes they can get us to be just a little bit unnerved. But let's remind it from verse 17. God is in control. The 17th verse, it begins and ends with God put into their hearts to carry out his purpose until the words of God. are fulfilled. Now scholars, they debate the grammar of the opening phrase in verse uh seventeen, or English Bible, they translate that God put it into the heart of the evil kings to carry out His purpose or his mind or his will, words to that effect, depending on the Bible you're reading. And the debate concerns that word his. Whose purpose, mind, or will are we talking about? Some think the phrase is referencing the mind of God, others say it's referencing the mind of the beast. Now I think it's probably God's purpose that's intended. But either way, as it turns out, it doesn't change the general sense of the passage because the truth is plain enough, since God can and does use the powers of evil for his own holy purposes. Right? They intended it for evil. God intended it for good. The result's the same, no matter how we want to think about the word his in this part of the text. And that result, it is already ordained by God When the start of verse 17 says God put or half put or give into their hearts, again, depending on the translation you're reading, what we're seeing here is the is the use of the prophetic past tense. So it's talking about the future, it's prophetic, but it's also talking about the past. It's past tense. So it's going to happen because it's already been decreed to happen. And we live in that space between the two. So be encouraged Now we have just one verse left in this chapter, and we're going to save that verse for next time and use it as a diving board to get us into an overview for the entire chapter. This is a chapter uh where we are presented the the power of the idea that the lamb defeats that big red dragon It's a chapter where once again we're grappling with ancient symbolism that requires some time to properly process, make sure we're getting the meanings right. If you think about it, imagine somebody like 2,000 years from now, assuming Christ hasn't returned in the meantime, and they're they're reading a political piece that was written today. And the piece that's talking about elephants and donkeys and red waves And areas turning blue and mud slinging and October surprises and the old red, white, and blue, and the swamp and bull markets and bear markets and rainbow flags and red pilling and bags of deplorables and all the rest. It'd be pretty hard for them to know what the heck was being said with all of those kinds of phrases and words, wouldn't they? I mean we know an elephant that represents a GLP. The jackass represents a DNC. We understand that But these things they could use some use some explaining in the millennia to come, I would imagine. This is why we're taking our time through this chapter and through this book. We want to know what the text meant to those people all those years ago. 2,000 years ago almost. And we do that and we understand that and it helps us to then know what it means in our time and how we can apply it to our lives. And one thing we have learned for sure is that we don't want to be quizzlings Quisling, that's a traitor. Somebody who collaborates with the enemy. It's a relatively new word. It's a fresh spin on calling someone a Benedict Arnold, the infamous American traitor. During World War II, there was an officer in the Norwegian army. His name was Vidkun Quisling. He founded Norway's Fascist Party. He even met with Adolf Hitler, and he urged the Fyodor to occupy Norway, and so the Fyodor did. And for a while this harlotria paid dividends for Widkun, because following the uh German invasion, Quisling was made the figurehead of the puppet government that was set up by the German occupation forces But his season in the sun, it lasted only about five years, because he was executed for treason after Norway was liberated in 1945. So harlot, beast, prostitute, quisling, Benedict Arnold, false prophet, they're all hypocrites at heart. I'm going to close today reading a paragraph from a theological book, and I truly do wish I could attribute it. But the book, for whatever reason, is not clear as to the authorship of this quote. Perhaps uh the author is buried in the tomb of the unknown author or something like that. I don't know. Well, whoever he is, here's what he had to say Evil never appears in its own true character. Dishonesty wears aspects of rectitude. Falsehood speaks the language of truth Selfishness has the voice of benevolence. Profanity robes itself in the garb of sanctity. The Prince of Darkness appears like an angel of light The most monstrous deeds that have been perpetrated under these heavens have been done in the name of religion. The Alexanders and the Caesars of this world have fought their sanguinary battles and reared their empires upon slaughtered nations in the name of religion. The popes of the world have erected their iron throne upon the soul of Christendom in the name of religion. The prosecutors of the world have invented their inquisitions, built their dungeons, and kindled their fires in The name of religion. Ah me, the Son of God Himself was put to death in the name of religion. Wrong is necessarily hypocritical. Indeed. Don't be a hypocrite Don't join yourself to the harlot. Remain true to the Lord. Loving him with all your strength, mind, heart, and soul, all that you do, all that you think, all that you feel, all that you are, until the day you die. Forever and always, every day. Always trusting that the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. God turns it wherever he will. The law is cast into the lap, but every decision is from the Lord. The mind of man plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps. He's in charge. So don't kick against the goads. Be glad that God is sovereign and live a faithful life. In response, let's pray, Father. We When we pay attention, are blown away by your magnificence. You are such a great God, all-powerful, all-knowing. In full control, you are our sovereign Lord. And so we bow our knee in gratitude and confidence that you are leading the way. And though the world intends things for evil, you intend them for good. Yes, you'll help to guard us, your people, from trying to take things into our own hands. to play the game of the world, to recognize that we are citizens of the kingdom of God. And that we have a future hope that does await. And we don't have to try to force things into the now. You've got it covered. We can have joy, we can have peace. Help us to learn to be content in all circumstances. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. I'm going to now shut down the stream. If you've uh been following along, I appreciate it. If you have comments, uh leave them uh on this stream or on whatever platform you find it later, and I will engage with you there if if you so desire. Until next time, God bless.