Welcome to the live stream portion of what we do every week here at Household of Faith in Christ. If you'd like to learn more about us, Go to Household of Faith in Christ dot com. It mentions a few times the website isn't undergoing a rather lengthy retool. It's taking a lot longer than we thought But probably inside the next month or so, hopefully by the end of June, and no later than that, we're gonna have a completely revamped website that uh obviously been there's some backdoor sneak peek stuff I've seen. Uh my wife has seen it. We're pretty excited about the new direction, so uh look forward to unveiling that to you in short order. Uh today, bringing you a message that is titled What the Bible Says About Love and Forgiveness. among the brethren. Let's open with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come to you today with the instruction of 2 Timothy chapter 3 on our heart. Where the Apostle Paul says to us, but realize this, that in the last days difficult times will come. For men will be lovers of self, boastful, arrogant, revilers, disobedient. Ungrateful, unholy, unloving, irreconcilable, malicious gossips without self-control. Brutal, haters of good, treacherous, reckless, conceited, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God Holding to a form of godliness, although they have denied his power. Avoid such men as these. For among them are those who enter into households and captivate the weak, weighed down with sins, led on by various impulses, always learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. These men also oppose the truth. Men of depraved mind. But they will not make further progress, for their folly will be obvious to all. Now you follow my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, patience, love, perseverance Persecutions and sufferings, such as happened to me, and what persecutions I endured, and out of them all the Lord rescued me, indeed All who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. But evil men and impostors will proceed from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. You, however, Continue in the things you have learned and become convinced of, knowing from whom you have learned them. And that from childhood you have known the sacred writings which are able to give you the wisdom that leads to salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness so that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. Father, we ask that by your Spirit You will illuminate our minds, soften our hearts, and lead our steps. Aid us in remembering that your breathed-out word is inerrant and infallible and that it is fully sufficient as the rule and guide for what we are to believe and what we are to do. These things we ask in the powerful name of Jesus Christ, your Son. Amen. God's written revelation says to us, My son Do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments, for length of days and years of life and peace they will add to you. Do not let kindness and truth leave you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart so you will find favor and good repute in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him, and He will make your path straight Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. My son, do not reject the discipline of the Lord or loathe his reproof. For whom the Lord loves he reproves, even as a father corrects the Son in whom he delights. How blessed is the man who finds wisdom, and the man who gains understanding. Her ways are pleasant ways, and all her paths are peace. Do not devise harm against your neighbor while he lives securely beside you. Do not contend with a man without cause if he has done you no harm. Do not envy a man of violence, and do not choose any of his ways Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all transgressions. Keeping away from strife is an honor for a man, but any fool will quarrel. An angry man stirs up strife, and a hot-tempered man abounds in transgression. A man's pride will bring him low, but a humble spirit will obtain honor. A worthless person, a wicked man is the one who walks with a perverse mouth, who winks with his eyes, who signals with his feet, who points with his fingers. Who with perversity in his heart continually devises evil to spread strife. There are six things which the Lord hates, yes, seven which are an abomination to him. Haughty eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that run rapidly to evil, a false witness who utters lies, and one who spreads Strife among brothers. Thorns and snares are in the way of the perverse. He who guards himself will be far from them. Drive out the scoffer And contention will go out. Even strife and dishonor will cease. He who loves purity of heart and whose speech is gracious, the king is his friend. A gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. The tongue of the wise makes knowledge acceptable, but the mouth of fools doubts folly. A soothing tongue is a tree of life. But perversion in it crushes the spirit. A fool rejects his father's discipline, but he who regards reproof is sensible. Better is a dish of vegetables where love is than a fattened ox served with hatred. A hot-tempered man stirs up strife, but the slow to anger calms a dispute. Like the one who takes a dog by the ears is he who passes by and meddles with strife not belonging to him. Like a madman who throws fire brands, arrows, and death, so is the man who deceives his neighbor and says, Was I not joking? For lack of wood the fire goes out, where there is no whisper or contention quiets down. Like charcoal to hot embers, and wood to fire is a contentious man to kindle strife. The words of a whisperer are like dainty morsels, and they go down into the innermost parts of the body. Who among you is wise and understanding? Let him show by his good behavior his deeds and the gentleness of wisdom. But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, do not be arrogant and so lie against the truth This wisdom is not that which comes down from above, but is earthly, natural, demonic. For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there is disorder and every evil thing But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, reasonable full of mercy and good fruits, unwavering, without hypocrisy. And the seed whose fruit is righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. Remind them to be obedient, to be ready for every good deed, to malign no one, to be peaceable. Gentle, showing every consideration for all men. For we also once were foolish ourselves, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures Spending our life in malice and envy, hateful, hating one another. But when the kindness of our God and Savior and His love for mankind appeared, He saved us Not on the basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness, but according to his mercy. This is a trustworthy statement. And concerning these things I want you to speak confidently. So that those who have believed God will be careful to engage in good deeds. These things are good and profitable for men. But avoid foolish controversies and genealogies and strife and disputes about the law. For they are unprofitable and worthless. Reject a factio man after a first and second warning, knowing that such a man is perverted and is sinning, being self-condemned. Beloved, I'm not writing a new commandment to you, but an old commandment which you have had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which you have heard. On the other hand, I am writing a new commandment to you, which is true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining. The one who says he is the light and yet hates his brother is in the darkness until now. The one who loves his brother abides in the light, and there is no cause for stumbling in him. But the one who hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness and does not know where he is going because the darkness has blinded his eyes. By this the election, the children of God and the children of the devil are obvious. Anyone who does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor the one who does not love his brother. For this is the message which you've heard from the beginning. That we should love one another. We know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brethren. He who does not love abides in death. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. We know love by this, that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. This is his commandment that we believe in the name of his son, Jesus Christ, and love one another. Just as he commanded us. The one who keeps his commandment abides in him and he in them. We know by this that he abides in us by the Spirit whom he has given us. Beloved. Let us love one another. For love is from God. And everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. The one who does not love does not know God. For God is love By this, the love of God was manifest in us, that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world so that we might live through him. In this is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has seen God at any time. Yet if we love one another, God abides in us and his love is perfected in us. By this we know that we abide in him, and he in us, because he has given us of his spirit. We have come to know and have believed the love which God has for us. God is love. And the one who abides in love abides in God. And God abides in him. By this love is perfected with us so that we may have confidence in the day of judgment, because As he is, so also are we in this world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear, because fear involves punishment, and the one who fears is not perfected in love. We love because he first loved us If someone says, I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar. But the one who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him that the one who loves God should love his brother also. Therefore, I, the prisoner of the Lord, implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called with all humility and gentleness. With patience, showing tolerance for one another in love, being diligent to preserve the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace There is one body and one spirit, just as also you were called in one hope of your calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. As a result, we are no longer to be children, tossed here and there by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, by craftiness and deceitful scheming, but speaking the truth in love. We are to grow up in all aspects into him, who is the head, even Christ. from whom the whole body, being fitted and held together by whatever each joint supplies, according to the proper working of each individual part, causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love. So this I say, and affirm together with the Lord, that you walk no longer just as the Gentiles also walk. And the futility of their mind, being darkened in their understanding, excluded from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the hardness of their heart. and they, having become callous, have given themselves over to the practice of every kind of impurity with greediness. But you did not learn Christ in this way, if indeed you have heard him and have been taught in him Therefore, laying aside falsehood, speak truth, each one of you with his neighbor, for we are members of one another. Be angry, and yet do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger, and do not give the devil an opportunity. Let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for edification according to the need of the moment So that we will give grace to those who hear. Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you Along with all malice, be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving each other Just as God in Christ has also forgiven you. Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children. And walk in love, just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us. An offering and a sacrifice to God is a fragrant aroma. as is proper among saints. There must be no filthiness and silly talk or coarse jesting, which are not fitting, but rather giving of thanks. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore, do not be partakers with them. For you were formerly darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the light consists in all goodness and righteousness and truth, trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord. Do not participate in the unfruitful deeds of darkness. Therefore, be careful how you walk. Not as unwise men, but as wise, making the most of your time, because the days are evil. So then do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody with your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks For all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to God, even the Father, and be subject to one another in the fear of Christ. Husbands, love your wives. Just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her. So that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, that he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she would be holy and blameless. So husbands ought to also love their own wives of their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ also does the church. Because we are members of his body. Each individual among you also is to love his own wife even as himself, and the wife must see to it that she respects her husband. The end of all things is near. Therefore be a sound judgment and sober spirit for the purpose of prayer. Above all, keep fervent in your love for one another because love covers a multitude of sins. Be hospitable to one another without complaint. As each one has received a special gift, employ it in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. Whoever speaks is to do so as one who is speaking the utterances of God. Whoever serves is you so as one who is serving by the strength which God supplies, so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ to whom belongs the glory and dominion forever and ever, amen Jesus said, My Father is glorified by this, that you bear much fruit, and so proved be my disciples. Just as the Father has loved me, I have also loved you. Abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you so that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be made full. This is my commandment, that you love one another, just as I have loved you. Greater love has no one than this. That one lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends if you do what I commanded you. Therefore, I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind so that you may prove what the will of God is. That which is good and acceptable and perfect. For through the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think But to think so as to have sound judgment, as God has allotted to each a measure of faith. For just as we have many members in one body, and all the members do not have the same function, so we who are many are one body in Christ. And individually members one of another. Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor what is evil. Cling to what is good. Be devoted to one another in brotherly love. Give preference to one another in honor, not lagging behind in diligence, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord, rejoicing in hope, persevering in tribulation. Devoted to prayer. Contributing to the needs of the saints. Practicing hospitality. Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. Be of the same mind toward one another. Do not be haughty in mind, but associate with the lowly. Do not be wise in your own estimation. Never pay back evil for evil to anyone Respect what is right in the sight of all men. If possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. Never take your own revenge, beloved. But leave room for the wrath of God. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. May the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God and into the steadfastness of Christ. Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from every brother who leads an unruly life. And not according to the tradition which you have received from us. For you yourselves know how you ought to follow our example, because we did not act in an undisciplined manner among you. But as for you, brethren, do not grow weary of doing good. If anyone does not obey our instruction in this letter, take special note of that person. And do not associate with him, so that he will be put to shame. Yet do not regard him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother. Now may the Lord of peace himself continually grant you peace in every circumstance. If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, But do not have love. I have become a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. If I have the gift of prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge If I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing. And if I give all my possessions to feed the poor. And if I surrender my body to be burned, but do not have love. It profits me nothing. Love is patient. Love is kind and is not jealous. Love does not brag and is not arrogant. Does not act unbecomingly. It does not seek its own. Is not provoked. Does not take into account a wrong suffered. Does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth, bears all things, believes all things. Hopes all things, endures all things. Love never fails, but if there are gifts of prophecy, they will be done away If there are tongues, they will cease. If there is knowledge, it will be done away. For we know in part, and we prophesy in part, but when the perfect comes, the partial will be done away. When I was a child, I used to speak like a child, think like a child, reason like a child. When I became a man, I did away with childish things. For now we see in a mirror dim light But then, face to face. Now I know in part, but then I will know fully, just as I have been fully known. But now faith, hope, love abide these three. But the greatest of these is love Then Peter came and said to him, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Up to seven times? Jesus said to him, I do not say to you up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven. For this reason the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his slaves. When he had begun to settle them, one who owed him ten thousand talents was brought to him. But since he did not have the means to repay, his Lord commanded him to be sold, along with his wife and his children, all that he had, and repayment to be made So the slave fell to the ground and prostrated himself before him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will repay you everything And the Lord of that slave felt compassion and released him and forgave him the death But that slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves who owed him a hundred dinari. And he seized him and began to choke him, saying, Pay back what you owe. So his fellow slaves fell to the ground and began to plead with them, saying, Have patience with me and I will repay you But he was unwilling, and went and threw him in prison until he should pay back what was owed. So when his fellow slaves saw what had happened, they were deeply grieved, and came and reported to their Lord all that had happened. Then, summoning him, his Lord said to him, You wicked slave, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me Should you not also have had mercy on your fellow slave in the same way that I had mercy on you? And his Lord moved with anger, handed him over to the torturers until he should repay all that was owed him. My heavenly Father will also do the same to you if each of you does not forgive his brother from your heart. Our Father who is in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Whenever you stand praying, Forgive if you have anything against anyone. So that your Father who is in heaven will also forgive you your transgressions. But if you do not forgive, Neither will your Father who is in heaven forgive your transgressions. For you are called to freedom, brethren. Only do not turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh, but through love Serve one another, for the whole law is fulfilled in one word in the statement, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, take care that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh Now the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are immorality, impurity, enmities, strife. Jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, factions, envying, and things like these, of which I forewarn you. Just as I have forewarned you that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love. Joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control Against such things there is no law. Now those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit Let us not become boastful, challenging one another, envying one another. Therefore you have no excuse. Every one of you who passes judgment For in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself, for you judge, you who judge practice the same things. And we know that the judgment of God rightly falls upon those who practice such things. But do you suppose this, O man? When you pass judgment on those who practice such things and do the same yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? Or do you think lightly of the riches of his kindness and tolerance and patience, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance? But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are stubborn Storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God, who will render to each person according to his deeds To those who, by perseverance in doing good, seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life. But to those who are selfishly ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness Wrath and indignation. Therefore, if you've been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above. For Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on the things above, not on the things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. Therefore, put aside anger, wrath. Malice, slander, and abuses, abusive speech from your mouth. So as those who have been chosen of God holy and beloved, put on a heart of compassion Kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience, bearing with one another And forgiving each other. Whoever has a complaint against anyone, just as the Lord forgave you, so also should you. Beyond all these things, put on love, which is the perfect bond of unity. Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful. Wives, be subject to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives, and do not be embittered against them. Fathers, do not exasperate your children so that they will not lose heart Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. For I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. Remember Jesus Christ risen from the dead. For this reason, I endure all things for the sake of those who are chosen so that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus and with it eternal glory. It is a trustworthy statement, for if we died with him We will also live with him. If we endure, we will also reign with him. If we deny him, he also will deny us. If we are faithless, he remains faithful. For he cannot deny himself Remind them of these things and solemnly charge them in the presence of God not to wrangle about words. Which is useless and leads to the ruin of the hearers. Be diligent to present yourself, approved to God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed accurately handling the word of truth. But avoid worldly and empty chatter, for it will lead to further ungodliness And their talk will spread like dangrene. And they upset the faith of some. Nevertheless, the firm foundation of God stands. Having this seal. The Lord knows those who are He is. Everyone who names the name of the Lord is to abstain from wickedness. The Lord's bondservant must not be quarrelsome, but be kind to all, able to teach, patient when wronged. With gentleness correcting those who are in opposition. If perhaps God may grant them repentance leading to the knowledge of the truth And they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, having been held captive by him to do his will. So then We pursue the things which make for peace and the building up of one another. Do not tear down the work of God If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. If a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you rebuke us in our pride And encourage us in humility, helping us to live up to the charge found in Paul's letter to the Galatians, the passage from which our congregation has drawn its name. As it's written, so then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith. We ask this in the name of Jesus. Our Christ, our Messiah. By the power of his indwelling spirit. Turning to him as our intercessor and as the head of his body. Forgive us, Lord, and strengthen your people in the truth of your word. Amen. I'm going to shut down the stream now. You want to leave a comment? I'll be glad to exchange comments with you in this in on this platform or any other platform that you might leave a comment on. Alright, till next time gobless.