It's official we can be done. Well, welcome to this week's gathering as we all come together in fellowship to worship our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Uh thank you for again uh uh having the opportunity, the invitation to come and uh help to lead our worship today and uh to bring you a word. Um Most of you I think probably know me by this point, but just in case, my name is Troy Skinner. I am the uh pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. It's a house church that is part of a uh emerging, growing network of house churches. So Started with three years ago, it was just us. Now we've got four that are part of the network and uh a fifth potentially in the offing. So it's it's fun to see God uh moving um with that. And uh also possibly known uh For those who listen to the radio, WFMD, I've been hosting for going on 19 years now a radio program on Sunday mornings called The Faith Debate. So perhaps you might know me from that. Or you just know me because I've been here like, I don't know, twenty times over the last you know ten or fifteen years or whatever it is now. So anyway. Um so I'm going to give you a heads up now and we'll come time to the the the prayer time, which will be like maybe fifteen, twenty minutes from now. We're going to do a popcorn style prayer. So be thinking about whether or not you want to pray aloud Uh and if you're not sure, just screw up your courage. And if you don't want to, there's no pressure or anything like that. But uh there's not that many of us here, and so I think that's uh uh a a good way to do it when there's a a smaller gathering like this. Um but anyway before we get into our uh spirit of worship here let's let's stand those who are able and sing amazing grace that is hymn number two hundred in the Blue Hymnals. Now in the wind. Yeah, I know we didn't want to. You may be seeing it. Angels must be low. That's right. The Angel Coast have arrived to help fill in our gaps and their singing. It's beautiful. Okay. Okay. I gotta talk to you as a church. Um well thank you very much for coming. It was my pleasure. We appreciate that so much. And uh we got uh Ashley Darling next week on the nineteenth. We got Patty Robinson from the Market United Methodist Church. And so we've got the 26th, and um April now we got George Kirk from Matthew Carmel, Diamond Methodist Church. And then on the night there's called other room. And that's all I had. Okay. For the next number of weeks are covered, that's good. And as the dates get closer, I'm sure more will fill up. And I've mentioned this before. I I kinda lay in the weeds a little bit, and if you guys get about, you know, ten days or two weeks out and there's a There's a spot that's open that doesn't look like it's gonna get filled. I don't want you guys to have undue s stress and so I will oftentimes jump in, but I don't want to overstay my welcome so I try and I try to wait until it seems like I don't think anybody's signing up. I guess I'll I'll I'll jump in. So anyway, and I'm glad to see you guys are still hanging in there. I know you took a pause this year during the uh the darkest winter months. So hopefully that's uh a strategy that pays big dividends uh for you moving forward. So take some of the pressure off during that time. You know, I'm sure there was some concern of whether or not it would disrupt momentum. I don't know if that's been the case, hopefully not. Anyway. Alright, so there's no other announcements in the room? Okay. Alright, at this point we're going to uh have whoever doesn't need to take up the uh the collection of the offering to support the ministry here at uh Fairview Chapel. Uh and then after the offering is uh collected it'll come forward as we all uh who are able stand and and sing the doxology and after that we'll have our time of prayer. Okay, so who's I guess that falls to you. Because the heavy daughter is glory and The meals break our son and all three the most. Father, we bring these offerings before you and ask your blessing on them. We ask that those that are responsible for stewarding them will be filled with your wisdom. that discernment would be uh and discretion would be used and figuring out how to disperse and make use of them and that the the ministry that is represented here by Fairview Chapel would would continue for many, many years to come. Name of Christ, we magnified and then our triune, God, and we glorified. We love you, Lord. We thank you for your provision. This is just a small token. We know the many blessings you give us. We praise your name for what you've have done in our lives and what you're allowing us now to do as as participants uh in this ongoing ministry. We praise you and thank you, Lord, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Everyone uh may be seated and in the past I've kind of defaulted to Teresa, but I don't want to automatically have to always be Teresa. When you do a popcorn style, does anybody else feel like they would like to open us in our time of prayer. If not, then I'm sure Teresa would be more than happy. Or if somebody else would like to go first, somebody else can have that turn. And then with whoever goes first, in turn, the next person that feels moved to pray, we'll pray aloud. Uh those who are not comfortable praying aloud can certainly pray silently. God hears those as well. But I I just want to say that there is a uh a blessing to the group when they can hear the uh the prayers of others uttered as well, so give some thought to that. And after it seems that everybody who uh is led to pray aloud tonight is going to, I will then uh wrap us up. Um prayers. So does anybody want to steal the poll position from Theresa. She is she is. She's uh she she's clearly very comfortable in in praying in in a public forum. And uh I'm pretty positive, I haven't talked to her about this, but I'm pretty positive that wasn't always the case. That's the truth, yeah. But she is now because she's put herself out there a few times and she's grown comfortable with it. So if you've always felt uncomfortable. This is a small enough group. Of course we're going to judge you horribly, but seriously. Seriously, even if we were to judge you horribly, we're not praying for to each other. Right? We're praying to God. So his is the opinion that matters. But so why would you pray around at all? Again, because there is something beautiful about hearing the prayers of others. With with the c concerns of the congregation and that sort of thing, worshipful attitudes. So anyway, it sounds like it's going to be Teresa. So if Teresa, you don't mind getting this started, and then uh again, whoever feels comfortable doing so, I would encourage you to join in afterwards and turn. Father God, we acknowledge that we are in your presence and you are holy, holy, holy. So we just ask you to pour out your Holy Spirit and Lord, we've been seeing evidence of that outpouring just with the revival that started in February at Asbury. seems to be spreading to other college campuses. Lord, um, things like Jesus Revolution. I'm just grateful that my friend Beth and I got to see that together this week. Lord, that was an outpouring in the 70s. We just want you to do it again. Sweep across our nation. Sweep across our world, Lord. We need you desperately. When it just looks like the world is a dark and scary place, Lord, we know that um we just need to keep our eyes on you. Because ultimately it's your will that is to be done. Your kingdom comes. Lord, we we uh we just ask you to bring it. And tonight, Lord, I lift up my dad to you. He's He's just suffering the the effects of aging and getting closer to his homecoming to you, Lord. And some days that's really hard. So just be with us and bless him and keep him in your care. Thank you, Lauren. Thank you. Dear John and heaven, please take care of Sam Ruby and Stacey Ruby's in Brantley with her health conditions. Take care of Pa and Sean. They need your help. Take care of Miss Marianne. Make them willing to be back here next week with us. Take care everybody, don't forget to pray for it needs your help. This whole nation needs your help. This whole world. This gun situation for money kids in school is stupid. Mm. Something has to be done. Please help us here, Doug. Please help us. Jesus. Jesus, you know, I've been friends with my friends there at the Lord Jesus and just been listening her up to you and she really doesn't want to hear anything about you and spread some hardware and just how she's somehow more. You still are the nearby words such a hard word that she would be stalking and be able to hear your truth. And you speak grateful for that, Lord. But in any other way, I'd be so grateful, Lord Jesus, that for everyone. To be able to speak to her little by little. But I just ask you to play her open on her heart. Just thank you so much for it. Crazy we don't know the military man. the army and especially our grandson nation who's stationed in Korea and he's defending the North Korea, South Korean people from North Koreans and it's a very dangerous situation. He's in charge of a large sniper brigade and he's only twenty-five. Um he left his right, his new right here, to go there and help the South Koreans. And he did so well in his military They made him captain of over a hundred men. And it's just a responsibility that he has. And it's not safe. But with you, guy these American soldiers, I know they're safe. And I just thank you. For bringing him back here when it's time. All the one beat. And there are many men in that situation. In a day So I just pray you watch your rim eat and say and all the people that coming to the doors here. I knew you were with them. And when they were with them. And I said thank you for them and the people that come in In Jesus' name, I give you thanks and praise. Also put your angels around the Lord, Jesus, protect them in these men who give them wisdom, Lord, to know where the dangers are, Lord. Give them strength to go out and protect Thank you for the Lord Jesus. Father would come before you acknowledge your greatness. You are our strong tower. You are our rock, the source of our living water. You are the beginning and the end. You are wisdom. You are truth. You are love. You are our Savior, our King, our Sustainer, our Life Giver. You are magnificent. And we love you. And we know that we love you because you first loved us, and we thank you for that gift. We thank you that you have made us in your image. We thank you for your patience and your forgiveness towards us because we fall short in our sin. Based on our own record, we stand before you guilty, and yet we know that we stand righteous in your eyes because of the cross of Christ. But by the power of your spirit, you look at us and you see the perfect works of your Son, as he took upon himself our failed record of disobedience. We ask that you would empower us by your Spirit and fill us with a motivation and out of heartfelt gratitude for you to live lives that are becoming of a Christ follower. That we would truly be salt and light, that we would season the world around us, preserve the world around us, illuminate the world around us. That we would always be ready to give an answer to those who ask the reason for our hope. Let us live lives that demonstrate that hope so that people would ask. A hope for everlasting glory with you, Lord. Whether there will be no more crying, sorrow, pain, death. So many of the kinds of things we've lifted up before you today in prayer, concerns for the well-being and the health and Even the spiritual well-being and health of those that we know, all of that gets resolved perfectly in your sovereign will. If you have things under control, nothing takes you by surprise. That we can trust how it all works out because you are good. Through and through you are good. And we do pray for the brokenness, the lostness, the sinfulness of the world around us. We pray for the leaders, not just of this country, but other countries around the world, that they would Be filled with wisdom. They would come to know who you are and that they would bow the knee before you and worship. We pray for the leaders in this state and this county. In the towns around here, not just the political leaders, but the business leaders, the thought leaders, the leaders of churches, the leaders of homes That there would be a a renewal and repentance in the hearts and minds of all of these men and women. That we would see a transformation take place throughout our culture, our entire society, that no one could deny as being anything other than a move of our Lord. And we thank you that you've equipped us to deal with the difficulties in this world, that it presents us, that you're growing us through this. You're helping us to see the benefits of patience and steadfastness. Because you would keep us busy and doing the work of making our calling and election sure. That we would demonstrate the fruit of the Spirit in our lives. And that we would be a blessing to your people, to the world around us, and a blessing to your name, Lord. It's in your name, the name of your Son, our Savior, our King Jesus Christ, that we pray. Amen. Those who are able, we're going to stand and we're going to sing our next hymn. It's hymn number two fifteen in the uh Blue Hymns of Faith uh hymnal, it's uh Solid Rock, number two fifteen. And epidemical We cry and we will I am in the way I'm gonna All the ground is seeking all the ground is making Beautiful once more. Everyone may be seated. So we're going to uh move into the message now. Almost rhetorically I asked the question, do you remember The Passion of the Christ? That movie from not that many years ago. It was a movie that excited uh a lot of Christians about the the prospects that uh the cinema scene would have even more high-quality films of that caliber films that are centered around the Bible be put out into the marketplace. And in actuality there actually uh was an increase in the uh volume of uh of so-called Christian films uh anyway. Um but the quality of some of these films wasn't um as as biblically faithful maybe as it as they could have been. Some of them were were sorely lacking uh in a biblical center. Well now here we are the last few years and there has been quite a bit of uh enthusiasm and excitement about something else. It hasn't well I guess in a sense it's been in movie theaters a little bit But I'm talking about a TV show that is called The Chosen. And uh the plan apparently is for this to be made into a seven season series. I think they've completed, if I'm not mistaken, the first three uh season, so they're approaching the halfway mark in what they're intending to do. And uh I have watched all of season one and I've watched some of the other seasons. I haven't been keeping up so much since since season one, but I imagine that perhaps you've seen it too. Maybe you've been watching all of them. I don't know. And if you've been watching it or if you've been hearing the buzz and talk about it, you might be thinking, well what are we to what are we to think? Of the chosen. Is it solid stuff? And uh I'm having this conversation with you because last year, those who were here when I spoke last year spent some time talking about the shack. And uh piece of feedback that I got was that's interesting, the shack is still relevant, certainly the the some of the issues that were brought up in that book and that movie uh still resonate today, but boy, it sure would be helpful if something that was actually being consumed en masse now were to address like the chosen. So I said, hmm, that's actually a fair point. So maybe we should talk about that. And the reason we should talk about this is because we need some discernment to figure out, okay, is the chosen another heaven is for real? Or Noah, if you've seen either of those movies. Or is it another, you know, the shack? Well, so far my opinion for what it is worth is that the chosen is somewhere between being really solid stuff and being another shack. There are some good things of course. And, as you might imagine, there are some significant yellow flags, possibly even some would argue red flags. And I'm going to explain what I mean as we go forward, but first I want to offer some background in case you're among the uninitiated The Chosen is a series that is created and executive-produced and directed and co-written. That's a lot of hats to wear by one guy, Dallas Jenkins. You might know his father, by the way, Jerry B. Jenkins. He's the co-author of an immensely popular book series called The Left Behind Series. It was hugely popular about 25 years ago. And that spawned a few movies and things like that as well Well, the uh Trozen series, Dallas Jenkins project, it is distributed by a company called Angel Studios. This is a company that is owned by Mormons, and as a result of this Dallas Jenkins has found himself being asked during interviews what he thinks about Mormonism. You might recall Mormonism, it's a group organized or founded back in the 1800s by Joseph Smith And Dallas Frankens' response in his interviews has been consistently to say that the Christians and the Latter-day Saints worship the same Jesus. And I gotta say, that's concerning to me as a pastor of the one true faith, and it really should get your attention as a follower of Jesus. Now, I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this, but I do want to attempt to be perfectly clear so there's no misunderstanding. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Does not worship the Jesus of the Bible. And I understand they say they do. And they use a lot of the same language that Bible-believing born-again believers do. And I also understand that they will quote the Bible a lot, and sadly, they will quote the Bible More often than perhaps you and I do. But you know, as I said before when I've spoken here, sometimes the most beguiling lies are the lies that are closest to the truth. And so we've got to be careful Because this is what gives rise to Christian cults, of which the LDS is one. It is a cult. It teaches people that Father God is merely an exalted man. He has a physical body. They teach that the Son of God is not eternal, that he was born into existence, and therefore he is in a literal sense. In fact, they teach that Jesus and Satan are brothers. Mormons believe that Father, Son, Holy Spirit are three separate gods, not one tryune God. They say that people like you and me, we pre-existed as spirit children before we lived out the lives that we live out now. And because of all these kinds of issues, as one might imagine, they get the gospel wrong. They teach a form of universal salvation. And the list goes on. But this message is mostly going to be about the shows and not about Mormonism. So I'm going to stop the list that I've made there because I think the point has been made. See the teachings Of Jesus, the true Jesus Christ of Nazareth, the one that we worship and recognize as the God man, and the instructions we are to live by in our lives of obedience to his eternal uh lordship. These things are in so many cases diametrically opposed. Diametrically opposed to what Joseph Smith's cultic followers teach. We've got to be clear in our understanding of this. They are completely different religions. Completely One is the true religion of Jesus Christ, and it's going to sound harsh, but the fact is the other is a deceptive religion of Antichrist. So Dallas Jenkins being confused about this, it's a problem. And it could be a problem that maybe could slip into the TV show, possibly. At the very least, we should keep our eyes open and not just be naive. And I I based on the response I got to the Shack talks we had last year, I can almost hear some people in their minds right now thinking, look, I hear what you're saying, Pastor But let's not get you carried away. It's just a TV show. I get it, but I'm going to tell you a few more things. This TV show, it has developed study guides. to complement the T V series. And you know, this is exactly what happened with the shack. These these study guides, they're they're used in Bible studies. They're used in Sunday school classes in local churches. And if you're going to use them as a way to illustrate what the truth of the Bible is, you're using it as like a as a FOIL as a backdrop to point out mistakes and say how the Bible says something different, that might be okay. But to use it as this is how we can understand the Bible by by paying attention to uh whatever about Mr. Rooming, I forget his first name, but the actor who plays Jesus in the Sis, to say what he's representing there gets us off on the wrong track. We should not be replacing the study of God's Word with the study of a Hollywood style production. It's not an accidental occurrence that the chosen is doing this. Jenkins has said publicly that he expects This is him on record. He expects that his creative representations are what people will think of when they think about Jesus and his disciples. So all these things that I have some concerns about uh are they're not accidental kinds of things. So I just want us to be aware. For this work Dallas Frankens, he reportedly consults with a Roman Catholic priest and, if I understand correctly, a rabbi, in order to, as he says, to quote, make sure the chosen is biblically accurate. Now, evangelical Protestants might raise their eyebrows at that sort of statement, and to be honest, the general viewer might even raise their eyebrows. Given that there is nearly no dialogue, practically no scenes, at least in season one, which is the only season I've seen all the way through, that are taken directly from Scripture. More than ninety-five percent of season one What we watch in the chosen is pure fantasy from the imagination of Dallas Jenkins. Now, this doesn't necessarily mean it's all bad. Okay? It certainly hasn't negatively affected the popularity of the CG series. It's hugely successful. In fact, the entire project is crowdfunded. That means that the fans are paying the bills. It doesn't get made if the fans aren't supporting it. But just because it's not all bad, it doesn't mean it's all good either. So we need to exercise some judgment and have a little discernment here. And you know the fact that it's not all good, that might be news to some people Because if you've been paying attention to the reviews of the show, almost all of the critics, almost all of the uh online forums, the chitter-chatter among friends, it's almost all been practically universally positive. Based on what I've taken in, I think we might be lucky to locate like one negative critique for every 10,000 praises for the show. It's overwhelming how much support there is for this TV show And this uh this consensus, the the support and love for this show, uh, because this exists, because this is a reality, I'm gonna spend the majority of our time in this message today drawing attention to the concerns Not because I want to be a negative Nelly. Yeah. I don't want you to well stick in the mud around kill joy. Although if you want to say that's fine, I can call it worse. Now I'm doing this because there needs to be some balance and there's all this weight of the positive over here, yet there are these concerns that aren't getting a lot of attention. So I'm I'm going to appear to be personally out of balance, but that's on purpose because I'm trying to draw some balance of the overall argument, the overall impression and perception of the show that's being put forward. So if I'm if it seems like I'm way over here, it's by design, it doesn't mean that I don't have value for what's way over here because there are good things. I don't want to be misunderstood. I am not hand-handedly, summarily condemning the series. That is not what I am doing. Okay? There are a lot of things. Truly there are things to appro appreciate about this series. One of them is kind of a technical thing with the cinematography. Uh it's not extravagant, but I think it's beautiful. I think it's a beautifully shot shell. It's an enjoyable thing to see in an understated sort of way. The pacing of the show, some people think it's too slow. Like they say, baseball is too slow, but I like baseball. I think the pacing of the show is is actually one of the strengths of the show. It allows the story to breathe. I think that's a good thing The acting is for the most part excellent. Now some people they think that one of the characters is a tiny bit uh theatrical, is a third character named Quintus. A little theatrical, but you know, he's very entertaining So I I think that's good. And the character development in the show is for the most part pretty strong. You get engaged with these characters, you're kind of interested in where they're going to go, how their their lives are going to unfold before you in the series. That's all really good stuff Now speaking of characters though and development, some people they have a problem with the character of Jesus being represented at all on the screen because they're concerned about second commandment violations Uh for what it's worth, I do not share those concerns because uh of the distinction I make between having some sort of an image of God, deity, and an image of Jesus the Christ of Nazareth in his human form. I make a distinction there. Others don't make that distinction, so they've got different scruples about that than I do Okay, we could have that discussion. Maybe over time they'll persuade me. Maybe over time I'll persuade them. Uh that's not something I'm getting hung up on uh with this series, at least not in the moment Another good thing about the show, I think in a lot of ways, the script is top-notch. I think it's got a couple of holes in it, but generally I think the script is good. For example, it wonderfully depicts an ancient Near Eastern wedding, which I think was kind of a neat thing to see. It's one of the highlights of season one. But you know, we scenes to show how people were stomping grapes back then, you know, to make their wine and stuff. And now these are good things. It's easy to understand the allure. of the chosen. Because the viewers, we we feel as though we're we're watching real people in real relationships, you know, that in real life situations and all of these things. They're there's they're they're so good. They're pluses. They really are. But I don't see a lot of need for me to offer a whole bunch more extensive echoes of all the plotits that are coming from the pundits of this show, because like I said, the balance is way Over here, whether the uh the people who applaud this row are professional or amateur, there's been a chorus of yees and not as many uh on the boo side. And if I think it can add to that chorus of yes, well then I probably should have us spend our time on something else today, because you can get that anywhere. But I have decided, I've felt led that we should talk about this today. And why? Well, I'm struck by the need to offer you an exhortation. An encouragement, if you will, that will hopefully spur all of us to exercise discernment more than we already do. To get more discerning in all of our life, not just in regards to whether we do or don't watch the chosen. Sorry, for the re most of the remaining time in this message, I'm going to point out some things that I think could have easily escaped the notice of some viewers of the chosen, because some of them are very subtle Some of them actually are not quite so sudden, they're quite a bit more obvious. But even the obvious things that sometimes can just slip right past us because we're so caught up in the artful storytelling, the winsome acting, and the beautiful cinematography and things like that. And also, I should point out, there's a lot more that could be said than what I'm going to share this evening with you. But I'm going to cover as much as our time together will allow. Um and you know someone would I have to offer is observation, but some of those just questions. Yeah, I don't know that I had answers to the questions, but they're questions. For instance, in episode three of season one, there's a scene where the Jesus character is tormented, he's shown tormented, sitting in his campground alone. And I'm watching that, I'm thinking, okay, why? What portion of scripture is being represented by that scene? Now, we can make some guesses. But this TV show doesn't tell us the answer. So our guesses might be right. Our guesses might be wrong. Another question I had was, did Jesus really live like a contestant on that CBS television show survivor? Maybe. Again, maybe not. And why is Matthew depicted as being on the autism spectrum? The autism spectrum? Matthew clearly has Asperger's, or at least what used to be called Asperger's until a couple of years ago. Asperger's is a label that has fallen into disfavor for whatever reason, but whatever you want to call it. Matthew has some element of OCD at the very least. And I'm pretty sure this is intended to help us to see Matthew as like more real to us, you know, make him feel more relevant to our contemporary society where the autism has just exploded. or in the last generation or so. I mean it's become a real issue in contemporary society. However, there is zero, and I mean zero scriptural reason to think that Matthew was on the autism spectrum. There is no reason at all to think so. And so here's the irony. The Matthew in chosen that might feel more real is not in fact the real Matthew. To say nothing, of kind of an elephant in the room, if you ask me, why didn't Jesus just heal Matthew of his autism? If he indeed had it So look, I feel I'm going to be repeating myself a little bit here. Enjoy the show. If you want to, it's totally fine. Enjoy the show. But just don't imagine an obsessive compulsive Matthew when you read your Bible. Because the obsessive-compulsive Matthew is not the Matthew of the Bible. Now on the plus side of the show, it does help the viewer talking about Matthew. To understand the tax collectors, they were despised by the general public. I mean they're not we're not big fans of them today. But they were really despised uh back then. But you know, I'm not really sure that tax collectors would have been treated so rudely, even bullied, as was Matthew in season one of The Chosen. I mean think about it, the tax collectors, they they they held some measure of power over these people. We don't tend to bully those that hold power over us. And watching this show, I also wondered: did Jerusalem really have a red district in the first century? Now I've heard some sources in history that do indicate they speak about prostitution in Jerusalem Inns. So it's possible maybe that there was a district like this, but we don't know for sure. It it could be that there was a red light district, you know, like we have in many of our cities today. But I gotta say that this whole idea is a recurring and I would say even an important theme throughout season one It knits part of the storylines throughout these and one together. And so if it's historically inaccurate, then what we are given is a very poor mental image. It's going to be really hard for us to shake. I mean they even show us a speakeasy for crying out loud. You know it's like watching one of those nineteen thirties and forties uh prohibition era type of movies where they have to open the window and get the secret password and that sort of thing. Those kinds of things are are hard to get out of your head once you're exposed to it. And if you think that's what the Bible is teaching you you're you're going to be a little bit off. So we want to be careful. Now in this red quarter that I'm talking about, there is a barkeep and he's very friendly, very protective towards a woman that he calls Lily And you know, I'm sure there's always exceptions to the rules, so I'm sure there could have been some exceptions. But we know that in the first century, in that culture, they weren't friendly towards women. And you know, in my opinion, it's kind of unfortunate that the chosen made this creative choice here. And and the reason I say that is To show the women being treated with honor, I think accidentally, I don't think it was as the aim, but it accidentally ends up diminishing what we see Jesus do in the Gospels when he elevates women in stark contrast to the culture around him. Now on a similar issue throughout season one, all the marriages in the show strike me as being rather at least egalitarian as opposed to complementarian or perhaps even more than egalitarian. What I mean by this is the the the wives seem to be the marriage partners that wield the real power in the relationship and in the household I specifically have to view the wives of Simon and Nicodemus as I say this, and uh especially recalling a moment when Simon's wife They're having a bit of a disagreement and she turns to him and says, You can't tell me what I can or can't do Back then, I don't think so. There's also a wife, another woman. She's the mother of a little girl whose spy is on Jesus during season one And this wife, this mother, the way she's depicted in the chosen is that she seems to be the head of the house, not the father. And I go so far as to say the husbands and the chosen, they seem to be a bit tempted by their wives. And I do understand this is how much of our culture behaves today. I get it. But importing this idea from today into a story that represents something that was going on 2,000 years ago, it's anachronistic at best. And it does make you wonder, possibly at worst, what's going on here is an attempt by the show to pander to the worst elements of today's present-day feminism, third and fourth wave feminism. Uh by the way, depending on how you defend it, uh Jesus Christ was a feminist. But I don't know that he would align himself with the feminist movement of today. And there are other instances of this instinct to possibly be promoting a feminist political agenda that includes episodes that feature this group of young kids. I mentioned the the mom of the little girl Um this little girl her name is Abigail. Again, she's a girl. And she's brave. And she has a friend, a boy. His name is Joshua. And he's not brave. He is fearful. Might mean nothing, but it's interesting. The girl is brave, the boy is not. And among those group of kids, there's about six or eight kids in this little group that travels around the countryside together. Abigail, the girl, is a leader. None of the boys is the leader. Again, maybe just a coincidence. At the Cana wedding, there is a woman who trusts that Jesus will somehow make more wine. And there is a man, her co-worker, who does not trust. Again, maybe just the questioness, but it is interesting how the question is always seem to go in one direction throughout season one of the chosen. I don't know if it goes in a different direction in other seasons. I haven't watched all of those And here's something that was really interesting to me. Mary Magdalene participates in the telling of one of Christ's parables. Now, it's odd that anyone would participate in one of Jesus' parables. But it is particularly stunning that a woman would do so back then. And another woman, she publicly asks Jesus a question about prayer in front of a big crowd, as if it's no big deal for her to have done so. I promise you, it would have A big deal for her to have done so back then. And uh Farma, John's mom, Jane's uh mother, uh, she takes charge. And she tells these grown men to listen to Jesus and stay by his side. Now that's good advice. But it positions the society there as being led by a matriarchy. But back then it would have been more of a patriarchy. So it's just these little things. And again, they keep kind of leaning in this one direction. It kind of just starts to beg a question after a while. I mentioned that little girl, Abigail. This springs to mind are a number of times when a character in the show is called by a nickname. This girl Abigail, the leader of her gang, she is called Abby. And Nicodemus, he is referred to as Nico by his wife. Now, this is a harmless thing, not a big deal. But I gotta say, given the societal conventions at the turn of the first millennium, uh this cutesy habit of using nicknames, it seems to be a little bit out of place So if it's out of place, why would they do it? Well I wonder if maybe this is evidence that the producers are just trying too hard. They're trying so darn hard to make this show feel familiar and relevant to a contemporary American audience. And sometimes you make compromises when that is your overriding motivation and goal. And if I'm right, that will prove to be an Achilles heel for this show If I'm not right, well then it's just my opinion and it's worth what it's worth. But nicknames aren't the biggest thing, so let's get back to a more serious matter. The show it makes a conscious choice To magnify two characters in season one, Mary Magdalene and Nicodemus. They are major, even central characters to the show in season one, dominant characters in season one. And this is very interesting to me. Because these two people have very small roles in the telling of the gospel story we find in the New Testament. So taking people like this and turning them into major characters, this gives Dallas Jenkins all the excuse he pretty much needs to exercise pretty much all the creative license he wants. Whatever it is he has imagining in his mind, he can place that into the shelter. Because he's looking at the white space in the Bibles. He's looking at the space between the words, the space between the lines. And he's inserting concepts that are created out of whole cloth, out of thin air. And you know what? This can make for a fun story. Indeed, it does make for a fun story. And an engaging viewer experience. It's very engaging. Why do you think the show is so down popular? But it doesn't help us to know our Bibles better. That's kind of the main point here tonight. Because there's a lot of people out there saying, maybe you've heard them. You've heard them say, eh, watching the chosen has taught me so much about the Bible. No, it hasn't. The chosen gives a name to Simon's wife. It calls her Eden. She's nameless in the Bible. The Cheryl refers to Mary Magdalene as Lilith with the nickname of Lil. Does the Bible ever call her this? No, it doesn't. The TV show probably gave her this name because of that name, the name Lilith, that has an association with demon possession and Jewish lore. But this demon possession thing, it raises yet another problem. It shows the depicts of Nicodemus trying to do an exorcism. on Mary Magdalene and the people actually think he succeeded as the way it plays out in in season one. But can we find that story in the Bible? No? The chosen portrays Mary Magdalene as a prostitute. But there is really no biblical reason to think that this was the case. And I do understand, I recognize this is a common misunderstanding. But it's a misunderstanding and the show reinforces it. And Jesus, he has this charming interaction with that group of uh the boys and girls I mentioned, they appear to be like eight, nine, ten years old, something like that. I gotta tell you, it's one of the most enjoyable parts of season one. It's really a a magical kind of thing that's going on. I really enjoyed it. But does the Bible tell us anything like that ever happened? Might have, but the Bible doesn't say so, so no. It shows and tells us that Thaddeus was a construction worker. It tells us that James is a choral singer. That uh thaniel is an architect, that Thomas was a Peteran. Well, that's all very interesting. None of that information is in the Bible. Can I ask you a question? I'm sorry to interrupt you. Sure? I haven't seen the show. Is it done back in the biblical times? It's yeah, it's set as though uh today. Right. It it's set as though it took place in 2,000 years ago. And whether you see it or not, people might talk about it and you'll be a little bit more informed to say, Oh well Yeah, I think I hear it's a really good show and it's got some good things in it, but you know uh it's got a lot of things in it that maybe aren't in the Bible. What do you think about that? And get them maybe to open their Bible. That would be a good thing to have happen As a result of that. It's not in the Bible, really? Well, I don't know, read it for yourself. Find out if what I'm saying is true. I know this numberhead pastor was saying something about it. I don't know. You read the Bible, you tell me. Anyway, the imaginative extra biblical additions that we've been talking about so far, they don't end there. Um there are significant secondary triggers. uh in the show, in the chosen. Two of them are Romans. One of them is named Quintus, I've mentioned him already, and one of them is named uh Gaius. There are no people named Quintus or Gaius in any of the four Gospels. And this story is based on what we read in the four Gospels. I think it's particularly supposed to be Representing the Gospel of John is the main thrust, I think, is what they're trying to aim for. A huge storyline in season one revolves around the Jews illegally fishing on the Sabbath And Simon Peter, he's doing so because of gambling debt that he has incurred, because of failed street fighting schemes that he was involved with with his partner in crime, his brother Andrew. And this leads to Matthew, the tax collector. giving them a deadline for paying their taxes, and so Simon, he's desperate, so he makes a deal with the Roman Printus, who I've mentioned a couple of times. So Simon says, I'll go spy on the merchant ships. And this causes all sorts of intrigue with Zebedee, the father of the sons of Thunder, and things go so forward the Simon has his ear cut by Roman soldiers. What a whirlwind, huh? Such drama in season one of the chosen. And what page of the Bible can I read about that? None of them. None of the pages can I read about that. Not one piece of that story is from the pages of Scripture. And adding insult to injury, one of my annoyances with the show, I have a few. Uh one has to do with Simon's cut year. And it astounds me. The show that's that has really good production value for the most part. The show it shows the soldier wielding his sword. There are a couple of characters later who come up to Simon and say, Hey, what happened to your ear? But I gotta tell you for the lesson, I can't see the wound. Not even any dread. It's like it was really distracting to me. But of course, you know, that's a digression, it's uh personal indulgence for me to bring that up. Anyway, these things that I'm mentioning tonight, they are completely extra-biblical. They're pure fabrications of the mind from Dallas Jenkins. And here's my overriding concern. If someone doesn't read the Bible, And they watch the show, thinking then that it teaches them about what happens in the Bible, they are being misled. If you're going to watch it as a show, that's fine. If you're going to watch it as a substitute, or even as a complement to a certain degree, for what we learn in Scripture. That makes me very, very nervous. So just be judicious about that. Be careful. If you're working through a study on it, I would I would uh I would be the voice of reason to make sure that the holes from Scripture are pointed out, that the additions are identified as additions. Maybe there's a moral lesson we can learn from that. Maybe there's some insight and aspect into you know, the personality of what a Christian life should look like that we can glean from that. But it's not necessarily what Jesus did or said, or what his followers did or said. It could be, but we can't prove it from Scripture And the Bible is our authority. Right? If it's there's a there's a a phrase in today's uh younger set, the younger generation, you know, if it's not posted on social media, it didn't happen You heard this? Or sometimes they'll say picture it didn't happen meaning no pictures posted on social media it didn't happen. If it's not in the Bible, we can't be sure that it happened So that's really what I wanted to. Well, you know. That is one of the things that people are are concerned about. Um I have read the Book of Mormon. And there is one line in the Chosen that seems like it might have been taken from the Book of Mormon, but I believe in trying to be as generous a viewer and reader as possible. It's not an exact quote from the Book of Mormon, and so it it could it could just be a coincidence. If it starts to happen consistently, then I I might be a little more concerned. But it's it's it's one thing, it's not even exact. So but it does have the question because of the distributor being a Mormon company. So it does people do ask that question. That's why I'm familiar with that that That concern. I don't share that concern to be honest with you. So anyway, there's a lot more that could be said, but I'm not going to get into any more now because we're I think we're up against the clock and so I'm going to draw the message to a close. So um let me let me wrap up with prayer. Father, we do acknowledge your greatness and we know that we have a fully sufficient word available to us, that you have provided for us, preserved for us your word in written form that we can study, we can learn from, that it is fully sufficient for our faith, what we believe, for our life practice, what we do. It uh is totally up to the task as a tool for teaching and learning. Uh all that uh you have revealed about yourself in the special revelation is what we should lean upon for our understanding. We do know that in the general understanding, uh the general revelation there are understandings that we can glean as well, but we should test any and all ideas from our own minds or the minds of others against the solid surety that we have in your written word. And we thank you for that reminder today. We ask that in spite of potential weaknesses that a show like The Chosen would be used for your purposes, that people would have their lives transformed and changed, perhaps in some ways because of the show, and otherwise maybe in spite of the show. We know that you are in control of all these things, and we know that you're working together all things for the good of those that are yours, and we thank you that you've called those of us who are gathered here today to worship you as those who are counted as yours. And so we praise you and thank you for that. We rest fully upon the sufficiency of the blood of Jesus Christ at the cross, knowing that we are not worthy, but he is. And so we bow the knee to him. In his name, in Jesus Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Alright. If you would, those who are able, let's uh sing our final hymn of the evening. This one is He Lives, number 167 One fifty-seven he lives. I remember the children. And then you always give you a new one. And then I'm going to go to the Because he lives on the road. He was eating our early. So we got thrown off there, my apologies. We ended up singing 169 because he lives, but there's another song that It has almost the exact same title. It's 167 HeLives. So you know what? I'm going to use 167 He Lives as our benediction. Oh yeah. I swear to Risen Saviour, he's in the world today. I know that he is living, whatever men may say. I see his hand of mercy, I hear his voice of cheer, and just the time I need him, he's always near. In all the world around me I see his loving care, and though my heart grows weary, I never will despair. I know that he is leading through all the stormy blasts, the day of his appearing will come. At last. Rejoice, rejoice, Christian. Lift up your voice and sing Eternal Hallelujah to Jesus Christ the King. the hope of all who seek him, the help of all who find. None other is so loving, so good and kind. He lives He lives. Jesus Christ lives today. He walks with me and talks with me along life's narrow way. He lives He lives salvation to impart. You ask me how I know he lives He lives within my heart. Let us all sing stand as if you're able and sing be parting. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. May you all go in peace as you enter the mission field around you, knowing in your heart That he lives.