Well, good evening on this beautiful weather Sunday. Uh pleasure uh being here with you to worship our Lord and Savior together. And uh some of you know me, some of you maybe don't, so by way of introduction, I'm Troy Skinner. I'm bringing greetings from Household of Faith in Christ at the church that I pastor in Frederick County. and might also possibly know me as the host of the now long-running uh Sunday morning radio program on News Radio 930 WFMD called the Frederick Faith Debate So and if you have heard that show, don't hold it against me. So this is actually a pretty cool week for us to be gathering on the church calendar if you pay attention to such things. A couple of weeks ago was the uh anniversary, about a week and a half ago, I guess, was the anniversary of the ascension of Jesus Christ after his resurrection. And this week, in fact, today is the anniversary of Pentecost, where Christ sends his spirit to dwell within his people. And so it's uh it's kind of sadly forgotten. uh holy day if you will, but uh it's pretty cool that we're all here together to to worship. So at least one of the hymns will touch upon that theme today. And speaking of hymns, as we're gathered here to worship, let's all grab our hymn notes and the blue hymn reoking for hymn number twenty three. Come Christians join to sing as we lift our voices. Those who are able, if you could stand and sing. If you're unable, then that's or unwilling, I guess that's okay. I'm a Christian going to see our way to the way. Come up with your heart on mine, for you know all the end, then praise it to us. In strong voice as usual is beautiful. Amen. Everybody may be seated. So I'm never exactly sure who it's going to be, but every Sunday somebody has announcements So who is that this week? Okay? What what what do we have to know about the the life and ministry of Fairview Chapel this week? Okay, honor to be welcome today. Next Sunday, uh first of all, thank you for coming on the seat. Next Sunday, uh John Dean will bring the message. Uh Paul X Sunday will be a letter. The Bluegrass Gospel Group or Gospel Bridge, live five. They'll be having full service on the 11th. And the following Sunday after that will be Mark Claymore. Okay. Is that as far as announcement? Some every once in a while somebody else says, I have an announcement. Is there one of those? No? Okay. Well what we're gonna do next then is uh uh have one of the ushers come forward so that we can uh take up the uh the the free will offering to the gifts to help support the ministry that takes place here at Fairview Chapel. Um During this time there will probably be some musical accompaniment, usually there is. And during that time uh the the plate will be passed and you'll have an opportunity to support what what happens here with the chapel. But also In addition to that, take this time to really think about God's blessing in your life. And what we're doing when we give something back is just a microscopically small fractional part uh in appreciation, kind of a token uh of appreciation really for what he does for us. Um uh what he's given us is immense. He's given us his own son. And he's given us resources that we sometimes take for granted and and uh in our culture we're incredibly blessed uh in the area that we live. So just think about how good God is, how good He is to us. Um and if you're not in a position where you are comfortable being able to give right now Um you know, there's no pressure in those things, but whatever is given is certainly uh appreciated and is and is an honor to the Lord. So whoever the usher is before come forward and at the at the conclusion of the taking up the gathering it will be brought forward at that time we will all stand those who are able and we will uh sing the doxology together Father, you are such a good God. And we love and adore you and we thank you for your provision to your people, your provision for the ministry and the life of the uh chapel here at Fairville uh Fair Hill. We ask that um you would help those who are responsible for managing these fiscal uh responsibilities and m um managing the uh um and and in doing good work in honoring uh the offerings made here to be filled with wisdom and discernment and uh That everything that's given here would be used to give back to you even more because you've given us so much. We thank you for calling us together here today to worship and praise your name, everything that we do here this evening. Uh help help us to fill it with a heart of worship. Our singing, our giving, our praying, our listening, uh everything that we do here helps to understand that it is an aspect of our worship of you and you are so worthy and we praise you. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. All right everyone may be seated So we've uh reached the time of the service that is our dedicated time of prayer. There are moments of prayers peppered in without, but this is our dedicated part of prayer. It's the prayers of the people And when I'm here, I'm not sure if anybody else does this, but when I'm here, what I like to do when there's a gathering as intimate as this is what some have referred to as a popcorn style prayer. So what's going to happen is I've already spoken to Teresa. She is going to open us in prayer. And when she's completed what she has to pray aloud, in turn, those who feel led praying aloud will do so in turn. And um if you've never prayed aloud before, maybe this will be your first time. And if you're just not going to pray aloud tonight, there's no expectation or or pressure that you would do so. And God will hear your silent prayers as well. But I will tell you it is a blessing to the gathering. uh if they can hear the the hearts of the people pray. Both requests and praises, by the way. So uh when it feels like everybody who's going to pray aloud has, um I will then close us in prayer at that time. So if you would get us started, I'd appreciate it. Welcome, Holy Spirit. We are so privileged to come into your presence more. And thank you for just the joy of your creation and how to all Christ praises to you. And Lord, my heart is filled with overflowing tonight because um we've been praying long and hard for my daughter Christiana who's been on this long educational journey and this week she was able to defend her doctoral dissertation and and um walk and graduation ceremony and now I have to call her doctor Lord, what what a privilege that is to thank you for the way you uh you work all things to our good. We are grateful for it. Well I also know that there are dear friends that have some needs, believe in praise or baby iris after their granddaughter and she actually came home from the hospital this past Thursday and is doing well. And Lord um our dear friend Ken is having some some tests done and his family just needs comfort and peace as they go through that process. And healing Lord. We thank you for it. Father, we thank you for your goodness and mercy and for your many blessings. We thank you, Lord, for raising up our forefathers. And the women and mothers and fathers who sent their people off to protect this nation. We just pray you Give you thanks for doing that. I hold up my wife's hand set for healing. Give you praise thanks now for Lord Jesus. just watching technique more family Mike and Kathy and take George from here so we're going This is really great today and uh getting together up here Dear heavenly father, I thank you for watching over my army language. And I pray they tried to be all new And I just thank you for these military men that go out. Give us our efforts for other people, other countries, as well as our country. And we're planning on broading party in his mind. I just believe thanks for that. I asked you to comfort the wild family. John is Very and very unexpectedly He took them. He had no idea he was gonna happen. So he just asked the either eat. with the family this week with the service at Calvary's United Methodist Church. He was a wonderful man. And Thank you for his life. Thank you. Children and grandchildren. They're left in his wife, they're left here and left them. Well we think it is by believers, you know you said a few forgathered in your name or here powerful and special way. We give you our thanks for your presence and guidance. We do lift up for you and pray that you will speak through the day and your spirit would use him to speak to you. Father God, we thank you for worthless time we have to go and see. We just prayed all thank you. And so all of you come together this weekend. May we never forget those that have given the ultimate price very frequently Father, we never forget and hold and honor the men and women over the years while we have served this country and have paid. And for we ask you this evening, Lord, I pray for healing. Father, you are so gracious and good to us. You are astoundingly creative You are unfathomably powerful. There is no wisdom outside of you and your wisdom. Your sustainer, our provider, our Lord, our shepherd, your reason for living We thank you for making this beautiful world that we are allowed to inhabit. We thank you for making us, for calling us to yourself. We thank you for your patience with us because we are a frail, fallen, sinful people. so in need of your mercy and grace. And you have provided the answer and demonstrated that you are a merciful, gracious God by sending even your own son. Who willingly offered up his own life to rescue a people that you've called to yourself We know that we don't deserve it. All the more reason to honor you, to praise your name, and to seek to bring glory To your name and to advance the cause of your kingdom in this world as we progress in increasing levels of obedience and submission to your will in our lives. Help us to continue to grow. Forgive us for those times when we stumble back and give some evidence of being backslidden. in the moment. But we know that your people do not continue to sin, and we thank you for that for rescuing us from our ongoing struggles against the flesh, against the divine How we yearn for the day when we won't have these struggles anymore. The day where there's no more crying or pain or suffering. For we will be exactly forever as you intended us to be from the beginning. As we live in union with Christ and in unity with one another. Strengthened and held together by the Holy Spirit. Loving one another perfectly. Loving you perfectly. And experiencing your love for us in new and wondrous ways. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Well it's time to grab that blue hymnal again. This time it's hymn number ninety The Comforter Has Come. This is the hymn that is most specifically targeted at today being the anniversary of Pentecost. When I was more just probably not already trust from a man is. . And heart the dreadful wheel and glory of the blast and all the golden hair Oh brethren, the Lord is not glory and become a bigger. No te wave its way through the And through soul. The last run writer has come, the whole becomes content, the tron is here. If everyone remain standing for a second, we did a great job, but I want to make sure we feel the moment. This is a song of joy and exuberance, right? The comforter has come, right? The Father's promise given. So if we could just sing the chorus one more time and If you can, let's try to even if we have to fake it, let's plant some smiles on our faces and sing it this time together, alright? Competition has come, the Holy Ghost from heaven, the Father's promise given, O spread. Siding round we sound that Amen. Everyone may know these Cardinal. So hopefully I felt different to you. Right? It probably did. And so hopefully that's a blessing to all of us. Um so I keep tabs on because I don't preach here infrequently, right? So I keep tabs on what I've preached so I don't make that horrendous, embarrassing mistake of preaching something that's almost exactly like I've preached before So I know for a fact that I have uh led here and preached here twenty times for today, so this is number twenty-one. And I looked to see what I've done. And it's interesting. Four of the twenty messages to date have been standalone kind of one-off messages. Picked a particular passage in the scriptures. Wasn't tied to anything else. It was just in that moment something was preached. The rest are all actually knit together in some fashion, which I think is interesting. I thought I'd share with you. So most of you didn't hear all of them, but some of you did. Uh we actually did a series together that started in 2010 and ended about three years ago. We worked through the epistles of John. We uh covered uh first, second, and third John. It took thirteen sermons to work through that material. And then we applied what we learned from the epistles of John in a practical way by doing two additional messages, messages that were an extension of that series, if you will. looking at the book and the movie The Shack, uh because John's book is all about the truth in love, and we wanted to see how we could interact with the truth in love by examining something that was very popular not too many years ago, not as popular now. The movie is like five years ago, I think, and the book came out probably close to 15 years ago, something like that. And because the shack was no longer really all that hot an item like it once was, somebody said, you know, that shack stuff was helpful, but you know what's really hot now is the chosen So we should do the same thing kind of with the chosen. So last time I was here, we talked about the chosen in similar fashion. And truth be told, what I shared last time I was here was the first half of a message I did share one other time with another group. And to kind of finish the whole series, which will turn into a 17-part series when you include the addendums. We're going to walk through a practical exercise of what we should be looking for when we're looking at things like the chosen. Now I want to re-emphasize some things I said last time I was here. Um there are those who are huge fans and like unadulterated fans and there's nothing wrong at all with the chosen and if you say anything negative about it then you're just the enemy and you don't get it. That's not me. And there are others who think the chosen is just the worst thing almost ever, and nobody should watch it. And if you watch it, you're going to be sullied and spoiled and that's going to just destroy your faith and destroy your life, and that's not me either. Uh I'm trying I'm trying to approach it as a real thing, to identify the things that are good and true and beautiful. to basically chew the meat and spit out the bone. And so that's what we're looking to do here. I can tell you if I am invited back and I have opportunity to preach again, I promise you the next message I'm going to find some passage from scripture and we will grapple with and wrestle with that passage. We will exegetically preach through the passage, which is actually my norm with my church. I've been doing things that aren't my norm in this context But I don't know. Maybe I I wrestled with this idea whether I should continue. I thought, you know what, I'm a person who believes in finishing what you start, so in that spirit at least. We're going to finish what we started. So to recap a little bit of what we talked about last time, because you might not know, the Chosen has been out for a few years. Um I think they just recently finished their third season, if I'm not mistaken I have not watched all the episodes, but I have seen all the episodes for season one. So everything I have to say, what I had to say last time, what I have to say today, is specific to season one. Uh Dallas Jenkins is the name of the uh well he's the face of the franchise. He's the the creator, the producer, the director, the primary writer. He he kind of is the chosen, if you will uh behind the scenes making it all happen. It's crowdsourced funding, so these shows get produced because people like it and they're paying to have more episodes. And apparently the plan is for going to be seven seasons altogether, so they're not quite halfway to where they're aiming to go. So that provides some of the con oh and one other thing from some context. Dallas Jenkins got himself in some trouble because he's been rather um Unclear at best regarding how to understand what the Mormon Church teaches in relation to Orthodox Christianity. That's made some people really nervous Uh I haven't to mind now in season one I didn't see anything and I haven't heard much about there being much of that seeping into the chosen, so his potential confusion on that matter isn't necessarily a chosen chosen issue But it could become one, so we should be aware that he's a little unclear on on um the the in case you're unclear, the LDS, the Latter-day Saints, uh do not have a true gospel, and that's an important thing for Christians to understand understand. They they they want to be represented as Christians. I wish it were true, but sadly it's not, and hopefully they will have a moment of conversion. Anyway, so we're gonna pick up where we left off last time. We were talking about season one And the Jesus character tells the Mary Magdalene character in the Chosen that she should lead the Sabbath meal prayer and that she should handle the scripture readings during the Sabbath meal. Now, based upon what we know about traditions in the first century in Israel, this never would have happened. And this is not what we would expect to find, nor is it what we find in the scriptures. So this is a completely made-up scene. There's no basis for other than the imagination of Dallas Jenkins. Now that doesn't automatically make it bad. But it's not the Bible. And some people are watching the shows and almost as a replacement for the Bible and think, oh, where's that story in the Bible? You're not going to find it Uh well on the subject of the Sabbath meal. Uh it takes place in episode two, by the way, of season one, if uh if you uh want to go watch it It kind of comes across to me as a sort of a Shabbat of Misfit Toys. I'm playing off of the Rudolph of Red Bells Reindeer Christmas special with the Island of Misfit Toys. Uh Mary she she leaves the proceedings after she invited all the people that are in her friend's circle. She has them come over to her home for the for the meal. And uh they're mostly outcasts, you know, society's rejects, handicapped, that sort of thing. And that's fine, except it this was a kind of a recurring issue for the chosen throughout season one, in my estimation. There's this continual, almost blatant attempt to try to be hyper-relevant to today's culture. And this scene in particular struck me, and this isn't me exaggerating, I don't know how many of you are familiar with the show, the reference I'm allowed to make, but if you were to change the costumes of the actors in the scene This could have been a scene from an episode of ABC's Million Little Things. It's this very emotive Kumbaya kind of a show. They're all wrestling through life together, overcoming life's challenges in a contemporary setting. Uh the scenes could have been interchanged, just changed the the scenery and and the clothing And again, that's not necessarily bad, but it is a weakness in the chosen in my view. Most of the weaknesses the chosen has are because of this instinct that Dallas Jenkins has. He's trying so hard to be relevant to the culture around him Shifting gears, here's a real head scratcher. As we know from the Bible, Simon Peter's mother-in-law was very sick. And this is portrayed in the TV series, so good on them. But for some reason, her illness, it plays out during season one of the chosen over several episodes. And Simon and his brother Andrew, they never think to ask Jesus to heal her, which seems odd. Because this is after the chosen had presented Jesus healing Mary Magdalene of her demon possession. It's after the chosen had presented Jesus healing the leper. It's after the chosen had presented Jesus healing the paralytic. And now the season's almost over. The woman is languishing. Simon he's tending to this poor dying soul at her bedside, and then nothing occurs to any of them? How to solve this problem that they have? And then as the season is about to wrap up, Andrew actually says we should get a doctor. To which Jesus says, there is no need. You see? Not only is it a bit laughable, but it disagrees, and here's the real issue. It disagrees with the account that is found in the gospel according to Mark in chapter 1, where we read that the disciples went to Jesus And they told him about this poor old ill woman immediately. That's what it says in the Bible, immediately. Or some of your translations might say at once, which means immediately. And so this sort of almost sloppiness kind of that can make us feel like we're learning the Bible without actually learning the Bible, it it kind of gets stuck in my craw a little bit And perhaps it's a little consequence, but the way the chosen uh set the scene for one of Christ's miracles also kind of bugged me. It was something I just mentioned. It was a scene where the leper gets healed In the chosen, it happens out in the countryside with only a small smattering of disciples there to witness it and actually a Ethiopian woman kind of hiding behind the bushes spying and seeing the the miracle take place as well. But in the gospel according to Luke, we are told that this miracle happened not out in the countryside. But in a town. And then the gospel according to Matthew, Matthew records for us that it happened not when there's just a small smattering of people, but where there was a large crowd gathered. So this was a very public miracle. But you don't get that sense from the chosen. The TV scene simply doesn't match the biblical narrative. Are we all going to die and go to hell as a result? No. But they couldn't have done better. There was no reason not to shoot that scene in a fashion that would have been more in line with what we actually read in our Bibles. Something else that's likely of little consequence, but might be good for me to mention Dallas Jenkins, for what it's worth, has opted for late dating of Old Testament history For example, there's a flashback scene in season one back to the time of Moses, and the timestamp that's placed on the screen during the scene places it in the 13th century BC Now there are a lot of scholars who would agree with that dating, so that's fine as far as it goes, but there are a lot of others who argue for a 15th century BC dating. Earlier. In Episode 8, there's another flashback. This time it's Jacob digging his famous well. And the timestamp on the screen for that scene places it 2,000 years before Christ. An early date would have placed it nearly 200 years before this. Now I'm not sure it needs to mean anything, but I will honestly share with you that in my experience I have reason to be a little bit suspicious of people who are always pushing for late dates of things because so many of them. I can tell you so many. They have higher critical liberal agendas. There's a reason that they push for the late dates because they're trying to undercut our confidence in the historicity and the truth and the accuracy of the Bible. It couldn't have been written that early because it predicted something that happened and so they had to write it after, that kind of thinking. So they're pushing for late dating as opposed to early dating because then there's no miracles And I'm not saying that's the the motive for Dallas Jenkins. I don't know what the motive I'm not assigning a motive. I'm just saying that that's something that caught my attention and I'm here to help you know, equip you that you can notice those sorts of things, not just in the chosen, but in other things too. There's another flashback, it's in episode five. Where the young Jesus as a boy gets separated from his earthly parents because he had to be in his heavenly father's house. This is, of course, a relatively well-known story in the Bible. And I gotta say, I think the show does a really nice job with this scene. Sincerely, it's one of my favorite parts of the of the first season. I I think this is uh par excellence, this is a high watermark for the chosen Uh and they do a really nice job the Chosen does later in this same episode where they accurately mention that Jesus was likely a craftsman who did stonemason work in addition to working with wood. We always think of Jesus as a carpenter But in all likelihood he was more of a uh general contractor builder type who did work with wood but also worked with stone and did masonry work. as well and the chosen gets this right so good on them. In fact there's a third portion of the season that I really liked and it happened in that Jacob flashback that I mentioned a second ago about the dating issue Uh speaking of God, Jacob says on the show, we didn't choose him. He chose us. Yes, that's right. Good. I wish there was more Bible and more biblical theology like this in the show. Not that there aren't other biblical moments in the show, but they're almost always mixed with things that kind of sort of miss the mark, at least a little bit somehow. For example, Andrew He calls the Messiah the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And very early in the season, the disciples all somehow seem to know that Jesus is the Messiah, and they call him the Lamb of God. And to Zebedee, Jesus says that his earthly father Joseph is in heaven. Now all these things are true. But I think they're just slightly anachronistic because this is season one of seven Consider the chronology here. These truths might wouldn't have really struck these men that early in having just met Jesus. I think we could say that they believed in him in some sense. They had some understanding that he might be the Messiah, whatever that might have meant to them early on. But them fully grasping what it meant for him to be the Lamb of God, to understand that he actually was the Messiah with certainty I don't think we have reason from the Bible to believe that this happened for the disciples in season one of Christ's earthly ministry. So just a little out of step in time. I think, which could give us a false impression as we're reading through the Bible of what was going through the minds of the disciples in real history. I mentioned a couple of scenes from episode five that I really liked. And there's another scene from that very same episode that could have joined the list. But then unfortunately, sadly, the script writer dropped the ball. Simon, he references the story in this scene in the chosen of Elijah telling Elisha to follow him. Now the trouble with how Simon relates this story is it doesn't square with 1 Kings chapter 19. Elijah doesn't say anything at all in 1 Kings about following. Instead, what he does is he places his cloak on Elisha Indicating a transfer of ministry. And Elisha responds by saying that he will follow Elijah. So Elisha says something about following, but Elijah does not. So what does Elijah say? Well it's as if Elijah's channeling Diane Court and saying anything if you get the cultural reference. And he exclaims, and this is from the Bible. These aren't my this isn't a paraphrase. He says in the pages of the Bible, go back. What have I done to you? That's the polar opposite of follow me. There's a very different sense in the story that Simon says in the Chosen. Again, it's not the end of the world, but it's wrong. We get a very different sense of true history a few other times in the Chosen. One of these times is during that flashback scene to Moses that I mentioned. He's making the bronze serpent that we are all probably familiar with. We read about that in Numbers chapter 21. And Joshua in this scene in the chosen he challenges and he doubts Moses' leadership There is absolutely nothing in the Old Testament to suggest that anything like this argument ever would have happened. And as part of his argument, Joshua intimates that that bronze snake was a pagan symbol That is a modern insertion into the story. That's the kind of question people today kind of ask about and try to figure out. But Moses and Joshua, they would not have viewed that bronze snake as an idol any more than they would have viewed the the uh The uh the golden angels on the mercy seat of the Ark of the Covenant as idols. And Jesus makes it very clear in the New Testament, it was not an idol. This was not an issue for them thousands of years ago. It's become an issue for us in more recent years. Because again, what Christ is saying is it foreshadowed him as the Son of Man coming to save his people, right, being lifted up. That's what's going on To take this modern insertion and travel back in time thousands of years. Again, another example of the show trying a little too hard to connect with today's culture, today's audience. and and making our questions today the questions of yesteryear. There's another example of Dallas Jenkins trying too hard to connect with the culture today. And it has to do with the language that you used in the show. I don't know. I know some of you have watched the show. And this was a bit of a more of an annoyance thing that I'm going to mention, but the show is plagued. by so many trite American sayings throughout every episode, at least in season one. They're sayings that would have never been uttered a couple of thousand years ago. I'm talking about things like teacher's pet Get used to different. Crowd cleanup is a pain. We're sitting ducks. You're kidding. Trying to keep things under wraps That's not the language of 2,000 years ago. It feels so out of step with what's happening in the chosen. It pulls you out of time, actually. It was a distraction for me And there's a moment in episode six where Nicodemus he alludes to what today we would call the strisand effect, saying that trying to quiet John the Baptist had the opposite effect. It made him seem more legitimate in the eyes of uh of the people um in the area at the time. Uh now that John the Baptist has come up We should talk about his depiction in season one, and what I'm about to say is going to strike you as the meanest thing I say all night, because with regards to John the Baptist, basically we are given a fictional character The way he speaks of things in the show is almost socialist. Very negative attitude towards wealth. Indicates that people of means should give all that they have to the poor. And he's paid a visit by Nicodemus in the show. It's a visit that's mentioned nowhere in Scripture It's as though the character of John the Baptist in the show is made out of coal cloth. Like it's there's there's no there's almost zero connection to the Bible, sadly Now with his visit to John the Baptist, Nicodemus, he's positioned as a seeker, has questions about miracles, and a couple of episodes later, Nicodemus he's presented in a very favorable light again, which is understandable there's reasons from Scripture to present Nicodemus with some favorable light cast on him. But in this case, the favorable light is shining on him because Nicodemus suggests that he meet with Jesus at night under cover of darkness To protect Jesus. Now, in fairness, the Bible is silent on his motivations, but almost any interpreter that I'm familiar with believes that Nicodemus was motivated not to protect Jesus, but to protect himself out of fear of being found out. So it's interesting that the show decided to go in a completely different direction than almost every interpreter who's ever lived, how they've understood the passage for what that's worth. And it struck me as strange that a couple of the disciples were eavesdropping on the conversation between uh Jesus and Nicodemus. They're spying on their their beloved rabbi I don't know, maybe, but it's again it struck me as strange. And it struck me doubly strange when Jesus says at Nicodemus, Follow me, and I hope you will come with us. And it struck me as triply strange when Nicodemus bows and kisses Christ's hand and Jesus discourages this act of worship. And it was quadruplally strange when Jesus asks Nicodemus, what does your heart tell you? The same concept appears elsewhere in the season when Andrew says to Matthew, What good is our answer if you don't listen to yourself? Listen to yourself. Listen to your heart. Some of this stuff is simply creative license on steroids, I get it. So therefore it doesn't automatically necessitate a call for the crew of our Christian battleship to take up battle stations. However, Some of this stuff, it is blatantly unscriptural. The Bible does not tell us to follow our heart It does not. Instead, it tells us, as it does in Jeremiah chapter 17, verse 9, that, and this is a quote from Scripture, the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, who can know it? The question in the chosen is, what does your heart tell you? The question in God's Word is, who can even know the human heart? C one wraps up with Nicodemus conflicted about whether he should join Christ's traveling band of disciples, and he uh even leaves them a whole bunch of money to help them along their way and uh Jesus glances in the direction where he knows Nicodemus is hiding kind of behind the corner of a of a building and and Jesus says kind of almost under his breath he came so close. And my immediate reaction was Ugh. This is a big Beginning to smell a bit like Pelagianism, that old heresy that says people can save themselves. It certainly at least smells like the seeker-sensitive movement that has dominated uh the American church landscape for the better part of the past generation, at least until it even that movement surrendered to the postmodern cultural Marxism that seems to be ruling the ruse today. As attractive as some of these ideas might seem to our fleshly instincts, they're not the truth. The Apostle Paul in Romans chapter 3, where he's quoting from Psalm 14, so it's in the Old Testament and the New Testament. He says, There is no one righteous, not even one, there is no one who understands. There is no one who seeks God. If no one seeks God, this means Nicodemus did not seek God. He wasn't conflicted. Oh, what to do, what to do? I think I found God, but I don't know. Should I follow him? I have understanding, but what should I do about it? No. Nicodemus had no proper righteous understanding. Outside of Christ, no one does. And that's not me saying it. That's the Bible. Romans 3, verses 10 and 11, once more. There is no one righteous, not even one. There is no one who understands. All this changes When Christ calls himself, calls to himself those who are his, right, he seeks those who are lost. He chooses us. And we hear his voice. He changes hearts and he gives understanding, and his righteousness becomes his people's righteousness, and that's the gospel truth. Unfortunately, the the the chosen, it seems, misses this almost completely, really. It even possibly by accident could be subverting this gospel truth in the minds of some. So be aware. Be aware. There are a few remaining stray thoughts I want to share before we wrap up. I like that the chosen works to incorporate some of the teachings of Jesus. I do like that, however, the scripture tends to change Christ's words for some reason. I mean the show could have just used actual parables. They're in black and white in our Bibles But it chose not to. Now it's not the end of the world again. I think I've used that phrase a handful of times. But it does make the show, at the very least, just a bit less authentic. I think we can barely at least say that There's a running gag throughout season one. I don't know if everybody picked it up, but I did. The gag is that Simon runs slowly. In episode four, we see John running fast and Simon's plodding along. And then later in the series there's a joke at Simon's expense that's told. It's about him being a slow runner. And then it comes up again in the very final episode of season one, and all of this is alluding to the fact that John outran Peter to the empty tomb following Christ's resurrection. So it's a It's a clever thing for the show to have included the first time. Not quite so clever the second time. And for me personally, the joke had grown very tired by the end. The viewer, by the way, can see what seems to be some clear Roman Catholic influence in episode 5 with Jesus pretty much unable to refuse the request of his mother Mary at the Cana wedding. So we should need to keep in mind that one of the advisors for the show is said to be a Roman Catholic priest for what that's worth. And again, not the end of the world. But it is something for us to keep in the back of our mind because there's a reason that Protestants aren't Roman Catholic and there's a reason Roman Catholics aren't Protestant. There's some distinctives there, and so it just uh doesn't have to mean anything particularly, but it is something to make note of The final episode of the first season, it has Jesus talking to the Samaritan woman at the well, and a show accurately Makes it clear that she is the first person to whom Jesus publicly reveals himself as the Messiah. So the show gets that one right. But the Jesus character then adds a comment about the Jews destroying the Samaritan temple after the Samaritans had desecrated the Jewish temple, and he says it in such a way as to To intimate that the two temples were equivalent. That is not the case. They were not equivalent. One was the true temple, and one was a fraud. And finally, if you watch the show, you might notice that the actor who's portraying Jesus is quite a bit taller than almost any other actor. in the show. There are a couple of actors that are taller, but he's in the upper one percentile. We have no reason to believe that in real life Jesus was particularly tall. In fact, in Isaiah chapter 53, we are told that he had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him. Nothing in his appearance that we should desire him. So it actually seems unlikely that the Messiah's height would have been outside of the norms of the general population. He's probably average height. He wasn't particularly tall, I would guess But you know I got it in fairness to the chosen, it seems that all the movie makers, all the TV show makers, whenever they've got a character who's represent you know an actor representing Jesus It's always a tall actor, right? Jesus in these movies and TV shows is almost always one of the tallest people on the street. I guess they just can't help themselves. So as I end, I want to amplify a disclaimer that I said last time I was here. Watch the chosen if you want. Enjoy it. Seriously. Glean from it lessons, both positive and negative, that can be applied to your life And do this as you would, or at least as you should, with all that you watch, with all that you listen to. But don't look at this series as a replacement for the Bible. It's not that. And don't even look at the series really as a supplement to the Bible, because it's not really that. either. It is a well-made show that provides wholesome entertainment for hours on end and there is something to be said about that in today's world for sure And it can be used to jumpstart conversations, helpful conversations with your Christian brothers and sisters, or even with those who aren't Christians. I've heard stories from people that they were interested both uh what was being shown on the chosen, they didn't know a whole lot about Christianity. They showed up to a church and you know in relatively short order they uh they understood the gospel, accepted Jesus as their Lord and Savior. So the the chosen can be useful. Just like your kitchen knives can be useful. But they can be dangerous, those kitchen knives, right? And the chosen can be dangerous if we're not careful of exactly how We're using it and what it's giving us. But it can jumpstart those conversations to help us introduce to others the real true biblical historical Jesus The God man who rescues sinners from their death and sins, bringing his elect eternal life, a life that we will live with him in glory forever, following our King's return. And that's what's true. Because our Savior is worthy. He is so worthy. His life and work are perfect. As the show said even in season one, maybe a little early, but it said even in season one, he is the Lamb of God And he alone, as revealed to us in Holy Scripture, not as depicted to us on glowing screens of our electronic devices. No, but he alone as depicted in Scripture. Is worthy. We sing his praises. Let me pray. Father, we ask that you would help to fortify your people that we have increasing levels of discernment, that we would be so acquainted with the authentic that we would recognize things that are not authentic. That we would be equipped to chew the meat and spread out the bones. And that we would use things like the chosen to share the gospel with a lost, only broken world around us A world that lacks hope. And so they blom onto a show like the chosen because it seems to offer some hope. And in many ways it does. But what they really need is authentic biblical truth as their hope. So help us as your people to do that better. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. All right, let's uh stand and sing hymn number two six five, two six five redeemed We gave a Christian and stop just looking for We know how we need the I know how to be able to I think that I'm doing it. I believe I will. I know I cannot be died in all the women free to meet. I know what shall we do me but we never lie who loving me for work and Everyone may be seated. So we are going to share the Lord's Supper together, have uh our communion meal Um I was saying before we got started to a few people that were here early, this I think might be the fifth, possibly the sixth, it might be the fifth time that I've been here on a communion Sunday. And