Think we're counting down? We that looks like it's saying yes. Hello. Six o'clock. Six o'clock somewhere. Welcome Facebook family. Uh tonight we're going to be spending time looking at the first couple of verses in John's first epistle. First John. So if you have a Bible, you might want to grab that so you can pay attention. And I don't know if you're the kind of person that marks up your Bible, but I would encourage you to have at least one Bible in your life that you're willing to do that with, you know, get out some colored markers or different colored pens or pencils, something, so you can make little notes so that when you go back and you reference stuff that you've heard uh teaching on, sermons on, that you'll have an opportunity to refresh your memory. Oh yeah, remember that. It will help it come together and give you a fuller sense of what it is you're reading. probably within 48 hours, certainly within 48 months, you won't remember anything that was said. So taking little notes can be helpful. So if you want to grab your Bible and have it ready, we'll be spending a little bit of time referencing uh Romans Chapters five and six a little bit. You don't have to worry about turning there so much necessarily, but if you want to bookmark those parts of your your Bible, you can. It also uh will be in the book of Revelation for uh a very very short amount of time. So I'm just we're covering a lot. It's gonna be a relatively short message. This is um probably twenty minutes on the first two verses and then we'll spend probably next week about twenty minutes on the next two verses of of first John. So before we get any of that though, we have time for a joke. Yes, this is courtesy of my dad. Okay talk to him and he shared a joke so I thought, Well, why not? We'll share that one instead today. So he said, you know, Pastor's new into town and um doing his round making sure that he has dinner with each of the people in the congregation so that he can get to know them. And he goes to this one couple's house, lovely dinner, they're talking, everything's Great. And afterwards the pastor leaves, the husband and wife are talking, Oh, what's that nice? Yeah, that's nice. And they're cleaning up the kitchen and she says to him, Do you have the night I'm I'm I'm putting the dishes away and one of the knives is missing. Do you have it? And he's like, No, why would I have the knife? She says, Well, I don't want to seem bad, but I think pester Louis, we'll call him Pastor Louie. I think Pastor Louis stole the knife. You know, why would he steal a knife? I I don't know. I I don't have any other explanation. Well, fast forward an entire year And he's doing his visits again. And you know, she it kind of would always pop up in her head. So she says, Pastor Louis, you know, I I think you're great Great, I love how you are in church. Thank you for coming over again. But you know, I gotta ask you, did did you steal my knife? And he looked there and he said, No I put it in your Bible. She never read her Bible. Isn't that great? Are you feeling convicted? I thought that was funny. I was like, that's a good one. That is good. Thank you, gracious Heavenly Father, for another opportunity to meet Lord. We are coming together, Lord, in trying time. Yet there's still so many blessings to be found, Lord. Like we still have the freedom to come together and to read your word openly. And To worship you openly. We are still a very blessed people. And so we thank you for that. And we thank you for this time together. And we invite the presence of the Holy Spirit. spirit to speak through Pastor Troy to be in the conversations to enlighten our minds to quicken our spirits with truth and we ask Lord that whatever is shared whatever is stated is exactly what needs to be said uh to edify to correct to direct everyone who's listening both live and anyone who will listen to the recording of this session. So we thank you for it. We touched us in agreement. In Jesus' wonderful name. Amen. Amen. As we mentioned last week, we're you know we're attempting to see we can transition into something that's very similar to what we've been doing on Facebook, it would be exactly the same, but that it could transition into something beyond just what happens on Facebook So I mentioned again this week, anybody who's within driving distance of our home that would like to come and fellowship with us on Sundays, uh private message me if you have my email or phone number. give me a call. And the idea is that we would get together before six o'clock. And depending on everybody's schedules, maybe we can arrange a time where we could fellowship together over a meal. We could uh then in that context even have uh celebration and uh remembrance of the Lord's Supper. Uh we could pray together, we could share life together, we could be iron-sharpening iron together, we could begin to function kind of like the body of Christ. Imagine that. And then and we maybe could sing some songs and do some praise and worship uh in that way together. And then Then at six o'clock, all of that would stop and we'd go to Facebook Live and we would have a sermon message rather than just some open hot topic issue like we've been doing recently, we'd actually have a sermon. And the conclusion of the sermon, have a discussion about what was talked about in the sermon, kind of like what we do with our hot topics, where we we had an opening message and then discussion. So this is our first week where we're going to try to put some of that in practice. And so we're actually having a sermon. This first John chapter 1 stuff is a Isn't just some random thought. This is meant to be a sermon, a word from God to you. And so I'm gonna figure out what ends up making the most sense, but I feel awkward delivering a sermon sitting on the couch so I'm going to actually go reposition myself over here in just a second uh and kind of treat that as the pulpit and be standing in the pulpit to share God's word. Also if I get into that habit if people start to come and show up at our house, people can gather in this part of the room and it'll be a little easier to to preach to God's people. And I I mentioned taking notes in your Bible if you want. I encourage you to always do that. But also if you have questions or things that come up during the the message and you want to put them in the comment section of this Facebook post, we can address them during the comments Later as well. And I think you'll be able to hear me. I actually tested this the other day. It sounds like the volume was okay. So Actually let me open with a uh with a word of prayer real quick. Father, we thank you for giving your written, revealed word to us that we can glean so many lessons for our life, but most importantly, that point us to our need and dependence on the blood of Jesus Christ. We ask that you would clear our mind, unclutter our thoughts, open our hearts to receive your truth. Help us to stay focused on what it is to be Christ's bride. And for those who don't yet know what it is to be within the body of Christ We ask that your spirit would move, even through Facebook, to turn a heart and change a life. In Christ's name we pray Amen. So we're going to be focusing on first John chapter one verses one and two, but to give us a slightly broader context and then to read the first four verses. So 1 John 1, 1 through 4 say, That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked at in our hands. Hands have touched. This we proclaim concerning the word of life. The life appeared. We have seen it and testified to it. And we proclaim to you the eternal life, which was With the Father and has appeared to us. We proclaim to you what we have seen and heard so that you also may have fellowship with us. And our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. We write this to make our joy complete. This is the inspired, inerrant, infallible word of God, those who have Ears to hear, let them hear. So unlike what we're used to seeing in most of the other books of the New Testament. The first epistle of John, it does not open with a friendly greeting and a formal declaration of authorship. Instead, we find that we are getting square in the jaw with the gospel message. This is a letter about Jesus. And John wastes no time telling us what we need to know about Jesus. The very first sentence says so much. I doubt actually that I've ever said so much in any single sentence uttered during my entire existence. In just one sentence, John tells us that Jesus Is both God and man. And we can trust that it's true because there are witnesses, and that our very life depends on believing it. I wonder, I doubt, if I've ever said so much in any single paragraph that I've uttered during my entire existence. The first phrase in the sentence, that which was from the beginning. reminds us that the Son of God has been around since the beginning. Now think of the implications. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. That is the famous first sentence of the Bible. Genesis chapter 1, verse 1. So in this very first phrase that we find in 1 John, John is telling us something incredible. Jesus is God. Now, tell me something, I don't know, you might say. Of course Jesus is God, you're thinking, right? Well, many today do take John's claim of Jesus has been However, there must be a reason that John reminds us of this truth. So let's ponder that for a moment. Because remember, this letter, it was written to the church. The intended audience is a group of people who already profess to believe. Throughout this epistle, John uses words like my children and friends, and he uses the word we when he's talking about the fellowship of believers. He has a Christian audience in mind. And many in John's original audience, perhaps even some people in today's audience, might also have become believers Because of some of the other things that John had said or written during his life and ministry, such as what we see in a little bit earlier in the New Testament, things like Like in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. That's the familiar refrain from John's Gospel account Chapter 1, verse 1. By the way, verse 2 from John's Gospel account says he was with God in the beginning. There's that word beginning again in 2 It reminds me of Jesus in the book of Revelation, also written by John, saying that he is the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning. And the end. So this is a familiar turf, very familiar turf for John. And yet he doesn't spend much time waxing eloquent. At least not here in 1 John chapter 1, he doesn't. It seems that there must have been some professing Christians in John's day who denied the deity of Christ. Well, we have professing Christians today who do the very same thing. And John tackles this issue head-on. He does not get bogged down in Argumentative style points, John wastes no time reaffirming the truth. It is an absolute important truth. It is the absolute important truth. Truth and we must never forget it. And this is why it is John's lead, his headline in the newspaper business. The editors they try to capture the attention of a reader by by centering on the and capturing the most important point of a story in a bold headline. In the electronic news media industry The same thing is accomplished by using a a strong opening statement that captures the the central aspect of a news story. This is called the lead. One of the worst technical mistakes that a newswriter, an electron Electronic media can make is failure to have a strong lead or to altogether miss the central point of the story in the opening sentence. This is called burying the lead John does not bury the lead, not in the least, right off the bat, he is sure to announce the fact that Jesus is God. And some might have their doubts. But John will have none of that. As I mentioned a moment ago, John tells us that the Son was from the beginning, which means that he is God. And then John says. I heard what he had to say. He says, I saw him with my very own eyes. He says, I touched him with my very own hands. This is exactly what John is saying in the middle part of verse 1. Well, almost exactly. John doesn't say, I saw, touched, and heard Jesus. Jesus. John says, we saw, touched, and heard Jesus. You and I don't simply have to take John's word for it. There are a bunch of other witnesses who echo what it is that he has to say. And perhaps you've heard of them, I can almost hear John say in the background as I read between the lines. The apostles These apostles didn't simply glean a passing glance of their Lord, but they saw him, heard him Touched him. They experienced him. This is Much, much more than mere hearsay. And this is what John is saying to us in the middle third. of this first sentence. And yet he's saying so much more. John isn't only saying that there are a bunch of trustworthy Witnesses out there proclaiming the truth of what they experienced. Although let's not forget the importance of this Jesus himself, he teaches us in Matthew chapter 18 The importance of every matter being established by the testimony of two or three witnesses. But the fact that these witnesses experience Jesus in such a personal way It tells us something else of monumental importance. Jesus is a man. Boy, you know, John, they can almost appear to be schizophrenic. Right after John tells us Jesus is God, he then tells us Jesus is a man. I mean, wow, is God but a mere man to be seen and touched? I mean God tells Moses in Exodus chapter 33 that no one may see his face And yet here we have John saying that God is not only seen, but touched too. And not just once, but over the course of Jesus' full life and ministry. How can this be? It can only be if Jesus is not only fully God, but also fully man Which, of course, he is. Colossians chapter 2, verse 9 tells us that in Christ all the fullness of the deity lives in bodily form. Paul repeatedly tells us that one man, Jesus Christ, is the key to our salvation that only God can save. In fact, Paul uses the exact words one man, Jesus Christ, twice, almost within the same breath, in Romans chapter 5. And so John, he's not telling us something that we aren't here. Now the final third of this very first sentence And with Jesus identified as the word of life. Once again, we're reminded of John's gospel account, aren't we? Jesus is the word of life Word of life. The word is powerful. God speaks, things happen. Let there be light. Bingo. It's better than those old TV commercials for the clapper. Clapper on TV never said, let us make man in our image. At least not the commercials I ever saw. God reveals himself through his word. God reveals Himself to us in the person of Jesus Christ. The Word Is good. The word is perfect. The word is God Now Johnny doesn't merely say here in verse 1 that Jesus is the word and leave it at that. He says Jesus is the word of life. There is life in the Word. We're again reminded of the book of Genesis and the tree of life, and again of Revelation, and the book of life. We might also be reminded of the flip side of the equation. The opposite of life is death. Life is found in the Word. Death is found in sin. See the last half of Romans chapter 5 So not only is this important stuff, it's literally John telling us, and Issue of life and death. In Romans chapter 6, verse 23, Paul writes: the wages of sin is death Have you ever sinned? It's a rhetorical question, by the way. Well, if you've sinned Then on payday, when you go to collect your paycheck, your wages will be death. That is both before and after taxes. That is what you have earned. However, Paul goes on in the last half of verse 23 to say, but the gift of God is eternal life In Christ Jesus our Lord. This is exactly what John is saying. 1 John. We have eternal life if we are in Christ Jesus, because Christ Jesus is the word of life. In Jesus we have eternal life. Now this might not sound like any great shakes to someone who's depressed and stressed or disillusioned about the things of this life. But what if you could have eternal life and you never had to pay those taxes that I mentioned a moment. moment ago. What if you never threw out your back, mowing along, struggling the snow? What if you never Or to grow weary or get sick, never struggle with issues of aging Or ever have to be concerned for the welfare of a loved one. Now eternal life takes on. new dimension. Well, Revelation chapter 21 gives us a small glimpse of what the Christian's eternal life is like. Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying Or pain. That's living See, John, he doesn't tell us that Jesus is the word of mere eternal existence. He is the word. Of life. In Christ, we have in the fullest, most complete, and perfect sense of the word, eternal life. John packs all of this Into one sentence. What took me more than a thousand words to say, John says in just one verse. And then in verse two, he tells us the same thing all over again for emphasis, but in a slightly slightly different order. In verse 2, John tells us his reader Basically, that Jesus, who is the Word of Life, appeared. We witnessed this appearance, and now we're telling you about it. And what we're telling you about This appearance is critical because it has eternal life and death implications. Since what we're talking about here is God. By the way, did I mention that he's appeared to us? That essentially is verse 2 So after John tells us what he has to say, and then he he provides the reason we can have confidence in believing it, and then he reiterates his points in verse 2. For emphasis, he then gives us the why. And that is the question we will answer next week. week when we look at verses 3 and 4. So let me close with a word of prayer and then we'll have discussion. And if you have points of discussion you'd like us to raise, enter them in the comment section of our Facebook Father, we thank you for the glorious truth that we have salvation in Christ. Some more of offended that there that the Christian claim is there's just one way. That the biblical claim is that there's just one way to salvation. We praise you and adore you. You must thank you that there is a way. And you've made that way abundantly clear, and you've called those who are yours to yourself so we would walk in this way, empowered by your spirit to live increasingly obedient lives. help us to apply this word to our lives so we can do just that. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Amen. So now I'm gonna come rejoin the discussion table. Did anybody have any comments on the Facebook by the way? No, we We have people watching. Okay. But no comments. All right. So I have a question. Um when um someone's sitting in church and there's a pastor is you know doing a a sermon or you know a a message or whatever And they say, um, you know, Jesus is a way to get to heaven. That's what we believe here, but you are free to believe how you believe. How how is someone um to respond to that after hearing now that we know that Jesus is fully fully man. Are they visiting or they're we can get into the th those weeds in a minute. So if you're in a church and you hear that kind of a message, either it is a think of that as well. Either it is a profess a a a professing Christian church, meaning it is someone that is claiming to be a Christian church, that in fact is not, or it's not even somebody that's claiming to be claiming or professing to be a Christian church. If they're claiming to be a professor uh professing to be a Christian church Uh either that's a really, really, really bad pastor needs to be held account uh and they need to figure out how to fix that. Uh that sh that congregation does. immediately um or it's what are referred to as the Christian cults. So like the Unitarian and Unity Church movement, for example, would think things like that. They would affirm that the Bible is scripture among a pantheon of scriptures and that Jesus, yeah, you know, he he's God. You know, he's God, but we all have God in us. We all we're all God in a sense. We all have the the light within and and Christ was maybe the b brightest burning And so he's a good example and a good life coach and and those sorts of things. But yeah, God is love and certainly he wouldn't restrict it to just any one particular way So I'll say this. If somebody who teaches that is right, then all Christianity has been wrong the whole time. including Jesus Christ himself, was wrong about who he himself was. So if Christ is actually who he says he is, then that sort of message is is not only not the gospel, it's opposed to the gospel, it's an enemy of the gospel. And those are the kinds of things actually that John in his letter is is addressing uh throughout the letter As we progress through this series of first John, we're gonna see that there's nothing new under the sun. I don't think is that what you're asking? You're asking what you should do about it? No. If you're visiting, don't go back. Right If it's your church, you need to go talk to the pastor and say that was not biblical and I'm holding you accountable and we need to figure this out because that is not the truth. You do it in a gentle like out of gentleness Well I'll some conversations I'll have with you know people in passing and they'll talk about their church and they'll talk about oh it was such a great message and it was you know, how much God loves us and that, you know, there is other ways, you know, Jesus is the way in the truth, but there's also wisdom in knowing that you know this is also acceptable because God is love and and there and so that's kind of a theme I'm sensing Frederick for the American the Western Church. Well, you know, somebody a friend of ours, John. Uh John. He he's fond of saying we both we all happen to know John. Uh John is fond of saying that uh uh there are there are many paths to God. They all pass through Christ. You know, so the only path to God is through the Son of God That is clear from uh Christ's own teaching in the gospel narrative. So uh anybody that's claiming other so that's different though. That's not you were sitting under that teaching yourself and how That's you have friends who are in that and they're talking about how much they love the message and they love their pastor and they're trying to get you to love it too, probably. Right. Yeah, I think that's so con Right, wouldn't you agree? It's contextual based on the nature of a relationship and and how you're gonna try to interact with that. Um you're not doing them any favors living letting them live there. Right? Letting them wallow in a lie is not like Affirming that's not the loving thing to do. So if you truly love somebody that's that lost about what they think the truth is, uh you should be motivated to try to find a way that would possibly connect with with them to share the truth with them and then see if you know God and his spirit is you know God's gonna choose to work through you by his spirit in the life of that person. It is what's winning the day right now. That is even in evangelical churches, uh that is becoming more and more problematic where uh people aren't standing on the truth of the gospel. You know, redefining justice even, I mean it's gets all It is I'm seeing for the first time, I don't know if you agree with this, Angela, that um the gate to heaven is narrow. I mean scripture talks about it being narrow for the first time in my life I'm seeing how narrow it is to the point where I'm like, Oh, I hope I'm in. You know, I have to constantly ask God to show me my and show me my blind spots to make sure that I'm going through that gate. Um do you find that too in your social circles? Um I mean you're involved in the political world. Uh-huh. Are you seeing a narrower gate? Or have you just always been alluming into that? Well I guess it Today's American Christian environment, I haven't seen it so much in terms of gates. I've just seen it I think I've seen what you're saying just in terms of a great the the the great apostasy that's spoken of in um the book of First Thessalonians, the grace falling away from the true faith and you know yeah. And you know, the the the the warning Paul gave to Timothy that, you know, in in the latter days there would be many that will stray from the true word and pay attention to you know the doctrine of demons. Stray a w stray away from the truth. I'm seeing it in those terms. I'm just seeing it in terms of people um either being true to the gospel message or not and those being true to it to your point. they're walking in this straight narrow road. Those who want um God to be more inclusive because it makes them more comfortable, they're falling away. And and they're calling the they're they're maligning the true way as hateful, as narrow minded. Right. And um I'm just it just reminds me that that the real gospel will be offensive to those who are are rebellious to it. And um I'm not saying I like what I see, but I'm I'm i i i it it's it's thrilling to see scripture come to life in that way when you see it come to pass mm-hmm and it it helps you to gauge where we are in in in history and in know, on on on the road to salvation. And uh so um but I just wanted to make uh just an interesting point that came up along these lines that as you were talking about the narrow way That that there's only one way and Christ did that way. Just this thought came to me, I thought it was interesting. The thought was, you know, if God had provided many many, many ways for for he for people to come to him. People would I this is what I think would would have would have happened. People would have said there are so many ways, how can you figure figure out which way. I mean people would have been arguing over which way was the best way, which way was really the right but he made it easy for us by giving us just one way. That's actually a really good point. You know, I mean, what if we wanted to get from here to New York and there was literally only one road, no matter where you were in the US that you could travel You wouldn't get lost. You wouldn't get nobody would ever get lost, right? Or or wherever the death nobody would ever get lost because they would know you have to take interstate to that And that's the only interstate that's going to get you there. Right. Because if you took a different interstate, you'd go to Albuquerque. Exactly. Anywhere but that destination. So God in a way made it easy for us. Uh by giving us Jesus Christ as saying, this is your way, you don't even have to worry about you don't even have to contemplate a different way. Right. This is your way. Now what are people arguing? See, that's the simple heart of humanity. People are saying, oh, but it's so mean. You're so mean God, how can a how could a loving God do that? I want to go this way. I want to get to the North Pole, you know, taking 70 east. So what's interesting It's actually not mean when I mean, I know what you're saying, but when you think about what the gospel message is, all the work's been done for you Mm-hmm. You don't even have to do anything. You just have to rest in that and embrace that and receive it. Mm-hmm. How does that mean? And it's for everybody. It's ever Everybody's entitled to that. Talk about a society where we feel like we're entitled. You're entitled just because you are God's pinnacle of creation. because you are his most prized possession of creation. You are like the be all get all. So that, okay, be entitled, but do it his way. Do it his way. Which is done for you. For those of us in our society in who want to just have Have everything done for us. Oh let this person do that. Let I'll just sit. This is the gospel should like make you smile. You know, like it should make you rejoice. It is done for you. And that's usually the thing that people if you if you get beneath the layers of the onion a little bit, uh most people end up not being offended that there's only one way, they get offended that the way that there is doesn't require anything of them. They can't earn it. They can't work their way to it. Because when people want multiple ways, that's what they're saying. I want to choose my own path and carve my own way and earn my own ticket into heaven. My my you know, I want to determine my own path uh into a righteous standing before God. And so every Everybody can have their own path, their own way of getting there, uh, but that has them working toward it, working for it. And the Christian message is that it's done for you. you. No no no no. That can't be the answer. It can't be that's done for me. So what is the way that I'm gonna no no there is no way for you to do it. God provided the way and He's done it for you. Okay I just got done telling you that can't be the answer It has to be one of these other myriad ways and there's seven billion people on the planet and they can all have their own way. There and and the logic makes sense. All seven billion people could have their own way of working towards it, right? There's probably seven billion I'm wondering, can you remember, you know, way back when before you had a a biblically Christian point of view on who Jesus is, what your view of Jesus was. Did you think of him as this hyper spiritual God in the sky? Did you think of him as And what did that mean to you? Um spiritualized? Yeah. Yeah Like I didn't realize he was God or is God. I I thought he thought he was the son of God, like a step down from God. Correct. He you know, like he had he was like the g like he was God right hand man, so to speak. You know, he got he got all the perks and the rest of us would just get the leftovers. The whole concept of being a co heir, when I found that out, you know, I was like Really? Wow. So he shares all of that with us. Jesus called that shotgun. Ryan shotgun with God the Father. Yeah, absolutely. Interesting. Yeah, I I too was confused about what Son of God meant, and I didn't realize that it meant He's of God as well. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, well that's one of the you know, the the Trinity's not exactly the main thing of you here, but the you know the full God, full man aspect of Christ uh and and his personhood, who is Who is Christ? And that's a tough one. The Trinity is the same thing. How can you have three gods who are one God? Well there are three gods. There's one God and three persons. Well what do you mean? A person's that that's just a different word for gods. No, it's not. Get into like this really deep philosophical, theological kind of language that try that basically just helps to try to explain what the Bible teaches so that it so that we can properly label it, but not so that we can fully get our arms around it so that our fingers touch on the other side. It's not it's it's one of the mysteries. So the Bible teaches that there is one God In three persons. The Bible teaches that Jesus is both God and man. He's not half God, half man. He is fully God and fully man at the same time. Like how is that possible? The Bible just says it's true. And that's one of the things that John reason I asked you I wasn't sure in my experience I think a lot of uh people People with a Roman Catholic background have a tendency to think about Jesus in in in in big spiritual ideas. He's up there somewhere And he's unattainable and he is so other Well I thought he lived in heaven. He's so other that we can't even really pray to him. We have to pray to the saints because he's like so up there kind of a thing. And then a lot of people in uh non-Cat Roman Catholic circles have a tendency uh to think of it as merely his human existence. He was a good Example of um some argued they didn't even exist. That's one of the things that we can get from first John is it's rooted in history. John is saying that he really actually is a historical figure. There's this guy Jesus. I can prove it to you. Me and a bunch of other people saw him and heard him and touched him And he really truly did exist, and yet this person we know as Jesus, who really did exist as a man, walking the planet, has been from the beginning. And that I I think that if there's a a weakness in our present day understanding of of uh of of Jesus and God is to is to pick one or the other I think the Holy Spirit was probably the easiest part of the Trinity for me to understand. Um I just felt like, oh, when I have an intuition of you know a a a impression that that's the Holy Spirit because God would never talk to me because 'cause I used to separate, you know, and in my mind I didn't see them as one. I saw them as one but separate. So um in my mind it was like, oh okay, I'm not worthy of God to speak to me directly. So So he'll use his helper, because the Holy Spirit is a helper. And so I was able to receive that and digest that easier. Correct. So that's wrong thinking. I'm just saying that's how I understood it. Hmm. Because the Holy Spirit in my My former thinking in my you know, before I was saved, the Holy Spirit was lesser for lack of a better word, and I don't mean that. No, and so it was like, oh okay, I I'm I it's okay for me to hear that because if I s I used to be deathly afraid of God. Like I will die if I'm getting God's presence. Like he's uh he's so good and I'm so rotten. So that to me was like, okay, well the Holy Spirit won't kill me. No, no, not at all. So that's kinda how I thought of it. So kind of the way that I'm able to I finally was able to un I I think I understand the G Jesus is God um dynamic. This is a this is uh you know it came from that scripture in the Bible that says um you know just like the body without the spirit is dead, so the husband I'm sorry, I just got a rank for you. Um anyway said the body without the spirit is dead Okay. So I began looking at the body as sort of like a container. Okay. And so I envision the Holy Spirit putting the spirit of Christ into a container that Mary carried. That's how I I envision Jesus in his com in his in Against humanity. I'll give you a different example. If God took our spirits and put it in the body of a canine We would be a spirit, a human spirit in the body of a canine. And our spirit would give energy to that canine body. It's a diminishment to become a dog in that way. And I think this is the the same thing happens happened with God, it was a diminishment for him in a way. It didn't diminish his goodness and his godliness, just diminished. Yeah, it was a condescension. It was a it was a condescending Condescentian, but God put his spirit in a human body, which actually when you think about it, it really complements the human body quite He compliments us so much. Oh yeah. So it compliments us that God would be willing to do this. Right. Because he did not put his spirit into the body of a dog. Right. He did not put his spirit into the body of a monkey either. Right. Or a whale or whatever. Into the body of a human being. And and that's how he took on our humanity is like putting his spirit right in a body in a human body and so that's how I'm able to invis to visualize him as being human. only because he put his spirit into a human body. Why? So that he could come and be with us, which is so incredibly sweet. These sort of word pictures can be helpful as you try to grapple with you know our finite minds understanding the infinite. Yeah you've heard the stories about uh God is like water, you know, it uh it's like HT H two O. There's there's steam, there's water, there's ice. It's all H2O but three different forms. That can be helpful in some sense. However, that is If you want to apply that exactly, you're guilty of a heresy called modalism. And so y you gotta you gotta be that's not exactly what we should think. God is not one God who presents and three different fashions where he's sometimes a s uh uh uh um not an aerosol, a spheme, uh a vapor. Sometimes a liquid and sometimes a solid. That's so that's modalism, that's wrong. And yet sometimes that can be helpful. Sometimes you'll talk about uh well I'm I'm my my children's father and I'm my uh the the place of business I'm their employee and I'm her uh Dina's husband and so I'm I've but but that's uh different aspects of one personality that doesn't get at the three personhood of God, and so that misses the mark and And like the thing about Jesus and his spirit, that's helpful, but we want to be careful because uh the Son, the Father, the Son, Holy Spirit are all God and the attributes of God are true for all of them always eternally and one of the attributes of God is omnipresence. So God is everywhere, so we want to be careful that we don't get in this idea that this sun this the the the the the the sun person of the Trinity is merely contained in this six footish tall human body. So did Jesus limit himself and not I mean he was fully god and fully man, but he must have limited his fully godness because he wasn't everywhere all the time as a man No, so yeah, so this is now we're getting into the fun stuff, right? Yeah. So right? No, Jesus So here's the thing And you'll notice I said it carefully in the sermon. The Son is from the beginning. The Son of God Is with God, was God, is there the beginning, is the Creator God. Jesus wasn't there. Jesus hadn't been conceived in the So the humanity of Christ is not uh it is not eternity beginning to end. But the sun is. And so those limits when we think about Jesus Christ walking walking the dusty roads of of Israel. Uh his limitations were uh were attributes of his humanity. But he didn't stop being the son. Correct. So the Son of God, the Son of God is embodied in as as I referenced actually in the sermon. is is is is the fullness of the deity embodied in Christ and yet he's not limited by that body The Son of God is everywhere all the time. Because we've got to remember, we can't think in those dimensions. So he could have transported himself as Jesus if he wanted to. Well I think he had the Holy Spirit to tell him whatever he needed to know. Right. And the Holy Spirit was everywhere all the time. Sure. I'm trying to think of how to make this like really accessible as possible. It's important for us to remember that all the language that we use, even when, and hopefully we're as consistently as possible using biblical language, Even when it's biblical language, it's still language that's anthropomorphized. It's it's language that is about it's from a human perspective about a human experience so that we can try as humans to access the information and make some sense of it. Because God is other. God is spirit. He has no bound. He's not bound by space. He's not bound by time. And this is one of the things that uh you know I've I've said a number of times over the years. God didn't only make everything that is. He created the space within which to place it. There was no space. Can you get your head around that? I can't. There was no such thing as space until God created space. We can't think in terms outside of a chronological progression of moments, which we call time. We can't think outside of that because that's the only frame of reference and ex experience that we have. And yet there was no time until God created time. When we say until time, it makes it sound like there was a a time before time, which is a time reference. Right. Like we have to use language that almost like self-defeats the argument because we have no other language available to us. It's all we have And so we so our language limits how fully we can express the reality that is God. God is outside of time and yet he's also Inside of time. God is not bound by space and yet He is also fully within space. There is no anything where God isn't. Uh I uh a a former pastor of ours uh once helped me come to this place like twenty years ago almost now and and I have this epi this epiphany. I'm not sure this is always the best way to think about it, but like Angela's uh example of the spirit dwelling in Christ and and how it it can be helpful in certain ways to think in the terms of for God, all of history exists as one One eternal instant. So for him it's not a passage of time. He sees it all at the quote unquote same time, if you will. It's like a still shot, but obviously there's movement within that still shot because we're moving We're animated. And so it it's hard to like fully understand, but that helps me to understand how God knows the beginning from the end. There's no surprise for God, he sees it all. And I think it's a good idea. At the same time, and I think a big mistake that we can make is trying to understand every every you know trying to understand every intimate every Every thing about God that there is. We can't do it. Right. Yeah. It's beyond us. And and what reminds me of that is that I can't even understand everything in his creation. Right. So what would make me think I can understand everything about him? And and and we can get caught up uh you know with especially with people who you know who who want to intellectually argue these things with with us ad infinitum and force us to explain it before they will accept Christ. Well, if you have to under understand everything to the nth degree before you accept Christ, what that's really telling you is that you just really don't want to accept him because you can't even do that with things in the world that you receive by faith and you accept by faith. You probably cannot explain how your car works, but you but you know that's a good idea. Well I I feel one better. I I I'll say you know we'll role play, let's say you're that person say, Angela, do you believe that you exist Can you explain everything about yourself? There you go. I mean have you ever in your life said, I have no idea why I did that? Or I don't know why I always do that. I don't even understand myself sometimes. Or you don't understand the inner workings of why do you have an appendix? But you don't understand any of that, so therefore you can't if you're gonna be consistent and You're very intellectually honest. You can't believe that you yourself exist. And yet you do. And yet you do. And you and you and you receive that and you don't worry about it Um so yeah, I there there there these these the intellectual discussions about, you know, how was God a man, you know, to a point it's helpful to have a conversations but at a certain point it's like look let it go God became if God can do anything can he become a man Right. Hello? Yeah. Yeah. And if we seek to understand that we need to seek the answers in his written word because that's where you know, that's where he that's where we have something that's you know, solid to to study over and over again and discuss his father and at the same time we take a measure of humility, knowing that his ways are not our ways and he's so he's so different. But he's not Utterly and completely different. Some people make that mistake. They'll say, oh, God is so other. And the problem is exactly what we're just talking about. If He's so other, we have no access point to understand him even a little bit. We can't hear from God. If he's so other he can't talk to us. If he's so other we can't have a relationship with him, which we have to. Which is why it's important to understand that we've been created in And so he's not so other. We're we're image bearers. We have something attributes important in common which allows us to have a a relationship with him. If he was completely other, he we we wouldn't know he exists. We couldn't know he exists. And yet all of that and we do have to be careful about you know drifting into heresy With our digging too deep, but it's only a measure of humility and we try to be rooted in the word. We have people who are iron-sharpening iron, holding us accountable to the truth of the revealed written word, we are invited to wrestle with God. You know, so we are to to to to cling to him and wrestle with him and and come to know him better, to understand and know his blessing on our lives. And so Well, that's seeking him. So we don't want to make the mistake of saying, oh well I can't know anything and I just have a personal relationship with Jesus and that's enough. We are invited and I would suggest it's it's the kind of invitation that that commands a response, we are invited to to dig deeper and to come to know him better, to come to know ourselves better in relation to him. And I think one the joys of eternity is that we will spend all of eternity getting to know him better because we can't ever fully know him because he is eternal. So we will spend all of eternity getting to know him better better but as you were saying that I we even have a human analogy that we keep we can compare this to. And that's our own birth. You know when when our mothers gave birth to us we didn't understand our mothers from day one. Right. We just knew that I like this person because this person's real nice to meet me. She, you know, when I when I when I need to be held, she this f I like the person that holds me and feeds me. And we intellectually do we understand Our mother. You know, but we understood them and our fathers over time better. You know He's in a dog park, I'm sure he's probably got a dog. express themselves, we don't know how to express our hurts and our wants and our needs. And so just like God, when we don't know what to say, God gives us the words. And so how How many times in a little kid, if they're crying and they're distraught, and and the mother knows her child well enough, they can guess and say, Oh, did you hurt your knee? And they're like, Yeah, that was it. That's the word I couldn't find. I hurt my knee Right, so yeah. I like that. Alright, were there any uh shout outs you have to worry about on Facebook or any questions that came up that you You know. Alright. Well we're we're uh just shy of an hour. Anything else you wanted to add before we wrap up? No, no things. You? Alright, well then Then we'll close. All right. Does one of you two ladies want to close in prayer? Because I talked an all floor today. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time together worshiping you, fellowship, and message. Pray that we would indeed seek you more, that we would understand the relationship of the Trinity, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, that we would truly understand how much you love us. the sacrifice you made through Jesus, your son, your only son, so that we can be with you not only eternally in the afterlife in heaven, but But now that your Holy Spirit comes to live in us now, to those who accept your gift of salvation. I pray that you would be glorified throughout our week, pray that you would lead us not into temptation, that you would deliver us from evil, and that you would show us even a little bit more of yourself that we we can grow um closer to you but closer to each other and I pray that we would have revival in our land I know that the remnant is always present, but I do pray for a resurgence of your power in this land to just take off like wildflowers. or wild wildfire that it would just truly burn up all the evil in this land. There's so much. There's different seasons and it just seems like now we're in the season And where right is wrong and wrong is right, and I pray that you would do away with that. That we know that judgment comes to your church first, so I pray that the church will wake up and recognize Recognize that you are truly the only way of eternal life. Thank you for this time. May you be glorified in Jesus' name. Well thank you for uh annealing what we're and listening to what we're doing today. Again a reminder if you want to come and be with us in person, you live close enough to do that, you're you're invited. Just private message me on Facebook or contact me some other way and uh we'll coordinate and make sure that we're ready for Well let me turn it off. I guess the spirit wants more.