Welcome to the live stream for what we do here every week at the Household of Faith in Christ. You can follow us online at Household of Faith in Christ. Today we're uh throwing you a bit of a change-up. So you're gonna want to turn your Bibles instead of going all the way to the end of your Bible. You want to go close to the front of your Bible. We're gonna be in the Old Testament today in the book of Exodus specifically chapter 17. So you want to definitely uh open up to there, I would encourage you to anyway, for a message that is titled The Impeachment of God. So admit it, we are all grumblers. We grumble about our low pay, about our poor working conditions, our idiotic co-workers. If we're unemployed, we grumble about the stagnant uh stagnant economy, corporate greed, the injury that forced us onto disability. We grumble that our husband leaves dirty socks scattered all throughout the house. We grumble that our wives save us so much money every time there's a sale. We grumble that our kids don't listen. That our parents won't listen, and that our friends are all too eager to listen, then sharing what we said with others. And let's face it, we grumble against God. We might rightly grumble against the selfish injustice of the world, but we also grumble against God. There's a story in the Bible about God's people grumbling against him and what this says about us. It also tells us of God's response to this grumbling and what this says about him. Exodus 17 contains one of my most favorite stories about Jesus. So if you haven't already done so, you're going to want to turn there. Exodus chapter 17, verses 1 through 7, and you heard me right. One of my favorite stories about Jesus. We are most definitely going to be having a densely packed Bible message today. So uh perk up your ears, be ready to dive into the the scriptures beginning with Exodus chapter 17, which says The whole Israelite community set out from the desert of sin, traveling from place to place as the Lord commanded. They camped at Rephedim, but there was no water for the people to drink, so they quarreled with Moses and said, Give us water to drink. Moses replied, Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you put the Lord to the test? But the people were thirsty for water there, and they grumbled against Moses. They said, Why did you bring us up out of Egypt to make us and our children and livestock die of thirst? Then Moses cried out to the Lord, What am I to do with these people? They are almost ready to stone me. The Lord answered Moses. Go out in front of the people, take with you some of the elders of Israel, and take in your hand the staff with which you struck the Nile, and go. I will stand there before you by the rock at Oreb, strike the rock, and water will come out of it for the people to drink. So Moses did this in the sight of the elders of Israel, and he called the place Masa and Narebah, because the Israelites quarreled. And because they tested the Lord, saying, is the Lord among us or not? This is the God-breathed word of our scriptures, inerrant, inspired, fully sufficient as the rule and guide for our faith and our life practice, those with ears to hear. Let them hear. So to begin, I am going to uh hit you with a pretty heavy theological thought. A thought that helps us all to better appreciate more fully how Christ is the main character of Exodus generally, and of this passage within Exodus particularly You might think the only place that we find Gospels is in the New Testament. However, in studying the book of Exodus, we find that there are Gospels Even in the Old Testament. Let me clarify, I'm defining the gospel genre as any book of the Bible centering on a divine covenant. And also focusing on the career and teaching of the covenant mediator. And this is exactly the situation with Moses in Exodus. and with Christ in the four Gospels of the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Capturing this connection between the Exodus Covenant mediator and the New Testament Gospels, Covenant Mediator, is a key to realizing the full meaning of Exodus chapter 17, the first seven verses. There are many reasons that are given to us for making this sort of a connection. Think of all the shared ideas in Exodus and the New Testament Gospels that theologians might reference as significant type, anti-type distinctions. In Exodus, the covenant mediator is Moses. Well, in the Gospels, the covenant mediator is Christ. In Exodus, the mediating representative teaches his people the law. Well, in the Gospels The mediator teaches his people the true meaning of the law. You ever notice all the foreshadowing of Christ from Exodus to the four gospels Both the Israelite and Christ, they head to Egypt for survival, only to then return to the promised land. Israel spends forty years in the wilderness. Christ spends forty days in the wilderness. In the Old Testament, God reveals his law on the mountain, while Christ reveals the true nature of the law during his sermon on the mount. In Exodus, there's prominence on the Sinai narratives and the career of Moses, the covenant mediator. And in the Gospels, there is prominence on the Passion narratives and the career of Jesus, the covenant mediator. In the New Testament gospel, the covenant mediator is also the covenant maker. And when sanctions, covenant sanctions are handed out, it is the covenant maker who absorbs the punishment. In Exodus 17, verses 1 through 7, the covenant mediator, Moses, is not the covenant maker. Yet careful study unveils that even in the Old Testament, the one true covenant maker is present. And he absorbs the punishment when the people violate the sanctions of the covenant. Are you following? If not, just hang in there a moment longer. It's going to be almost all downhill sledding from here on out. I've given you this introductory setup so that as we continue, the true meaning of Exodus chapter 17 might explode into your mind in a way it never has before. And boy, that is exciting. When reading Exodus 17, the first seven verses, what do we find? What's going on? What's happening? Well in Exodus 17, The beginning of the chapter, we actually see the overlap of two trials. These seven verses tell the story of the chosen ones of the Lord. turning against God and God rescuing them from such folly. If we thumb back a few pages in our Bible, we will see that the people have been put to the test by God For several chapters. And in the response to this test, they prove to be guilty. They turn against their saving God. To the one who brought them out of bondage, their response is to bring charges against him. In doing so, they unwittingly bring charges against themselves. In this passage, court is called into session, but not by whom one might expect. A guilty verdict is rendered, but not against the one initially thought to be on trial. Punishment is executed, but not upon the guilty party. This is an astounding portion of Scripture. It connects directly to the good news of the New Testament, and in dramatic fashion, it illustrates the very center of redemptive history. No kidding. Throughout history, even those who are called God's people have shamefully grumbled against him and his covenant mediator representatives And we'll be retaught today. God's response is to execute justice while at the same time lavishing love upon the grumblers He does this not only by interceding through covenant mediator representatives such as Moses, but by even acting as the covenant mediator himself. The grumbling theme within Exodus is clear to us basically immediately from the very mindset of the people themselves. As they were freely traveling from slavery to the promised land, they carried with them an attitude problem. They were unhappy at being thirsty, and they blamed God. They blame God not only for being thirsty, but they blamed him for even rescuing them out of Egypt and into the wilderness to begin with. Chapter 15 and 16 of Exodus indicate that the people had been carrying around this sort of grumbling spirit for quite some time, and it reaches its head in chapter 17. In fact, the people appeared to have been grumbling almost immediately following the rescue from Egypt. Right on the heels of the victory songs of Moses and Miriam. These songs are found in Exodus chapter 15. In fact Let's turn there, put back a couple of pages in your Bibles from where you are in Exodus 17 to Exodus 15. I'm going to pick up with verse And as you go to Exodus fifteen, you're going to notice the beginning part of the chapter, almost the entire chapter actually, is the song of Moses, a very lengthy song, and then on the heels of that song Miriam sings a song as well. It's a shorter song, it's just one verse, and it says, Sing to the Lord, for he is highly exalted The horse and its rider, he is hurled into the sea, a great victory song. And then just three verses after the end of Miriam's victory song. Which came immediately on the heels of Moses' much lengthier victory subjust three verses later, the people are said to be grumbling. See that in verse 24. Exodus 15, verse 24. So the people grumbled against Moses, saying, What are we to drink? In verse 25, the very next verse in chapter 15, we're told that the people are being tested by God. Yet they are being provided for with purified water to drink. The miraculous provision of God continues in the very next scene, which comprises the whole of chapter 16. This is the well-known story of God providing manna for food, which God sends, believe it or not, as a continued testing of his people. You see that in verse 5 of chapter 16. You'll see what I'm talking about if you were to turn there. As they are tested. The people, they continue their grumbling through large swaths of the narrative. See verses 2, 7, 8, 9, 12 of chapter 16. In fact, let's read that. Chapter 16. I'm going to read verses 2 through 12. In the desert, the whole community grumbled against Moses and Aaron. The Israelites said to them, If only we had died by the Lord's hand in Egypt. There we sat around pots of meat and ate all the food we wanted. But you have brought us out into this desert to starve this entire assembly to death. Then the Lord said to Moses, I will rain down bread from heaven for you. The people are to go out each day and gather enough. for that day. In this way I will test them and see whether they will follow my instructions. On the sixth day they are to prepare what they bring in, and that is to be twice as much as they gather on the other day. So Moses and Aaron said to all the Israelites In the evening you will know that it was the Lord who brought you out of Egypt. And in the morning you will see the glory of the Lord, because he has heard your grumbling against him. Who are we that you should grumble against us? Moses also said, You will know that it was the Lord when he gives you meat to eat in the evening and all the bread you want in the morning, because he has heard your grumbling against him. For we, you are not grumbling against us, but against the Lord. Then Moses told Aaron, Say to the entire Israelite community, Come before the Lord, for he has heard your grumbling. While Aaron was speaking to the whole Israelite community, they looked toward the desert, and there was the glory of the Lord appearing in the cloud. The Lord said to Moses, I have heard the grumbling of the Israelites. Tell them at twilight, you will eat meat, and in the morning you will be filled with bread. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God. In chapters 15 and 16, God is leading his people, providing for them, and testing them. Would the people remain faithful and continue to place their hope and trust in God? Or would they turn away from God? What about us today? Do we place our hope and trust in God, or do we turn away from God When one of his covenant mediators, if you will, one of the ministers of his word says something to you you don't like hearing, steps on your toes. That's rather uncomfortable. Not sure I can agree. Who are you disagreeing with? You're disagreeing with the message of a Mere person? Maybe. Or are you disagreeing with the message of God Himself? In chapter 17, the people respond to their period of being tested by God with their own test of God. By grumbling again against God, the people show that they have failed the test. This sort of grumbling against God is a protest against God. Their act of filing a protest against God is proof that they have failed God's testing and that they are deserving of standing trial to face judgment. How ironic. The people are bringing charges against God, but in doing so, they are bringing charges against themselves. And so God convenes a courtroom scene and he delivers judgment. Why don't you note something here? Convening the elders, assembling the people as witnesses, bringing the staff of judgment. This is all the stuff of a courtroom. And note that God calls all of this together. The elders, everything else, they were not already convened. Moses was afraid he was going to be stoned to death Yet, where is the evidence of a fair trial? Was Moses about to become the victim of a hastily gathered, unlawful sham trial like Jesus would be so many years later? The words grumbling and testing, they lie at the center of understanding this portion of Scripture. And we know without question this is so because of the names that Moses gives the place at the conclusion of the passage Masa and Meriva. They mean test and strife. And at the root of that word meribha, the word for strife is the word riz. Which carries with it the meaning of dispute, complaint, lawsuit. The lawsuit idea behind this word, it pops up all throughout the Old Testament And now consider how often in the Old Testament the meaning of what happened in a particular place is forever remembered by the naming of that place in memorial. And the setting for Exodus 17, verses 1 through 7 is memorialized in just such a way, driving home the point that all people should remember this was the place where God tested his people and that their sinful response was to strive against him with a lawsuit. God was looking to see if the people would follow him, even if it meant hardship. And the people did not want to follow in this way. They challenged his leadership, even seeming to reject his leadership. And he questions his very existence among them. In a sense, one might say that the people were impeaching God. But he would not be removed from office. Ironically, he had every right to remove this mob from being his people, but he did not. Earlier today we read a portion of John's Gospel account because there's a direct correlation between Exodus and the Gospel of John. At the opening of John chapter 6, Jesus miraculously feeds a crowd of 5,000, and later he tells the people that he is the true manna, the true bread from heaven, the true bread of life. A couple of weeks ago we partook in the Lord's Supper during our service together. And during that time we remembered what it is we're saying here right now. Jesus is the true manna, the true bread from heaven. The true bread of life. And this point that Christ is the sustenance people need is amplified in John chapter 6 by three dramatic I am statements from Jesus later in the chapter. You see John chapter 6, verse 35, 41, and 51. And then, astoundingly, we're told the Christ's disciples. were grumbling about this among themselves. And in this grumbling The disciples, they did not go so far as to publicly level charges against God, as do the Israelites in Exodus chapter 17. Yet the disciples, they did have trouble processing the hard teachings, as it says. And so Jesus asked. They wanted to abandon his leadership. When God's method of teaching seems most difficult. When it's hard, are you tempted to abandon his leadership? Sometimes, maybe. Sometimes, if we're honest. There have been times like this for us Or we could at least, at the very least, acknowledge that it could be true of us if our most prominent fears were to become our circumstances, right? But we don't have to live in the hypothetical We know this is true of us, all of us, because every time you choose to sin, you are choosing to abandon his leadership. I don't like your way. I'm going to do it my way. Or maybe you stumble into a sin, and it's not quite as purposeful as that. But then you're called out for your sin and then you say, well Yeah, maybe that was a sin. Maybe I kind of was abandoning his leadership, but oh well, I'm not gonna repent. We all stand guilty. We can't just wag our finger at those ancient Israelites so many years ago. We share the same guilt that they share. And God's ways are so much higher than our ways. We know this. Somebody ask, to what do you cling when God shows his love for you by allowing you to be taught through loss and struggle. So very hard to learn and follow for people like us When our job is ripped from us. Or when our home with our beloved pet still inside burns to the ground. When our child's life has been snuffed out in an accident. And we were the ones driving. When our bodies are attacked from the inside, and we beat back that cancer, only to have it return. When our lover is taken from us suddenly with the interrupted beating of their loving heart. When a lifelong struggle just will not be lifted from you. No matter how long and how hard you pray, these are all teachable moments Devastating. But teachable moments. Hard, teachable moments And of course, there are difficult concepts and ideas that we struggle to understand, to apply, to accept as true. How do you know it's true? How do you go on to follow? How do you overcome the doubt? The disciples of Jesus, they faced These same sorts of questions, including the question of testing. Do you want to abandon God and the leadership of Christ our King? The disciples responded no, because they were reminded that by his word he provides eternal life. And God's Spirit opened their eyes to the truth of that word. The Israelites in the desert, they were living through a time of hard teaching, testing. They began doubting God's provision. And so God he reminded them with a sort of object lesson that he is the provider of eternal life, sparing their lives by accepting upon himself their punishment. These ancient people, even in the midst of God's provision, forgot that God provides So the need to remember was retaught over and over again. And yet the people of God will continue to forget end quickly In Judges chapter 2, just one generation after Joshua, who was the successor to Moses, it's clear the nation of Israel had already fallen away from remembering God. From following his leadership. Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 16, it says, Do not test the Lord your God as you did at Masa. And despite this warning, which harkens us back to Exodus chapter 17, the people forgot God and continually tested him. And this is true for all of Israel, including us. Except for the perfect Israel. Jesus. And this perfect representative of Israel. The perfect covenant mediator. He remembers God even when facing hardship. In fact, Jesus, he quotes directly from Deuteronomy 6, verse 16, when responding to his temptation in the wilderness, do not put the Lord your God to the test. Jesus passes his test in the wilderness. Whereas the Israelites fail their test in the wilderness. In Exodus 17, and throughout all of redemptive history, we see a reversing of God's testing. The people have failed to pass the test. And so God intervenes himself as the ultimate covenant mediator and in the person of Jesus Christ, God passes the test for us Amen and hallelujah to that. There's so much more to be said about these seven verses that we're going to pick up and continue our examination of these verses next week For now, let's pause and have a word of prayer. Father, you're so good to us. And yet we're so quick to forget how good you are. We live lives filled with plenty. And yet we kivatch over our lack. Most of us cannot remember last time we spent a day going hungry. Yet we worry and fret over having enough food to eat. You're a good God. Help us not be distracted by the things in this world. by the concerns of our flesh, or by the attacks of the enemy. Help us to keep our eyes focused on you. The truth of your word, the presence of your spirit within us, and the love that you as our Father have for us as your children. Help us always to keep at the forefront of our mind with full appreciation that we are co-heirs with the Son of God. What more could we want? Why would we dare grumble against that? In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Alright, so I'm going to shut down the live stream. If you've been watching this, or if you're touching it later on the podcast, or may God bless you, you can reach out. All my contact information is at household of faith in Christ. com. God bless.