Welcome to the household of the faith in Christ and our weekend gathering. It's time for us to uh Have our sermon portion, which we live stream each week. You can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ. If you want to learn more about Household of Faith in Christ, it's Household of Faith in Christ. com. So last week we admitted that we all uh grumble sometimes about people, about life, about God. We turn to a story about Jesus in Exodus chapter 17 to find an example from ancient times of God's people grumbling. And we can say that this is a story about Jesus because we learned last week how Jesus is the main character in all of Exodus. In fact Exodus is the book that uh looked at it from a particular point of view fits within the the gospel genre centering on a divine covenant while focusing on the career and teaching of the covenant mediator. And so We see corollaries between Moses in Exodus and Christ in the New Testament. In Exodus 17, verses 1 through 7, we see the overlap of two trials. God putting his people to the test. And his people putting God to the test. By attempting to impeach God, the people prove that they have failed God's testing. And this was nothing new. They had grumbled since the time they were rescued from Egypt. And it's nothing quite so old either, is it? Because we still do the same thing today. And so the disciples back in the first century. The people think that they can throw together a sham trial, that they can convict God. But he turns the tables. The Israelites in the desert, they were living through a time of hard teaching, testing. And we can relate. And they began to doubt God's provision. And again, we can relate. And so God reminded them, and He reminds us, that He is the provider of eternal life. He spared their lives. By accepting upon himself their punishment. And it's ironic because Jesus passes his test in the wilderness, whereas the Israelites fail their test in the wilderness. So we pick up this week where we left off last week. In Exodus 17, and all throughout redemptive history, we see a reversing of God's testing. The people have failed to pass And so God intervenes himself as the ultimate covenant mediator, and in the person and work of Jesus Christ, God passes the test for us. His love is thus proven. But his justice must always be upheld, and so he executes judgment on this very same Jesus, who is himself God, and who is representatively present as the punishbearer in Exodus chapter seventeen. And actually I neglected to grab my Bible. I gotta go run and grab my Bible real quick. Where is it? It should be right there on the counter. Actually, I think I've got a version over here. But if you want to turn there and read along, Exodus chapter 17, you're going to look at the first seven verses, which say The whole Israelite community set out from the desert of sin, traveling from place to place as the Lord commanded. They camped at Rephedim, but there was no water for the people to drink So they quarreled with Moses and said, Give us water to drink. Moses replied, Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you put the Lord to the test? But the people were thirsty for water. While they were there, they grumbled against Moses. They said, Why did you bring us up out of Egypt? To make us and our children and livestock die of thirst? Then Moses cried out to the Lord, What am I to do with these people? They're almost ready to stone me. And the Lord answered Moses, go out in front of the people. Take with you some of the elders of Israel, and take in your hand the staff with which you struck the Nile and go. I will stand there before you by the rock at Oreb, strike the rock, and water will come out of it for the people to drink. So Moses did this in the sight of the elders of Israel. And he called the place Masa and Merevah, because The Israelites quarreled and because they tested the Lord, saying, is the Lord among us or not? I'm going to remind you, this is the very word of God breathed out of God. It is inerrant, infallible, fully sufficient. There's a rule and guide for our faith, for our life practice. Those with ears to hear, let them hear. Jesus is visible in Exodus 17, verses 1 through 7, in several ways. Especially when taking the time to detail the responses of Moses and of God in the situation. In verse 4, Moses he cries out, he prays to God, fearful the people were about to execute him. In the New Testament, Jesus he battles the same sort of fear, doesn't he? He cries out to God in prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane. Both men faced an unrighteous penal act, one death by stoning, the other death by crucifixion. Both the covenant mediator representative and the covenant mediator, they find themselves woven into a narrative with a forensic theme. Both men are wrongfully charged by the people. Both of them cry out to God. And yet Moses, he is spared as God intervenes on behalf of the people. Well, Jesus is crucified as God intervenes on behalf of the people. In Exodus 17, God tells Moses to pass before the people, to go before the presence of the elders, to use the rod of judgment to strike the rock upon which God was standing. With Christ it is God Himself, who passes before the people during a triumphal entry and on the road to Golgotha. With Christ, it is God Himself who goes before the presence of the elders in an almost secret session of the Sanhedrin. And then later, before the crowds who are chanting, Crucify Him! With Christ, it is God Himself who takes the strike of the whip, the blows of the nails hammered into those crossbeams after first passing through his body. In both situations, separated by more than a millennium, God allows the staff of his judgment to be wielded against his son. Who is also God Himself? He not only allows it, but He called about the circumstances that brought it all about. From before time, God had foreordained that he would save his people through the sacrifice of his son. And in Exodus 17, it is God who calls the courtroom scene together. Moses feared being stoned, perhaps without the benefit of receiving a proper trial. But as we have said, the people are the ones who should have been on trial. Yet it was God who orchestrated the courtroom scene, almost appearing to himself stand trial. Almost appearing to concede to the myopic self-centeredness of the people. And he takes the punishment that's due to the people, suffering the blow upon the rock. Now, readers of the New International Version, which is what I'm reading today, can have the power of this moment somewhat obscured from view a little bit, anyway. The NIV it translates the start of verse 6. I will stand there before you by the rock at Oreb. Now opting for by the rock is unfortunate. It's not strictly wrong for the NIV to have translated it this particular way, opting for the preposition by. This is An acceptable rendering. However, the English word equivalent upon, that is the overwhelmingly most common way that we translate this particular Hebrew preposition, the word all. Now this is not a totally fatal flaw for the NIV, as the reader can still See that it is Christ receiving the blow because he is the rock. We're told this in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. In fact, I'm going to turn there. If you have your Bibles and you want to turn there too, you can read along 1 Corinthians chapter 10, I'm going to read the first 13 verses. For do not want you to be ignorant of the fact, brothers. That our forefathers were all under the cloud, and that they all passed through the sea. They were all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. They all ate the same spiritual food, and drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank from the spiritual rock. that accompanied them, and that rock was Christ. Nevertheless, God was not pleased with most of them. Their bodies were scattered over the desert. Now these things occurred as examples to keep us from setting our hearts on evil things as they did. Do not be idolaters as some of them were. As it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and got up to indulge in pagan revelry. We should not commit sexual immorality as some of them did. And in one day twenty three thousand of them died. We should not test the Lord, as some of them did, and were killed by snakes. And do not grumble, as some of them did, and were killed by the destroying angel. These things happened to them as examples and were written down as warnings for us on whom the fulfillment of the ages has come. So if you think you are standing firm, be careful that you don't fall. No temptation has seized you except what is common to man, and God is faithful. He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear. But when you are tempted, he will also provide a way out so that you can stand up under it. And so we see Christ is the rock. The NIV says that God was standing by the rock instead of upon the rock. Now there's an important nuance that's lost here when you opt for by the rock. And don't go with upon the rock. Because consider that title Christ. It's the same word as Messiah, right? Commonly used, Messiah, Christ, commonly used in the context of Jesus and his humanity. And certainly he is both God and man. And he suffers the blow. As both God and man. However, this point it is illustrated more vividly when we consider that in Exodus 17, God is standing upon the rock, with Christ also being the very rock itself. So when the gavel of justice hammers down, God takes the blow in his deity and in the Son's humanity. Not only is Christ struck as the rock, but God is struck down symbolically as the one standing upon the rock. And this all amplifies the truth that God absorbs the punishment that's due to his people, after which he then gives them water for life. Living waters. Coming to fully appreciate what it is that happens in Exodus 17, it is crucial, by the way, to truly and fully understanding the depth of Moses' sin in Numbers chapter 20. Let's refresh our memories. I'm going to turn to Numbers chapter 20. And if you've got your Bibles you want to read along, you're encouraged to turn there as well. And like we did with Corinthians, we're going to read the first 13 verses of Numbers chapter 20. In the first month, the whole Israelite community arrived at the desert of Zen and they stayed at Kadesh. There Miriam died and was buried. Now there was no water for the community, and the people gathered in opposition to Moses and Aaron. They quarreled with Moses and said, If only we had died when our brothers fell dead before the Lord, why did you bring the Lord's community into this desert that we and our livestock should die here? Why did you bring us up out of Egypt to this terrible place It has no grain or figs, grapevines, or pomegranates, and there is no water to drink. Moses and Aaron went from the assembly to the entrance. to the tent of meaning, and fell face down. And the glory of the Lord appeared to them. The Lord said to Moses, Take the staff, and you and your brother Aaron gather the assembly together. Speak to that rock before their eyes, and it will pour out its water. You will bring water out of the rock for the community so they and their livestock can drink. So Moses took the staff from the Lord's presence just as he commanded him. He and Aaron gathered the assembly together in front of the rock, and Moses said to them, Listen, you rebels, must we bring you water out of this rock? Then Moses raised his arm and struck the rock twice with his staff Water gushed out in the community, and their livestock drank. But the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, Because you did not trust in me enough to honor me as holy, in the sight of the Israelites, you will not bring this community into the land I give them. These were the waters of Merive, where the Israelites quarrelled with the Lord, and where he showed himself holy. The two passages, Exodus 17, Numbers chapter 20, they they leave the impression of being parallel, right? As though they're describing the exact Same thing given their striking similarities. But while the similarities are many, the differences are noteworthy In both narratives, the thirsty people of Israel bring a complaint against Moses, and by extension they're bringing a complaint against God. In Numbers chapter 20, God again sends Moses before the assembly with the staff of judgment in his hand, and once again water pours forth from the rock. However, the narrative in Numbers chapter 20 features a different articulation of the complaints, a significant difference in the prominence of Aaron. And the absence of God saying that he would stand upon the rock. And the most significant difference is God's specific instructions to Moses Whereas in Exodus 17, God tells Moses to strike the rock. In Numbers chapter 20, God tells Moses to speak to the rock. Moses fails to speak to the rock. Instead, he speaks to the people. And he strikes the rock. And what's more, he strikes the rock not just once, but twice. Oh Keeping in mind that the New Testament reveals that striking the rock in Exodus 17 is the striking of Christ. And sacrifice for God's people. It is as if Moses is re-sacrificing God's son in Numbers chapter 20. I mean the theological and soteriological implications are enormous. When we consider that the book of Hebrews, it teaches that the sacrifice of the body of Christ was once for all. You know, it seems pretty probable that the writer of Hebrews, he wants us to call to mind these very moments recorded in Exodus 17 and in Numbers chapter 20. The book of Hebrews makes quite a point of comparing and contrasting Moses with Jesus and the rebellion in the wilderness following the exodus from Egypt. It's central to the Hebrew author's thinking when drawing attention to what the technical speak folks like to call the Moses-Jesus type anti-type. Quoting from chapter 3 of Hebrews, if you want to turn there quickly you can. Hebrews chapter 3, I'm going to pick up with verse 2. He was faithful to the one who appointed him, Jesus was, just as Moses was faithful in all God's house Jesus had been found worthy of greater honor than Moses, just as the builder of a house has greater honor than the house itself. For every house is built by someone, but God is the builder of everything. Moses was faithful as a servant in all God's house, bearing witness to what would be spoken by God in the future. But Christ is faithful as a Son over God's house. And we are his house, if indeed we hold firmly to our confidence and the hope in which we glory. So as the Holy Spirit says, Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. As you did in the rebellion during the time of testing in the wilderness, where your ancestors tested and tried me, though for forty years they saw what I did That is why I was angry with that generation. I said, their hearts are always going astray, and they have not known my ways. So I declare on oath in my anger, they shall never enter my rest. See to it, brothers and sisters, that none of you has a sinful, unbelieving heart That turns away from the living God. But encourage one another daily, as long as it is called today, so that none of you may be hardened by sin's deceitfulness. We have come to share in Christ if indeed we hold our original conviction firmly to the very end. As has just been said, today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. As you did in the rebellion. Who were they who heard and rebelled? Were they not all those Moses had let out of Egypt? While Jesus is clearly positioned as the greater of the two, there is no doubt that Moses is seen in the New Testament as a precursor and a forerunner to Christ. I've already pointed out some of the similarities between Moses and Jesus, along with some important distinctives, which show that Jesus is the perfect antitype, with Moses being the imperfect type. And we talked about how Moses cried out in prayer to God, resulting in the death penalty of being turned away from Moses. Whereas Jesus cried out in prayer to God, but the death penalty it came anyway. Moses went before the people and the elders, which led to his righteous vindication. Whereas Jesus, he went before the people and the elders, which led to his unrighteous conviction. Additional points of foreshadowing include having a thirsty, hungry people, which included Moses, by the way, given water and food in the wilderness, just like the rebellion. Whereas a thirsty Jesus in his righteousness was given vinegar to drink moments before being struck down on the cross. And it was a hungry Jesus in the wilderness who said no to turning stones into bread The themes of thirst and provision, they are clearly present here. And whether we realize it or not, what God's people truly thirst for is God's loving kindness. In rescuing them from the consequences of their own covenant unfaithfulness. And the provision that God's people receive, it's one of justice that is delivered in such a way as to also deliver life to them. As a quick aside, I want to touch upon prayer. You should note the people, they did not go directly to God with their complaints. Well, Moses did. So Moses illustrates what the trusting Christian does in the hour of trial. He turned to the Lord. He asked for guidance. Moses faced an unlawful trial with respect to his claim of having been sent by God and having acted on God's behalf. It's a trial not unlike the trial of Jesus many centuries later. And both men respond to their trials With an attitude of prayer. Oh Lord, give your people an attitude of prayer. A posture of prayer. Help us to live out lives to pray without ceasing, keeping it at the forefront of our mind in constant communion and communication with you, Lord. Make your people a praying people, Lord. Now heading down the home strats, we're going to recap. Exodus 17, verses 1 through 7 presents a story from history in which God is placed on trial God has been testing the people, testing to see if they would remain faithful or if they would turn against him if the going got tough And in bringing their charges against God and against God's covenant mediator, they proved to be unfaithful. And so the people they got, in a sense, what they wanted, a trial. However, it was God who convened court, not the people. It was the people who ended up standing trial, not God. And yet it was God who received the penalty due for the guilty verdict, not the sinful people. God's love and justice are in full display here as he is vindicated. Moses as covenant mediator, although a flawed one, He stands as an example of the one true covenant mediator who is Jesus Christ. Meanwhile, the people of Israel, they become a negative example for the ages. At first, the people they seem to be making a challenge against Moses, but they in fact are making a challenge against God. The people, they demonstrate an almost unbelievable level of disbelief. But again, Moses and God are vindicated, and in the process, the people are blessed despite themselves. As God provides the water for life As the great A. W. Pink wrote, here are some words from him. It was not when Israel were bowed in worship before the Lord. It was not when they were praising him for all his abundant mercies toward them. No such happy scene do the opening verses of Exodus 17 present to our view. The very reverse is what is there described. Israel were murmuring. They were almost ready to stone God's servant They were filled with unbelief, saying, Is the Lord among us or not? The giving of the water, then, was God acting according to his marvelous grace? Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. But be it well noted. It was grace acting on a righteous basis, not till the rock was smitten Did the waters flow forth? And not till the Savior had been bruised by God was the gospel of His grace sent forth to every creature. What, my reader, is the response of your heart to this amazing and rich mercy of God Surely you say, out of deepest gratitude, thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift. Here's what I hope you'll remember the most and what you will apply to your life. This story recorded for us here in Exodus chapter 17, it helps to drive home just who is the unifying thread of redemptive history. Jesus Christ, of course. And in this passage, the illustrations, I mean, they're almost obvious, aren't they? The people in the pews or on the couches or on the stream, or heck the one who's doing the preaching. We are the grumbling Israelites. Sometimes it's grumbling, yeah, we could try to pass it off as mere murmuring. But other times there's no doubt it rises to the level of bringing accusations against God These complaints, they're not always even brought directly to God in prayer, are they? But instead, they take the form of complaints about God to others. Let me God do something about that. Christians might sometimes even demonstrate blame of God by blaming church leaders, even the faithful ones. You know, Moses, he's pictured as a representative of Christ. And so we're shown that griping against him is griping against God. However, the the Christian people be encouraged. We are also Moses. Christians are representatives of Christ, to a lost and broken world, horribly fallen, desperately in need of us to behave like Christ. So like Moses, believers must seek God in prayer and must obey God, as Moses does in Exodus 17. Following Moses' lead, Christ's followers must also remember that they're guilty of covenant unfaithfulness for failing to consistently follow God. But we should remember also that God has absorbed the death blow on behalf of his people, and in the process he has given his people eternal life. Believers in Christ are rescued not because they're innocent, but because God has stepped into history and saved them. And he did so in the person and work of Jesus Christ, who became sin for his people, as we see in the New Testament gospel narratives. And he is seen mediating in this very same way. In Exodus chapter 17, where the people are found guilty. In the trial. And God executes justice. Only his justice isn't forced against himself The God of the Old Testament, the God of the New Testament, they are the very same God The one true God has been ever faithful to his plan for redeeming his people, and this plan has been the same plan since the beginning of time. And so humble gratitude, exceeding joy, and voluntary obedience These are the only responses that make any sense Pray. Oh, Father, you're so good to us. So much better to us than Any of us come close to deserving. We praise you and thank you that while we stand before you guilty, you choose to wipe that slate clean. You choose to see in us the perfect work of your Son. We thank you that your plan has included mercy and grace. We are utterly dependent on you for those things. Help us to have an attitude of humility. Be filled with gratitude. To live lives of joy and not grumbling and murmuring against you. Help us be ever thankful for the many gifts you bestow upon us, to not take them for granted. And to live lives that are truly those of ambassadors of the one true King, the Savior of a fallen world. Jesus. Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Alright, I quite you shut down the stream. Thank you for Watching this either live or later. Again, you can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com.