Well welcome streaming audience. If you're watching this uh live or later, uh we uh record the Faith Debate shows in advance and you're getting a sneak peek at what's going to be on the radio, these shows actually are the shows that will begin airing in July. So the first one we do today is actually July tenth episode. So we can wish everyone joyous independence uh season if we want to. We did that last time too. We did? Okay. Well then we can That's right, because I remember saying something about Easy, a free country or something. Maybe it will be by then. All right. So let me get this uh Why not? I'm not very optimistic for that. Sadly, neither am I. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Hmm, my headphones sound really weird to me. Not sure why that is. I switched out from the ones I used last week. I should probably switch back. Maybe This is the faith debate on 930 WFMD, also on the FM at 99. 9 HD2, and of course all across the globe On the World Wide Web at WFMP. com and click on the listen live thing if you're catching it live. And if you missed it live or you want to catch previous episodes, go to the Faith Debate page and you can access the uh most recent uh podcasts most easily that way. And if you uh want to find the older uh episodes more quickly go to the audiobook section of of the website. And of course, if you want to find out more about me and the gang that's part of this show now, go to my church's website. My name, by the way, is Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ And our website is Householdfaith in Christ dot com. And I'm joined this week by the Razvis, Imron and Daniel. And we're going to be focusing on something this week that is really an area of of specialty uh for the RAS. You're talking about parenting issues and marriage issues, and I think this first uh first one we're gonna focus more on on marriage kinds of things. But before I I uh get into all that, I've I've been mean meaning to do this the last couple of weeks and I keep forgetting, so I'm gonna do it right now before I forget I've got to give a couple of shout-outs to people that gave us shout-outs. Some people have gone out of their way to let the management here know they appreciate what we do on the air, and that is so much appreciated and greatly valued. Thank you so much. So a particular uh a a rather noteworthy note from a gentleman named Derek. Uh if you're listening to this, thank you so much. Um not only did you take the time to write, but it was very uh artfully written. Uh I can tell uh by what you wrote that you're a gentleman and I I appreciate I'm not sure why you're listening to this show if you're a gentleman, but uh we thank you thank you nonetheless. And uh Cindy and Ben say that they listen uh together every week and they're uh Uh they have great gratitude for what we are able to teach them on this show. I'm not sure they must have us confused with the mother show if they think they're learning something. But anyway, seriously it is it's always an encouragement. um for us to to hear that there's somebody listening. I usually joke if somebody says they're listening. I said I knew there was one. I knew it. I knew there was one. Now I know where the one is. Obviously it's more than one Uh and I have don't have access to seeing these numbers anymore. But once upon a time when I had access to seeing how the ratings would do, uh our time slot actually The faith debate time slot has always done very well. Um it wasn't unusual for this show to be the highest rated show on Sundays on the radio station. I'm not sure if that's the case. case now or not, but there was a time when that was true. Uh actually there was a time when uh the Faith Debate was the highest rated program on the entire weekend on the radio station. And there were only three shows on the entire radio station, Monday through Sunday, uh, that actually had better ratings than this show did. So it's it's made its dent here and there over the years. Um I'm not sure who's listening now. Um you know, times have changed and the need for information and stuff has changed. Whether we're more or less relevant than we used to be, I I can't say. and uh and so forth. It is m even more important for those that do appreciate this type of uh talk that they should reach out and let the radio station know that they appreciate appreciate it because we're under attack from all different areas and to be able to share the truth, yeah that's that's important. So if you do find this uh you know uh uh appealing to you and uh you know meeting your needs then it would be nice to spread the word and also share share it with the radio station so they continue to let us uh talk so they don't shut us out. Yeah, and I don't want to give the impression that we're under pressure from the station management or anything like that. I you know You know they haven't said, hey, you know, uh watch what you say you're gonna be off the air. But given the climate of the times, it wouldn't take much maybe for them to feel like, you know, it's a it's a half hour on Sunday? How important is it really? It's not worth the grief. We have all these people that don't want to be hearing the hearing that uh what I what I think is the truth. What I'm strongly persuaded is the truth. It but they gotta make money, they've got to satisfy their their their listen their overall listeners and their their their clients. They would love to hear from you Yes. So if you're a fan of this show, if you're the one, I know there's another one. If you're that other one that's a fan of the show, uh reach out to the radio station, let me know you appreciate what we're doing. And I will say this, um if there's something specific as far as a topic, you know particular biblical question or cultural question you'd like to get a a a uh a a kind of a faith-based answer on let me know what the uh what the topic or question is and we'll work it into our our uh into our show at some point down the road. And if you're just looking for uh biblical answers and uh or or you're dissatisfied with w what you're finding out there, reach out to us. Uh we're not gonna uh twist your arm but we're gonna tell you what the bible says and give you you know a a good straight answer. Now that's the voice of Imron Rasley by the way. You haven't heard Daniel's yet but the next voice you probably will hear will be Daniel so you'll know which voice goes with which name Well we went uh let's get back on topic for the show today. So um the Rasbies have a uh a ministry that started I don't know twenty years ago probably. It's been a while. Um Uh Concord by Love Ministries. They have a website, conqueredbylove. org. You can check it out. If you go to their website, they have a section where there's resources and you can find a whole bunch of books. There's, I don't know, several dozen books in there. And I went through and looked at them and I realized that, you know, they're all different and they got their slightly different slants and stuff, but you could sort of categorize a handful. Like there were three or four books that were mostly focusing on this and three or four books that were mostly focusing on that. And so I thought it'd be a good idea to maybe tackle some of these things uh on the show. Um partly because If you haven't noticed, the world's gotten kind of crazy in the last couple of years, and there's a lot of stress. A lot of stress in households, a lot of stress on relationships. A lot of a lot of uh children have a lot of needs that they maybe didn't have three or four years ago. And a lot of uh husbands and wives are having a hard time And we also have a culture that's undercutting what it really means to be family, what it really means to be a husband and a wife, what marriage really means And so I thought it'd be good to to provide the underpinnings while at the same time providing some just pastoral kind of counseling support for people who might have some questions. So the first thing on the list here, you have uh a handful of books that are about marriage relationships. Uh you might have more than this, but the ones I saw, one's called Heart Transplant, The Prerequisite for a Healthy Marriage. Uh, Is Your Marriage Hitting Bad Cell Areas? And then I guess some of the books have workbooks and this is one of them, a workbook uh that goes along with the Is Your Marriage Hitting Bad Cell Areas? salarios. So why don't we start with uh the prerequisite for a healthy marriage? Well the prerequisite is that uh you do have to have a different heart. Okay, if you're getting married because of you what you think is love, it may just be lust. I mean we model things after what God does. What does God do for us? He loved us while yet we were So let's back up for a minute. If you're saved, then a prerequisite to to get married should be to be saved and have the other style else be saved. Um it's it's if you are get saved after you're married then that's that's a little bit different. But but if you're already saved then it's it's really important the Bible teaches us don't be unequally yoked. So you should should be both saved if you're going to be in a healthier uh marriage. And for the uninitiated, saved would be uh shorthand Christians speak for those who follow Jesus as their Lord and Savior. They recognize they're a sinner. in in in in need of eternal rescue. Um I don't want to presume in today's secular culture that uh somebody who's never been to a church doesn't really understand about religion is saved. Saved from what? Save from your sin. Save from the consequences of your sin. Uh God is love, but in his in his love he also has a righteous indignation and a wrath directed at sin and you need to be saved from that. So the thing I said there's two two aspects here. One is if you are not yet married and you're saved, meaning you're a follower of Jesus Christ knowing that he died for your sins and that is the only way you're getting to heaven. Then you should also be looking for a spouse that is equally yoked, that has the same heart. Um otherwise you're already starting off with a problem that's waiting to happen. But let's say you're already married and you realize that you had a uh a problem with sin and uh you realize that Jesus is the only answer and you gave your life to him and you're saved but your spouse is not. Then what do you do? Um well you still choose to love your spouse. Is your spouse lovable? Probably not. There probably gonna be a problem. And but just as God chose to love us while yet we were sinners, we need to choose to love our spouse. All these people say, Well, I don't love my spouse anymore. I fell in love and I fell out of love Well that's not really an accurate representation of what love is. Love is a a a a choice that you desire and you choose to do something. So it sounds like we are already beginning to touch on some of the bad sell area things a little bit too, and and and that's probably where we should spend a lot of our time. Uh particularly given who is probably the most likely listener to a radio station in a show like this. They're probably already of an age where they're married and uh probably not a lot of teenagers and twenty something's maybe listening to the show right now. But in case. Or let's say their parents or grandparents, they want to give good advice to the younger generations about what to look for in a spouse and what boxes to check, you know, kind of thing. What are some of the really boilerplate kinds of prerequisites for identifying who a good uh mate would be well I would say the first thing would would be whether whether they love God and want to give them their life to God and uh they know that that's the only way to be uh saved from the sin and the and the punishment of death. That's a prerequisite. How important is it for there to be some sort of a like a psychological match where their temperament is similar or complementary or they have right uh similar attitudes about how to spend or save money? Those sort of practical kinds of things. Are those not that important in your view? They they can be important. It depends on probably what level of importance you assign to them, uh especially things to do with money and so on. Yes, you want to make sure that people can be wise with money, but that's uh if if certain things that are not biblical things are really, really important to you then maybe they should be less important. Um maybe the the the the Bible and and the the other person's salvation and their theology and and what they believe spiritually about things, that should really be the the most important. And there's practical things, right? If you're uh getting getting married or you g and you live in different states, you know, which state are you gonna live in? You know, there's there's practical things obviously, but be the the most Yeah, but most people look to change their spouse. Right? My spouse said this, then it would be better. Well, I think the first place you need to change is yourself. Uh you need to worship God together. Take the time to worship God together. Take time And if your spouse is not worshiping God with you, okay, still take time and worship and pray for yourself. And then be long suffering. Okay, God is long suffering. does for us. Be long suffering. Because if you're all immediately going to well what can your spouse change first, then you're not long suffering. You have to be long suffering. Or a lot of you may be listening to this, you may have a really our human nature, we probably have a list that you can think i in any relationship, you can probably think of all the things you did for this other person that they didn't they weren't grateful enough or they didn't reciprocate. You've got to forget all of that. Because you have to start with the premise that they're a sinner and they're always going to fail your expectations. So don't start with uh you know expectations have um the m a servant mind of look I'm committing to serve this person. I'm not expecting anything in return. My uh I'm choosing to love and serve this person for the rest of my life. That's what you're doing. And so you have to be long suffering and you have to speak good about your spouse. You cannot change your spouse. The Holy Spirit can change the spouse. But what you can do is work on yourself. And the more you work on yourself, the more likely your spouse may change because they'll see the difference. I'll give you a good story. My wife, um, when she was very young, uh her mother used to take her to the church every Sunday and her father did not go. He Sunday was a day of rest and he was going to just stay in bed and rest and relax and do all that. But so the mother and the couple two daughters And one day the pastor said, You know, I see a lot of women in here and not a lot of men. So all those women in here that don't have their husbands with them, I don't want you to come to church next week And I was like, Huh, what? And he said, I want you to go home and next Sunday cook your husband the best breakfast you possibly can, that you can just love your husband, take care of your husband, and he should be your focus, not coming to church And so my wife's uh mother said, Okay, I'll do that. And so next Sunday comes along and uh she gets up and it's a great big breakfast and just you know, gets everything ready and uh for her her husband and husband I said, aren't you going to church? She said, No. Why not? Pastor said, I shouldn't come to church. I should take care of you. And his ears immediately broke up and he said, What kind of pastor is that? Saying that to come to church. He said, Well my first most important duty is to you as a wife and to love you and take care of you. So that's what I'm doing. So immediately he got up and they went to church. So then and he got more involved and he realized, hey, there's more to this thing if you lu choose to love somebody, things can change. So that's where reverse psychology, I guess, paid off, right? But it wasn't really reverse psychology, it was actually loving that person, not just trying to test for the person to go to church. You know honey, aren't you gonna go to church? Now it was like no, my focus is you. You know, that's my focus. And the same with in marriage. Your focus should be your spouse. After God, of course, but your spouse spouse and if you're focused on your spouse regardless of what they do, things will change because they they just do tend to be that way and the Holy Spirit will work on on your spouses And hopefully it will go that direction. Even if it doesn't, if it you still have to be long suffering. It may take a long time, may take years. But you know what? We have a very short time here If you think about it, the time on earth is a blip in eternity. So whatever time it is, if you are appointed to suffer, then suffer But suffer willingly and praising and glorifying God throughout it all. It is all for the glory of God. What are some of the most common s uh bad cell areas that you run into when you when you when you're out on the speaking troops I know you talk about the materials in your books and you obviously you're pastors and so you're counseling people. What are some of those common bad things? No matter where you came from and where your uh uh spouse comes from, you're from different cultures. And the different cultures are going to clash. And there are things that may uh come up that that you didn't even think to bring up before you got married and and you don't even see why it's a big deal now, but because you were brought up a little differently, you earned a different culture. You don't have to be you know, my my parents are actually from born on opposite sides of the world, so they have v had vastly different cultures Um but that and and there's there's probably some uh a lot a lot of stories there about. And the way that your spouse does it is not wrong, it's just different from your way. You know, unless there's actually a biblical thing you can bring up, say, hey, no, actually the Bible says this so we have to do it that way. But mo most or or at least many differences culturally are not wrong, it's just oh that's that's a different way of doing things. And uh our instinct is, oh well that's not the way I was brought up. Well okay yes true, but that doesn't mean it's it's a bad thing. And the situation It can be as simple as washing dishes, it could be as simple as, you know, how you Use the toothpaste tube. Okay? All these things are are different and you have expectations because you expect certain people everybody to behave a certain way, the way you behave. But they don't, they behave differently And so ex your expectations are not met. So there's a there's a um a work uh the workbook we do with a with a lot of people that we uh uh uh we counsel in the marriage, and it's called the uh expectations uh exercise. So Troy just picture this. Make a list of all the things you expect from your wife. And then make the second list of all the things you think your spouse expects from you. From you. Okay? And then you can prioritize them saying, Okay, these expectations are biblical and these are not, and uh you know we'll approve it. But it's not even that necessary. It's more of just expectations. What do you expect and what do you think your spouse expects from you. And you'll find out that a lot of things that you thought your spouse expected from you, they don't. you know, breaking your back trying to take care of this and they don't even recognize it and they don't they don't even appreciate it and it starts festering in you and making you angry and bitter. And that's not your intention of uh the intention of your spouse, they didn't even recognize that she would try and do something for them. Real quick example was was with uh my wife and I, for years I would go in the bathroom and she brushes her teeth, she brushes her teeth But she would squeeze the toothplace right in the middle and just leave it that way. And I would come in and roll it up and straighten it out and read it, make sure all the toothplace For years I was doing that. And she never once thanked me. You know what? She never even realized I did it. So it was an expectation I thought that she m she had of me that I was fixing things for and she never even realized I did it. So there's little things like that, and there's many other examples, but that expectations exercise really goes a long way. And one of the things is the men will need probably two weeks to come up with all the expectations because we don't keep everything in the front of our brain. Women can probably do this in a matter of twenty minutes, put all the expectations down and have it all laid out. Because they keep all the boxes open. We close the box and then open another box. And so if you're doing this exercise, I strongly recommend wives give your husbands you know a couple weeks to get it together and and take time because uh it does take time to remember all the things that They expect. And then just be patient. And then take the time to hear and and compare what the expectations really are. Does that mean that the husbands really aren't as focused On the expectations or they only worry about the expectations when each box gets popped open. When it comes up then we think about it. Right, right. So we are still just as worried about it. We just can think about one thing at a time Um then that's that's you know that made us made us a little different. That's how we're different. And the and the box opens up when when there's a prompt, right? If that thing doesn't happen the way it's supposed to happen, then that box opens up and all the junk comes out of that box at the same time. You know, you've never done this. You've it may it may not be never, but that's what we think, right? You've never done this, you've always done this. Never and always are really strong words, and we tend to use them way too often Yeah, I remember when I was uh college age and I went and stayed with my grandparents for a while while I was uh going to school and um I never knew this, but I uh uh until then and she would she didn't say anything 'cause she was just over it. And she was mad and she yelled at me because apparently her expectation was that after somebody takes a shower They take uh after they're all clean and dried off and stuff, they take the towel and then they wipe down the entire interior of the shower. Well, I never did that growing up. But she just assumed everybody does that and the fact that I wasn't doing that and I was her grandson so clearly I must have been raised the same way she raised her daughter, right? But Yeah. Her daughter never mentioned that to her son. And she was so mad, so disrespectful and so rude. Yeah, just to make her mad. Yeah, I'm staying Letting you stay at my house and you're purposely, you know, leaving the shower or mess? I was like, what are you talking about? So this uh expectation exercise actually works really well with husbands and wives. wise and also with uh couples that are about to get married and even with parents and children, you know, with teenagers. Do the exercise of a teenager. You're having trouble trouble, difficulty talking with them, communicating with them? What does your son or daughter expect a parent to be. What kind of things do they expect from their parent? And what do you think what the does that child uh think that we expect from them? It makes them think And it really opens it up. And this isn't necessarily just a uh once in your whole lifetime thing, right? Maybe he should have a uh a um Could be an annual thing. I was gonna say do it every year, every other year, every seven years, whatever. Well if you're if you're married or you just married uh or just about to get married, maybe you do it and then once you have kids you may And it and it doesn't hurt. But it lays down the framework for good communication where you're not just accusing somebody, you're saying what do you think my what are my expectations and what do I think your expectations are and you're comparing. So it's a great dialogue starter And one of the things, and you know, I'm gonna word this a little carefully since we're on the radio, but uh nuptials uh sometimes that becomes an issue. And the stereotype is, you know, the the the husband wants uh some uh physical gratification much more frequently than the than the wife does. It's not always the case, but that's kind of the um I guess that's the kind of thing that you might need to t uh re express your expectations shortly after the the wedding, right? Because The man might have felt like, oh, I want it this often and the woman might have thought, Oh, I'm fine with it being this often and then two months into the marriage it's like, Yeah, that's not working. Maybe maybe the man needs it more than he thought he was gonna need a strong Uh desires it s more often than he originally thought that he would, or or maybe the the f the script is flipped and it's maybe the the the the the wife is more uh amorous than the than the husband than than she was expecting. So you gotta that 'cause I've seen a lot of tension in relationships over that question. Money and sex tend to be two big ones Yeah, with household chores is like a a third, a distant third of my with money with money there is there is something that's that is important. That this kind of leads into our uh we have the financial pointing uh side of it as well, but the with m with money what we found that is one of the biggest um angst in the marriage. And And let's face it, it doesn't matter who is listening, you and your spouse think about money differently and your priority of spending things is different. What's important to you, Troy, to spend things on is different than what your wife wants to spend things on. That doesn't make it wrong. Now there's there are different cases, you know, s somebody can be just an easy spender and not really think About saving and somebody else can be a really big saver, but then not enjoy the money that God's given you to enjoy. So have have that try to have that not be a a cause for um um uh f for argument, you know, set set boundaries and say here's here's what we're gonna do and and sometimes it it is helpful to have okay here's the the shared expenses but then we each have our own, you know, whatever amount of money budget and I'm not gonna micromanage what you spend money on and don't micromanage what I spend money on as long as we're within you know re regular you know big boundaries. So many times that makes a big difference is Is that all the share expenses get paid and then whatever's left and you divide that you know equally and you spend yours, I spend mine and and not argue. You might spend something uh spend it on something. Your candy bar was three dollars, really? Couldn't you go to Costco and buy a cheaper candy bar? So there's that that's the little things is it really adds up and so it's trying to try to you know let those be Yeah the money thing is a big deal. I um there's so much more that could be said, should be said, I'm sure, uh and there's resources like I said. We're gonna we've got like a minute left, so I'm gonna I'm gonna draw the our thoughts here. Next week we're going to transition unless there's some things that are present that we actually must say about marriage next week. We can lead off next week's show with it. Otherwise we'll transition into the uh the some parenting stuff. And I would welcome you and encourage you to go check out the resources that they have available at their website. Concordbylove. org is the the Rasby's ministry's website. And uh my church's website which will connect to some actually you can find their website through my website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. And of course you can go to WFMD. com, uh go to the faith the Facebook page there and and link to uh everything that way too. It's a lot of information. The simplest thing is probably to go to household of faith in Christ dot com and find what you're looking for there. Thank you to the Razbees. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you for listening. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless. change the address is sex thing though. Okay, well we can we can lead off with that. Yeah we can lead off with that. You got more to add for that? That would have our address. Yeah, but there's there's a lot more than that. Yeah we can we can lead we can start with that and then s slide into the parenting because it's sex leads the parenting. That's what I understand it. That's what they tell me. This is uh I can make sure that I think it's a good one. That's really the foundation everything, but then the I think the crack is the negative visual as well. Yes, basically that reverse scripture, so Alright, I don't know if everybody's watching live, but that's even how that ended up shifting up on us. Yeah, it's not the best. Uh sorry for giving you a weird angle. It looks like somebody's watching live. Whoever you are, thank you. Uh hopefully you're gaining something good. We're gonna get meaty here. We're gonna talk about sex The ratings will go up. Uh let's see. So this next one's gonna air on july seventeenth. Whoops, I don't want to do that. Certainly, I think that's a good idea. Okay. Well these will be worse than those, I'll just stick with what I had. Okay. Yeah, those definitely gave me a problem last time, so I'm trying I'll I got a bit of a hiss and a hum in the earphones, but that's that's doable. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. You're gonna want to listen today. We're gonna start off talking about S E X Is that a good teaser? Huh? That got your attention, right? Good Sunday morning to ya. This is a face debate on 930 WFMD on the FM at 99. 9 HD2 and on the web at WFMD. com. Thank you so much for listening. I'm Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of a church called Household of Faith in Christ. We have a website, Household of FaithInChrist. com. I encourage you to Check us out. You can connect with this show and and uh a regular blog and all sorts of other audio and video things that are looped in there. And you can connect from that website to another website, which will be talking quite a bit about um this week, like we did last week, and then we will and future upcoming weeks. Uh conquered by love. org as a ministry that's been around for uh a couple of decades, I think, that the Razby family has been involved with and they go on tours around and speak at different groups, different churches and they and they provide counseling. They've got workshops and workbooks and all that sort of stuff. Last week we were talking about marriage And towards the end of the show, we start talking about the importance of setting expectations. And one of the expectations has to do with uh intimacy in the bedroom And uh we didn't have a chance because of the confines of the length of this show to finish up thoughts on that last week. So we're going to start there this week and then slide, I think, into a natural uh place from there when husband and wives get together and they start being intimate and stuff. You never know you might have a little bambino arrive on the scene and uh we'll be talking about parenting as well. But you uh Imran, there's some things that I guess were left unsaid about the importance of addressing the uh So we talked about there's different expectations, right? Uh a man has different expectations of uh intimacy than a woman does. But one of the things is is the man doing his job as as the husband and the leader to be attracted to the wife. Because if he's not, then the wife is going to lose interest and not be interested in having sex. So we have to th think about as as a husband, as as a father as a husband, we need to know are we doing what we're supposed to do? What makes us attractive to our wife? So how much rouge should a man wear? Well w a wa uh a a woman is attracted to strong leaders Someone that has a strong relationship with Christ, that does do his job of leading his family in worship, in uh spiritual leadership. That's important. If you're not doing that, then you're not as attractive. Are you a protector? Are you So you're not talking about combing your hair and uh putting on some sort of uh fru-frou outfit or something. You're talking about Right. Stepping up and being a being quote unquote being a man. Yeah. Stereotypically that's not to say it's it's a blanket statement. But that's that's a little different than well groomed, you know, so be if you're well groomed and you take care of yourself, that's that's important. Um but not having to be perfectly physical. Oftentimes people are w uh uh people are curious why are women attracted to um singers and drummers and uh the uh powerful men even though they're ugly or whatever because it's power. It's it is a position of power, strength and leadership. Women are built that way. They're attracted to that. the society, in this case the society probably in a uh not not correctly, but honorous you know rock stars and do me a favor by the way. Uh pull that windscreen off. Is that better? Let's see if that You just it seemed you you seem just a little bit muffled compared to the other mics and I I wonder if it's a windscreen. We'll see if that's uh that's better. I think the volume was okay hopefully, but but it just seemed like you were in a different room from us. So basically what I was saying is men ex If you're not getting enough in the bedroom, then first do the expectations. Find out what is it that you're not doing for your wife that she expects you to do as a leader, as a husband, as a father. as uh the spiritual leader of your house, are you uh does she feel protected by you? That's a big thing. A lot often times you know as we talk women get attracted to th to men that we would think are I mean to bad boys. Why would a good girl be attracted to a bad guy? Well, because they feel the power, the strength. Okay? And they need to that. If it's not going to be good, godly power and strength, they're going to be attracted to the strength sinful power and strength. It's just attractive power and strength. So are you doing your job to be attractive to your wife? Are you it's it's not about having a dad body, it's not about having, you know, in perfect physical shape or having a full hat of hair, which society tells us we need to have, but it is really about what is your stance, what are you doing? being the rock in your family that you're supposed to. Are you leading your children and your wife towards God? Are you protecting them from from society? Are you taking the care? Are you opening the door f of your of the car or the the door of the the house. How are you doing, how are you treating your spouse special? Because if you're not doing that, then that's a big breakdown as you become less and less attractive. to your wife and are you listening? Okay. Uh men tend to get the two or three words in the sentence and know what the sentence is about and be done. Okay, I've heard that. Let's go, let's move on. Where many times a woman just needs to Talk for a long period of time. I have a that problem, I do that many times is that tune out. And men a lot of men do, but we need to tune in and actually listen and participate in the conversation, that will make us closer to our spouses and our spouse will want to spend more intimate time with us if we're doing our job. The problem is most times we're not doing our job. Are you being mad enough? Are you doing what God has led you to do as being a leader, being a husband that God has played placed you to be and being strong. If you're not doing that, maybe that's where you need to worth and you're not gonna change your spouse, you've got to change you. We talked about that with expectations before. Changing yourself is something you have control over. Changing your spouse, you don't have control over that Okay. So assuming that things go well in the bedroom, you might end up having some babies come along the way. And that was actually our planned main topic for today, so we can transition. And um the way we're doing this, I mentioned this last week Uh Conquered by Love Ministries uh has a number of uh books, booklets, short short books. So you you know if you're not a reader, don't be intimidated. These are relatively breezy reads, right? None of them are super long. Yeah, so thirty to fifty pages long is very short. So you can go to their website, find an area of interest, say, oh that one looks interesting and and and kind of check it out. And so I clustered them into categories and there's a A handful of books that fit into the parenting category. There might be others, but these are the ones I noticed. Training for the long term. Why did you do that? How a parent can help a child analyze his own heart practicing behavior, subtitle Are You Trying to Train Your Child on the Field During the Game? And memorizing Scripture. um tips for hiding God's Word in your children's hearts. So there's a lot of stuff there. Trending for the long term seems broad in general. Does it tie some of these other things together? Or is that sort of that's kind of the foundational thing. It is. It's probably one of the most important books. Uh next to that will be the emotional meaning of a child. Um tackle that next week that's kind of a whole one by itself. But training for the long term is is a long term vision of what are you doing with your children. Um, you know, we assume that a child or anyone speci uh anyone knows how to behave. Just like w we talked last week and you're talking about your grandmother's assumed you knew how to behave after you shower. That's an assumption that's not there. She never trained you. And she uh mistakenly thought that your mom trained you because she trained your mom. And a lot of times as as parents, when you we see a child acting badly or a way that we wouldn't want Um where our first instinct is, especially if you're a Christian, your first instinct is instinct oh sorry is to say, Oh wow they're sinning. You know, I need to punish them for their sin. And whether you're a spanker or whether you're not a spanker, that's the maybe a topic we could tackle a little later too. But regardless, there's some kind of punishment. We need to punish them so they know they gotta stop sinning. They gotta stop acting badly. Because any bad behavior is sin It just uh immediately sin. Not ac actually true. There's really three main root causes of bad behavior and only one of them is sin. So the most important thing first of all is to find out did you train the And second of all, is there actually an emotional need? And we'll talk about emotional needs next week, but training is really important. If you didn't even tell them, how do they know they're supposed to act that way? Maybe you thought you told them but you didn't actually 'Cause imagine if you're uh as we talked about to your grandmother, um if she punished you for not cleaning that shower after you showered, you would be completely taken aback and your relationship with your with your grandmother that would have been damaged irre irreplaceably because you would not know why you're getting punished. She nobody ever taught you. So we tend to punish our kids before we think, did we actually teach this first? Did we train this uh uh uh this behavior or not. So that ties into the one of the books of the practicing behavior, right? Absolutely. That's that's kind of uh think about it like a sports team, right? If you get on the field in the middle of a game and the coach starts, you know, uh y uh yelling, Oh no, don't do that, you know, w run run the other way, you know, oh no the rules says you can't pick up the soccer ball with your hand. Then that's not the time to to know what the rules are at the beginning, right? You need to practice beforehand, what do they do? The coach explains what the rules are. They make the kids memorize and it's do memorize. You do I should I had a story flash in my head that's uh that that really ties into when my daughter was really young. Uh I played soccer when I was young but I never knew soccer well enough like I couldn't coach it at the high school. school level or even the middle school age level. But for little kids, I played enough soccer. I know the basics uh how supposed to work. So I felt fine, you know, being her coach. I think I was a coach for three seasons. When she was, you know, little, like five, six, seven, eight years old, that kind of age group. Uh well, when they're five, six years old, a lot of these kids, they you know, they can barely pay attention uh during the game much less play. And so I I decided as the coach we're gonna focus on one or two things, um generally one, sometimes two things, uh to prepare for for the next game. And the next game was to try to m have them really focus on doing that thing well for that game. Exactly. I remember this one uh dad was getting very upset with his daughter and was yelling at her like crazy and was just destroying her confidence. It was really kind of horrible and I was figure trying to figure out how to handle it. And then uh during a break in the action I kind of sidled over and said, Hey You're not wrong what you're telling your daughter, we haven't focused on that like at all in practice. And it's something we'll probably be tackling either next week or the week after. Right now I'm just trying to get her to focus on this. So if you we could encourage her in that, that'd be great And he actually handled that pretty well. He stopped riding her quite so hard. Um but there's an example of the dads coaching her during the game Mm-hmm. Something that she had never practiced before. And okay, maybe I should have as the coachman I should have had her focus on that first before the other things Uh but I was trying to figure out the logical way to get them to understand and he was on a different page for me. Maybe I could have done a better job communicating with the parents what I was up to as the coach too. But but anyway it's it's that really What we do with Parenting but we don't do with anything else in life. You don't take an intern at a Fortune five hundred company and his first day on the job is to get a proposal for for a multimillion dollar contract What no, that's the you teach the intern how to do all these things. He spends years. Oh you haven't never had a job in radio sales, huh? They show up, they hand you the back of the old day, they hand you the phone book and say there's your list, go get him, Tiger. And those don't succeed very well. No, they don't and that's the problem. Failure rates very high. In the military. They don't learn how to shoot the gun on the battlefield They practice at a range, they shoot thousands of rounds of ammunition to make sure everything's accurate and they do intensive training and then they go to the battlefield. So same thing with parenting. Anything that you think you might want your ships to know, you should practice it ahead of time and Do the actual practice session. Take the two-year-old up and say, hey, we're gonna practice sitting still today. Okay, let's see, how long can he sit still And then have a game for five minutes. And then teach them and oh good job, you sat still for five minutes. Okay. Tomorrow we might go to church and you might be able to sit down and be still for mommy and daddy. This is the type of things that you teach ahead of time and they practice and then they remember Oh, it's a game now, because that was practice. And then when they don't do well after you've practiced, that's when I guess if there's the next book, why did you do that? Right? They they make bad choices and you're trying to analyze what the motivations were is that that's about. So why did you do that? Parents are oftentimes quoted to say, Why do that? You know. They don't really ask for they're they're not really looking at the rhetorical, right? Exactly. I don't know, I don't know. I just wanted to. But they don't really want the answer. They just exactly It's an exasperated question and it is rhetorical because they don't really want the answer. But I I challenge parents to actually find out why is it that you would do that? What were you thinking? Uh what made you decide to do that? Because many times it's an email. emotional need. To give you an example, um we came home one time and and one of my kids uh you know uh they were getting out of the car with a bunch of kids and they were going to the house and one kid pushed past the other one knocking him knocking that child down and running into the house. We trained them not to do that, trained them to take a turn, hold the door for the girls and all this stuff, but he didn't do that. We could have s you know I know we've trained it, right? So now it's a must be a sin problem. But it wasn't. So he said, Why did you do that? Do what? So this is what you did. And he said, Well, there was a dog barking and yeah I I was really afraid of the dog and I was running away. I didn't see anybody else. I didn't know that I slammed the door. I didn't know any of this because he blocked all that out because he was afraid of the dog. And if we had punished him, then we would have it damage our relationship with him because he wouldn't be able to trust us. We were not protecting him. You know, he was he wanted to be protected by us, but we were not protecting him. We were punishing him for something that he was trying to protect protect themselves from. So we have to really find out why is is this, why did you do that? What were you thinking? What were you feeling? And if we find that out, then we can change that behavior by helping them overcome those things. things as opposed to just punishing them. And that's really important. I don't know if people listening, you know, if you're listening right now, try to imagine a time when you were a child when you felt unfairly accused of something or prejudged on something. Because I I'm having a couple of things pop into my head now and for space of time, it doesn't matter. I don't need to share a story. But there are times I can remember and I'm thinking back to what that felt like, it actually damages the relationship between the child and the parent When the parent prejudges negatively, assumes the worst. There's a verse about that. It says, Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath. Right? This this is what it's talking about. You're uh either this or if you're being inconsistent. You say one thing and then you tell them something different another day, be consistent. Um and make sure you're actually fulfilling all your duties as a parent before you punish them for something that really wasn't a thin issue. And these skill sets are th they they they cross pollinate, right? I mean these are the same things that a good boss should do at a company with his employees, right? You don't want to assume the worst of your employee. Find out well what were you thinking? Why did you we train you better than that. Well you that's rather rather accusatory, right? Explain knowing that you train them to do something differently, you say, hey Enron, uh so and so says you did blah blah blah, like so what was going on with that? Yeah. Oh well because this and this is like I'm not quite understanding. Our our policy is this, or the way we train is that. And you're like, oh I know, but uh give them a chance to explain themselves and if they can't explain themselves, well then you you gotta deal with that. I mean I've trained lots of people in the pastoral's world And we teach the we tell them what we're gonna do, then we do that with them, we train them, and then we have them practice, we role play. How many parents actually roleplay with their children? We do that. Um, the dinner table are great times to do that. Yeah. Especially if we adopted a bunch of children and they came in with totally different background than we than they've been growing up with us. So we would actually take time at lunch or dinner and practice how to shake hands, how to greet somebody, how to sit at a table, all those different things we'd practice And they thought it was fun. It was funny. It was silly. 'Cause not uh you know we would first demonstrate it. So daddy or mommy would do that. We would go over there and shake some of these hand, hi, how are you? Nice to meet you. It seems silly, but the kids enjoy it. They thought it was funny. It was it was hilarious and they did it. And It wasn't intimidating anymore. It wasn't a punishment at all. But don't do it as a punishment. That's very important. Right. You do it as oh we need more training on this and not to be accusatory If you go back to the game, let's think of a pro team, right? Professional soccer team or football team. In the middle of the game the coach sees, okay, that's and maybe he's thinking, I have trained on that We but obviously we need more training on that. Okay, ref stop the game. We need a timeout. Everybody get off the field. We're gonna talk no no. Go home next week and during this next week You you have a team meeting, hey team, you know, and you're not oh you're not saying, Oh you Bob, you did a bad job. You say, Okay, I think as a team maybe we need to practice this skill, so let's do this skill today. And then you just practice. Now it's a non um uh harsh environment, it's not accusatory, and the whole family's getting to practice and and they're having fun. And that's so important. I know a um I I I know of a uh uh of a younger person. I don't wanna I'm not sure if that person would want this story necessarily shared or not. I know a younger person who was playing basketball, uh it was like middle school at age and uh um it was the first year that that this person was on that team uh moved to a new area, a new school And all the kids on the team had played together summer camp leagues and previous school years or whatever. They all knew each other. And they apparently had the same coach in the past. So they knew all the lingo and all the plays and that's what this other this one player who was new didn't know. And when that player went in the game, there was an assump assumption, like an assumed knowledge. Clearly, the person's going to know this, didn't know, and immediately got yanked out of the game, got berated for making mistakes and not knowing better And it sounds silly, but it was so embarrassing that let me do the math. It took uh It took five basketball seasons for that player to recover from the emotional scar. Five years to recover from the emotional scarring from that one incident. Yeah. Absolutely. You hurt the child emotionally and they learn to distrust you because they don't know that you you're gonna protect them and you're gonna do the right thing by them. So that's very important to find out have you trained this person Have you trained this child? And as Daniel said, uh also if you have multiple children, don't point out, oh, because Bobby didn't know how to do this, we're all gonna have to practice again. No, because if you do that, then you're doing the same thing, you're hurting them. you know, uh i in front of other people, you're embarrassing them. You don't want to do that. So I think we just need more practice in this. You know, I was just thinking that we should do this a little bit more Well on the way you were describing it before, it's it's like pretend play. Absolutely. And we uh we get so much more accomplished and in fact uh we've had uh little kids little kids, I remember of my uh one of my little sisters, she was like two or three. Um she uh she had her baby doll was you know, would go over there and and and uh Sh she was telling us, oh yeah, my my baby doll was not was not uh sitting still in church, so now she's practicing. She's we're practicing how to sit. So she would sit her baby up there and say Well good job and then she'd take care of the so she would actually make the baby dolls practice these things that she had been practicing, which is really cool. That's one of the challenges that our culture has now is there's not I don't know if there's quite as much pretend play 'cause there's all these gadgets and gizmos, right? They have their face buried in screens or what have you and um parents are outsourcing the babysitting to the uh the television screen or something. something. You mentioned about three, three or four minutes ago probably now, uh citing a scripture passage. And that would have been a perfect time to step with, but we weren't finished talking. But let me You re rewind. Perfect segue, Daniel. You're bringing up a scripture passage. One of the things we wanted to talk about was memorizing scripture with your children. So what what is that how would that look like in your family? What do you recommend for other families So i it is doable. That's the biggest thing that that you have to understand that's the biggest question we get is oh well memorizing scripture that's really hard or maybe when you think when you hear me say memorize scripture you might think I mean memorize a verse Or maybe one of the really short Psalms or something. No, I'm talking we're talking about memorizing entire books of the Bible. And your children can do this. Your six and seven-year-olds can know the in several books of the Bible. Bible. It is possible. And how do you do it? You do it in small sections. You don't break it up. But first of all, immerse them in scripture. That's probably one of the most important things you can do as a parent is constantly reading scripture to them, making sure they're in and around scripture, hearing scripture, seeing scripture everywhere, and they start to get familiar with it and you break it down, right? Oh you you might be thinking, oh I can't memorize the book of Acts Well sure you can. How about memorize Acts 1 verses 1? Oh you can memorize one verse, right? You're a good Christian. You go to church sometimes, right? Right, you can memorize a verse. Well how about two verses? Well how about three verses? Now you're seeing where I'm going with this, so now you're starting to get overwhelmed because you can hear I'm telling you to memorize twenty-eight chapters now. But you can break it into small pieces and eventually you can get there. And there's a lot of different things. For example She would she would speak the Bible, record it, and have it playing in the background. As Daniel was growing up, he was hearing the Bible, spoken by his mother, uh the a voice and sound that he should be very familiar and and lovingly accept. And we didn't even realize, you know, one time the the uh battery ran out as the recording stopped And Daniel kept the s the rest of the ch he rest of the chapter he finished it verbatim while he was pushing a truck around doing something else. And that was a shock to us. We didn't realize he had been memorizing it, but he did and this was at three years old. So the first thing we have to decide as parents is don't take negativity. It is definitely possible not only possible. It is very, very good to do, and God r asks us to do it. We should know his word. If it's in our hearts, it'll always be there. So all the naysayers out there, just put them out of your mind. But but allow them to memorize in the way they they look And this is uh helpful for homeschooling parents as well if you're teaching other subjects besides scripture memorization, but don't make it harder. Everybody learns different ways. You know, boys especially learn best while they're moving around and doing things It just as a general rule, girls may be keep able to sit still, but don't make them to sit still. You know, you can be jumping up and down on the trampoline and quoting scripture. You know, and and in fact boys are probably going to learn better while they're jumping up and down the trampoline. I was on a on a ripstick like a skateboard type of thing and memorizing scripture that helped me uh uh ke keep uh keep my legs and arms moving so that there wasn't uh the distraction and it actually made it easier to memorize. And one of the things is if you make it a game and make it challenging but make it make rewards. We joined uh Bible Quizzing. I don't know. if you're familiar with Bible quizzing. Bible quizzing you have to actually memorize whole books of it of the Bible. Not just a a few words here and there. I mean a whole book, like he said Acts. You had to memorize Acts. And uh then you had you were sitting on a jump seat. So meaning that you get a jump up and the and the buzzer would go off if you jumped up first to be able to answer the question. And that competition made it worthwhile for the children to want to And it wasn't winning any prizes, it was just the acolyte just being the first. And uh it was a great time, but it gave a purpose to because as a child you don't really have a purpose to memorize And when they're older, they're definitely gonna remember it because the verses are gonna come out for a situation. So Daniel has much more of the Bible memorized than I ever will because he spent growing up years memorizing it for contests, for competition. And during a time of his life when it was gonna stick much more readily. Absolutely. Children are able to memorize things better than adults are. And uh and I'll um we're gonna wrap up here we're running out of time on the show, but I do want to say, you know, this story about Daniel uh learning through osmosis, just being exposed to the recording playing over and over again, that works in the negative too. So pay attention to the kind of the things you're saying and the sorts of things you're exposing your children to because they're picking up way more than you think they are. And uh they might surprise you with some words that'll fly out of their mouth or some attitudes that they have or some things like, how do you know about that? They saw it on a TV show when they were four and you didn't think that it w you know it went over their head and it didn't. Anyway. This is a Bait debate. Thank you to uh Imran and Daniel Razby You can check out their resources online at Concordby Love. org and visit us online. Well, I'm running out of time. I was just going to say go to Household of Faith in Christ. com. Till next week. God bless. Yeah, I'm a little surprised that he hasn't texted, but well I guess it you Oh that's true. That is true. Well yeah, but I well yeah, I if he was driving when I texted him, uh Then I gave I text him we waited like another ten minutes before we actually got started just to see if he would, but there's two uh additional for this but hopefully he's kept waiting. Okay. What the heck? So there's a But the emotionally healthy children is with them. Yeah, they keep sliding. I don't know why it keeps doing Doing that. Doesn't want to stay. Try this. We'll see if that'll stay. Yeah, it might or might not stay. We'll find out. Let's see So the next one is gonna be I guess the twenty fourth. Yep, july twenty-fourth. Not that it's a good thing he's not here, but you know, we're I think we're kind of just barely covering some of the ground we'd want to cover anyway. If we had another voice to incorporate, it could have been challenging. So No, that's okay. I mean I don't mind. It's just we'll chalk this up as a God ordained uh meeting. So we'll talk about emotionally healthy children this time. That's a actually part of the training for the long term. This is the one we get the a lot of controversy because people are like, oh no, that's a cylinder. Emotional ease. Who who knew who's worried about that? And then I'll meet you more subject. Oh I draw a button. The following. Would you like to emotionally connect with your children and help them to grow up to be well adjusted, emotionally healthy adults? We've got the show for you. This is a faith debate on 930WFMD on the FM at 99. 9 HD2 and On the World Wide Web at WFMD. com, just click the Listen Live button if you're out and about, or you can catch the podcast later on by going there You can also connect to the Faith Debate and all the things that are related to the Faith Debate by going to my church's website. My name, by the way, is Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. And as you might imagine, our website is Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Last couple of weeks, and now again this week, we're talking about uh relational, familial, relational issues, marriage uh parenting, things like that, and uh doing so with the uh the Razveys, Imron and Daniel Razvi. They're they they pastor our house church up in the northern part of Frederick County, but they also uh for years now have been involved with um helping families to talk through uh talk through and talk to these issues. Um and their organization is called Conquered by Love Ministries and their website is conquered by love. org And this week, they've got a number of books and booklets out that uh that they use as resources for people. There are some that are uh that are under the category of getting to uh your children's heart. Uh so how to connect to your children's heart, emotionally healthy children. uh perseverance, finding desire for children and parents. These are all the books that seem like they fit in that category. Uh but I think the main thing we'll probably focus on is the emotionally healthy aspect. And just to tie it into last week, right Right where we talked about training for the long term when you see a bad behavior or a behavior you don't want to encourage in your child and your instinct is to say, Oh, that's a sin issue. Well step back first because first of all maybe it's something we didn't train for. We talked about that last week. Well step two. Step two is is it an emotional need and we'll talk about that. And step three then will be, oh okay, is this an issue? If it's not a training that you didn't do and it's not an emotional need Then the third option is a sin. So again, second option is what emotional needs maybe are not being met and make sure we are meeting all needs. So what are the five, there's five different emotional needs So first the child must be wanted, then secure, then approved, then capable, then needed. And these are all the emotional needs that God meets in us. So for example, God wanted us before we even knew about him. Right? He wanted us and as the baby is born, we want the baby. And the baby feels that want. We want that. They haven't done any to deserve that want, but we want them. Okay? And while we were yet sinners, God wanted us. We had we didn't do we didn't come to God. God loved us, wanted us right there Right? And then we become secure. God is all powerful and uh he can overcome an anything. And he overcomes our sin and we become secure in God and in Jesus' blood. He's gonna protect us. They care for us. And the baby, after the initial okay, I'm wanted, then the they're craving protection. They want to feel secure, they want to feel safe. That's why cuddling a baby very tight is is gonna make them calm. because they feel like they're they're safe. They're not gonna fall. If your child is feel secure, they're not gonna have that need to act out because they don't feel secure. Security is a very big issue. And we feel secure in Christ. We know that hey our Destination is is done, we're secure in Christ. And then he must approve us, right? How do we get approved in Christ? By his blood. And how did a child get approved? We talk about approval for with our children often, just really talking to them about that what a wonderful thing, great. And there's Seeking your approval on all things. Don't give them false praise, right? But the things that they do that you like, praise them for that and say, Good job, we I I really appreciate what you're doing. Show appreciation. Again, these are all things we do before we even expect anything from them. You sh we should be doing this from infancy, right? And then they get to the point where now they're you know, as they're toddling and they're starting to become capable and they're saying, No, I do this, I do this, I do this. Well they're becoming capable. You want to support that. They w we want them to be capable And we can do all things through him. So we help our children do the things that they need to do, they become capable and they start doing those things. And then lastly, as a child is is doing that and has become capable, now they want to feel needed as part of the family. family. Just as we as Christians, as we become more mature, we're needed in the body of Christ. And the every member is different. We're all tasked with different things, but we're all important. And one member can't say that another member you're not important. So the child must feel needed. be involved in what's going on. And yes, I know, I know, I know it takes a lot longer to do the dishes with the child doing it with but you know what? They feel needed, they feel blessed and they And you will save tons of therapy and time in the future when they're being needed and used and they're feeling that need. Now taking out of context, I don't want to turn this into a different issue, but in like thirty seconds, uh just to clarify If some because one of the big arguments on the uh uh abortion pro-life abolitionist thing is, you know, you don't want to punish someone with an unwanted child. The child desires to be wanted, they should be wanted. But just because somebody doesn't want uh preeminent above all of this, I think you would concur, right, is they they should be alive. Well sure sure. They should be allowed to live. We're talking about the born children right now. Right, and then the and then they should be made to It should be expressed in such a way that they know that they're one of those. It's also a choice that we make, right? We talked about marriage a few weeks ago as in We're choosing to love. You may or may not be falling in love, but you're also choosing to love. That's the most important thing. You choose to want your children to love them, to protect them. them to you know approve of them. Those are choices you make. You can be vacy and just not bother to tell your kid what you see that he does he's doing something you like That's the approval part. Or you can actually intentionally go do it. So same thing with wanted. Whether or not you feel all the wanting, you know, and at uh probably many parents or most parents at at at some point feel like, Oh, I really don't like my kid today, or whatever. I've heard people say that a lot. Um I haven't uh uh yet had that with my baby. She's only thirteen months old so far. But uh um but there's probably times, oh I don't feel like this today. Well but you make a choice. That's what you do as a parent is you choose to want them to k protect them, to care for them. Now the way you framed it at the beginning, talking about the three different categories of how to assign their behavior and so the second one is okay, w you know the first one was uh were they properly trained? Sh sh should we be expecting better for do we have reason to expect better from them? Do we tell them what better looks like and show them? Uh the second thing is what we're talking about now. So if their behavior isn't where we would desire it to be where it should be. Uh we should go through this checklist. Are they feeling wanted, secure, approved, capable need like we should be going through this list basically what you're saying? Which which one of these emotional needs are they are they feeling missed and that's causing the behavior So let's say you're going to check these boxes in your head, maybe. Or maybe husband and wife are going to say, okay, we're going to have a real problem with Daniel here. Let's let's see if it's if we're not meeting his need here, wanted. Does he feel wanted? How how do I as a father, or how did you, let's let's make this about you guys, how did you as a father and Ron make Daniel feel needed or uh uh wanted? So we uh asked that question, why did you do that Why are you doing this? You know, what is causing you to behave this way? You know, as we uh went over last week and we have to actually to ask those questions and discover the answer. And you want a detailed answer. You don't want the kid to say, oh because what were you thinking? Not not what were you thinking But really? And then that's demonstrating that you want to know what they think and you want to know what the answer to that question will determine if there's an emotional need, any of them, you know, any of the five Right. So you if you're asking and and you get an honest answer, right and and parents you can usually tell when your kid's being honest with you as far as giving you an answer, but when The the answer to that question it might be one of these emotional leads. Oh well I you know, I I felt like you you weren't listening to me to to me or you know I I Yeah. I mean to give you a good example, one one one of my daughters, um, she was very quiet and when she was young and sh uh she came up next to my wife and was was trying to get her my wife's attention. My wife was busy counseling or talking to somebody, to to see somebody and my daughter walked away and and was very upset and crying. And we What's going on? And mommy pushed me away. Well my wife never touched her, never pushed her away, but she did not take the time So we do a lot of uh cues. I mean we can do hand signals, you know, across the room with your hand I love you or you know um different things that are th that we can continue to affirm and and make sure the child is getting that attention that they need. Because that's really what they need. And they and they rightfully should be jealous of that attention. If you're giving that attention, if I'm giving that attention to somebody that is not my family but I'm ministering to them or or doing something and my child needs attention and love, they're rightfully jealous. My my first attention should be to him, right? Should be to my family. And so I should be able to take the time to say d excuse me one second, let me answer this question. This is the And we can train the children to wait. And many parents have. Just stand here and wait patiently until I have a break and my talk and I'll talk to you. And uh but we should be confident that don't make the wait that long either. So another another good example is I have a baby right now and she walks around the room and I I work from home and I I do virtual work so it's all on the computer and uh Sometimes I'm making phone calls, a lot of times I'm just typing emails and things. And so my my baby might be walking around the room playing with things, and then she'll come to my desk and she'll say up, up. She wants me to pick her up. Well I'm in the middle of an email. If I pick her up, now she's I'm gonna have to play with her for a while and I'm in the middle of something. Can't she just go play? Go pull a play. Push her away. She's gonna start crying. But what I what I found is I can actually say, okay Um I'll pick you up, I'll give you a hug, and you can go play. And explain that to her and I give her a nice big hug, she gives me a nice big hug, and then she goes happily off and w plays for a while. She doesn't need me to actually hold her that long she she wanted to know, do I care about her? Will I give her attention when she needs it? And she comes up and says, oh, I gave her a hug. She goes back in place. That's the the the the type of thing for as far as the the wanted. Yeah and that's uh those are really good positive affirming things and I'm sure that all of us uh we should be doing better in all of those things for all of our relationships with our spouses, with our coworkers, our colleagues, our church m fellow church members, right? We should make everybody we should be affirming everybody, but particularly with our kids in their formative years But also there's a negative and one of the things I learned as a as as a parent, um, not so much I learned it because of a bad thing, uh somebody who knows more about parenting or at least back then Maybe they still do, but back then they certainly knew more about parenting than I did. They gave me really good advice, and that was be careful in the language you use. So if your child is behaving in a way that's very annoying You can label it and call you can be honest and say, hey, don't do that because that annoys people is fine, but you don't want to say, stop doing that, you're annoying. Because you've just given them like an identity, you've labeled they they are annoying. You know. You're a bad boy You know like you don't don't say you behaved badly. What you did was wrong. Like those things but don't say that you are this bad thing because like, well they don't even need me around. They don't want me Right, exactly. Who wants an annoying person around? So they don't want me here. And and also explain to them that that was bad behavior. Why was it bad? That was annoying behavior. Why was it annoying? What caused it to be annoying? Okay, what can we do instead? You have to replace what they're doing with something else, something positive. If you're not doing that then there's a vacuum and they'll they're still gonna have problems So the whole idea is to find out, you know, what what is it that they're doing, what kind of emotional need is not being met, and sometimes it may be, hey, they don't feel needed anymore. You know? If they don't feel needed, they're gonna act out. If they don't feel loved, they're gonna act out. They don't feel secure, they're gonna act out And so you have to f look at those things and see what is it that the emotionally that they're missing And you have to be this detective. The child can't tell you that. But they can answer questions. They can tell you what they're feeling, what what's going on, what's what's happening. And through that you have to determine what is it that they're missing and then you have to spend time giving filling them up in there in that area. Because if you spend the time filling them up in that area when they're young, then you have a much more secure adult When they grew up. Can you talk a little bit about um how the focus maybe shifts over time? 'Cause you've got a thirteen month old that you're gonna be making different parenting decisions now than you will be when you got a four year old and different than when you've got an eight year old and a twelve year old and so forth. Um because that was something that I learned, you know, made some mistakes along the way and realized, wow, I'm treating my fourteen year old daughter like she's ten. And you know, that was setting us up for failure in our relationship. Uh the way I was treating her was perfect, of course it was, for a 10-year-old. But not for fourteen year olds. So talk about you know how this all fit. What are some different things you might do for a uh a young teen, a twelve, thirteen, fourteen-year-old child versus a two, three, four, five year old child as far as the kinds of meeting their needs here and making them feel secure, approved capable needed, that sort of thing. You know what if somebody does this, says says this or and and you think uh you know you're hurt by this, what do you do? How do you react? That's a that's important. But then as they become uh older and more capable, you make sure they understand that they You trust them that you're capable, you can do this. I'm with you, but you can do this. You're capable through my strength. I'm gonna back you up. So you can do this, you can handle it. And as again you get more responsibility, but you're the backup. And I depend on you now. I'm I uh I you I need you for this and this and this. There's and that's where you get into chores and responsibilities. But the chores and responsibilities are not because of this is you just gotta do that because I said so. Well no we need you. This is you're very important. Without you're without this this cog in the in the machine and the machine doesn't turn We need everybody. Now ideally somebody gets on this track early with their child or children and uh everything goes hunky dory and they're You know, they're twenty years old and they're off d living their own life, getting married, raising their own families, job well done, no hiccups anywhere along the line, because we were following the conqueredbylove. org resource guides. But Not everybody is going to start out of the gate right. And they might not realize they need help and they're having problems until their child is five or fifteen. You said it low last week. where you said uh you have these kids that on the soccer team that need to know all the different skills, break it down, do one at a time, do baby steps It's that's important. Little changes. Just whatever you do as a parent and whenever you're starting, be consistent. That's the most important thing as any parent is consistency and that's one of the things to make them feel secure and and protect Yeah. A lot of this came a lot of this uh research and and books that came out of our adopting children because they came with a lot of emotional needs, a lot of challenges that were not met at your early age. And so a lot of parents were asking us, How did you handle this, how did you handle that? And that's what we came up with to some of the stuff that we're doing. I'll give you an example, one uh lady came to us and she'd adopted a daughter when she was uh like sixteen years old. She was adopted from uh Russia uh and uh the relationship was not very good and uh this now this daughter was twenty seven years old and living away from the house and just you know, messed up life and just it was never a good thing. It was a really bad relationship and they didn't get along. And the mother was like, How can I help her? She's in a bad p place and you know, we've tried, we've loved her, we've done all this, we've done this What can we do? And one of the things we we talked about is, you know, in the beginning, what happens first when you have a baby? The baby is loved unconditionally, right? That's what we talk about. So do you loved it unconditionally? Oh yes, yes, we've done that. And how did you do that? And one of the things is when you have a baby, where do you love them? You love them on the floor, you lie down on the floor with them, you crawl with them, you you push trucks or play baby dolls with them, you do those things that a baby does. And she's never done this. 16 year old, why would I do that? Um I can tell you when I adopted and one uh one of the children was twelve years old and he he loved to be in my lap and reading board books. At twelve years old reading a board book. You know, those you know, three or four words on a on a page and flipping it over. If I'd read it to one of my younger babies, they'd immediately come and crowd into my lap and on the sofa and listen rapidly while I'm reading these board books. So it was by accident. We didn't know this, but they needed that. And so we it counseled this uh is mom to just hey next time she comes over, just sit on the floor with with her and uh, you know, play something, you know, whatever you can to play with her on the floor and or play with something and let her play uh join in on the floor. play. And little by little, that little act started connecting, that girl started connecting. At twenty seven years old, she almost she really became a baby and started cuddling with her mother, started lying on her lap, started just hugging and and and being with her and that's something she never got because when she was kidding She was a teenager, sixteen years old. She didn't need all that. But she did. She never got it. You assume, oh well they know their stuff. They know you talked about last week this uh kid joins the team uh you know and and uh the rest of the team already knows what to do. Well of course they must have learned too where they were. And we'll talk about adoption more I think in the f in the next week or two something but then she went through you know you're secure I'm your mom I'm always gonna be mom no matter what happens you're always gonna be my daughter just like the Prodigal's son is always the son. He went away did all these n bad things came back he stole the son So we had her go through all these different steps, emotional steps with her, and it didn't take as long, but their relationship is is beautiful now and it was just the taking the time to meet those emotional needs, one step at a time and they do come in order, just like God does that for us. But we we have to do that for our children. Sometimes we have to take a step back. You go back to baby steps. Daniel said, go back to say things that you think that's babyish. But you know what? Sometimes that's what it is. And you make do it, for example, I read the the board books to my baby. But my other kids sat with me while I read it. So it wasn't I wasn't reading to my other kids, uh that was, but they didn't feel like they were being belittled, but they were enjoying it with my baby. Hm. So find group activities you can do as a family that it the little kids can enjoy and then the older kids can do that too. Yeah one of your books I slotted into the segment I don't know if I slotted it properly or not, but um If we can in the final few five minutes or so we have a good show, perseverance finding desire for par uh children and parents. What do you mean? Finding desire? Like what what do we talk about there? Like things that they're interested in, active interest, or a desire that children and parents would have for one another? What what's what's that issue with perseverance? It's it's important when you uh start a project to continue with it and and persevere with it and and I think um you want to find things that you can can do with the children that they're gonna enjoy and that they're gonna continue with. Um so it's not just what you want them to do but it's the things that they are also gonna enjoy. I I teach um because my My background is in piano performance before I went to law school so I teach piano and uh you know I it's it's always much nicer to have parents bring their kids who w want to learn piano rather than the standard, oh well you need to learn a year of piano because Because every good kid should learn some music. You know, th a lot of times as parents we project things onto our kids and we want them to do this because of uh um whatever reason, but we need to to build that desire and teach them what they should desire, you know, is and why and and help help build that desire and foster it. How concerned do you think parents should be with particularly what's going on in the world today with um Um girl things for girl children and boy things for boy children. Is that something that we should worry about? Or if if the if the boy likes playing with dolls, hey you know what, that's what his interest is. Let's let him play with dolls and figure out how to turn that into a constructive thing for him. If the girl likes to play with trucks, let her play with trucks and or I mean, 'cause I don't know if I would have worried about this that much ten years ago, but I'm I I do sometimes get concerned about playing into the uh Playing with dolls doesn't make a boy a girl. Okay? It just means that they have different desires and cares and they may be more emp uh they may have more empathy, they may have more concern for other people. And uh playing with trucks doesn't make uh grow boyish. It just means that that's something that they a are attracted to. They're still what God made them. They're still a girl, they're still a boy. And what Daniel is saying is, you know, when they pick something Let's say it's piano, let's say they want they really want to play violin. Okay? Well, have a talk with us. We're gonna help you play violin. We're gonna do that, but you you're gonna persevere over a certain period of time, let's say six months or a year and even if you decide you don't like it after a few months, we're gonna continue for the year because we've we picked this together and you want to do it, we're gonna do this for a year and then we'll make a decision. Okay? And you don't pick things for the children. I mean it you as a parent should guide them and and and expose them to a lot of things, but it should be something that they want to do And God has different different gifts for different things. One of the things that we do we didn't talk about here but it kinda fits in is what is your gift as a father, as a leader of the household? What is God calling you as a mission f in the mission field? What are you doing? And have you identified that and are you doing that? And then how is your family your help meet? Your wife is how's she helping you in your ministry that God has put on your heart? And how are the kids helping? because now you're teaching the kids how to minister to others through what you're doing. Now they may have different gifts, they may have different purpose as they get older, but during that uh in former views, they're supporting your gift and your mission and they're learning skills and things to care for other people through that. And that's very important because they're needed in your ministry, but they ha but you have a purpose. If you don't have a purpose in life, your kids are not gonna have a purpose. life. Okay, what has God got for you? You gotta identify that. What you're giving you specific gifts and and a calling, you have to do that. And you have to get your children involved and teach you Teach them how they can support you in that and girls will support their husbands as they go, but there God may have some girls that have that without husbands and have a desire, have a missionary field, and go in that direction But that's part of the training that they should be, and they're they're needed in the kingdom of God also, not just in your family, but in the kingdom of God, in your ministry, how can they make an impact for God? That's very important. And as they learn that and as they grow that, that's going to encompass all their emotional needs that are going to be met through that, through Christ, through the ministry And they're needed in that whatever that miss mission field is for you. And I think that's important. They learn how to serve others through that and you teach them by example Yeah, and I appreciate what you said about the um the the the potential for any sort of gender confusion or gender concern because I agree a hundred percent, you know, um Uh if if a boy, uh young boy, puts on his his mom's shoes and uh one of her blouses or something and runs around the house, that doesn't mean that he all of a sudden thinks he's a girl. He just thinks it's fun and funny to put on something that's mom's or whatever. And you know, we don't have to be overreactive to those sorts of things. And so we don't have to be like hyper concerned about that sort of thing. So I appreciate the way. And they'll get over it. You don't wanna you don't wanna make them into a opposite sex because they're just experimenting. I mean y you may sp smell a spice, doesn't mean you're gonna turn into a spice. You're just experimenting and and learning about the spice Yeah, well good good stuff. Next week we're talking we've touched on it a couple of times. This is a very briefly questions that have to do with adoption. We're going to focus more specifically on adoption next week The last voice you heard before mine was Imron Razby. The other voice on this show is Daniel Razby. They've got a ministry. You can check them out at conqueredbylove. org. Visit um the show and me and my church and everything else we're involved with here at household of faith in Christ. com. Of course you can go to WFMD. com too. We'll penalize you for that Till next week. Thanks for listening to the Faith Debate. We're back 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless. Sorry, I blanked on that one person thing. That was one of the first books we wrote. It's been a long time. And I I'm the thinking right now, I think there's actually a twist that we went in a different direction with that one than what it seems from the title And I just can't I cannot for the life meet what it was. But it's not in there. I forgot to print it out. I printed out the the uh the summaries of the the other ones just to refresh, but Oh well. The stuff we uh we shared is actually true stuff. It's just it on that one? No, I don't think it is. No. So the adoption you had the adoption kind of broken up into two and we can spend couple weeks on it but it you broke it up into like before you adopt and then after you adopt. Um we don't have like a lot of stu I uh well I guess it we could do a whole topic of how to how to adopt and what do you think about and how to support adoptive families and stuff. It's just there's just not a lot of bull points about it. But um the the main the main focus w uh was Yeah, if we run out of gas on the uh on the pre-adoption stuff, we could transition to the other and then we'll we know we'll just adjust from there. I'm not too concerned about that. I have some I have some I think gonna have some questions in mind for like somebody who's never adopted but who has thought about it, you know, kind of thing. That was number three, right? So this is number four, so this will be July one, two, three, four, July thirty-first. That's really nice. Especially when it's so quiet. That's bad. Alright, and then Probably wouldn't sound so great bad on here. So three so far. The other one hasn't done yet. California play in an hour or something. Okay. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMB You ever thought about adopting? Have you recently adopted and you're struggling? Well, this week and probably next week's show will might help you with those kinds of questions. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Freud Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. Church's website is householdfaithinchrist. com. I had a hard time saying, let's try it one more time. HouseholoffaithInChrist. com We've been spending the last few weeks and we're going to be spending the next uh uh at least the next couple weeks and perhaps quite a few more weeks after that talking about family issues with the RASVs. They've got in ministry they've been doing for a long time. They pastor a house church as well, by the way, in the north end of Frederick County. And their ministry is Conquered by Love Ministries and their website is conqueredbylove. org. And particularly given what's been going on in the world these last two, three weeks uh Two, three weeks, two, three years. Uh wish it was two, three weeks. Um there's been there's a lot of our society has felt like it's come unglued, unraveled, and a lot of families are really struggling. There's lot Lots of uh pressure from the culture and what kids are being exposed to in the media and social media and if if they go to the uh government funded the schools like I I call them the pagan schools or they go to one of those schools, uh they're they're they're having all sorts of challenges and I know the people in my life, you know, that I'm uh ministering to or that are just people that I know tangently or that are related by blood or whatever that I mean it's not unusual for people to be really struggling managing their own situation. To manage a situation that has children that aren't biologically yours just as an additional complicating factor. So the first thing I wanted to talk about as we address the adoption question is should someone adopt just because. Yeah, are there certain uh Dynamics that should be in place, certain personality types, certain uh realities that are set before somebody really takes on the responsibility of adopting what are the kinds of questions somebody should think through before they do. And I'll give me a lot because I want to give you a chance a chance to kind of a free form response on this. So what are some of the things we should be thinking about? Let's say I was going to adopt. What are some of things I should be thinking about to adopt? But also what should be some of the things we should think about that we'd be like, you know what There might be a knockout blow, like I got all these other things in place, but because that's not relieved there, I shouldn't adopt. So kind of the the ups and downs on these. So some of these things that we'll talk about is is merely our opinion Okay. So we're gonna tell you this is what we feel and other people have done it differently and been very successful at it. But we're we're gonna tell you why we did what we We did. Now it's interesting, I wanna you don't have to get into the weeds on this, but everything that we do on this show is pretty much our opinion, but you've felt some need to say that. Yes. Really? Adoption is a very, very um emotional subject. And uh there are some things that other people are have been gifted with and are capable of doing that we were not bab able to do And uh so we did ours a little bit differently than some others might have done and they've still been successful. So that's one one thing. For example, there's open adoptions and there's closed adoptions. We wanted a closed adoption and we can get And the reasons why and other people have done open adoptions have been very successful. But we are we didn't feel comfortable with an open adoption. Open adoption means that they still have communication with their uh family that may still maybe in jail, maybe in with drugs, maybe with whatever abusive and they set up communication and and they have that. But now you're competing with that other family as for the kids in the kids attention and well what's the right thing to do and how to behave correctly because uh yeah i i there's always a competition there. So we chose a closed adoption where the children can and you know learn about their doc their uh birth families a when they get older and emotionally stable enough to go do that and search it out and do that. But while they're young they don't have any influence But but let's back up for a minute because you asked who should adopt shouldn't can if anybody adopt the most important thing is start with prayer. You really need to search deeply and find out is God calling you to adopt? Because he doesn't call everybody adopted. It is a hard thing. Um it's not just a plug and play. It's not like you can get a plug and play child as a different gonna be perfect and just like uh uh you know uh you always wanted and no th this is a decision just like when you're gonna have a baby, you're gonna get married and have a baby. Um but there are some some different types of factors to really think. But how about five the five year old? I don't have to worry about diapers anymore. Wouldn't that be great? Or maybe a teenager 'cause I don't have to worry about any of the uh adolescents and no no no no things and uh so people have these dreams and expectations that are really inaccurate. And a lot of people think they can just write a check. You know, hey I have the money, I can just write a check and it'll be fine. We'll get a kid and I don't have to worry about all the other things. We'll send them off to boarding school and Yeah And that doesn't do anything for the child. So the first thing is you do need to pray, spend time, and especially um, you know, there are single people that can adopt and have the resources and be able to do that. I think it's important to have a family, have a spouse And uh 'cause you need help. It's not easy. And if you're single, make sure you have support and help to be able to do that. Um, I think and this is really controversial, especially in today's day and age where uh there's a lot of adoption being done by gay couples, uh by um people that are emotionally unstable and I think uh that causes a lot of problems for the children. I don't think that's a good adoptive situation. I think get putting children in a bad situation and we've had uh people get very angry with us about that. So those are things that, you know, again, as I said, that's my opinion and that's based on what I find from the Bible. To be to be the best emotionally stable child, ideally you have a father and a mother. And There are exceptions to that where it just it's not possible, you know, maybe the maybe the father's father passed away or the mother passed away or whatever, and even if it wasn't your choice to to have it this way. And in that case you definitely need to make sure you have support from you know if you if you're a single mother you have support from strong male uh role models that the children can look up to as well or very subversity the other way around. So the bottom line is God ordained a family. He said there's a father, there's a mother and there's children. That is the ideal. And so it's the closest we can get to the ideal, the better off it is for the adoptive child. Right? So first we've got to pray, we've got to spend time and make sure both spouses are on the same page. If one spouse wants to adopt the other one does not, he shouldn't be adopted. You should all be on the same page. And then, you know, what uh kind of child do you want to adopt? You want to adopt a baby. And that a lot of babies are harder to adopt because there's more people that want a baby. Right? They feel the baby has less baggage. And and that's actually not quite the case all the time. Um we know we found that even though you adopt as a baby, there has uh d in the womb the baby um creates an emotional connection and the with the mother and so if they're if they're put up for adoption immediately after birth They may not be old enough to articulate the feelings that they have, but they are missing a lot of those emotional needs right away that you're gonna have to work extra hard to make sure they feel wanted. they feel secure and all those things because it's not. The the the birth mother, the biological mother that they were they grew to the womb with. And so a lot of people miss that and they assume that they're gonna And and with with the proper care, yes, you know, uh a God works miracles through through that whole process, but you do need to be aware. So study what are the needs of adopted children that are, you know, maybe a little bit different than In your experience, what different age groups have you taken a child into the house in an adoption? So the first adoption we did was a sibling group of five children. Ages four to twelve. And we chose to have uh uh adopt children that were younger than my eldest son because we wanted my eldest son to still be the eldest son, because we felt that God ordained him to be the eldest son and w Wanted him to have the same position as that. That doesn't mean we love him more, it just means that that God put him as as the eldest in there. And I know some people that have adopted children that are older than their birth child Did having uh you know a a an entire gaggle of kids come in together make it easier or harder? It was chaos. It was definitely chaos. I mean chaos. You have a um lack of a better word, herd mentality. Okay? If you bring in a child into three or four children, then they start adapting to that herd Okay, they become part of that herd. But if you bring five children, you only have three, now the herd goes the opposite direction because they're the m there are more on the other side. So you need more practicing, more emotional help with with the with the two. And I'm assuming that in a situation like that, it it sounds like it had to be a a tragedy that led to all five being up for adoption at the same time. And that's that that question was a lot of things. That question makes a good point and the it's very important uh to protect the uh you know the story the privacy right of the story. Something that should be considered is if if somebody's going to adopt, are they equipped to deal with all of the range of potential emotional angst there might be? Because somebody maybe they had their parents, you know, killed in a car accident or they went to jail because of some bad things, had bad choices or whatever, and they're dealing with all the the anger and the turmoil or whatever. It's not like you're bringing in Oh I really loved when my daughter was five, so I'll adopt a five year old. You're not getting your daughter. You're getting s somebody's got a lot of baggage, right? Uh uh almost every adoption, they're challenges. Okay. No adoption is is uh hey, this is what how life should be, right? It's because something didn't work out That's why they're being adopted. Life is not like TV. Yeah. So TV One of the things that came up uh early, I can't remember it was one of the first I think it was one of the first two things you mentioned was about the uh the money. We've got the money, we can write a check But that's something you gotta think about. Can you write the check? Because adopting is expensive, right? It can be. It doesn't have to be. A lot of people hear about oh it costs thirty thousand dollars or fifty thousand dollars to adopt. Well yes it depends right depends on what you're what you end up doing. Um usually if you adopt from overseas that is a very expensive and very long process And also a lot of ti uh a lot of times uh if you're trying to adopt a baby there there's a lot of uh fees involved to get d you jump through all the right hoops because there there's there's a lot, uh frankly a lot of demand But there's a lot of groups of children, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of children in the US that need homes that doesn't cost a I mean it it's gonna cost as to raise a child just like any other child, but there's no not really any additional costs. A lot of times uh the there's a category category called special needs. And you think special needs, oh maybe they're have some um strange knees or whatever but they think crippled or whatever does he think it it really does what it means is that they're over uh five years old. Okay? Or they're they're a sibling group or they're not white Okay, those are all considered special needs because there's less people adopting those categories than there are white babies. White babies are not a special need because there's far fewer white babies than there are people. So it's less expensive to go through all the hoops. So if they're in a special lead category. The government starts tearing down barriers because they know there's so many uh that need homes and they try to make it as easy as possible. So if there's a special needs uh adoption, then you have you pay a couple thousand for home study and things like that, but then most of the adoptive fees will be covered by the state. Because the state knows that they can either keep paying uh foster care uh there's thousands of dollars every month to take care of them. There's a big business for that. And they know once they turn eighteen they'll probably have to pay for their jail time because Most uh or many adopted children if they age out in foster care, they'd go to jail. inappropriate. I mean many of them have a great heart. That's something I could not do and I applaud those that have the strength to do that because th you know, they're loving these children and these children leave. And so it's a tough, tough position to be in. But at the same time, you know, when they turn eighteen, they're out, they're gone. They're the government's no longer paying for their care and many of these foster families can't afford to keep caring for the the these pe these children that are now eighteen, nineteen, they might not be ready for the world, but the world has to be is out there for them. And so if they get adopted, then they actually have A place to come back to for Christmas or Thanksgiving. Even if they go out to the military, go out wherever, they actually have a foundation of family. Uh but they're not renting they're they're being paid to rent a kid. And the ones that want to really make the lifelong commitment, they've got to pay all these legal fees or It seems like if if if if there's money is there to pay families to take care of foster kids, why wouldn't there be money's there to pay families to take care of adopted kids? Sometimes there is and the government can help uh and again a lot of times that comes with So just be very careful with that. But the it doesn't have to the point of with all the all this the financial part of it is it doesn't have to be a financial barrier if you want to adopt and you are financially able to take care of the children That's gonna be the most important thing. Uh if you have very specific demands and I need somebody that looks like this, that's this old, that's from this country, yeah, then you're gonna probably end up paying a lot of fees to try to figure out And there's a lot of people that can't or are not able to adopt, but they're willing to support somebody adopting. They may support financially, they may support emotionally, they may support respite care, but they are not going to be permanent parents. And that's that's something y you know, if you have a heart for adoptive children and you don't feel that you can adopt, you can come along somebody that has adopted. One of the greatest things that my wife's sister Karen did When we adopted Silver Five Children, she threw a baby shower. Who thinks of throwing a baby shower for adopted children? But they're new to our family and they're uh and it was great and we there was a lot of things we did not need And so having that baby shower really did do a couple things. One we got a lot of support, we got some things in place and we That's a good good uh point you just brought up because even if you were not calling specifically to adopt, you should be able to minister to adoptive families. And that's one of the ways you can do it. I mean really treat the adoptive children as new babies coming into the family. Anything you would do for uh somebody in your church that had a baby, do the same thing when you die. Bring some meals. Yeah, bring meals over, uh you know, uh give throw a baby shower. It's you know offer to clean up a little bit because there the time was taken up by this new new baby. So somebody's going through the process of thinking about this. If there's a couple and and and they're on the same page, they want to adopt and they've got the resources and everything and they're ready to go. But there's they still have a little bit of uncertainty 'cause they just want to get a better sense of what they're getting into. Is there a elongated process where you can kinda get to know different kids at different ages and get a feel for what would be best for your situation? Or you kinda just tell some agents they want to adopt and you kinda end up with it's like a lottery, they end up with whatever you end up with. Usually there's a long process where you see pictures, you see uh notes about personalities and things like that and often the parents will get to meet the prospective adoptive kids. Usually that's a lot later in the process 'cause again you don't want the children to get false hope. False hope and feel more rejection. Oh this family came around, oh no they don't want me. Oh whatever. and and and they start to get more jaded and more feel more rejection. So usually you don't actually meet or talk to the kids until you you're really pretty far along in the process, but you do get to see uh and information and and and But in that process they're sharing things about their personality and their background. So you've got to get a sense of it's a good fit for what you can handle. There's a lot of information. Now that information is not uh complete Many things are hidden, many things are not known. So you have to expect that whatever you read in there is gonna be the sales pitch, right? 'Cause the adoptive uh agency, the social worker is trying to quote unquote sell you this child meaning that they want you to get this child because their job is to get the child placed. And so they're doing giving you all the best qualities, the best things about this child and and telling you how good it will be and not all the bad things. Because that that's they're trying to place the child. So you have to exce expect that no matter what you learn, there's gonna be other problems, other issues, other challenges. So you just have to be really ready and willing to meet those challenges no matter what they are and have a support group that can help you with that because you can't do it on your own. And there are people that are single moms, single dads that want to adopt and they've done a great job but they've got support around them, the church, um you know f other family members, their sisters or brothers or parents that can help And those are very important. It seems like intuitively the older the child gets the harder the situation would be to be the adoptive family. Is that true? That's a that's kind of intuitive on uh for of you to notice that because a lot of a lot of people think the other way around. They think, oh they're older so that means they're more mature. They're they're gonna affect their age. I'm thinking they have more of a story that you gotta often the case. Not always, but you're you're right, it is often the case the the almost universally when we see people and we counsel people that are thinking about adopting or have just adopted and now are realizing that they were mistaken in this, they expect, oh I adopted an older child and they're gonna act their age when they come. They're ten years old. They should act like a ten year old. No, they're not act like a ten year old. They were not taught and trained and emotionally uh helped through that time period. They're not ten years old. Emotionally they're a baby. So we'll tea we'll talk about this a little more next week, but it's It's really important, one of the most important things you can do when you bring your child home is to give them at least three years, minimum, three years, literal years, of infanthood Treating them like a baby, not belittling them, like but actually caring for them as if you were caring for a baby. Take as much time off of work as you would have if you had a baby. Take spend as much time, you know, morning night in the middle of the night getting up and to playing with the damn k putting them back to sleep, help helping them comforting them all the things you would do with the baby for the first three years because it's so important and almost without exception if somebody is in the to be adopted they have not had those full years. Maybe they had a little bit, but they did not have those full several years of infancy that is key for emotional and spiritual development And you need to give your child that. What's the oldest ch uh a child is up could be up for adoption? Seventeen. Seventeen. I'm surprised at seventeen. I would think it might be like sixteen or something. It's so close to them being eighteen. Most of those older older ones do not get placed. They and once they're that close they kind of age out usually. They age out, they get into a halfway home. And things like that that that are really not stable. And so there are some some organizations, some families that try to place older children that are eighteen, nineteen into some family and mentorship type thing which is phenomenal because it's needed and there's so many children that age out of the adoption of the foster care system without any family. Yeah you mentioned at the beginning about the closed and open uh kind of adoptions. Open. It sounds like there's some dynamics that are similar to if you if you've got a divorce situation right and you've got these blended families and Yeah, whose rules are really in charge. Exactly. If you if you got a di divorce situation you live half the week at mom's house and half the week at dad's house and then you you know mom and dad have different rules and you know how to get around and and and uh and get away with things, i it just creates more complexity and it's already a really traumatic experience to to be adopted or to to to adopt and and to deal with all those talents. And often times it puts the child in in a position of of power. You know, well if if you don't do what I want you to do then I'm gonna go to dad. Or if you don't want you don't do this, then I'm gonna go to mom. And so you're trying to please that child and you're not doing anything for their character. You're actually hurting them. So that's kind of good advice I think for uh marriage or parenting in general rather than j uh just for adoption. Yeah. So are are there yeah, if you were talking to somebody who knows that you're you know has some expertise in these sorts of things and they're kinda picking your brain and they ask your opinion. Are there some things you would want to find out from them that could be knockout blows like if this or this or this are realities in your life, do not adopt. Are there any things like that? I I would say if if you don't feel like you're in the position to actually treat them like an infant for three years, that would be a knockout thing right away. Do not expect that you're gonna adopt a five year old and they won't need to have their diaper changed. Don't expect that you're gonna adopt a 10-year-old and he'll know how to read. These these things are are are usually not the case in many adoptive situations. situations. You you want to be able to have the time, commitment, wi uh with your family and and and so on that you can give just like you would give to an infant. And it really is difficult for most people people to grasp that they are the same thing as an infant. Yeah and a ten and twelve year old should be able to take care of themselves. I mean they can make them their own mud, they can get their own water, but no, they can't. You have to do that for them. You guys have um a series of books that kind of fit into the introduction to adoption category. Next week the the plan is to talk about kind of living life with a uh in an adoptive family situation Uh some of the books that uh I I seem excuse me. Uh seem to uh fit in the category here, Steps to Adoption, I Know an Adoptive Family, I've considered adoption, but uh the beauty of adoption, how it reflects what God has done for us. Two real quick, we've got a few minutes left on the show, just a just like a couple really. So you can pick one, I guess. I know an adopted family. Maybe really quick. It seems there'd be a great advantage in getting to know somebody else who's adopted, right? And get a feel from them before you make the decision to Right. But I do know people who adopt, how can I serve it that serve them and help them in my church? Right, but I'm talking about those who are thinking about adopting. It makes sense to try to connect with somebody who has adopted and learn something before you Take the full plunge, right? But one thing I'll tell you right now, one thing you should definitely know if you have no adopted family, don't ask them who's your birth children, who's your adopted children They're all my children. They're all the same. They're all the same. But we get that question every time we go anywhere to speak, Well who's your birth child? Which one are your birth children? Is this one a birth child? It doesn't matter. They're all my child children. They're all the same. They're my children. Troy, are you are you the real real God's How it reflects what God has done for us. So if you believe that as a believer we are all one in in Christ, well I'm not more of a believer than you are, Troy. If we're both saved, we're both equal in the kingdom of God you we may have different roles to play and you may have gotten saved before I before I was born, but but but that's the that's the thing. So God God adopted us. He wanted us. He he took us out of sin And he gave us a home, he grafted us into a family of God, and so we are adopted. So it's a beautiful reflection when when you when you consider that. specific challenges that they could uh provide some insight, the Razvies can. The last voice you heard before mine was Daniel Razvi. The other voice on today's show is Imran Razvi And uh their ministry is Conquered by Love. You can go to their uh ministries and you can go to their website, conquered by love. org. Uh this is the Faith Debate. I'm Froy Skinner and I'm the pastor of uh there are pastors of a house church too. I haven't mentioned that as much in this context of shows when we're talking about these things. this specific ministry that they do. But they've got a house church in the north end of uh Frederick County up in the Thurmont area. And uh I'm the pastor of a house church of kind of essentially located in Frederick County called Household of Faith in Christ. My website is householdfaith in Christ. com. There you can link to their ministry. You can also link to the faith debate and a whole bunch of other stuff, trust the resources, that sort of thing Next week, more adoption talk here on the show. I want to thank you so much for listening. Tell a friend, if you've got a topic you'd like us to tackle, let us know that too. Till next week, let me check my watch. Yep, 167 and a half hours from Now, we'll be back with you. Till then, God bless. Thanks so much for listening. Okay. That was four, right? Yeah, I think so. Time for one more and then we go back. Yeah. So just to be about right. So we got the adoption to talk about now. Yep. Yeah it was it was interesting that you said that. Oh they're not as uh they're not as old as they look. And and like you yeah, you're you're insightful. We actually get the opposite most most people uh just assume that they're gonna act their age and that they're gonna have less challenges because they're older and so on. So that's why Well, I just know how difficult it can be when you've had all fifteen years leading up to their fifteenth year, how difficult it'd be to deal with a fifteen year old. Mm-hmm. Well if if you didn't spend fifteen years training them to get like you you start from scratch then? Yep. I mean that's gotta just be like the twelve year old had to be really hard. Yeah So really allow them to have that input. Okay. Yeah, okay on this. And then this will be the last one for tonight. And we are we're anticipating some downtime stuff for the summer, so it's good that we're actually a little bit ahead. It gives us a lot a little more breathing. room because this next one recording is actually going to air the first Sunday in August. Nice. Well get ahead. Because we actually did five or six shows a month. Yeah, which to be honest is more the norm in the history of this show. We've always always we've almost always recorded like two, three months out. Mm. You know, uh and then if something would happen, it's like, oh, no worries, we'll just schedule it for next week or the week after. Like there was never any pressure, like we've gotta record 'cause we've got nothing recorded. Give us plenty of breathing room. The downside was it can be a little bit dated Uh if we're talking about something that's a hot topic. But I think that also helps to insulate us and protect us from trying to get too hot. Yeah. It forces us to be broader. Well we did talk about Roe probably about when that's going to be released, the Dobbs case. Yeah. Very interesting. So it'll be relevant once again That that one's gonna air pretty soon. And one thing I will say is I've been uh uploading some of the older shows on discernment audio. Uh-huh. And so I've been listening to them so I can label them so it could know what the heck the topics were and what the guests were and also. And it's interesting taking the not super hot topic approach, because we we know we're we're this show's gonna air in two months, three months, four months. those shows are still relevant. Most of them now is like, wow, we could have aired this show last week. There's some of you know evergreen, everlasting, you know, godly truths right that are true no matter what. Right Right. So if there's that advantage to the to how we've been doing that. Well even the the end times discussions we had last week, those are they can get almost any time. Yeah. There were a few dated marks in there like we think this is coming soon or whatever, but it it wasn't that specific. I just wish we had gotten that honor and chain discussion in the on the air. That was a really good one. Yeah. Well, you know, that's happened too many times in the past too where we've had bam Well, because we didn't realize we were gonna hang out that much longer. So we're gonna be leaving in five minutes, so I'm not gonna start another show. But then we end up talking for a half hour, like, man, that was another show. Yeah. That was a good one too, because we were really heated. We were arguing. Yeah, that was fun. That was real faith debate. Uh I'm glad you're a strange bird like me. It's a strange bird that finds that sort of stuff fun. That is true. Most people really shut down when they're supposed to be. There we go.