How does the Bible talk about teaching children and Yeah, well one of the things I think is really important to keep in mind because most of the people who are in these fields most of the people in the world, it's not specific to this field. I'm not sure if it's still technically a diagnosis or not, but at the time it was, you know, the word retarded. uh help your child to learn how to read phonics. They have a website, uh, conquered by love. When she was hungry, I said, Oh, are you hungry? You know, why does the staff and management have to start a message like that? And if my contact information, if you want to reach any of these guys, uh I will be be more than happy, glad to to could to connect you, uh help you find a church. And kids shouldn't be in church making a commotion. See if they have an option to do something else, they'll always take that option. However, you're also responsible. I don't even know where the uh circuit breakers are. And sorry. And he's like, okay, now I know what my day is. I should. You're you have a and the parent of a learning disabled child, but if you've got a learning disabled child in the home when you're growing up, that has some impact. final defida I didn't think I would be able to handle. and so not so good people. uh identifying about different things about learning disabilities and some tools that you can use to uh help the children is what can we say from a biblical perspective what is how That's not me. I am a person who struggles to read like there's a difference, right? brain damage children or young children because that's when the synapses are created more rapidly and this and the classical music does a a better job creating that. But they won't sound like they're completely buried unless there's like almost no level. The Sailor family, remember that? And you can find us online at householdfaith in Christ dot com and learn more about us and what we're all about. with that and this we're in transition to sibling relationships. uh got a chance to participate. Oh I learned the dishes and the laundry and all the other things, but we did it with different person each time. Like we tolerate it just like flowers. and be equitably treated. Here, why don't you there's thirteen there's fifteen people in this family. Now we're only gonna drink milk. What what about and she would use uh uh we she didn't always use complete sentences obviously, she used sign language, she might say a word here or there, but we always use complete sentences and talk to her like she's an actual person Yeah, so long as you're uh caring for it. uh conqueredbylove. It's it's crazy. And then they know what to expect. I mean I I it might surprise that you do sometimes. Uh some people try to skip sensitive parts for little kids. uh regardless of of the circumstances. to pay attention to what's going on around them. it it's it's really uh interesting. Yeah, gasped. they go hand in hand. Everyone is their is their brother's keeper, mm, right, as well. Yeah. Conquered by love. And everybody's going in different directions and also it takes a lot more time to get things done. Imagine thirteen kids coming to my wife saying, What am I gonna wear? We'd map out the next week in a very specific way. This is what's going on today, these are um this is who's doing what and when kind of deal as in addition to a sort of are both well uh unusually large compared to what you see your next door neighbors having. We did a survey in a large homeschool conference, I think there was I don't know how many thousand people there, and we asked teenagers, you know, in what way would you like your s to see your family more unified? the American way, get him involved in as many activities as possible. We all would be at the same place and uh we try to uh s uh schedule our games too so they wouldn't be in conflict. And uh you've probably heard of Wookiee Woody Bacham and uh he's a big advocate. We have the false presumption in this society that every child has to be able to play his work because they could become famous and they could make millions of dollars. And so it's uh you know, still is uh a family activity. We gotta relate to the Bible. David Forcy. I'm sure they would agree, they just don't want to say so publicly. Now, that's one of the the perks to being on the social media. So what you're unprepared. with us. be confused by that. shared and opined with us um last time but we'll see how how it goes. Fifteen years. I love. full name of the organization, but conqueredbylove. Um thing a lot a lot of them not all, but a lot of them do have to do with environment and and other things. year olds that would come into the home did not know how to y add two plus two. been in that had all these uh learning disabilities that they are not ever going to be able to learn to read, um ever going to be able to do the math and and and all this. born without an arm, well okay that's the way they are, they're not gonna grow another arm. Difficulties, uh were they uh adopted and if so, did you know going in that we're taking on uh a child who's gonna have some learning difficulties uh you know one piece at a time in the puzzle. I mean all of them got to be very well educated and highly intelligent and all that. Tammy had done a lot of study on brain development and challenges, environmental challenges. She would do that. You identify a problem, you label it, and you medicate it. uh tumor or something and these children end up excelling better than the regular child children that have full brains. react properly and uh it's a process. missing half brain. that the human potential was vast and he was able to prove that and there's many books um you know achieving your human potential uh a baby can learn to read really did not have those skills. She was like off the charts in her early development. I gotta do is say my son has a dual diagnosis. specifically. the on the spectrum maybe, but it was something other because the the the syndrome as it presents is different. psychological services and special needs services and stuff, they decided to get uncomfortable with the Asperger's label and a lot of these medical institutions started dropping the perceived to be okay because well we all have those challenges but we d we went to a church once though, uh in town in Frederick, and uh they came to know us better and it wasn't an issue over time. Um you get the label and then it's like they can't learn to read, they'll never gonna learn to do math. work for that. grade level. what they have been told. to really do give their all to try to help the children. overcome. here. functioning because they they've found ways to to tap into her brilliance and yeah. what led to Elden's ouster. Um I'm sure there's some really good people stuck in that system, good teachers and stuff, but as a general rule I if when you can get somebody who's awake to what's going on and who will be honest and trust that they can be honest with you, you will hear some horror stories about that school. Absolutely. better dividends in the future. And we thought you don't want to do that. radio station's uh signal is is compressed. really such a thing as as sin in the secular world, right? friends, uh they would rebuke might be a strong word, but they would definitely have some words with us on occasion, feeling that we were a little bit too hard on Tyler. system comes a little discombobulated and he can come unglued for a moment. My first instinct is either you're right in the sinner, we're gonna correct that. back and get him to to connect again. So instead of his whole life being that, he's got one or two moments a year of like that. Just give me five more minutes, they called the police. I don't know for sure if that's the case. suggest to you that we would pray for you. academically in general. first and then three kids after that and so we had five kids within five years. Um but uh I I think they were probably more difficult just from thinking about my experience and and I'm very good friends with all of my siblings now. didn't really become closer I I mean I'd say even really like get to know each other very well until we were grown ups and sort of all on the same stage of life in that sense. that's married and having our own kids. that closeness in age and um but I mean even even there, like our our our twins, the oldest are are girls and our youngest is a girl. Th just those few years distance that um you know sort of make it make it hard for them to to connect sometimes. It's a lot of work and it makes you grow up and mature in a lot of ways and learn things about yourself and relating to other people. that's mine and you know what can I do? you I think we would all be shocked at what the world would look like in forty years if all the Christian families had ten kids and all the secular families And so for fifteen years I was the only one doing the chores. No, don't make it fair. scoring and the Cowboys I guess lost the game. Johnson. in the media saying, you know, Coach Johnson, I mean you cut, you know, Mr. And that's that's fine. decided to do. Together with your sibling and conquer together. wrong the worst thing you can do to Jimmy. with high praises on this, says, Look, they don't have to share. something different too, right? Somebody's playing with the the fun musical toy that lights up and has all bells and whistles and the other kids, ooh and they want to go take it and they start yanking it from each other. wants that, I'll say, Oh great, yeah, they're having fun, let's watch them. Now we we're just gonna go ahead and do it and we'll find something to be happy about. And many babies cannot do that. No question. think like he doesn't want to be denied something he wants to do. that is connected to it. um Daniel and Raz. I guess one way that we would encourage sharing is we would say, you know, like you can see that someone else would like a turn, you know, maybe maybe do this for a few more minutes, you know, enjoy it for a few more minutes and then opens opens options to them because uh you know I I think they can kids can sometimes feel never had mine and yours stuff for the kids. Well maybe we're not in unity. uh in this exact group together necessarily, although uh two of the churches represented here actually have their meetings on Saturday rather than Sunday. the way that we do it. Folks, uh children can sit in church, family worship, and authority, respect, honor a family leadership struggle. Practice sitting still at home. You want them sitting listening. in God's word. of praying, it's not punishment, it's more of praise, more of meeting all their other needs, making sure they've all gone to the bathroom, making sure they've all had some food, making sure all those different things have met beforehand. parents, particularly their father in my estimation, seeing their father engaged in worship. family can do and the father can do. You stop what you're doing, pay attention to the child and say and talk about it and explain and and listen to what their uh uh needs are and meet those needs and do the training, whatever it is But it's not like an everyday thing. you because you're sick or whatever. doing family worship is really important and we'll get to those I'm sure, but if you do a family worship every day and you make the children sit still for that, that's also a lot easier to control. Um and we do that every day. the the Raz mentioned earlier, uh you know making sure their their needs are met. you know, in which they uh they eat and they sleep in order to, you know, establish uh you know uh a a a good consistent you know, that they will um that they will that their their dietary needs will you know, will be met as well. trying to you know kiss anybody on their end here. something, you know, physically, uh, you know, that are issues. with the the tools to be able to do that. a lot of these things into place before you ever became a pastor. disarray as well. Behaving differently. um you know, the spirit in one with with Christ and be uh one with your wife and being one accord. Fellowship and not neglecting the gathering of believers going to do all the things that that Christians are supposed to do. positive impact on my kids and my family. we'll we'll see that. I didn't want to go, hey, I'm just tired. When you change, your spouse will see the change. Pastor said, all these I see a lot of women in here without their husbands. care for them. with you, can you? start moving in that same direction, and that's leadership. children in the room, you need to have somebody that's in charge. Answers. of those around them. churches in Frederick County. So like giving up your birthright, uh giving you away for a bowl of soup. step in that role of being the leader and what we found is age is the easiest one because you blame it on God. touch with them that's probably the easiest way. recent weeks. High than three. the respect and honor for somebody who's a lot older than you. You're responsible for yourself. because it was my fault that I that happened. and uh the if the younger child still acted out and but he did his best to control it. It's just authority and respect. Somebody should always be in charge. So is there always a or does everybody have their own job to do that they're responsible for? skills or care charisma is going to take the lead or something to replace in that lead. don't see any reason why somebody should not be in charge. work independently and not have but if some b if if a problem arises, if something happens, who do you go to? This radio show called the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Uh which or at least related to that. faith in Christ dot com. Church up in Thurmont. household structure, those sorts of things. things. in a pile in order, you know, here's what we're gonna do. Especially when w uh that's that's kinda what way we did. the family financially and spiritually, but she leads the children and training and and taking care of the house. uh all the right groceries. business all at one time and then you don't have to think about it every day every time. Sometimes if if we get on a roll we might just touch base with what we know of for the whole rest of the year. to prepare and that sort of stuff. you know, banjo lessons and another kid's playing basketball and has piano lessons and you know, another person's involved in theater and uh you know is taking ballet or something and and And and then somebody else is doing karate and all these other and then of course there's church functions and a lot of the churches have programs for the kids with youth group and prayer meetings and all these things. soccer practice because we all do it together. works too, but you do as much as possible, you do together as a family. Together. No we don't. And if God's more important, what does God want for our family? him in the activities we do. I don't think so. You know, uh my uh Yeah, if uh you know, if we can't uh get all of the kids into sort of the um you know, a a music teacher that all of our children could take lessons from. public schools my apologies. arm yourself and be trained as a soldier, that was a sport, that was able to do that. sang and danced to to the chagrin of McCall who absolutely despised him at that point. after God's own heart. together and it doesn't have to be at a competitive level where you're always you know chasing or competing or traveling where it takes up all your family's time. home. do your own thing once you finish whatever you're in the middle of. do I uh you know the priority is to help the family. And instead of chasing them down, they come to you. uh the first Sunday sorry record coming play on the first Sunday in September. don't have something to do, the biggest thing is I'm bored, I'm depressed. uh it was it was always activities, whether outdoors or indoors, things to do, whether they're productive or n less productive. This recorded sho uh show is I'm in I'm in charge of my stakeholder. But with two Razvies in the room and referred to as Raz Razvi, it's just i I feel like it it confuses me. uh difficulties in that area. things and we're we're picking up on that today. remember correctly on adoption and the issues related to that. Just raising a child because they don't really get born with an owner's manual. Issue is all those labels. often uh they're they're overused and parents use them as a as a oh well my s my child has this okay that's that's how they are kind of like the example I said of a beam properly in society. At first, but over time those challenges begin to reveal themselves. stories that your aunts and uncles and grandparents can share with you, they don't really fit the situation. uh the first you know three, four, five years with our son through i early intervention therapeutic approaches and some really good people that God blessed that to bring into our path that we we were naive, we didn't know. way of understanding that she really benefited because she was younger. access those things and so that's a problem. confusion. Diagnosis. So we're all a fractured mirror, if you will. Uh I might be just as fractured or more fractured than my son, but secular eyes don't notice my fractures the way they notice his. like the typical, you know, special needs child parent response. It's just most people in the world, they're not Bible believing Christians. child like a ten or twelve year old probably walked up to my wife and asked if our son was demon possessed. Like people. on retardation it was unable to learn. Um I might be a fool, but I believe in a God that can work miracles, and I also believe that we can be new creations in Christ. children had been told by everybody, by teachers, by social workers, by foster parents, by everybody that they were unable to learn things and they were done. and a loving environment to to help the children. That's shown in many in many studies that uh the classical music actually increases the synapses in the brain. longer. The dissonance and in the rock music and other things tends to stop that, stop the synapses from growing. Elementary School, which is the maybe the primary special needs school in Frederick County. uh because it didn't feel age appropriate but d developmentally it's still appropriate. But the the the dividends you're going to get from putting that time into that child i it was is is insurmountable. uh in there. is mixing. or something like that, that would get elevated as well. adjust from there. out of it. gone. Because we know how to read him pretty darn well. not fight. We're pretty spread out. in age. next one. relationships you know there around them that is good for them. have a lot of kids either because I get it. for the kids. one sibling and they can only get along with that person and not anybody else if they're spending all their time with that one person because children that work well together will play well together. And then you rotate with another person. uh of others. children differently. kids are like, hey, I'm doing more of the work on this chores or so and so did a really bad job cleaning the toilets last week and so now it's my turn to clean the toilets and there are some of my kids are are definitely more critical of that they have to work through. drugs or spouse abuse something like that, but for a mistake on in the game, you don't typically get cut in the middle of the season, you cut him and he got kind of called on it by the media they tried to call him on it love you. That's the flowers idea, right? that they'll comprehend. in demand that our um you know uh when we do a speech that's the most in demand speech or conference talk that we do is sitting rivalry. Striving. Change it against sin. done and we leave. in such a way that they want to give and love as opposed to trying to hold on. Infant that's five days old knows what words are and they understand you. don't uh assume that their children understand what they're saying and so they either talk baby talk to them or they don't use full complete sentences. can instill that imitating. understand. And back on the on the sharing thing, I you know, we you know, we we did things very similar to the the way you all talked about. have the experience. You're you're playing with something else now. This is a fate debate on Troy Skinner, you're listening to us, uh on this I'm I'm gonna guess it's a beautiful Sunday morning about parenting and family matters since you've been hearing us talk about it in recent weeks. these other areas. win. that parameter. Most people once a week. still for a you know for a family worship which is a mini version of the church the service that they're gonna go to. even if it makes you late. anything else. quiet in those situations how did uh if you see it differently how did you feel different? Well so um and and that I mean that goes that with us that starts very early because we um you know we strongly recommend No, there there may be an exception here and there who have, you know, very extreme sort of uh difficulties or situations or or not the typical Christian family situation. But you know, you guys have solid marriages and the husbands and wives, this is tying into the authority, respect, honor, or family leadership structure. those two if those are in place, your children will automatically start seeing a difference in your life and start reaping the benefits of your relationship with God and your spouse that they will start being He's in Southeast Asia, I think. biblically got biblically ordered godly children. and all that. What you can do is work on yourself. also want to change because if the current is moving things move with the current. uh to fill in the role that God made him for and he will take over leadership. structure goes, is there a pecking order uh among the children that's an important part of family unity? biblical basis, whoever is the oldest one in the room, they are responsible. reference some will some won't. the trust is gone, you can build it back up, but as long as it's there, that's how God put in place. and somebody's gonna be at the biopacking order. authority over you as a child. You know, uh Lynnella's in charge today. That's the way the God is. the room. the discussion because that's what the show is about. too. anywhere and you tell me I've got to go now, I gotta stop what I'm doing, again you're dealing with a lack of security. to streamline the week's activities and not have to spend a lot of time each day, you know, wondering what we're gonna do next. have something to look forward to, they have plans. then within that structure they have a lot more control. Yeah. the the parents know what kind of activities they want to do and the mother puts it together and and gets it there and it's on my schedule as well so I can schedule my opponents' meetings around family activities. um you know to to plan things out together. not as connected as we should be and we will sit down and I call it getting out the calendars. of as uh on on an as needed basis to to figure out what um yeah to to to stay connected to to make sure we know what's what's going on uh um you know, weekly and even even sort of daily reviews of just, you know, and uh when everybody gets together in the morning saying, Okay, reminder this No a and and a lot of people say, Oh well no and we have to make sure we get all the activities done for the children. family and so sometimes we get bogged down in all these activities and it just breaks up the family. All of a sudden you're doing two, three, four, five, six, seven, twelve things a week. Dinner that only half the family was at. not you're you're losing focus of the more important thing is to keep the family unified and and following God together. Simple question, in what way would you like to see you have the world unified? fluores activities and we did an activity together. sports. same activity then then we we just don't do it. goals and all that sort of stuff. Music. that uh no exceptions right sort of deal helps to uh helps to set the tone, I think. times or whatever on the day of rest, right? sports arenas and watch the uh the the the footballers uh have their blood sport. as as children. We're done with the task that's assigned. always think of things to do. about but they they helped me practice different things so I always had things to do. in life. that's coming and mom's got it under control. son and one of his favorite things I say is and then like he asks you know look and he'll look at he'll look at the calendar and he'll be like Monday and he wants to know what we're doing on Monday. And I was bored and I Just be home for dinner. panel again this week. family so they don't have that help uh or wisdom that's been learned over ages. So I've got some experience on that matter. say whatever disability it is, many of them are not actually like a like a physical thing that's that's permanent. because they don't have a stable background, they don't have a stable home. their brain in ways and there are s there are different things, different exercises that uh my wife and I and have had done to help them develop their brain and to be able to think and uh books on um child development, on on learning disabilities, on on achieving your human potential. I asked it was, you know, I've we we've had a child who since birth we knew we had some challenges on our hand. I think you'd be surprised. And if you can simplify your language, say rather than taking twelve hours to try to explain to somebody what my son's challenges are, those who are in the field of dealing with these sorts of things all able to learn and I know for a fact he has learned lots of things already. We should say, go away, what you're doing is annoying. For example, playing a lot of classical music in home, the more the children of any age listen to classical music, particularly at the Baroque period, but anything really that that's that's classical input too because that's a way that uh uh all of us in our early development really learned and they're gonna be slower so we might give up on some of those tactile things And I've heard from enough other parents that have had an absolutely horrific experience and they were in the news again, was it last year or two years ago? So just that's a practical, politically incorrect thing for me to have added here at the end. uh might have something to do with development or cognitive ability, but uh in the causes you to do uh socially unacceptable things. Um my email, my cell number, it's all on our website, household of faith in Christ dot com. to have to have siblings. here is to outnumber them. how to work together and the rules were you can't just do it by yourself and and and before the other person gets there, you've got to actually do it together. I treat all my players exactly the same individually. person is is uh born and and they're gonna grow to be, you know, six feet ten inches tall and make billions of dollars playing basketball and somebody else be born and they're only gonna be five foot two and basketball not being in the cards for them. You're damaging the security. rather than a dog or, you know, somebody that's not that that doesn't have intelligence. understand a lot. Because children sp and as you said, pre verbal, you know, we see no, we understand what no means, but children really see in pictures. uh something that they walk away, you know, is a uh is a phrase that we've used with with kids at at different stages. to um you know you can uh you can say you know do this instead I you know even if it's something as simple as you know sir um to notice notice the desires of one another. So I want that. ahead of time. Okay, either I either I share or I don't you know when there's you know an an opening that that sort of middle space of that I've categorized in the Family Unity section of the bookstore. possible and uh because I also know the people that have the same thing. You were just you were just lucky to have these good kids. If they don't have that option, then they don't have that option. to be with that child at that time, then you're gonna correct the behavior long term as opposed to oh you're gonna hear it when we get home or you know uh we gotta you're you're lucky you were late otherwise I would have beaten sentenced into you or whatever. But we're talking about dedicated Christians. important thing that any uh father uh does for his children is daily instruction in the word. listen to what everybody s has to say and not be disruptive and stuff. know that their their means are needs are going to be met. it's training. um, you know, uh godly manner. Go into that thing. I'll just have to have to think about that and give that some consideration. And I think this actually does sort of piggyback a little bit on where we ended last week. And there's no reason to spend all that time and energy. can be easily easily accomplished in group activities, whether playing games or uh doing manual labor together Come on. taken out to the trash bed, where are they? And then um you know, we we exhaust his uh curiosity and he's fine and he feels more settled and secure. better world uh to live in amen the truth. Okay. Management of WP. for everything. Diagnosis either, and that went to effect in January of this year. You know, so uh but if you're a believer and you're listening to us talk about this, then you've got to remind yourself what you know to be bedrock truth. So it is important for you if you have a special needs child to understand that they are an image bearer just like you are. And and so some practical things that you can do as well to improve the environment, to make it more conducive to learning and to call and be a calming environment and and um one of the things I think about just in the general topic of of uh of of learning disabilities is sort of like all the There's three different churches that are represented here. equally. Uh but there was a special teams football player for the Dallas Cowboys in an in an important game like in November or something in the playoffs. On that note also, sharing and contentment. sense because you think about it, forced sharing involves theft. old and already she's content. I mean even when our our babies were crawling, you know, if they're crawling towards something that uh that they shouldn't be getting into from hearing because there are some and I know who you are, listener. train them to listen to God. The kids always know that. uh uh you know in a in a room everyone is both responsible for themselves and responsible for the good of right by doing some things that are improper. Right, like the parental authority is the one that you you respect. You know, and so it doesn't mean that one of those people has to be in charge if the team lead isn't in the room. So I think that these structural elements uh fit together. does almost all of the by almost all like ninety nine point nine nine nine percent of the cooking and and she does ninety nine point nine nine nine percent of the of the shopping so she just kinda knows in her own head what food she's gonna need for uh normal in today's society. contact us and we'll help you. you know, working together, uh spending time outside. Talk about this one teacher child or children to ask what's next, mommy. Conqueredbylove. But seriously, I've met people on the spectrum that they would identify as Asperger's. That they uh that helped them who know who they were and what their struggles were and now that labels on the labels as a double-edged sword uh for sure. And so they're checking boxes, and so they wanted to give um our son this is an offensive term in today's culture. And I I learned by this point. So it took years just to get them to believe that they could learn things. Yes, you're right. over the uh psychoanalyzed society that we live in. He's not he's he's like out of his mind almost in a way. Um I think I think it's probably uh He says that 'cause he's conc concerned they're gonna listen to this show. It uh it seems almost counterintuitive because it goes against almost almost any any and every childhood experience I had, and yet it makes total that basically communicates, you know, you you know, choose something else. And they couldn't just have anybody walk up even and they could be they could have full claimant title forever to that. on News Radio 930 WO come D because we do this show in advance because we are all pastors and we're busy on Sunday mornings, many of us. This one's going to be needed it'll be helpful for those who don't even have kids to hear some of the things we're talking about today. Those those socks just fell into their mouths. said, you're not going to church? They're they need to uh uh make sure they got those ducks i i in a row. There are actually just different personality traits with different orders, birth orders. handling that responsibility properly then there's additional training needed and if they're gonna stand and not follow that training because it's just for order. I I point in the audience is like, hmm, I'm imagining he's pointing to someone. So find a job that you don't work during dinner time. I mean what this play sports. to add the add the cello into the mix. Um so we did a series uh of shows recently where David wasn't a part of it. What was it like you know, I don't know the nature of the disability or whatever, what's it like not being learning disabled yourself? And uh and if so, that did that affect your decision making? And people who know their field are like, oh, first of all, they're just like that's a really odd combination. And it starts with every individual is fearfully and wonderfully made. never gonna accomplish anything and she's now like a c literally a college professor and she was severely impacted by autism and now she's very high function all the behavioral um things that are labeled as as identities and as disabilities that We gotta meet him where he is and and get him back. You're right, it would be. And boy, this is going to be really exciting. Well maybe you can you also have the option to finish what you're doing and then and then offer, you know, and then be generous. Hm. uh from the time that a a child is born, you know, helping it to the child to establish a uh a schedule. And and people I mean kids do notice this this this is not a not really a um child story, but uh there's a missionary story called the pineapple story. And 'cause they know all this time he's been talking to them about what it means to be a Christian and they just notice, oh now he started to act like a Christian. And if you need advice or prayer or you know somebody to yell at, I can certainly put you in touch with Imran and then you can yell at them while you want. But we w she might ask, hey, Daniel, what do you want what do you want to cook? It's the very important for the family to be together. Hmm, it'd be nice if we could eat dinner together. Music is important as a a a language, just like uh any other language, but it helps with brain development and emotional stability and all sorts of things. So it's not mean to say, oh, the children should always be working. I mean the daddy's the principal but mommy's the teacher. She was like way off the charts. In fact the autism community is dealing with that. humble, uh take you at your word, trusting, loving person I know in my life. and the abilities because people view that as an excuse not to teach. That's that that's my motto. This is a fake debate. And you do chores with a different person every day, and every time you do the chores with a different person. of teams. Oh you children uh yeah let me let me uh push back a little bit on that on that question. You didn't answer I didn't ask the question. And even if you disagree with that, children can sit in church and I would like us to to talk about that. If you don't expect it to happen, then it's less likely to happen. I reserve David from EDL at David. to prepare and and and figure out, you know, what's what plan out the next week what's gonna happen and what are you gonna eat, what are you gonna wear, all those different things that uh that allows I don't know now, so Monday doesn't come on as and you say, I have nothing to cook. Christians. And it must be a pretty darn good music teacher because not all your kids play the same instrument. Do some reading about what are some really good strategies for helping special needs children and apply those same kinds of principles to typical So labels can be helpful. I mean uh what brings uh comes to mind is Helen Keller. In fact what she said is the more involved the parent is, the better the results. Because that's fair, right? Okay, God built us to strive. Uh the child children nur sign nurse, sign more, sign thank you, sign please before they could speak. WFMD. And uh you know, uh acquire for themselves their own personal property. And then um we sing one or two hymns out of the hymnal and then we pray. is important and they need to mature in it. You can Google the pineapple story. Most importantly, most most definitely. I I just don't believe Troy's in charge. So as Daniel said, I think music is more important and as David said, you can learn a lot of the skills you would learn in sports is working together leadership. I'm Troy Skinner and the other voices you heard chiming in already in no particular order, David Forcey, Daniel Razley, and Imran Razley. You mentioned you have some children in your home that uh have struggled with some learning disabilities. Yeah. And we're like, no, he's capable. I try to squeeze it all back together. It's helpful helpful for several kids, particularly if you can pair them up. And he he made a dunderheaded decision or whatever and ended up turned into a turnover or a fumble or something. What was Johnson's first name? You're you're playing favorites, you're you're treating your players differently based on their station within the team kind of thing. Um part of it too is is you know uh making it clear that the majority of the s decisions are, you know, are mommy and daddy's I'm missing a word, but his uh his feeling of being safe and being taken care of and being loved because you're taking something out the security. So let's say it's a swing set, we're at a at a park and Jimmy's on the swing set and he's swinging. Right. It's a long story, but but the point is, at a certain point he just gives up and says, You know what, God, they're your pineapples, I'm I'll let you know, I'm I'm gonna I'm not gonna worry about it. God put them on the earth first. Next week we're going to uh have more of the same but a a different slant on it. And so we say whoever's oldest is automatically in charge, so we don't have to think about that. And uh David Forcey is also the pastor of a of a church that meets in someone's home and it's on the south end of Frederick County. So, you know, my wife and I just have to make sure we're in communication and we're touching baits all the time. And what's the next mommy gives them that purpose. Is there anything else? Sure. So if somebody um has a difficult time reading, uh that doesn't they don't I wouldn't identify as I am a poor reader. We've we've sounded pretty good. Do you know that name by any chance? And uh so the the family dynamics I think are pretty different in in the situations where the kids are spread out. They would rotate. Yeah. It's that that is that is a good thing. And as Daniel was saying, if you're as a parent or as a caregiver are excited about something, you can easily shift their attention to something else. Or no, I'm gonna I'm gonna set the Lego down, I'm gonna go play with my uh you know uh my robot set for a little bit and but I still have the Legos in my left hand, no Right. And I'm not trying to say that you have to beat the children or win against the children. And that really provides a good foundation for spiritual things for the children if it's a daily instruction in the Word. And children will ask, well why? Yeah, they're the brother's keeper, but they're also supposed to respect authority. Well when if mom and dad are not home. cross that bridge when we come to it. So just for clarity, I'm not I mean it is his given name, so I'm not trying to be disrespectful or unfriendly. Fifteen? And uh it is really designed to give uh tools to parents on um how to overcome some challenges that children might have, whether it's learning disabilities, whether it's emotional challenges or And you know what? They were stupid. So and that's what I'm saying about about labels is yes it's fine to identify what the issue and challenge is, but what we've seen most often is that starts limiting Um that that really makes a difference in their emotional state and their mental state and their ability to learn and how quickly they learn and healing from learning disabilities. So there's a difference between being um equal and being equitable. And loving you might be something different than loving a one of your siblings. Say we're gonna go over here, everybody's gonna get a turn, it's gonna be five minutes each, and they already know before they start playing with it that that's what they're gonna do. But what we will say is if somebody really wants to be a jerk about it and say, Okay, I'm playing with this forever. They were all sitting through a three-hour church service in the morning, an hour and a half church service in the evening, without making a sound, sitting still the entire time, happily. Um the first part is your relationship with God. Yeah, so are you beginning to plan for and have you given similar instructions to the kids that are the oldest end of your uh pecking order and say, hey, when you get a job, make sure you're home for dinner? What's next, mommy? Uh you might ask well what we're doing first. That's the voice of Daniel Razi by the way, and I turn to Imran Razi here in a second. They had to relearn stuff, but they had if they did the things in in certain ways and certain things. Take the uh tails off the silent gaps. I'm gonna hold him to the standard that I know he can he can meet if he really works. So those all seem to fit in the sibling uh area. Any rivalry? When you're ready. But even then many of them will share that now because they are used to hey everything's everything's God's and I bought it and yes it's for me but if somebody wants to use it then they use it. Normally stay quiet for an hour? If you send them to school, they're gonna be you know they're not gonna be you know they're gonna be secular. So even when there is a physical disability, there are things you can do, but a lot of people just make the assumption, oh, because somebody slapped a label on them, that's it. And now even the World Hor World World World Health Organization, we all learned last few years how much influence the World Health Organization wields, they decided that they're not gonna recognize it as an official So he wasn't supposed to be able to do any of that. And that's where labels can really have an impact is not just on the parents, the parents not in some cases, not the many parents It was in the news like ten, fifteen years ago probably, at the movie theater. I mean it's horrible. It's all training. And the beginning of that is learning how to sit still, to be still enough to listen to a preacher, to a father, to a mother, and have that. If they're never outside that parameter and and the and the hardest part is when you're correcting a child, and we talked about this before, is it's that it's much more important to train them ahead. And then he said, I gotta go see this pastor. Well he's still trying to work out some of the arguments that he has in his head that are not perfectly that they're proclaiming, so he said you can think about it a little bit. org. Teach your children to ask what's next, mommy. Yeah. Well hello streaming audience. And we were exposed to that uh really at at Daniel when Daniel was a baby and we thought that was interesting, but then we would use a lot of that material and information to help with the adopted children of that We've been telling you that for years. You or God. Do you do something silly in your house where the kids uh take turns who they're doing chores with? You shouldn't make it. And that's that's right. But Jimmy became more secure and he's more likely to share on his own accord because now he's secure and wants to share, wants to give, because we want our children's hearts to be Because but when if if you force Jimmy to give it to Susie, whenever Susie said, Oh I want that toy. Although family worship is also one here. Maybe a true story, my uh uh mother-in-law, father-in-law. Yeah he made a lot of it. When we we f only had Daniel, my wife and I put on everything karate, gymnastics, you know, uh soccer, um T ball, everything. And that's more important. Alright. Go ahead, Danger. And I I see a lot of I mean a lot of kids say, oh that's not fair. If you'd like to connect with us, any of us, Imran, Daniel, David, me, I'm Troy, the easiest way to connect is probably to do it through me. And so she said, Okay, fine, I'll do that. Um is there any activities that you guys want to do? Connect with us at WFMD. His identity is in Christ. Imran, Daniel, David, and me are all pastors of house churches in the area. assumed a few things, which is was fine. That's not fair. Everybody. Will that keep Susie out of heaven? Yeah. If you don't mind, I want to start with the second one I mentioned. Even if they fall asleep, it's okay. And he said, What I'd rather you see you do is go home and love your husband. That's one of the first things they figure out and they they they milk that for all it's worth, right? If he sets down I'm in charge. Frederick County Pagan schools just wanted to clarify and I apologize if I misspoke earlier, but Frederick County Pagan Schools. If we were casting for a play, we could we could get away with it of course the role of King David and good blonde uh So that's going to wrap on this show. Once you tell the c the the the the child that they don't have to give it, so oftentimes they don't even want it anymore. If they see discord with you and God spiritually and with you and your spouse spiritually or and uh emotionally, then their uh security is is gone. So if you're moving with the current, you're creating a current with God, then uh those people that are around you that are in your current will will kind of be sucked into that current Why do you want to argue somebody's well prepared for the debate? And and to the point where you you can weigh out or make sure all the codes are clean that you're gonna wear for the whole next week. So your kids are all younger, none of them are working age. So sports has a place for you to choose between a child being on a soccer team or taking piano lessons. And so the case is being managed, not people to be loved and and encouraged and helped to grow. It's too hard, it's too difficult for the parent to uh to take care of uh of a special needs child anyway. So I'm gonna start this week with uh David and make sure you have a chance to uh to get a few words in, a few licks in before you know the the other three of us just run off with And there's there are they're they're two different things. It might also be the reach of my guest through um conqueredby love dot org, uh the website that has the books with the materials we've been talking about and read What happens on Friday? Yeah, no not not anything in particular, um you know, or or severe in any way. And most of that is because society is given up on them, school system is given up because they have nobody to help them. But anyway, he ended up dying. Maybe you want to go back to square one and work on training them up in phonics and see if that doesn't help it. Uh Daniel's baby was born with a tooth, so I think she's a little overdeveloped already. com till next week, 167. Maybe maybe we maybe we should learn how to be better unity. And so you need more chances to practice in order to instill a behavior. Um and so there's no ever question, oh you're not the boss of me. You can connect with us through household of faith in Christ dot com. They have an organization, a ministry that's called Conquered by Love Ministries on the website, conquered by love. And so this week we're going to be talking primarily, I think, about household organization. So and then when we adopted if we had five more children at one time and from a family of three children to eight children overnight, again it can become more complicated. So what is more important in the Bible, sports or music? But with that, David was not allowed to build a temple because he had blood on his hands. And that's because my parents gave me a lot of different things to do activities, not the outside the home activities, going to different places like we're talking about. org. You guys have some good structures in place. Everybody's an authority. It's a real sense of security for those. Sounds good. We don't realize how good we had it at first. And once he connects and um we're pretty good at well avoiding those situations. And I can't promise that, but I know Imran will. So you'd have a rotation and you'd pair up with one sibling for the next day or so and you'd do tours that day with that person, and then you switch up with another person the next day. So everyone is learning to do, you know, all of the various types of things. So when they're uh saying it's not fair, is it as simple as just saying, well, life's not fair? And so God doesn't isn't fair in that regard, right? We're gonna strive against sin but strive together. So if you if they're pressing the button on the remote and you want them to stop, then you need to say stop because there's an action like oh cease doing. Yeah, yeah yeah. Maybe twice a week if you're not going to be able to do it. Um but it's it's training from the very beginning in uh in self control, um in in contentment He had to get his house his his mind and soul in order first in order for it to really be hit home for the villagers he was trying to teach. I I I'm aware of the cultural reference. Joined on the panel as usual by three other men who are pastors of churches in uh town or in the county anyway as well. And that's all they wanted. By the way, that's the voice of David Forcey so you can start to connect voices with with names. If you're seeking for somebody just to pray for you, come let us pray for you. I'm Troy Skinner. They're uh my sister and I are very close in age, but then my other two brothers five years down to the next one, then five more years down to the Nobody gets any meat, nobody gets any vegetables, no dessert, just milk today. No, you can't play with that. The only thing I that I would add and maybe you all did this too, but just sort of uh we also like in encouraged our our children to Now if you're not caring for it, you're breaking it, then your rights probably just go away. And we we don't bring in a whole bunch of covering papers and cars and like a lot of families do that to keep their children busy. There's always God is always in charge. I'm in charge. The music is mentally and spiritually very uh uh very important and I think it's it is important for everybody to understand music. org. All right, so we're gonna get started here. Fifteen years. Just like um you know, I think with uh you know getting getting married is a is a huge benefit because Some flowers need shade, some flowers need sun, some flowers need a little bit of both. Uh I it's just you're you that are left out Troy. Right? So doing that in unity is uh is an important part of the family unity question. Where do you start? Nobody else is responsible for you. Yes, but if there's a group, a team, there might be a team lead, right? He doesn't read like at a college level. We've sounded okay. So if you're if you're a good solid, you know, right thinking, particularly if you're a Christian, uh have babies and lots of them. Rewrite you a check, give you some reparation. But I but I think it begins with um you know even even before you're able to even have conversations. Don't don't clean the others because you want to do it for somebody else. Let's go try this. Yes, and then and then you know and then operate to them. Well, in case anybody's wondering, why is this in the family unity section? And so there's not a lot of chances for the children to practice. It's more important than eating. If anything goes wrong in the room, the buck stops with you. Then we'll think about that. Well, if you want to bow down to the god of sports, then that's your temple. But it in your homeschool curriculum, I think both uh should be required. And uh so I I think that both are important but you shouldn't have to one you shouldn't have to choose. You finish that task, and then you go ask what's next mommy. If you're wondering where these topics came from, there is a uh organization that's been around for how long now? Yeah, it's tough, and I will say the reason I part of the reason I was asking one, I thought you might have an interesting anecdote and some insight from that perspective, but uh another reason Although to be honest, uh the mix was horrible uh some of the shows recently, in spite of being able to hear so something weird with the way the uh uh And I and if they're young enough, I say have babies. So now you learn how to work with every single one of your other children, uh other siblings and you get along with it. Yes yeah, I treat them exactly the same as individuals who have different kinds of needs and different sources different roles and that sort of thing. That's why we treat everybody differently. You're undermining his faith in you that you're gonna protect him. It it looks fun. Right, right. And and uh part of the problem that a lot of people have is they try to sit still at the church service and how often we go to the church In the Bible, we'll pray briefly to open, then we'll read a chapter or two chapters or three chapters, and we just read through the Bible. And it takes years three years. It's it's a really great uh um missionary uh story about a guy growing pineapples and and he's been preaching to these villagers and he wanted to grow a pineapple farm and he's wearing She goes, No. I that that's absolutely true. Instead of trying to fight and and and claw your way to the top, we just settle it. Come on, David, speak faster. The hardest thing for children is not having structure, not knowing what's gonna be next, what's gonna happen. Um but we do something similar that fits us. And that also makes uh lead leading the children for the mother much easier instead of having the mother have to chase down the kids. Okay. The less security feels, the more he will act out. We do family worship excuse me every evening and they sit. Sorry I I just I just say that to say like you you can uh there are yet children you know the vast majority you know And we've been using books and materials available through Conquered by Love uh ministries and their website And that can be particularly challenging in today's culture, and I don't know if your family either one of your families would fit the typical norm for what passes for Yeah, I was bored. But before um you know, I I share some things. org is their website. Okay? Um you're big in the homeschooling community, David. It can also unlock uh different programs. Many, many buildings. Right. We're gonna strive and try to achieve and try to be better, and that's a good thing. And at uh a one month old she was like, hungry, hungry. Why are you telling me no? So the other person needs a turn. However, the one I'm married to isn't in the car with me right now driving to church. And even you can't work you can't change yourself, but you can pursue God and God allowing it will change your heart. Anyway, this is the fake debate. But I'm in charge because I have the I have the the gun call I'm gonna be leader. A couple of things I want to say real quick. I don't know if you pay attention to these things, but um when my son was a child, um Asperger's was part was understood to be something related to autism, was on And and they could not even bring themselves to the frame of mind to attempt the task because they believed it was insurmountable because But even if he starts to have one of those situations, it's like a minute. org, and the Razdys uh founded that and and run that. Uh that's a entity and organization ministry that's founded by the Razvis. It's all a matter of understanding what the ki the children need to understand what's going on and be need to be told ahead of time and need to practice it. And and a lot of that has to do with, I think, also um setting them up physically, mentally. I'm tired. Yeah, so our theory behind that really comes from authority, respect, and honor. Well, I'm not sure why they decided, but uh the the management of the radio station decided to put me in charge of this Yeah, it's a s survival requirement to do this when you have a household of fifteen people. Sounds good. Um but that wasn't because their brains didn't work, it's just because of the environment they were in. Before we started the show tonight, I was venting about some things that bothered me and agitated me, right? And this is what they were told, and this is what they believed about themselves. As soon as you give it over to God, God will provide, then the rest doesn't matter. So everything's planned and laid out. Because when you're idle and and uh there's a phrase about idle hands and uh what Devil's Workshop. Yeah, but you know, I've been at these stations for a long time and who cares what they think, you know? By the way, something I meant to mention last week, that can be a little out of context in this case, but there's research out there that would seem to indicate if you don't know the name, I think his name is Sam It's not fair. That part whether they won or lost, I don't know, but it was a major blunder. So because we're designed to strive, to achieve, to grow, and to conquer things, let's do it together. We don't want the kids in the church. You know, if if you're a a a real believer and you're saved and and you have a church that you're plugged into, you're probably going once a week. So if you're driving to church right now and you feel okay that speaks to me, I'm gonna I'm gonna m work on my relationship with God, I'm gonna be in the Word, I'm gonna be praying, I'm gonna uh make sure I'm in So take it up in your prayer time and talk to God. Yeah. Some of those include how and why we plan our week, spend a Friday with the Rasbies. Anyway, this is the faith debate. And so I would encourage anybody who's a parent or a grandparent who wants to help their their you know their children be better parents. However, the labels can be rather limiting. I wasn't like I said before, I was really naive when it started. So if you've got a special needs child, you better be really, really involved and in tune and do not take them at their word. Jimmy Johnson. She will wait. It was all very much against that. If they don't have the training to listen to God, then how will they ever hear if God speaks to them? Um and we can show many many references in the Bible doing that. And so y you do less activities that way, but everybody does it together. We put everybody in soccer and my wife and I coached. Conquered by Love Ministries is the RASV Ministry. Maybe maybe after every show. Uh I don't I don't think that we have many um in our circles that uh I mean, she was doing stuff at eighteen months that typically you wouldn't expect till three years old. If whether they have challenges, particular uh special challenges or not, all children benefit from a a good environment. Uh one of them is on the north end of town up by Thurmont. And uh and then there's uh Household of Faith in Christ, which is mine, which is pretty much dead center in the county. Um but all of my children know each other really well. I don't know how it happened. And the villagers all of a sudden talk to him and say, Hey, you become a Christian She make sure she didn't take over anything, you know, d don't bother Dan. Lights go out, there's nobody here. But we're just making sure we're on the same page with all of our appointments and and and obligations and the different things in our life for the for the coming months. You know, if i if my dad had to work a little wait or something, maybe but we'd usually delay dinner and wait till he gets home and then eat with him. We've got some specific topics and and targets in mind. Well it one is like if somebody isn't close enough to the mic, I can't tell obviously, and I can't gauge how the music is The other thing that happens too, you um I think uh Well I think it's okay if somebody's always in charge. Let's do it. But so many of our kids are overscheduled. We are recording some faint debate shows tonight that are gonna air uh beginning in August. Okay. So every child's every baby's brain develops and in fact uh there are some studies done where um half the brain was removed because of an accident or And there's some care some parents to say, oh well nothing I can do about it. There's a difference, right? I had so many people say, Now Jimmy, you must share with your sister. So it's all it does tie together, I guess. It's all God's word. The Sunday is my day of rest. Otherwise there's always going to be a conflict. Then we had another child and another child and it became a l a little bit harder and it was taking up too much time. And because Saturday or Sunday for you. Thank you. Eighteen years. And a lot of people would they try to rush to label things like Dxlexia or or Dex Dxlexia or whatever else you want to see. Or Down syndrome. We wouldn't have known a good therapist from a bad therapist, a good doctor from a doc bad doctor. And the police came and it just escalated and escalated and escalated. And so then we find it a very fun activity for the other child and now they're jealous and they want to stop playing with it. They're sitting still and they're learning because the whole idea is to train them to listen to the pastoral. And eventually if it's if your husband is not doing leadership, this current will start forcing him to You know, why is so and so in charge of me? And if he if he did this something that basically corrected things like that, then he's not punished because he he acted in the role that he's supposed to be. Dinner is very important. And you know what? And it's a really good tool. It's one of the only perks of being on social media these days. And today we're transitioning and to talk about uh learning disabilities and parenting children that have some And if you want to learn more about those books and the other resources, the website is conquered by love. And some of us, those fractures present in a way that's more noticeable to watching eyes Thanks for listening to the Faith Debate This Week on News Radio 930 WFMD. Those uh laughing nervously behind me. Uh he's the he's the guy that kinda turned me on to there's this research that indicates a lot of people that have well what gets diagnosed as dyslexia Conquering jealousy. Back in the day when it was an agrarian economy it it was a little easier perhaps to understand why you would want to have fifteen or twenty kids. And so, you know, I give you this cup and I give you this cup and that's fair because that's what mommy and daddy did. Um I absolutely agree and and one of the things that Daniel said, you know, being able to speak that early is is rare because the vocal cords are not not uh developed well enough and Yeah and and and we learned that through the special needs uh training with our son. I it because that way it says look everything we have is God's. Uh is it appropriate to expect a three month old to sit quietly for an hour long church service? But even when the behavior is happening, if you're late for something and they're acting up, if you forget about all your your appointment or where you're going to be late for and actually spend the time Right, so I you know, I also think about the So we can pick this up if we need to in the next one. So uh we've been talking in recent weeks about uh family issues, marriage, parentings, you know, sibling issues. Not so much anymore. If you act excited and and and all about some other thing that we're gonna do, the Navy would quickly shift their priority to whatever you're excited about. So always it's going to be a an alternative to instead of a no. No conceptually is a c can be a confusing word because there's no action I want that. And their marriage is a mess. Why aren't you going to church? I'm in charge, darn it. But uh but it was with two music teachers that uh that we were able to work out everybody's still going together on the on the same day. Hello, this is the Bank Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. So and if you do that you'll have well-adjusted children who will get along well as siblings I have yeah, I have five kids and uh I guess just for context's sake they are we have we have a set of twins and then and then three they were Or killed their kids. Like they're not thinking those that sort of specific thing. So that's that's not a get out of jail free card for anybody who might hear our voice on this. Um but uh I mean our our family culture is to is to do everything together. And building in a day of rest is easier if your in your system, your schedule as a family, if there's not sports, right? It can help bring some security to the mind of the child too, right? So um my issue was, you know, somebody that uh had a severe disability, um like some And I've learned from her how to recognize that better. Most people once a week? You can't hide it. But otherwise you are there. Well at the at the end of the week, and especially when the kids are young, you know you do you do a lot of preparation for the next week. And a contemporary example in the autism uh autism world is Temple Grandin. But um I've been listening, I don't know if you guys listen, but for quality control purposes, I tune in and I try to see and you know and and then No, none at all. So how did you accomplish that, Emra? They're not going to try for it. So that's the one that's in charge. But we don't have to charge. Secondarily it's whatever I'm I I feel like doing. And most daddy would just say, Go ask mommy. He's in the uh severe slash moderate portion of the of the autism spectrum, and he has Williams syndrome. So Sibling Rivalry um uh books, the ones we have, are really the our best selling books for our ministry. And if she doesn't get something, she will wait patiently because we taught her that way. So right now the point is of course the right it may not be available at glasses, right. And you guys do that on Fridays it sounds like this example. com or Householdofhrist. His identity is a loved son of his mother and father. That statement definitely doesn't represent their opinion. Sometimes. 5 hours from now. Is is that because of similar strategies where you did daily devotionals or as a family and they learn to be And your family is uh again I've started to say before, I'm not trying to, you know, kiss anybody's rear end here, but they're kind of exemplary models Um the it depends on you know w what whenever somebody's in the room, w uh so when the parents are not in the room, there's You y uh some if your sibling does something they don't bring shame on you. So normally it would be my wife purview. Okay? And unlike years past where you live with your parents and grandparents and you got help and advice and wisdom, a lot of families now live without any exception They thought she was completely out of it, right? That's a good idea. So what it does is it takes the peaks and squeezes them and takes the lows and lifts them so that there's more of a flat. I feel like that was maybe harder for my parents to motivate me to do my chores than it would have been if there were twelve others to share those duties. When they're done maybe we can have a turn. No, I'm where I'm winning with it. And we've had as many times we've had to get up and walk out with a baby to keep them quiet to not disturb everybody else, but they don't get a chance to go to something else. And uh and then also uh you know part of that too is you know like just the very practical um you know the All you women in here that are here without your husbands, don't come to church next Sunday. So the next Sunday she got up instead of going to church she uh you know cleaning it up, made made breakfast, did a fancy thing, all that stuff and her husband I I think that the that a lot of the things that you can acquire from from sports So don't let the system bully you into something. We want to give them the label of you are annoying. Yes. Jimmy Johnson was the coach at the time, and Jimmy Johnson cut the player in the middle of the season, which doesn't typically happen, uh unless they do something like in their personal Sure. I'm Troy Skinner. And mommy might say, Hey, it's time to go play Leglus for a half hour. I don't I I'm gonna hope that everything sounds okay when I turn on the mics because I cannot get the headphone jack that I need. Yeah. How do you start to fix the mess? Oh you want to play volleyball, let's try to fit that in. Um uh my wife and and our kids, she does a lot more in the way of uh I have a couple kids that I think could have done really well and been professional, but we didn't have the chance. And David was both, right? One of the most common phrases in my house, because I've mentioned in the last couple of weeks, I have an adult disabled And one of the differences between day and I, when I was growing up, I was borderlocked because my mom gave me a lot of free time that you can do whatever you want And the books they have on this topic that I found on your website anyway, Overcoming Learning Disabilities, Is Your Child Struggling and Brain Development. We're talking about uh a bunch the last four, five, six weeks now. Absolutely not. And that's gonna put a wrap on this week's show. I don't understand. And and so, you know, the the household is run by the mother, and that's why what's next mommy. What's new? So we put together about forty five books. Now you can still do things. And many of them are labeled learning disabled, uh unable to read, never gonna be able to read or write or do or function So they were all medicated. The labels thing, boy, that's a double-edged sword, isn't it? And all those uh early intervention kinds of things we're doing with our son, we applied those same strategies to our daughter. But our son reads today. I you know the conversation was kind of kind of narrow but probably practically helpful. They put him in a chokehole, put pinned him in the ground like a George Floyd kind of a situation. Many, many licenses. Because like I was an only child for fifteen years until my my sister finally came along Dunderhead over there because he's a special teamer. We read through it and as they are old enough to understand certain things they'll ask certain questions and you explain it to them. So you need to spend time in prayer, you need to spend time on yourself and being close to God. Right? Who's he pointing to? He designed the family. And let's say you had to have breakfast. And that's true with any child, there's challenges with any child. Um my my son um he's on the spectrum, but his identity isn't autistic, if that makes sense. So here's the pot that we had to cook dinner in. We are in the same team. There was one exception for that which was one particular baby doll for each of the girls. So we've skipped dinner but we'll never skip f family worship. The husband and wife are on the same page and you're trying to be a biblical husband. I'm gonna rest. And then he went to church and his life got changed. But there's always has to be somebody in charge. I'll certainly uh think a prayer about that. So you don't have to think about the the structure of that act after all. So the one who's in charge of that is the one doing it. So yes, we did activities. Ninety percent and these are all homeschool children. Thank you, gentlemen, again. Um that the the Razbeys found it. Right. Yeah we did make we did make one exception to that because we don't have oh this is mine and I only play with mine and you have yours. If they have an option to play with cards or to color or to run up and down a screen with the top of their lungs, they're gonna take that option How do you manage it? Uh we had five and six year olds that could not do one of those little um uh puzzles with the with the knob on the end that you pick and put in the And our daughter who's not, you know, special needs in any typical So we wanna tap into that. There's a there's a story from back in the nineties and I've said it a number of times over the years, possibly on the show Once Upon a Time, I don't know. Can you just say depending, right? And if you teach sharing by making people discontent, now what what the really, really little language skills are because I've seen this with toddlers, let's say, right? They understand very, very well uh uh m far mu far more ahead than you might think that they understand words. In a predictable manner? Three years to grow the pineapples and he keeps getting frustrated. What if you walk out of the room and forget to put somebody in charge? That's God is God. I'm not gonna ask Troy to help fix. Yeah, don't bother daddy with that. We're under the false assumption that we have to do all these activities to give all these things to our kids. And that's what's causing a lot of the depression and suicide thoughts and everything because they don't have any structure. And so everything's just a matter of, you know, what's what's wrong with your brain. So if you need a prayer, you reach out and uh and we will pray for you, uh including Imran. And the difficult thing are God gives everybody unique talents and abilities and situations in life, right? But when you're done playing with that ball, then Suzy was like it. No, no. Yeah I think uh uh it it has been different for for our family. My pastor said not to come. We can go into that. You can give up your birthright by not behaving properly, by not doing the right things, and then you don't then Yeah I I agree with that and which is why you know we uh we emphasize you know I'm that I don't mean they'd always always need to be working and and doing manual labor and working themselves death and and all that. And so she she really feels that there's no challenge that she can't handle or God can't handle. Right? And then finally, you know, uh one of them said to my mom one day, Oh, I'm smart Mm-hmm. And as I've been talking to some people recently and you know people who think that the world has lost Yeah, exactly. But uh yes, children should be able to to sit for long periods of time. So if you're enjoying this, great. We uh as a family when as a ministry when we were out there speaking on the circuit and talking and and doing that, we um Um you know we we worked hard to to find a uh Yeah, Sony just said though, but they could. Like yeah, we're that much more gung-ho, we want to help this child, or boy, I hope we're up to the task on this. So he's able to learn. And the downside of it, when it lifts like that, you you bring up a lot more background noise as well. Um but his whole life would be that. Hey, Bobby's playing with that right now. Um and some people say, well because they're pastors. I don't know. So now basically in 2022 is the first time in my son's life that there is no Asperger's world officially. This is no joke, no exaggeration. And I said, I'm not finding that. She's like, you know, I'm not sure it's sin in this case. Exactly. So we start with our relationship with God and the p the two the married couple And so that means anything they say, you have to do just as if it was mommy or daddy that says it. There's nothing here. It's like, hey, you mind you mind sitting down for a minute and getting out the calendars? I I wasn't sure if I was uh had the tools and ability to do that. And so we we call that losing him. You did this for that for and and a lot of parents they don't know how to respond to that. We'd be glad to talk to you about that sort of stuff. Well, I can understand because a lot of the kids don't behave well in church. They may try a couple times, but it's all about training and being consistent. Most people don't go to church at all. But what about somebody that's not there? That's my church's website. I'm pointing at David Forcey. It's a faith that they're recording it. You know, and I I get it, some of these things are harder for him than they are for you and me, but okay. I know that last week we we we got a little bit one sided as far as the number of voices uh that that Um you can tell us how that happened. God bless. I don't need to go to church. Tornina Charles. And uh and it works most of the time for us, but there are rare occasions when we both feel a little bit like we're It always it always makes the child start thinking, okay, I I there is more there are more things that are important to do I'm not sure if you're okay with this. That last let me ask you why question. They that that that doesn't really this ultimately shapes their worldview. We're doing our part. Well, life is not fair. But but when you're ready, and I I wouldn't yeah, I wouldn't tell the child they had had to do that unless it was something we had made a point Alright. Um is there an age difference? The other voices you heard today, Imron Rasby, Daniel Razby, David Forcey, we're all pastors of I I yeah see I I still don't think I buy the premise that someone always is in charge, someone always Just like your son, they're saying, well we're not going to teach him to read because he can't read. So if if worse doesn't worse, homeschool. I mean fifty two times by the time the ch child turns one. It's like a a light. It's your fault if any of the other kids act out. Even if even if twins like a day older. Respecting authority is very important and everybody should have authority in their life. He said if you send your children to the Romans, they'll become Roman soldiers. Last we talked about marriage relationships and parenting and uh uh relating to your children at the heart level, talked about adoption quite a bit. So if you're looking for a house church or any church really, let us know and we'll do what we can to help you. And only because no no no. Was I think was an autistic adult male and he didn't want to leave and his character Anyway, so next up is uh sibling relationships. Chores. It involves theft. So, you know, if uh if someone is um And their kids are a disaster. My mother-in-law um was going to church taking the three little girls to church and uh my father-in-law And one one is order and so that's that's uh who God put in in the order in the family and he had it for a reason. We don't have to. Um Lynnella or Christina or uh David, what do you want to cook? Uh I know that you've got um a family with biological children and adopted children. The more you take away, the harder they'll hold on to their whatever they have because they feel insecure. But with all that, yes, when somebody's playing with something and I can see my being We're talking about systems and structures and somebody's gotta be in charge and that sort of a So talk about the importance of this and what you mean by that. And it wasn't a matter of TV. Yeah, if they come ask me what's next daddy and say what's necessary to ask mommy. Oh yeah, I should. That h actually they try to do that with our son. So the more connections you have in your brain, the easier it is for you to process things. And uh yeah, so that's that's that's an issue. But he also doesn't make mistakes. I mean you're because I was it only fifteen years and I guess you did though and one of them was typical development so I didn't You're one of those old biddies or one of those old guys is shouting at the kids to get off your lawn We've had we've had lots of uh people say your kids are different. And so whoever is the oldest one, at least in our in our family uh and this I think is best That's a long uh uh you know psychology type of course, but but it does it does matter and you have that responsibility. So I want to start with the fun one. He wants the family to be unified in going in one accord, following him, glorifying him. That's one of the issues actually in further county public schools, there's been some push press because there's not enough physical activity, not enough recess for the younger But I think I might have misspoke. Come on, haven't you seen the paintings of Jesus? So we're we're finally stopped there and we'll just have to schedule something between now and the end of August. Uh Daniel Razby, Imron Razby, and David Sforcey have joined me, Troy Skinner. There are certain agencies and services and monies that are available for specific labels, right? And so what we did, my uh my mom uh did is she ri made charts and you know So you learn to do all the different chores. And if it's gonna look like it's gonna be a while, I'll say, Oh let's let's go try this thing and we'll just go and do that. Oh good thing, we're actually talking about family unity today. Family Unity is one of the titles of the book Who put you in charge? Um sort of the both and but i but i if if somebody acts out under my watch, they get punished, but I also get punished So it doesn't actually it teaches they may maybe the kids maybe you learn some skill with karate or soccer or whatever they're doing and violin lessons, but you're If you're not with LeBron James, I don't know if you have a chance at heaven. Was uh McCall's heart uh close to God's or was David's? You can walk with one leg, you can you know carry things with one arm. We've been talking in recent weeks about family matters, marriage, children. So we have to readjust as we're gonna strive for something, or strive against something, strive against sin, strive together Children can sit in church. Um especially to say that's the most important thing that the Well I would say that it is impossible for you to change someone else. He not that he punished, but that gives that level of of you know uh uh help there and they they know that the person's a So on Fridays she would do the planning for the following week. No, we know what we need, we get it ahead of time. So you haven't had that transitional. And they've got a number of books, several dozen books that are out there. So what we do with sharing is totally different and we've told many, many parents, many parents, and and it's working to come back with Take care of them. Did you guys have to deal with any of that? He was vr a mighty man. I don't think any of your children uh would would qualify as learning disabled, but I don't know your family as well as maybe I I'm sure we'll get to that. Uh have have you in that environment run into many families that have special needs children, developmentally delayed children? I would recognize them as Asperger's. Every single human being is an image bearer of God. And that's a problem. Absolutely. And yes, it's going to take us away from our job or other activities, but One's in the south end of town is less than if you Knoxville area. When he's done, you don't have to share when he's done as soon as he can get a turn. Right. And if you want to connect with them, the easiest way to do that is probably to touch base with me. We got thirteen kids. So it's okay that Susie did not get a chance to be on the swings and Jimmy Mommy, he won't give me a turn. If you work on your relationship with God, and then you work on your relationship with your spouse. And so if you have multiple children, it doesn't matter what kind of It's not my fault, it's not your fault, but they're in charge. The thing is, there there's always somebody in charge and either it's gonna be taken, somebody would that has leadership So I'm gonna I'm gonna start with this the planned topic, but then if it if you guys don't want you want to insist on either that's fine. Yeah, I say, well first we're gonna have breakfast. Um Daniel, you So the labels in in my uh experience, the labels that are assigned to kids are quite And they wanted to give him the diagnosis of retarded. Now fortunately we what we do have going in in our favor is the Because I think that families should worship together. Yes, it is absolutely um essential if you expect it. It's about training. I'm fine. I am Troy Skinner, the pastor of a church in town called Household of Faith in Christ, or what site is Household of Faith in Christ. Yeah, particularly with a lot of kids like you guys have a whole bunch of kids, both families, the Razzi and Forcey families. Um and so I mean a family that's got like two or three kids and one of the kids is playing soccer and has If we're eating dinner, we all eat dinner together every day. Oh this David Forcy here is pretty ruddy as well. That's the way you are. That's a cool I never actually heard of that idea before. God doesn't get it pr uh treat us all fairly. That's fair. It's not a bad thing. Yeah. So what? You gotta allow it too as a wife. If not, uh suck it up, buttercup. Now we can say, now we've done that sometimes, hey, Dan's in the room but he's not in charge That means ninety percent of the homeschool children were in so many activities that they didn't Well, we have both, right? And we had to take them off the medication with a little time with the doctor's help, and then start developing Our son can do basic, simple math today, probably like at a third grade And you can reach out. But we can't treat them all the same, otherwise they will die. And really uh I don't want to treat you fair i because I want to You know, choose a different direction. And then it's not it might take five minutes, it might take half an hour, but it's not usually that long. You know, they know that they will will get rest when they need rest. If you're not moving, you're standing still, you can't get other things to move There's games on both days. We were talking about, you know, family matters, uh marriage, relationship, those sorts of things So whenever we would try to teach them something, oh no, I can't do that, I'm stupid. And you know, this is gonna be politically incorrect, but we've done it before on this show. And we've had uh we do examples. I I've up if I'm gonna force David to share his phone with you They're you know, I don't think they make good decisions, they're not smart, they're not this, whatever, this is always my fault. That's all my contact information. Well, sure. I I'm in charge now. Uh that's true. The book is what's next mommy, not what's next daddy, because uh the problem is not always necessarily in the home at his And she was a genius. So do you guys do we we don't we're not uh we have right now it's my wife and I and our adult discussion No. So my parents trained us uh when we were uh we were very little is any time Um I do have uh an adult disabled son that's going to be thirty this year. Our experience there was absolutely horrific. Uh see twenty one. Well then the workers were like not satisfied that we gotta leave now. So it depends on on where they are in their the thing. Did that get harder as as more of the kids got older and they were driving and having part time jobs and things like that. Well what we need is he's not gonna learn to read, he's not gonna learn how to do math. And same thing about when you have kids and then if those kids are able to have siblings more You're undermining his uh his con not not his contentment his his um She was actually mouthing all the syllables for hungry. And and that you know, that shifts to some degree as uh as kids get older and That's good for me, and that will have some uh Said God put the the order in place already. I just don't think that's reasonable, but uh if you can give me a uh you know reasons I'm uh happy to talk about it. Oh you want to play soccer, let's try to get that fit in. Because then they're always coming about me asking, Hey, what are we doing? Do you guys do something like that where you're comparing notes weekly or at least, you know, regularly? It does make it more difficult. And his biggest thing when he he said when he talks to parents, so but but they gotta be able to play Um, you know, and and and certainly we're sort of So uh we do have our pr our priorities out of whack. Uh if uh Daniel and I can leave do you guys want to record another one or two sessions? So we have had experience with that, not to that degree, but we did have an experience with that when we adopted several of the children. That's not helpful whether your special needs or not. So it increase increases the connections so that the w w whatever and it does work more with either And he was nominally Christian. Love on them as if they're the most important uh person in your life and take care of them. Well, whoever's in charge. We could always be at each other's games. com or if you want to learn more about these specific things we've been talking about in recent weeks, go to uh We do have some people all the way to Iowa that watch this show. I'm assuming you're not, you know, or or unless you're dyslexic or something, I don't know That would be transformative inside of a generation. I think he they lost the game. I I know what you're meaning, you you know with a very young child, but I wouldn't say preverbal. And uh you know, and so if you have a if you have a an orderly home where uh where the children Well no, it's it's always clear. Uh yeah, so so my wife and I will uh we'll sit down from time to time sort of Okay. You gotta tear down that temple. And then she knows where they are. Um the that's flipping me now. You learn not to be so naive after a while. Maybe that's kind of a big part of the point you're trying to make. So we've lost Tyler, we gotta figure out how to get Tyler back How and why to teach siblings to work well together on chores and sharing and contain That that's fair, right? You c you don't put it under a bushel, right? So even though we had different age groups, we coached three teams and we would coach at the same time so we But the first thing is to help the family. Well you know it strikes me as we're talking about all this stuff for kids, I think there's some adults who apply these practices in their lives too and we could Thank you for explaining part of your Sunday morning Why? It's like, okay, what do we do? Because long you know assuming Christ doesn't return in the interim, the the the long haul strategy And we don't treat our children the same. I mean if if Emmett Smith fumbled and you guys lost, you wouldn't have cut Emmett Smith But that aside, uh we taught our tell our babies sign language. And the way it works for my family is I'll we'll take And so with famil that leads into family worship and there's a whole lot of other reasons why That's a a lot of what family unity is about, is being all in the same How many was that three? And they've got a series of books about that. They don't have any control over their environment. Like the whole you have fifteen people in your house. 'Cause the future is more predictable. Imran, I guess, and your and your wife uh found it. My son is the most forgiving So there's a biblical slant too. So yeah, but in that case the labels can be really damaging. David Forresty, Daniel Rasley, and Imran Rasley. Uh so they're all really near We'll wait until Bobby's done. We're in unity. Everybody has their own job to do, but somebody makes a decision on what job is always each other. The this goes back to what we talked about last week. They're very thin books because we know parents don't have a lot of time just to tackle some of those challenges And so what we found is most of these children Okay. But somebody who doesn't know how to deal with it, it can unravel like that Sailor case uh of a And say, hey, God put me here first. She runs the household. So these are not children that are in public schools. We don't know for sure if they represent the the views of the station's management or not. We might possibly swing back to touch on some of them and see if David has some some thoughts that he would have uh shared Um but I didn't see it any different. He was a humanist. Well why not? But even from the children, if they start to believe that, then they're they believe there are obstacles that cannot be It's like a typical kid too, right? Find us online at WFMD. And we ended up now with a s son who's almost always a delight. So now we have these times when it's yeah you know we recognize okay he's They're very good friends with one another, uh partially because of And uh I think we have that problem in in society too. So it makes it makes sense actually. That means if you want them to behave a certain way, then they should never be outside of Your pastor said not to come to church? Like do the elder children have uh a different role in the authority structure than the younger child So uh if you're watch well I don't know if anybody's watching now, but if you are watching this later, good night. We wouldn't have known. Wow. Yeah. And it was mentioned to me that I should So that avoids children just becoming uh attached only to And uh so but that kind of leads into family worship and I I think that's probably the most And parents are parents. Day of rest and systems. Do you do do you do that on Fridays, like as a family? That was a sport. We didn't watch TV growing up. Because the exercises and the techniques that that the doctor used was able to more than compensate for that half And I said some sassy things to people today. Just clean one fifteenth part of this pot. The difference is we need to change who we're going against instead of our siblings Okay, well as soon as you set it down to do anything else, you're done with it. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. It just sort of happened. Sometimes it's it's not nearly as long as the church service, but they understand that when Uh and you have to have that level of priority because the word of God is that much that uh uh that more important than Oh that must be what it means. I'm taking the leadership. Right. He could defend and and help and take care of the kingdom. Yeah, it has all sorts of problems. Here's what we're intending to say. But uh all the typical parenting books, all the typical anecdotal I mean level. And you know that's why I asked David, most people uh the advice we were given? I think he's just like he he's not able to control it. If they would have just given them five minutes, the caregiver could have but she didn't know how to handle it as well as maybe the parents would have, perhaps And yes it is expensive, but the thing is who's providing Does that ever leave in fights where the Well now you're teaching her to be jealous, to be uh discontent. This one's uh I think Like maybe they're new to Christianity or they're new to realizing that their Christian Or when it's in the moment of the day, like in the morning, he might say he might Yes it is. Right, that's true. And they would communicate very well. Um Yeah, but even birthday gifts. Come on, David, you have twice at something, we're gonna say something. When it comes to shopping and stuff, you know, my my wife I think I said uh I referred to FCPS as Freddy County Public Uh so hopefully that will you have a I can see the uh the the bubbles. There's also not, you know, that there's not He he can learn, he can do, he's an image bearer, you know, and and I don't have to c Dina's better at it than me. And I would say nip it in the bud. I just don't think it's necessary. So we're not going to the grocery store every day of the week because somebody else needs something else to cook. So my wife does all that uh on Fridays for the following week so that way everybody knows what to expect the following Right, but whether you have thirteen children or or one child, it does make life easier if you make the decision. And you know, maybe three or four of them are all the same as soccer team. We uh we had to find an instructor that could teach multiple instruments. We didn't know the exact nature of the challenges. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff And it's definitely not the Western way. Then automatically somebody's in charge. So the whole thing is is already a natural order to things. All the Middle Easterners were blue eyed, light haired. And then well and then we're gonna go do this other thing. You add the burden of homeschooling, it's gonna destroy the relationship. It's unknown. It's not a lot of times, especially if you miss it. And um I've seen your children, David, you said quietly during a worship service and you know Nothing happens with some but uh I mean you're in charge, you're the father. If you want to reach these other gentlemen, I can put you in We did soccer. Yeah, we can I ask for it. Because we do want to properly identify what something is I guess they could do the show live, but uh anyway. So when I was growing up we had a lot of kids and even that one, two, three Don't do it org. And it's not a negative thing and it helps to distinguish and now those people are left without a label I mean y uh you put the time in when they're young and when they're needing and then you'll get a lot more Hey when you do that, add Yeah. So if you've got a child that's struggling with their reading and struggling therefore to The other team recovered and it was I use complete sentences with my baby. Right out of the bubble wrap up. Um need learning disability. He wasn't a um Christian. They can be limiting, they can be erroneous, uh they can shift over time, which can cause It's not just, oh my job is to do the dishes and somebody else does the laundry. And And what's the method there? He could claim he was a Christian, but he didn't really do any of the Christ-like things. Uh as far as the straw And if your husband and your wife are not doing it, she will start following when she s when you start leading. So we can do that, but really the eldest person That one oh well I spend a Friday with the Rasvies org, and that'll be uh particularly relevant in just a moment. Okay. But uh you can rag me about that later if you like. So that all of them had many, many labels uh from the public school that they had Well about I don't know five, ten years ago or something, a lot of the people in the uh We've talked about a series of materials, books and things available through Conquered by Love Ministries. Yeah, that that's that's more of a discontentment on the child that's complaining. Why can't we just get along and be in unity on this? And and their their personal life maybe is in a re is If you have the and it's all planned, you know, they're in the in the You should learn sports and you should learn to play music because sports are important for exercise. Because as a leader you gotta know where your troops are. Yeah, I don't really remember ever having a time when I was bored and didn't have anything to do. So you're getting a sneak peek if you're watching this So If you don't know the name, look it up online. And his answer to that was I thought brilliant. I mean for example, if it was fair And oh the kids start laughing. Here, take the ball out of Jimmy's hand and give it to Susie. All the builders keep stealing his pineapples before they're ready to eat and Generally the way we've approached it in our household is that uh Sure. And one of the requirements when when we had our children get jobs at it, we're ha having dinner together. And yet we had some really good people. Because you're telling me that my son is unable to Uh you know, she could do amazing things, but we they weren't Uh it was part of Yeah, well with our son, one of the things, you know, mostly with family and close friends Uh no is a trigger word for him and not for the reasons you would And and that helps break some of the habits of no no no I want to play with it longer Uh again, their website is conqueredbylove. See you next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. Spend a Friday with the Razvees. Okay, I do do the outside work and and uh make money and take care of the No judgments, you don't have to worry about anything else. What are they gonna do? So you're thirteen, and uh that means there's lots of divvying up for the chores, right? And you both have to pitch in on this chore. So I can understand that. So you can change yourself by practicing and behavior And we made a decision. Yeah, they're uh they're on the on the So there's there shouldn't be a little time. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff I mean, no exact And this ties to something Daniel said when he was talking about uh I think it's uh I think it's a huge benefit to uh to kids Daniel's Daniel's daughter is fifty month, So we're focusing on some books that Conquered by Love Ministries has out there, and you can go to their website at So if you're looking for a church, no matter where you are in the county, we can probably you know hook you up. And I know I'm really easily confused, but there's got to be one other person out there who is easily confused and Well And so we learned an awful lot. And looked like you were leaning into patients for a second, I kept rambling, no. And I'm gonna hope the best, pray the best, and So that does help and it also uh the other But he wasn't black, so it was okay. So chores are a really, really great thing for teaching That's the one I think that even people who don't have families with benefit I think there's an incredible blessing when children see their parents But uh is there going back focusing on that a little bit more before before we go on to some of the Your wife's trying to be a biblical wife. The closer you are to God, the more likely the people around you will have sensed a change and will also I'll go play Leggo for half hour. Concord by Love Ministries, I guess, is a f But yeah, before you were pastoring, you were just Christian men trying to raise Christian families and put And age order is a really easy way to do that because everybody knows what order their ages are. Now they can give up that responsibility by And I think uh biblically it's a very important thing to have But that that's how he is. They're in the middle of some activity and you say, Okay, time to go. And the sport at that time was being able to be able to argue It wasn't when I was a kid, but it is now. He's not going to be able to read, so why teach him? We do have a a chore rotation. Not one child gets treated the same as another child. And so now they're all interested in in God. It's only shame on you if you do something. Even though I don't have this the uh any I don't So you have the responsibility and the authority and And then whoever the parent puts in He's running the numbers and running everything else and so if there's a Again taking time to plan just for any activity is is useful, but for just a week of You don't co call all fifteen together and then spend an hour hashing out the waste of it. Sports are not that important. Right? I think family is the most important. Yeah, there you go. And on that note also if you if the children That last show uh was is set to record on Like if a kid's being annoying, you don't say, go away, you're annoying You know? Is that what it bruns with? But I don't know. So when when I give a birthday President Daniel, he gets to play with it first. And the only way to do that is have the time to spend in It wasn't playing on the internet. But that turned out all to be false. But okay, that's interesting. Um and what happens is they treat them like cases, not like Was it easier when they're spread out or harder when they're spread out? So if they can work Why? Now you can get yourself out of that place by giving up your right, giving up your What are the groceries we need? But uh I I guess I guess first I say like siblings are a great thing. So we treat our And so uh uh Yeah he he didn't we didn't watch T V much. That's why you need to homeschool. Of course on Sundays everybody likes to go to the uh to the American cathedrals called And so I thought, well before I sign anything, I wanna look into what I'm signing here. com. How do you have no rivalries? We just have to realign what they're fighting and what's going on But if if somebody could usually the the sharing conversation comes up But what about the situation that So we're we're putting on the spot and arguing with him when he's not quite sure So yeah the children have input. No, majority of them, ninety nine point nine percent of them will never make it professional If you're not homeschooling, please start homeschooling. I think you can ju do some group sports or activities So pre verbal, yes, they can still So hey, in instead of saying no, don't do that. Um and I think it's going to Four. They know there's something next. They don't have a purpose And it's not like a permanent physical If he's not gonna be done, that's okay, we'll find something else. They're jealous because they want to join this. Then you determine okay. But the care most of the children in foster care have learning disabilities You can find my church online and connect to all of us through that as Household of Faith in Christ Yeah, and we've got examples of sibling rivalries going awry in scripture. Okay? What if he never gets But we read through Genesis or Revelation. Because he gets deeply involved in athletics, those travel teams the playing games often Till next week, 167. I mean I when we adopted we had you know twelve years And we're and we were supposed to sign off on that as parents. Um Don't let your child learn how to read whole word. And we don't use What a what a coincidence It's just training. Exactly. So when you do the planning and have it structured and planned out And so we make sure we have an opportunity Family unit Which one would you choose? So they are both important. And so when you finish your task you go And four of them are called Conquering Sibling Rivalry, How to Have Children. I I think the absolutely it's It's the same thing with kids. I I guess I would say 'Cause it seems like if you have more than one child there's gonna be rivalry. And it meant We can pray for you, give you some thoughts and advice. It's important to do things together as a Ninety percent of them say Is that going to keep them out of heaven? Iowa? You don't have to have two So we can't do this show live on Sunday mornings very easily. What is more important? Uh we only have a like a short amount of time left, but I do wanna well But you have to get that permission first. Do you agree or disagree? And I say, yeah, you know what? I know there are a lot of people in this community that probably would sing the praises of Rock Creek. What is that considered? They're like, uh okay yeah let me make it fair by doing this. Find all of us, connect with us online at household of faith in Christ dot com and of course the radio station's web But children really, I would argue, should be in church Like you I'm The problem is if they ever win, they will always win Because you know what? So he's he's acting in a more And they don't believe any of this stuff that you know And so we go through the calendar and we kind of map out, not like you guys do where uh we And if only one of us was in soccer, the whole family goes and sits and watches them do And the Bible clearly says David's heart was it was that And and that really is true because mommy is in charge of their training and Where are they? Take the show off here? How do you communicate that with a preverbal child You've heard of the packing order, right? God put your brother or your sister here first. Always necessary. I won't bother David. Um My son doesn't do that. Temple Grandin, the Rasuite movie made about her life, and she was So if there's any hiss or some So even the low ones will get lifted. We just need that five more minutes, Uh but we we A lot of people think oh they need to have equal of everything. But they don't see the w a picture of no. Only your birthday gift until you played it with the one with the ones and then we share it And what And then and then basically until it's time for bed He was a humanist, but he felt that Dolman Glenn Dillman. And We are all pastors of churches in the area that happen to be house churches Oh no, that would be crazy. And Susie just gotta wait. It's more likely to Genesis to Revelation. Um it's it was very, very rare growing up that we had a So we literally eliminated all the super Tammy. That's something that uh Why? But that gives them a chance to practice sitting I think that um and I'm not sure Well he said it's more important to take care of you Because somebody's in charge. So if we I were to spend this coming Friday with the Razgeys, what what would I get? And if you take a day What are we doing? Don't send them to the to to school and expect them to be The children are the troops, right? And by the way, in case you're wondering, uh most people that know uh Imran call him Raz You're you're We No But his heart was still after God's heart Now all of us are a marred image bearer. Oh no, I don't I don't And uh and so there's there's So we practice Everybody's an individual in a Western culture. And and co-workers are co-workers. Imran Razby and Daniel Razby are with a church That that will I gotta find I gotta get this done, I'll get the trash And looking back, I'm even more persuaded how good they were because we've had since then Or do you have to kind of sit down and have one of those daddy talks with the little It's just a matter of When a three month old maybe it you know might not Maybe two times a week if you're really dedicated, maybe you go on Wednesdays. Therefore you're raising no And he was very much musically inclined. There's nothing Now tell me fill in some of the the details about how it affects himself You don't have to be churched. Well he had special needs It it's out there for people to see. Collective Okay? My wife's out of town and the kids are at home. She might say it's time to go do dishes for fifteen minutes. Tammy, Razby and I. Um I was a little more hesitant than my wife. I'm telling you one parent to another And I gotta tell you that the exact opposite is what happened. If they start screaming in the middle of your living room, you're not disrupting any I mean you could be born with So some things that are very helpful Because we pulled them, we homeschooled them Uh you know, and it That was that was number three. That's the most important. And I'm not going to wait around for her to say, okay fine, I'm I'm happy about it. Go to household of faith in Christ dot com. org. Which is But if it's not planned then What what are we eating? I'm curious, uh any of the children that have had learning difficulties So Last week was talking about learning disabilities and how to raise children We don't have a rotation He said, no, let me correct you When we we uh They know that they and uh They annually you were cooking on Monday. Are these activities more important or is God more important? So yeah again as pastors Wow. But They should have them. So No, I just uh I just uh Yeah, I think It But the problem is so many believing families don't Now it's hard financially to have a lot No no no, you're still playing with it Because They're not. I mean PE is always So we don't know. And for example, my son is and this is No. You gotta have your uh uh Hello We had to we had to make uh one exception to But the child needs to They haven't shared. Oh they might. Now if they abuse it or break it then they're not gonna be using it and break it Somebody's gonna take that leadership. And if you don't know how to homeschool You gotta know where everybody's deployed, what they're doing And the baby gets gets milk for dinner. And they've got a couple of books, uh, it looks like four of them by Mike I don't know if you've read it God bless 5 hours from I sale, right about now. He's you know We don't skip any parts. Until next week. That's not I'm not Uh just like You can't say, Oh I'm holding this, I'm eating dinner now, but I'm gonna play with it after Right. Only the Holy Spirit can change somebody. And we usually go ahead at least two, three, four months. Um yeah so David Forcey Uh You know, the Wherever we go there the most But no is like the answer to a question. I mean my kids would never be able to do that They've left Tammy and I found it this contraband And you know what? And we've had times where the child is going to be So one day her pastor And what activities are we going to do? What do you mean I'm not ready to go? But he's had other challenges and and my challenges are st They'll still sound lower than high peaks. If you're not there, somebody else is What am I gonna wear? Family and family function having multiple Is it heaven or is it Iowa? Just let us I watched Star Trek Pow wow, like here's what we're doing, or in in growing up Uh I grew up in a family though where we were So I was gonna say let's let's step back there. And When we would say something, we would sign it and then Make them breakfast and bed and just love on them. But because we're right, and they clearly they want to be right. I I I might have some general thoughts. No. That's why the book is called Sharing and Content Your light will shine brightly and your spouse will shine And my thing Just more or less words. I just But we Actually I care a lot what they think. Say let's do this instead. Tuesday and he wants to know what we're doing on Tuesday What what do you picture when you say no? So they're in charge. No, I think we'll we'll probably No no I God bless. Uh well I wasn't my parent. The difference is most parents don't What what groceries Because we wanted to give it to all the that's You don't just go off and He did uh he wrote a man He has his moments when he is nervous. Chickens will keep packing And if you have to go out of the He wrote the songs and he Starting with the day of rest and making And I looked it up and basically the way the definition ran That is absolutely the right They have no security. If you never get a chance The next one is number four. But the very first time we walked in, somebody, a young young Why? Once he's done playing with it None of us perfectly reflect the image of God. Nobody told me I was going Uh my wife had done But you have to And so Because we're always They have this So take take it. Can you can you imagine It makes more sense for us to do We did a couple of shows on That's that's my church's website. Now if they are not And if you don't get the diagnosis you can't So to learn God bless A yes You see a certain So Okay We talked about Well that's not fair. Like ice cream? Um No Um Well