Welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ and what we do on the live stream portion of our weekly gathering here. If you'd like to learn more about us, catch up on the sermon series or in the book of Revelation, you can do that at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's household of faithinchrist. com We'll be in Revelation chapter 18 today, so if you want to get your Bibles ready so you can follow along, I would uh encourage you to do so. We're looking particularly at verses 9 through 19 today in chapter 18 of the Revelation, a message which is titled, 60 Minutes to Desolation. In Revelation chapter 17, the chapter right before the one we're looking at today, the Apostle John saw an awesome vision of the beast and the harlot, which together represent Babylon. And then he saw the beginning of her downfall when the beast turns on itself as part of God's judgment And that happens at the tail end of chapter 17. And then after these things, John describes in chapter 18 the total destruction of the beasts of Babylon. And as readers, we're being drawn into the final conclusion, the final judgment of the harlot and her partners in crime. And that's where we are now, picking up our reading of the text with Revelation 18, verses 9 through 19, which say The kings of the earth who committed fornication and live luxuriously with her will weep and lament for her when they see the smoke of her burning Standing at a distance, for fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas, that great city Babylon, that mighty city, for in one hour your judgment has come And the merchants of the earth will weep and mourn over her, for no one buys their merchandise anymore, merchandise of gold and silver, precious stones and pearls fine linen and purple, silk, and scarlet, every kind of citron wood, every kind of object of ivory, every kind of object of most precious wood, bronze, iron, and marble and cinnamon and incense, fragrant oil and frankincense, wine and oil, fine flour, and wheat, cattle, and sheep, horses, and chariots and bodies and souls of men. The fruit that your soul longed for has gone from you and all the things which are rich and splendid have gone from you, and you shall find them no more at all. The merchants of these things, who became rich by her fine linen purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls, for in one hour such great riches came to nothing Every shipmaster, all who traveled by ships, sailors, and as many as trade on the sea, stood at a distance and cried out when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying What is like this great city? They threw dust on their heads and cried out Weeping and wailing and saying, Alas, alas, that great city, in which all who had ships on the sea became rich by her wealth, for in one hour She is made desolate. This is the very word of God, breathed out of God. Therefore it is authoritative, it is sufficient, fully so. I encourage you to receive it as such. If you recall our previous sermon in the Revelation series, everyone is warned to come out of Babylon. We even mentioned last time a few Old Testament examples where similar warnings are found in our Bible. And there are New Testament examples as well. Such as when Jesus warns his followers to flee and to not look back when they see the abomination of desolation standing where it ought not be. You read about that in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And St. Paul, remember him, warning believers not to participate in idolatry. Or pagan lifestyles, but instead to come out from their midst, he writes in 2 Corinthians and in Ephesians. So similar to what I asked last time. Are you coming out of the evilness of the world? Are you fleeing abomination and idolatry Or is your lifestyle rather indistinguishable from that of the pagans who are in your midst? If you don't make a change, a hard, radical, determined change from the ways of the fallen world, if you don't repent. Then you will end up joining them in their sobbing of lament. And that's what is meant by the word weep. in this text in verse 9. This isn't describing a small single tear that's slowly trickling down the cheek. This isn't a mere welling up, having one's eyes turn a bit red. This isn't even the kind of waterworks you see when you have to grab the box of tissues after you're watching one of those tearjerker chick flicks. The weeping of the kings that's described in verse 9. It's open sobbing. It's a kind of Blubbering that includes cries of anguish. Have you ever cried like that? Have you ever seen someone else cry like that? It's it's the kind of wail that hurts your heart in ways you just didn't even know it could hurt. It's the agony of a mother who just watched her child die, a horrible death, before her very eyes. It's the pain of shock that your spouse has forever been taken from you suddenly. It's your son being lost at war. Learning that the person who is nearest and dearest to you has been Grossly sexually assaulted and maimed and left for dead. This is a kind of weeping we should try to imagine from these kings. The word lament in this chapter is, by the way, the same word that is used in chapter 1 of Revelation for the despair of the unbelieving world. What I want you to come to grips with here in this text, the utter despondency, that stabbing emotional pain that's seen in this vision is coming from evil unbelievers Who can't cope with the fact that the fornicating Babylon is being judged by God. They love the devil so much. They screech when God ends the child sacrifice. They screech when God ends the mutilation. They screech when good triumphs over demonic evil They screech because they love the beast But not enough to go to her aid. Nor to comfort her or to dare to share in her suffering. No, instead they they keep their distance. Afraid of the torment that likely awaits them as well. It's almost morbidly fascinating how much the world powers mourn the demise of the harlot. And I want us to note here, they don't mourn the sin. They mourn the punishment. The harlot experienced her downfall because of worldliness and sorceries and the prosecution of the saints, including the prophets. But this isn't what's lamented by the kings. They're upset that the horror of Babylon faced death for scorning widowhood, that the whore was mired in mourning as the consequence of her unrighteous reveling. That she experienced famine and payback for her ill-gotten abundance You know, as I list these things out, it's striking how they they all hint in the direction of the plagues that we have studied and learned about earlier in the Revelation, such as that portion that focuses on the second, third, and fourth seals. It's also striking how much of a contrast there is between what we read in chapter eleven and what we see here in chapter eighteen. In chapter eleven, the faithful witnesses are murdered. And the dastardly minions of the devil, they practically throw a party. They celebrate when God's witnesses die. But the death of Babylon, the death of God's enemies, well, this is heart-crushing to Satan's devotees. And so they cry out. In verse 10, alas, alas, that great city, Babylon, that mighty city, for in one hour your judgment has come. This is the cry of a fornicator over the death of his mistress. The adulterer is heartsick over the death of his illicit lover, so he cries out. But this is also a cry that's one of fear because he knows that his promiscuous pretty paramour was judged for these sexual escapades that they shared. So he knows that he will face the same judgment. And perhaps in some way, at least in some small way, this could kind of feel like any one of us. I mean, you see the sins of others all around you and you recognize that, you know what, you share in some of these sins Yet there is still hope for you. It's not too late. Come out of Babylon Repent. In Ezekiel chapter 16, the prophet announces there a double woe against a Jerusalem who had fallen away. Ezekiel, he calls the apostate Jerusalem a promiscuous adulteress, shamefully offering her beauty to others while pretending to stand righteously before the Lord. And so the woe, woe of Ezekiel sounds a trumpet of fear, announcing the certain judgment to come upon God's so-called followers. However, unlike what we read about Babylon, God has promised an eternal covenant with those who have citizenship in true Jerusalem And it is due to this covenant that the Messiah made atonement at the cross during his first coming. And so again, you are invited to repent. To come out of Babylon, to enter the new Jerusalem before time runs out on you. Because at the Messiah's second coming, the time for repentance has expired. And that's what's being described in Revelation chapter 18. Final judgment. It's no wonder the kings of Babylon beat their chests in mourning. And it's not the kings only. It's also the captains of industry. And the merchants of the earth will weep and mourn over her, for no one buys their merchandise anymore. That's verse eleven. And what follows in verses 12 through 16 is a lengthy list of commodities, and more than half of these commodities match what's listed in Ezekiel in chapter 27. Which describes the fall of Tyre, which is another kind of Babylon. And these items on the list are quite fancy. Your purple is difficult to come by back then because it was laboriously extracted from shellfish. Citron wood was an exotic lumber from African citrus trees. It was adored for its color. It allowed craftsmen to create really rare furniture pieces. Marble, very pricey because they had to be imported from places like Egypt and Greece. Silk was scarce, so scarce in fact that it was forbidden By Emperor Tiberius. He weren't allowed to use it. He wanted to hoard it for himself, I guess. The fragrant oils and frankincense, these were costly imports from faraway locales like Arabia. Pearls and diamonds and linens, they still have um a rather tremendous allure for us even today, don't they? And So too do the strong shiny metals and the fine foodstuffs and the beautiful animals that we find on our farms and we love our wine and we we love our deodorizers and we love our gold Cinnamon, that one's interesting. It almost seems at first like it doesn't belong on the list. But cinnamon actually was designed by God for noble, holy purposes. You know that cinnamon was an ingredient in anointing oil And it's mentioned as a plant in the garden of the beloved in the Song of Songs in chapter 4. So you can see it's easy to understand why it's so tempting to stay or at least to linger for a while and to not come out of Babylon. But consider, Babylon essentially stole all these wares. And Babylon will be made to pay back double in punishment and sorrow. for the theft. And did you note those two items that are mentioned at the tail end of verse 13? Bodies and souls of men. Lots of our English Bibles they translate this phrase as slaves and human lives. Now the New King James Version, that's the version I'm reading today, and it does very well here. The original Greek, it uses the word for bodies and not the word for slaves. The word here in the Greek is somato, which is from somatons, the plural plural form of subso, which means the body. So why then does the word slaves appear in any of our English translations? Because it's clearly implied. This is what's meant. Historians estimate that there were 60 million slaves in the Roman Empire. That there were possibly as many as 300,000 in the city of Rome itself. These numbers can shock our sensibilities. And then we learn that today there are an estimated 50 million slaves around the world, and at least 400,000 in the United States today, right now. It's crazy, right? But why is John including these people in his long list of stuff? I mean the list is made up of at least five eighty six different categories. There are precious metals and gems, there are expensive textiles, there are choice woods and ornamentals, there are cosmetics and aromatic substances, there are foodstuffs, and there's livestock, comprised of both animals. And men. Feels to me like John is drawing our attention to emphasize slavery, actually. After all, within the Roman Empire, the slave dealers, they were actually some, they were often called body dealers. So a way that we might translate bodies and souls of men could be to say human bodies, even the very souls of human beings. Or slaves, that is, the souls of men. Now there are different ways That we can think about the word slavery. There is the ancient custom of providing a social safety net, a sort of a welfare system to protect the poor from starving to death. And that form of what the Bible sometimes calls slavery is a positive form of slavery. But there's also the chattel slavery version, treating God's image-bearers as though they are mere cattle. No different than any other merchandise. Simply property to be owned. And this is how Babylon thinks. This is what Babylon does. And as I was preparing this message, these ideas, they An inner rage was almost boiling up, and in my anger I I had called to my mind James chapter five and Luke chapter six where it says, Come now, you rich, weep and howl for your miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches are corrupted. Your garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver are corroded, and their corrosion will be a witness against you, and will eat your flesh like fire. Woe to you who are full, for you shall hunger. Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep. And so in Revelation chapter 18 and verse 16, we see a repeat of the alas, alas, or woe, woe that we heard uttered in verse 10. But notice there's a difference. In verse 10, The woe was for the fear of judgment. In verse 16, the woe was for loss of material goods primarily. The fruit that you soul long for is gone from you, and all the things which are rich and splendid have gone from you, and you shall find them no more at all. The merchants of these things who became rich by her will stand at a distance for fear of her torment. Weeping and wailing, so there is some fear. But then they're saying, Alas, alas, that great city that was clothed in fine linen, purple, and scarlet, adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls For in one hour such riches came to nothing. They have so much grief that they care not one whit about slavery. Treating people like chattel, and yet they come unglued at the prospect of their earthly treasures coming to nothing. And this might serve as a wake-up call for all of us. Are we guilty of some Babylonian behaviors, some Babylonian attitudes? The Babylonians, they care about worldly possessions and care about worldly influence more than they care about people. Putting the church spin on this. They love the wool, but hate the sheep. Putting the sociological spin on this, they love Christendom, but they hate Christ's bride. Putting a political spin on this, they love the culture war, but they confuse it with spiritual war. Putting a worldview spin on this, they see everything as politics and somehow don't acknowledge that this world is passing away. Putting a strategic spin on this, they have a vision that is contramundo, that's Latin for against the world, but they lose sight of a vision that is pro mundum, for the world. God's people are to be against the world for the world. When we're not careful, we slip into being against the church and for the world. The Babylonian world. What's the status of your thought life? Are you selfishly spending more time bemoaning that the economy stings, that the future of your earthly life feels rather uncertain? That the Power interests of the world have driven society straight off a cliff, toward a fiery crash at the bottom of a ravine. Or are you selflessly spending more time beseeching God? Seeking His face. Yearning to give Him your whole heart. Your whole self. So that you will not join the others in dishonoring the Lord. And I understand it's hard I most assuredly do. And having concern for the current societal disaster and what seems to be the impending societal collapse is to have concern for our neighbors. And our families. And so this can be good. But if the aroma of our heart is sour, And our concern for the world isn't necessarily heavenly-minded. Pretty much everyone hearing my voice will likely agree that doing bad things is bad. I wonder, would you also agree that doing good things for bad reasons or for merely worldly reasons can sometimes also be bad Is buying and selling inherently evil? Well no, of course not. Earning a living Contributing to the success of the economy so that other people around you uh don't starve to death? That's a blessed endeavor Oftentimes. But not always. The love of money is a root of many kinds of evil Buying and selling, it can also be tied to worship. It's one of the reasons a very common phrase you'll hear even today is put your money where your mouth is. Show me what you truly value. So do you support uh Kingdomwork? Do you? Do you support it with your money? If no, does this mean that your worship is oriented more around the idols of high speed internet and fancy cars or political parties or video gaming systems or the latest fashion trends If you do open your first strings so as to support Kingdom Work, well that's excellent. But I have to ask this follow-up question, are you doing so for the correct reasons? You're not hoping to uh buy yourself into heaven, are you? You're not doing it to try to impress other people, maybe even to try to impress yourself. You're not treating the things of the kingdom ministry as though they're part of the secular economy, are you? I seem to recall there's a story about Jesus maybe not liking this quite so much. If my memory serves, something about like chasing money changes out of the temple, perhaps, maybe? Look, the thing that, or at least one of the things I'm most warning against here, is our desire to think like the world and to try to have it all. In this world, we can't have it all. And even if you could, where would you put it all? Seriously, we are finite beings, and so we cannot have it all. And this is actually one of the great lies of third and fourth wave of feminism in that whole movement. Over and over here, ladies, right? The world says it's ad nauseum. Ladies, you can have it all. The career, the education, the children, the intimate relationship with dozens of friends, the sanity, the strong health, the amazing marriage, the fame, the looks, the money, the everything. You can have it all. But you can't. And neither can the men Promised six pack abs and arm candy wives and beautiful sexy sports cars and weekend getaway mansions on the beach and well-behaved kids and professional respect and Worldly acclaim, and then even when you're 90, you know, you get to keep your hair, your hearing, your eyesight, and your full independence. All of this is simply not true. We live in a broken world, loaded with broken dreams. We live in a sin-riddled world that is overloaded with sinners. Like us. We live in a time-bound world where choices, and sometimes even trade-offs, must be made. You surrender quality time with the kiddos so as to put food on the kiddos plate and into their belly? You know what? That's probably a pretty necessary trade-off. You neglect investing in the needs of your spouse so as to invest instead in the needs of faraway neighbors whom you will likely never ever meet in person? That just might be an unnecessary trade-off. I know women who have made the conscious choice to forego motherhood so that they could focus their energy on their job, their career. I know women actually have made a conscious choice to murder their children for pretty much the same reason. And I know men who refuse to be tied down. The old ball of the chain Don't want to be tied down to any one woman because they want to maintain the freedom to hang out with the guys and drink lots of beer and go out and dally playing with their expensive big boy toys. And so I don't come across as like too narrow-minded and mean-spirited in what I'm saying here, some of these trade-offs actually could be absolutely fine Maybe even you could argue that some of them are necessary for our sanity and some sort of work-life balance sort of thing. But we've got to beware of crossing the line and aligning with the aims of the pagans All of us can and do make this mistake. So we need to Examine. We need to learn from our mistakes. We can sometimes even learn from mistakes we didn't make. We can learn from the mistakes of others. So that we will grow day by day, each and every day. And I can hear some of the skeptics, people who might feel personally particularly challenged by some of the things that were said today. I can hear them almost audibly in their minds thinking right now, this doesn't apply to me. I think, come on, I have success. It proves I've got everything under control. As far as I'm concerned, I am blessed exceedingly financially And I have been given some amazing gifts by God. And so the application of this sermon, particularly this last portion of the sermon, is for someone else. It's not for me. Well, let me introduce you to someone. Allow me to introduce you to Solomon. He was a king once upon a time. Rumor has it he was exceedingly wealthy, taking in an annual income of 666 talents of gold. Has over one and a half billion dollars of annual income. And he was famous and powerful? And admired. He was even anointed by God Himself with incredible wisdom. I mean, if anyone ever had it all, it just might be King Solomon But even he didn't actually have it all. And what he did have, he was willing to throw away an apostasy aligning with the ways of the world. And allowing himself to be allured into turning from Yahweh. During your devotional time this coming week, if you'd like to learn more about this. You can begin by reading uh 1 Kings chapters ten and eleven. Do you think that if even Solomon Could get turned sideways by earthly concerns and ambitions that maybe you should take stock of where you could similarly be guilty in your life right now But I encourage you to examine your life. And as you do so, I want you to consciously be reminding yourself of that one True king, one who truly does have it all, and who shares all that he has with his faithful subjects And make it a priority to serve Him in the way that He commands. Speaking, of course, about Jesus Christ. And do away with serving Babylon. Let's pray Father, we praise you. As your people, we adore you, and yet we acknowledge our own frailties and weakness. That we do not measure up to the standard that we find in your revealed written word. And yet we know you are patient and forgiving and gentle and kind and that you have sent a paraclete to indwell your people, giving us the ability to recognize our frailties, our failings. our sins, and to do an about face, and to reject the ways of the evilness, evil world, the evil uh allurements that are all around us. So that we would embrace the true treasures that await us in heaven. And that we can appreciate and begin to taste even now. We ask that you would help us to have discernment and wisdom to recognize places in our lives where we've got error in our ways. Maybe we would be diligent and forthright in holding each other accountable. That we would be iron sharpening iron. And we do so out of love and a mutual respect with an attitude of kindness and care for one another And help us to speak to a lost, broken, lonely world who at present doesn't give any appearance of knowing any better. Help your people do a better job of calling them to repent and to come out of Babylon and to enter the eternal kingdom of Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Alright, we're gonna wrap up the stream at this point. Again, I encourage you to visit us online. If you're so inclined, household of faith in Christ dot com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. God bless.