Welcome to the live stream portion of what we do here together as a Household of Faith in Christ each weekend. If you'd like to learn more about us, I encourage you to visit us online at household of faith in Christ dot com. It's the name of our church and the web address for our church, household of faith in Christ dot com. We've been working our way as a church through the book of Revelation, but um we're taking a little bit of a summertime respite from that We actually departed from it a few weeks ago and we're departing from it here again to look at Exodus chapter 17 Just not that long ago we looked at Exodus chapter 17, verses 1 through 7, and I felt like it might be good and appropriate to follow up with a look at Exodus 17, 8 through 16. We're not going to be doing a full Exodus series right now. I just I don't want to get into rut on the revelation stuff, and summertime is often a good time to depart from your regular habits. So that's what we're doing after we finish our look at Exodus 17. I'm sure we'll be returning back to Revelation and finishing that up. So, and you want to have your Bibles or your electronic device to scroll through because we're covering a lot of scripture today and it'll be good to be able to follow along. Exodus 17 verses 8 through 16 is our primary text. And whether it's that text or any of the other ones I read, I want to remind us all. That when we're reading from the scripture, we are reading God's word. It is breathed out of God. He carried the human authors along by the power of the Holy Spirit, and so it is inerrant, it is infallible, it is fully sufficient As the rule and guide for our faith and our life practice, so I encourage you to receive it as such. Those are the ears. Let them hear. When I was a kid, all the way into my early twenties, I was a pretty big fight fan. I loved boxing. The sweet science. The manoimano hand-to-hand combat within the square circle. And there are surely some legendary fighters from earlier generations, but for my money. The golden age for the sport came in the 1970s and spilled over into the 1980s. Among the heavyweights alone, there was smoking Joe Fraser. The brilliant tactician Jimmy Young, the competitor extraordinaire, Kenny Norton. I even like Derny Shavers, because man, that guy could hit And there was the fearsome as a bear, George Foreman, before he became a cuddly home grill pitch man. And before Mike Tyson brought fear into the ring, there was George. The 1980s brought us the always underrated Larry Holmes as heavyweight champion, truly great fighter. But it was the lowerweight classes, that's where the stars were in the 1980s. Sugar Ray Leonard, Marvelous Marvin Hagler, Thomas Hitman Hearns, and even Hands of Stone, Roberto Nomas Duran Those were tremendous days to follow the fight game. It was before pay-per-view destroyed being a fan. It was before Pro Wrestling stole the limelight. Before the Italian stallion turned into a rather leathery Sylvester Stallone, who, temporarily somewhere along the line, temporarily forgot that he is Rocky Balboa, and so he starred in a horrible comedy with Robert De Niro About two over-the-hill boxers. I'm not sure if you saw that train wreck of a movie. It was called Grudge Match. And back then there was Howard Cosell. He was around during the golden age of boxing as a sports commentator. And Howard he had this way of making everything seem bigger than life. And he helped to make Cassius Clay into the icon that is Muhammad Ali An Ali. He could float like a butterfly, sting like a bee. He said about himself once that he was so quick. He could hit the light switch on the wall in his bedroom and then die beneath the covers on his bed before the light bulb went out. He famously said, I'm a bad man with a pretty face. He would yell out, I am the greatest. And he would predict the round within which he would knock out his opponent so as to prove that he was the greatest. There was even a hit song that played on the radio back then. It was actually a pretty big hit. It was called Muhammad Ali, the Black Superman, echoing that Ali was the greatest. Remember that song? Muhammad Mahamid Ali He floats like a butterfly and stings like a bee. Mahamed The black Superman who calls to the other guy, I'm Ali. Catch me if you can. But before Ali, before the thriller in Manila, before the rumble in the jungle, there was a rumble in Refidim. Before the fight of the century, there was the fight of the ages. Before Ali was claiming to be the greatest of all time. There was God protecting his people in the desert, proving that he, our Lord, is the greatest of all time. And even before time. Yahweh is the undisputed greatest within time and outside of time. The creator of time. The creator of Muhammad Ali. And this one true God shows us this fact about Himself in Exodus 17, verses 8 through 16. As powerful a story as it is, it's really just a very small glimpse, but even a small glimpse of God's greatness. It's beautiful. Humbling. In Exodus 17, verses 8 through 16, God's word says to us, The Amalekites came and attacked the Israelites at Rephedim. Moses said to Joshua, Choose some of our men and go out to fight the Amalekites. Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill with the staff of God in my hands. So Joshua fought the Amalekites as Moses had ordered, and Moses, Aaron, and her went to the top of the hill As long as Moses held up his hands, the Israelites were winning. But whenever he lowered his hands, the Amalekites were winning. When Moses' hands grew tired, they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat on it. Aaron and Hur held up his hands, one on one side, one on the other, so that his hands remained steady till sunset. So Joshua overcame the Amalekite army with the sword. Then the Lord said to Moses, Write this on a scroll, as something to be remembered, and make sure that Joshua hears it. Because I will completely blot out the name of Amalek from under heaven. Moses built an altar and called it the Lord is my banner. He said, Because hands were lifted up against the throne of the Lord, the Lord will be at war against the Amalekites from generation to generation. If you watch a boxing match on TV, generally there are three parts to the broadcast. There's the pre-fight analysis and then there's the fight itself and then there's the post fight analysis. And that's going to be the structure of this message, which actually is going to play out over two weeks We try to keep our sermons to a half hour-ish. If I had fifty or sixty minutes to work with, we could do this all in one fell swoop, but uh we're not going to do that. So Today we're going to begin with the tail of the tape, and then we'll begin to get into the into the fight itself. And then next time we'll finish up looking at the fight and do the post-fight analysis. So the tail of the tape, or the the two competitors Are sized up. So over in this corner we've got the Amalekites. They're weighing in as first among nations. That's according to Numbers chapter 24 verse 20. In fact, let's let's turn there. Pastors sometimes like the sound of turning pages, so if you I'm not sure if I can hear the scrolling of your electronic device, but if you've got an actual Bible Numbers chapter twenty, we're going to be looking for verse, or twenty-four rather, numbers twenty-four, verse twenty, where it says Then Balaam saw Amalek and uttered his oracle. Amalek was first among the nations, but he will come to ruin at last. So we're to understand this first among nations as the first among the wicked, among the pagans, among the unclean, the unholy. And so they would come to ruin at last. They're from among the Edomites. The line of Esau. Remember him? He sold his birthright. They take their name from Amalek, the grandson of Esau. We learn about all this in Genesis in chapters 14 and 36. We're going to actually turn to Genesis 36, so if you want to flip your Bibles there, we're not going to look at Chapter 14, in the interest of time, but let's at least look at Genesis 36 and find verse 10. We're going to read verses 10, 11, and 12 of Genesis 36. These are the names of Esau's sons, Eliphaz, the son of Esau's wife Ada, and Rahuel, the son of Esau's wife Behemoth The sons of Eliphaz, Temen, Omar, Zepho, Gatum, and Kinaz. Esau's son Eliphaz also had a concubine named Timnah, who bore him Amalek These were grandsons of Esau's wife Eda. So you can get a sense for the the line here. I want to remind us of uh one of the more famous uh verses in the Bible. Jacob have I loved, Esau have I hated. It's in both the Old and New Testament. In fact, let's turn some more pages. Malachi chapter 1, and then we'll go to Romans chapter 9. So Malachi 1, that should be easy to find. It's the last book in the Old Testament. 1, Malachi 1, verse 3. And actually I'm going to pick up the reading here partway through verse 2. Was not Esau Jacob's brother, the Lord says? Yet I have loved Jacob, but Esau I have hated. And I have turned his mountains into a wasteland and left his inheritance to the desert jackals And to show that this is connected in a particular and important way into the gospel story, Paul makes it part of his Magnum opus, the book of Romans, in chapter 9. Verse 13, just as it is written, Paul writes, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. So these are the enemies of God's people. Seeming to represent the seed of the serpent, who's constantly warring with the seed of the woman. We're introduced to these seed lines early in the book of Genesis. We're going to be turning there again in a second. We were just in chapter 36. We're going to be in chapter 3 now. Very early, we see there's this conflict. That's introduced and it continues right up until this day. So let's refresh our memories and read from Genesis chapter 3. We're going to begin with verse 1, read the first uh half a dozen or so verses, and then we're going to jump ahead to verse 13 Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God really say you must not eat from any tree in the garden? The woman said to the serpent, We may eat fruit from the trees in the garden, but God did say, you must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the middle of the garden, and you must not touch it, or you will die. You will not certainly die, the serpent said to the woman. For God knows that when you eat from it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. When the woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for food and pleasing to the eye, and also desirable for gaining wisdom, she took some and ate it. She also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate it. And now jumping ahead to verse 13. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. So the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and all wild animals, you will crawl on your belly and you will eat dust all the days of your life, and I will put enmity between you and the woman. And between your offspring, which can also be translated seed, your offspring, your seed, and hers, he will crush your head And you will strike or bruise his heel. Now we shouldn't read this and go thinking that the serpent was gonna round having a bunch of you know, physical human babies, although there are other parts of scripture where there's some debate about that, but that's definitely not what's being said Here in Genesis chapter 3, the serpent's offspring here should be understood spiritually. The seed of the serpent is the unrepentant, sin-filled people of the world. at enity with the people of God, the offspring of the woman, the seed of the woman. So these are the battle lines. On one side, we have the seed of the woman represented by the Israelites in Exodus chapter 17, and then on the other side we have the seed of the serpent, represented in this particular case by the Amalekites. Now, Israel's very first king, Saul, he battled them, but he failed to destroy them all as he was commanded to do in 1 Samuel 15. And Israel's iconic king, David, he defeated them, but he also did not wipe them out. You can read about some of this in 1 Samuel 30 and 2 Samuel chapters 1 and 8. We're not going to turn there now because those are extensive passages. In the interest of time, we're not going to turn some pages for that right now. The Amalekites are also talked about Numbers chapter 14, and they show up, if you know what you're looking for, in the book of Esther. In Esther, in chapter 3, we learn that Haman, the guy who wanted to kill all the Jews, including Mordecai and even Esther herself, he was an Agagite. This is a name that's derived from King Agad. King Agad ruled the Amalekites during King Saul's reign. And we can note from 1 Samuel 15, verses 7 and 9, also verses 32 and 33, that this is the case. In fact, let's turn pages again. 1 Samuel chapter 15. Let's see if I may. I'm going to uh Read verses 7, 8, and 9, and then verses 32 and 33. So 1 Samuel 15, beginning with verse 7. Then Saul attacked the Amalekites, all the way from Havilah to Shur, to the east of Egypt. He took Agad, king of the Amalekites, alive, and all his people he totally destroyed with the sword. But Saul and the army spared Agag and the best of the sheep and cattle, the fat calves and lambs, everything that was good. These they were unwilling to destroy completely. But everything that was despised and weak, they totally destroyed. And then jumping over to verse 32 Then Samuel said, Bring me Agag, king of the Amalekites. Agad came to him confidently, thinking, Surely the bitterness of death is past. But Samuel said, as your sword has made women childless, so will your mother be childless among women And Samuel put Agad to death before the Lord at Gilgal. And so what the king had failed to do, the prophet takes care of The seed of the serpent that's represented by the Amalekites attacking God's people. And Haman seeking to destroy God's chosen was still around to bruise Christ's heel. in the first century A. D. Or if you're a lib, C E if you prefer. And this serpent seed is still around today to do battle with Christ's church, even now. So that's who's in this corner. And in the other corner we have the Israelites. And the players who are named specifically in the text include Moses, Joshua, Aaron, and Hur. And don't miss the primary player, if you will, God. The power of God is also in the text, pictured by the staff carried by Moses. And as we'll see during the Battle of Moses, he's representatively picturing Christ as intercessor for God's people and as the sitting king over his people. And Joshua, he's also representatively picturing Christ as the one doing battle and leading battle in the field of battle, in the field of works. And Joshua wins, like Jesus wins. For us. And incidentally, there's some foreshadowing in this passage here in Exodus 17 of the coming changes for the Israelites as they traveled in the wilderness. See, Moses, he wasn't going to live forever, of course. Israel would need a new leader, and this successor to Moses would be Joshua, and it's right here That Joshua is first introduced to us in the Bible. This is the very first time Joshua's name appears in Scripture And not only would Moses not live forever, but he also would be able to, unable to rule forever, he would grow weary, right? He would need help from others. In fact In the very next section of the book of Exodus, we meet Jethro, who tells Moses that he had better pick some leaders with whom he can divvy up his responsibilities. And even before this scene with Jethro, even before this charge from Jethro, in Exodus 17, verses 8 through 16, we see Aaron and her. Shouldering some of the burden for a weary Moses. And so again, foreshadowing. In the other corner We find that there's uh These Israelites who have Aaron with Moses, and it's no surprise that we see Aaron here in this passage. He's been around for a while in the narrative, right? He's been so of some aid to Moses in the story already. But who's the her guy? Who is that? Some believe he was Miriam's husband. Other traditions hold that he was Miriam's son. Miriam is Moses' sister. And so this would make her either the brother-in-law or the nephew of Moses. Now it seems that her was Caleb's Son, and Caleb, he's one of only two men who would advocate for entering the promised land the very first time they had a chance to do so. And so her, he comes from very good stock. The stock that is the seed of the woman Her's lineage is noteworthy as well in the Bible through the grandson Bezalel. He's the famed artisan responsible for the tent of meeting and the Ark of the Covenant. You can look that up in Exodus 31 of 1 Chronicles chapter 2 later if you like. In fact, let's do just a little more page turning today. 1 Chronicles chapter 2. I'm going to go to verses 18 and 20 if you want to try to follow along. We're not going to go to Exodus 31 now. You can do that during the week in your devotional time if you like. But 1 Chronicles. It's uh after Samuel and Kings, if you're looking for it, and before Ezra and Nehemiah. So if you're in uh Samuel and or Kings, go a little further into the Bible. If you're in Ezra and Nehemiah, back up. So first Chronicles. Here we go. Chapter two, verses eighteen, nineteen, and twenty. Caleb, son of Hezron, had children by his wife Azuba and by Jerioth These were her sons, Jasher, Shobab, and Ardon. When Azuba died, Caleb married Ephraith, who bore him her. Fur was the father of Yuri, and Yuri the father of Bezalel. Again, that's the one who was involved in the Ark of the Covenant and the Tent of Meeting. So all these genealogies in the Bible, they're actually they can be very important in helping us to weave together the narrative and what's really being said. So again, I I want to highlight What it is that's being highlighted for us if we only know how to recognize it. There is a rumble going on. In this section of Scripture. Between the line of the seed of the woman and the line of the seed of the serpent And this rumble continues throughout all of Scripture, from Genesis to Revelation, because this rumble continues throughout all of redemptive history. And so it continues for us today. And the scene from our Bible, it tells a story of national Israel, but it also tells the story of spiritual Israel This story is part of ancient Israel's history, and it is part of our contemporary history. So are you ready? Now the two fighters have been properly introduced. Let's get ready to rumble The fight is on, the seesaw battle. Who will win? The Amalekites, they get a jump on the Israelites. They storm from their corner. They begin their attack before the fight bell has even rung. How do I know this? Well let's turn one more time. Deuteronomy chapter 25. That's toward the front of your Bible as part of the Pentateuch. In case you're not used to bouncing around the Bible and finding things quickly. Deuteronomy chapter 25, we'll be looking at verses 16 through 19. Let's see. For the Lord your God detests anyone who does these things, anyone who deals dishonestly. Remember what the Amalekites did to you along the way when you came out of Egypt. When you were weary and worn out, they met you on your journey and cut off all who were lagging behind. They had no fear of God. When the Lord your God gives you rest from all the enemies around you in the land he is giving you to possess as an inheritance, you shall blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven. Do not forget. So the Amalekites, they have the advantage of surprise A surprise attack from behind, poaching the weakest, the stragglers. Now there's no honor in a sucker punch, but we all know how devastating it can be to suffer a sucker punch And the line of the serpent sucker punches the line of the woman. And what are they to fight back with? The Israelites are already weary. They're already staggering before the battle here has even begun. Remember in the scene that's right before this, the people of Israel had been fighting. Fighting against themselves Fighting against God. Bringing a lawsuit against God, you might remember from the sermon just a couple of weeks back. But God turned the tables, was vindicated in that trial. Now think about it. These Guilty people, guilty of treason against God, deserve to be punished. And here, right here, would have been God's perfect opportunity to do so. To punish them. The Amalekites, they're lurking in the wilderness. This warrior tribe was there, ready to pounce Through these devilish people, God could have executed justice against his rebellious people for rejecting his leadership. But instead, in Exodus 17, verses 1 through 7, we saw that God absorbed the punishment in a way that points directly to his son. Who is the ultimate end and beginning of the seed of the woman? And so now, in this very next scene in Exodus 17, in verses 8 through 16, the people. are in position to overcome the advantage of surprise with the advantage of intercession. Moses goes to the top of a nearby hill with Aaron and her And with the staff of God in his hand. And he lifts his hands in prayer, standing in supplication before the throne room of God, as it were Interceding. Hands raised. Staff held high. Staff of God held high. Giving us a sort of picture of Jesus Christ interceding for his people. But the Amalekites, they're seasoned veterans of the rumble. They have not only strategy and tactics like surprise sneak attacks, but they have many weapons, a large army, well-practiced, powerful warriors, and so they do not fall easily. And so Moses grows weary. Because Moses, he's not the son of God after all. He's finite. His endurance is limited. He struggles to intercede continually. And so he drops his gloves. And as the hands of Moses come down, the Amalekites, they gain the upper hand. Jab, jab, jab. Right cross, left hook, uppercut. So the line of the seed of the woman is now reeling. And so Aaron and her they scramble to help Moses to find his stool in the corner. Of course, not really a stool in the corner. They find a large stone for him to sit upon. But don't dismiss that stool in the corner idea completely. If you've seen the various Rocky movies I alluded to Rocky earlier. You might remember there were a few times where the rock's opponent ends up wobbling over to their school in the corner on rubbery knees. And as fans of Rocky, there can be like a surge of pride. in this. Our guys win in the flight, but there's also sometimes this inward smile. It's kind of funny almost in a sort of way to see these mighty, strong, gifted men stumble about. Like Bambi in the early part of that movie when Thumper says he's kinda wobbly, isn't he? In Exodus, we see Moses wobbly, the great hero of Israel, needs to sit down. The men in the battlefield, they might possibly be looking from time to time for Moses on that hilltop, looking for their standard bearer And what do they see? In his own strength they see nothing that will help them. Moses falls back onto his derriere. But our God is an amazing God, so you need to understand. It's not Moses who wins the battle. It's God. And in the end, the ultimate battle was won by God through his son Jesus Christ. There's much more to be said about this fight and what's going on in this passage, but we're going to pause here and uh finish up Looking at Exodus 17, verses 8 through 16 next week. So for now it's have a word of prayer. Father, we praise you that you are there for us. We are so often wobbly in our lives. We grow weary. Sometimes even our faith grows thin. But we know that you sustain us. You hold us up. You win the battle for us. Help us to live lives of exuberant joy in response to this. Laying everything at the foot of the cross. Not trying to carry our burdens alone through this life, but to turn them over to you. Knowing that you defeat the Amalekites in our lives. You've already defeated the seed of a serpent. We ask that you would bless our upcoming discussion about this passage. And that your word would resonate in the hearts of your people. And would call those who do not currently call you, Lord, would call them to repentance so that it would resonate in their hearts as well. In Christ's name that we pray. Amen. I'm going to shut down the stream. You're still with us. Thanks for watching. You can find us on Sermon Audio and Odyssey. You can link to all of our social media and all that sort of stuff at our website, household of faith in Christ. com. Until next time. God bless.