Welcome to the live stream portion of what we do here each uh weekend for Household of Faith in Christ. This week we're going to be picking up our look at Exodus chapter 17. So if you want to get your Bibles Ready, and we'll be turning a couple other places as well, so it might be good for you to have your your Bible handy so you can follow along if you like. This is the second half of a message that I've titled Our Warrior Kings Royal Rumble, and I remember from last week if you were with us online. I kind of set things up in the context of an extended illustration using boxing as kind of a metaphor. Um, you know, 'cause there's this rumble, this fight that's going on. And if you watch a fight on T V, you know, there's the pre fight stuff and the post fight stuff and the fight itself in the middle, and so that's kind of the structure for this message. So last week we looked at the the pre-fight analysis, the tale of the tape as I called it. And we talked about how the Amalekites They they they represent one fighter in one corner, which is the the seed of the serpent, uh they're a representative for the seed of the serpent. In the other corner we've got the people of God, the Israelites, representing the seed of the woman And they're battling in this clash of the ages that still goes on today, and we see it play out in a very particular way here in this battle at Refidim And then we got into the fight itself, and we noted how Moses is up at the top of the hill while Joshua is leading the troops down below, uh engaged in battle, and when Moses with the staff of God in his hands is beseeching God, interceding for the people. The Israelites are winning, and when he grows weary and his hands drop, the Israelites are then losing. And so Aaron and her run to the rescue. They're at the top of the hill with Moses, and they scramble to find him a place to sit so that they can then help to hold his hands up so that the Israelites would go on to be victorious. And that's kind of where we left off last week. So we pick up there this week, and we're looking specifically at Exodus 17, the last half of the chapter, verses 8 through 16 and I'm not going to reread all of that right now. We read it last week, and uh if you have your Bibles open, you can kind of follow along from this point out Now, in that picture of Moses at the top and he's growing weary and every time he grows weary and his hands drop, the Israelites are losing, and so there I could almost imagine some panic setting in and I don't know if you do this, but sometimes when I'm reading particularly like a story part of the Bible, I kind of mentally picture, try to imagine what that would have looked like, you know, what you know, bring myself there, like a wall, you know, fly on the wall kind of a thing. And I might be going too far in this imagination, but I kind of wonder if if maybe we could picture Aaron and her kind of stumbling all over themselves here, like almost in a panic, like, oh my gosh, what are we going to do? And and they're not sure what to do before they find that large stone for Moses to sit on. And so I imagine that um You know, the the they could again, I don't want to take this too far, so I I'm I'm I'm not saying you should look at it this way, but imagine with me if you will. Aaron and her having this attitude of, oh dear, oh my, what are we going to do? What to do? They're running around unsure and they're like, Oh, I know, here Moses comes. Sit, sit, sit here, sit, sit, sit here And being a little playful, if we do look at it that way, we might have right here from the pages of our Old Testament the very first sitcom ever recorded in history. And it it might be going too far, but sometimes there is comedy, sometimes there is a little bit of humor. And I wonder if we are meant to see some of that humor here to show the frailty and the weakness of the players involved. You know, if Moses and Aaron and her might possibly be seen as Keystone cops, as it were, then that would be so that we can see who it is that's really running the show. With Moses seated now on this large stone, even if he got there in an undignified way, he now represents the one, pictorially if you will, who is really running the show. He's representing the dignity of God. He's picturing our God who reigns supreme, who sits upon his throne as king. Of course, Christ is the king seated on his throne. So he's a picture of Christ here. And Aaron, the Lev priest, and her from the royal tribe of Judah. They represent a picture of the royal high priest. And who's our royal high priest? It's Jesus Christ. And so there are layers and layers of Christ imagery within this scene that we have here in Exodus chapter 17. Earlier we saw Moses, he stood as a picture of our heavenly intercessor, Jesus Christ. And now Moses sits as the picture of our eternal King, Jesus Christ. And so with all this going on, the advantages of those powerful warriors fighting down below, fighting for the seed of the serpent. They, those advantages are trumped now by the advantages that are given by the one who is seated above. Again, Moses is above it all up on the hill, remember The one seated above, our powerful warrior king. He's giving advantages to those who fight for the seed of the woman. He's a warrior king whose power is symbolized by that staff. Let's not forget the staff that was a centerpiece of what we talked about last week. The staff held in the hands of Moses. It's the staff that the warrior king had used to turn the Nile into blood, remember? To bring all the plagues against the Pharaoh and the Egyptians, for that matter. And these Egyptians are also a picture of the seed of the serpent, by the way. It's the staff that he used to split the Red Sea and to figuratively strike his son before bringing forth living waters from a flinty rock in the desert of sin. I actually looked at that a about a month ago or so when we looked at the first half of Exodus chapter seventeen. But the Amalekites They hold other advantages too besides the ones we spent some time detailing last week. They have the the advantage of experience, for example. They they knew how to fight They knew how to clench and rabbit punch and hit below the belt and even appear to get away with it. The seed of the serpent had lots of experience kicking and scratching and clawing and biting and cheating Doing anything it can to try to trick the seed of the woman, to defeat the people of God. Because even if they can't knock them out, Even if they have to settle for a TKO, a technical knockout, or even just a judge's decision, they don't care. They just want to defeat the seat of the woman. And their experience has given them an edge in this area in a worldly sense. But the people of God are yet again given another advantage. That once again overcomes the evil adversary's advantages. Yes, the enemy has devious experience, but Israel has experience too. Glorious experience. We can recall some of these experiences with God. For example, for ancient Israel, they could recall very recent experiences that had brought them to a place where they were Ill-armed. They had just recently been released from years of slavery. But they were an undisciplined, murmuring group. They demonstrated a willingness to fight against their God at least as much as they demonstrated a willingness to fight against the Amalekites. How are those as experiences for you? Not really any different than our experience, is it? We too are often ill-armed, failing to put on the full armor of God. We too have been released from years of slavery, in bondage to sin. And we too too often remain an undisciplined murmuring group Way too willing to fight against one another. Even to fight against God. But it's God's chosen people. Our shared experience also includes God's miraculous saving mercy, and he is powerful. Remember, he dashed the Egyptians. He downed the rebellion of his own people. He defeated even the power of death at the cross of Christ. Now Moses and his boys, they they didn't know about the cross yet, like we do, but they did, however, know that God provided for them, that God protected them. And they saw it again here in this fight with the Amalekites. Now Joshua and his his boys down below, they fought hard, I'm sure of it, undoubtedly. But in their own strength, they did not win the battle. The victory was won at the top of the hill. When the standing intercessor and the sitting king, pictured by Moses, brought a military victory over a evil, pagan, unholy, ungodly nation. It's the Lord's victory over the forces of evil. That's what we see here. And let's not miss the point that the Lord, Yahweh, is a royal figure. Let's recall Exodus chapter fifteen, the song by the sea. We've actually mentioned this a few times over the last month or so, but we haven't Right. I'm going to read it now. If you want to turn there, you can read along. Otherwise you can just listen as I share the first part of chapter fifteen, almost the whole of chapter fifteen in Exodus. I will sing to the Lord, for he is highly exalted. The horse and its rider he is hurled into the sea. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. He is my God, and I will praise him My father's God, and I will exalt him. The Lord is a warrior. The Lord, Yahweh, is his name. Pharaoh's chariots and his army he has hurled into the sea. The best of Pharaoh's officers are drowned in the Red Sea. The deep waters have covered them, they sank to the depths like a sea Stone. Your right hand, O Lord, was majestic in power. Your right hand, O Lord, shattered the enemy In the greatness of your majesty, you threw down those who opposed you. You unleashed your burning anger. It consumed them like stubble. By the blast of your nostrils the waters piled up, the surging waters stood firm like a wall, the deep waters congealed in the heart of the sea, the enemy boasted I will pursue, I will overtake them, I will divide the spoils, I will gorge myself on them, I will draw my sword, and my hand will destroy them But you blew with your breath, and the sea covered them. They sank like lead in the mighty waters. Who among the gods is like you, O Lord? Who is like you? Majestic in holiness, awesome in glory, working wonders. You stretched out your right hand, and the earth swallowed them up. In your unfailing love, you will lead the people you have redeemed. In your strength, you will guide them to your holy dwelling The nations will hear and tremble. Anguish will grip the people of Philistia. The chiefs of Edom will be terrified. The leaders of Moab will be seized with trembling. The people of Canaan will melt away. Terror and dread will fall upon them. By the power of your arm, they will be as still as a stone until your people pass by, O Lord, until the people you bought pass by. You will bring them in and plant them on the mountain of your inheritance. The place, O Lord, you made for your dwelling. The sanctuary, O Lord, your hands established The Lord will reign forever and ever The Lord is the divine warrior Who fights for Israel. And those of us who are in Christ are also, in a sense, warrior kings. Fighting our opponents who go by names of did you hear them in the song by the sea? They go by the names of Philistia, Edom, Moab. Canaan, Seed of the Serpent, also go by the names of unbelief and sin. And Satan. Consider 2 Corinthians 10, verses 3 and 4. For though we live in the world We do not wage war as the world does. The weapons we fight with are not the weapons of the world. On the contrary, they have divine power to demolish strongholds. We must remember that our success in battle is based upon acknowledging Yahweh as the warrior. Our warrior king. I'm going to turn to 2 Samuel 1, not to be confused with 1 Samuel 2. 2 Samuel chapter 1. I jokingly say that because if you have any sort of dyslexia, sometimes you get a little turned around. You end up in the the wrong book and the wrong chapter. Second Samuel chapter 1. Half or so, verses one through sixteen, which say After the death of Saul, David returned from defeating the Amalekites and stayed in Ziklaub two days. On the third day, a man arrived from Saul's camp with his clothes torn and with dust on his head When he came to David he fell to the ground to pay honor to him. Where have you come from? David asked him. He answered, I have escaped from the Israelite camp. What happened? David asked. Tell me. He said, The men fled from the battle. Many of them fell and died. And Saul and his son Jonathan are dead. Then David said to the young man who brought him the report, How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan are dead? I happened to be on Mount Geboah, the young man said, and there was Saul, leaning on his spear, with the chariots and riders almost upon him. When he turned around, he saw me, he called out to me, and I said, What can I do? He asked me, Who are you? An Amalekite, I answered. Then he said to me, Stand over me and kill me. I am in the throes of death, but I'm still alive. So I stood over him and killed him because I knew that after he had fallen he could not survive, and I took the crown that was on his head and the band on his arm and have brought them here to my Lord Then David and all the men with him took hold of their clothes and tore them. They mourned and wept and fasted. Till evening, for Saul and his son Jonathan, and for the army of the Lord and the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword. David said to the young man who brought him the report, Where are you from? I am the son of an alien, an Amalachite, he answered. David asked him, Why were you not afraid to lift your hand to destroy the Lord's anointed? Then David called one of his men and said, Go, strike him down. So he struck him down and he died. For David had said to him, Your blood be on your own head. Your own mouth testified against you when you said, I killed the Lord's anointed. Do you see how this all fits in this story? First of all, he's an Amalekite. The Israelites are fighting Himalachites in Exodus chapter 17. Of course, an Amalekite representing the seed of the serpent wants to strike the Lord's anointed. Of course! And we will see this play it out in the gospel accounts in the New Testament as well. How dare you lift your hand to strike the Lord's anointed! If you do that, you get what's coming to you. We see that play out in the practical with David and Animalekite. We see it happen here in the battlefield in Exodus 17. Of course, we see it ultimately in spiritual reality. as well. So now it's time for our post-flight analysis. After the rumble in Rephedim I want us to note in verse 14 of Exodus chapter 17 that God instructs Moses to write down what happened. Now here's a little fun fact, a little tidbit some trivia for you. This is the very first mention in the Bible of writing. Perhaps it was recorded in what's called the Book of the Wars of Yahweh, which we see recorded in Numbers chapter 21, verse 14. And you can look that up later if you like. Uh it's just one little phrase at the start of the verse that mentions the book of the wars of Yahweh, or in some translations it's going to say the uh the book of the wars of the Lord, but that's just a uh translational way of saying Yahweh. And right after it says that, there's this little quote from it. A couple of short little quotes from this this book of the wars of Yahweh. And I just bring this up in the context of we don't have the book of the Wars of Yahweh available to us today. So have we lost part of Scripture? The answer to that is no. The Book of the Wars of Yahweh are not inspired texts from God. They're not scripture, even though we see a small portion of them quoted in Numbers chapter 21, for example. The quoting of it was inspired. So what we have in Numbers is Scripture, but what is being quoted wasn't originally Scripture. And why is this important? Just in the context of so many of the things I hear these days, particularly uh what's common in recent years is for people to raster their arguments and turn to something like the book of Enoch to build their case. Reading the book of Enoch can be very helpful, but it's not scripture. And even if somebody in the Bible were to quote from the book of Enoch, it still doesn't make the book of Enoch scripture. The quoting of it, that scripture, that was inspired. But it's not scripture. It's helpful to read these extra biblical books sometimes. You can read the Institutes of the Christian Religion by John Calvin. That could be helpful. But it's not scripture. In a sermon, I might pull from Shakespeare. Might be helpful. But Shakespeare's not Scripture. Romeo and Juliet Macbeth, that's not Scripture So just because it's quoted doesn't make it scripture, even if it's quoted in the Bible. But what is quoted in the Bible, well, it's the Bible, so that is scripture And the Bible is inerrant, infallible, because it's God breathed. People wrote it down as they were carried on by the Holy Spirit. And so what we have in our holy scriptures in our canon that is uh fully sufficient. And we don't need to rest our arguments, nor should we be resting the crux of our arguments on Something like the Book of Enoch or something like Calvin's Institutes or what have you, as helpful as they might be. So anyway, a little bit of a rabbit trail there, and I think it's an interesting thing, so I wanted to mention it, but that's not the most important thing that's going on here. In the text that we're examining. The most important thing in Exodus chapter 17 is that God told Moses to write it down. Why? Because we need to remember, it is God who wins the battle for us And that right there really summarizes the keys of the game, as it were, as we do our post-fight analysis. In addition to providing for his people, God protects his people. So who's the MVP, the most valuable player in this game is playing out? It's God. It's not Joshua. And God, He really wants to make sure that Joshua gets this. And in this case, you know, Joshua, I mentioned last week how he pictures Christ in a certain sense. He also pictures us, and this is an example of how he pictures us. God tells Moses to make sure that Joshua hears this Other translations, they translate the Hebrew as announce it to Joshua, recite it to Joshua. One translation says, rehearse it in the ears of Joshua. In other words, beat it into the head of Joshua. And I dare say God intends for it to be beaten into our heads as well. And what is it that's to be beaten into our heads? That I, God says, will completely blot out the name of Amalek, representing the seed of the serpent from under heaven. I will do it. Not you But me, Yahweh. The name of Amalek, the line of the seed of the serpent, those enemies of God, the enemies of God's people, they will be blotted out Utterly, completely, every trace forever. And God does this. Not Moses, not Joshua, not you, not me, God. Remember Write it down and remember. And Moses, he totally gets this Not only does Moses write it down, but he also names the altar that was built in memorial, Yahweh Nisi. The Lord is my banner. So what does that mean? Well during our discussion time last week we began to Unfurl that onion just a little bit. And we needed to unfurl it because for some of us the meaning here might be a little archaic. It's a phrase from from long ago that kind of means little to us in our present-day context. But I think I'm in a position here to try to help. So picking up on what we talked about during a discussion time last week, a banner in this context is a standard. a rallying point. It's something to signal the movement of troops in war, even the location of the commander on the battlefield. So it is partly a military symbol. And these symbols they could be totems poles. But usually these banners would have cloth attached to them. This became increasingly common over time to attach cloth to them to make the pole that much more visible. And this this cloth over time will become known as a flag. And tying such a cloth to a standard or this totem, this pole, it became so common that making a distinction between the two was sort of lost to our vocabulary over time. And so the the standard bearers, those holding the pole are those holding the flag. And then the flag itself, which is attached to that pole, that became known as the standard. The banner. And so in our day, we think about our flag and what it represents. Americans salute and pledge allegiance to their star-spangled banner. Some people they get all in a huff over the banner that represents the rallying cry of the now defunct Confederate states of the South, the old stars and bars. When the banner flies at half mass, that's a call to mourning. When it is raised above rival banners, like at the Olympic Games, for example, then that becomes a point of national pride, or at least it used to. If you study the Civil War, you learn about the trust that the troops placed in seeing their banner on the battlefield, filling them with great confidence. See, the banner is a symbol But it's more than just a symbol. And that's why the image of USA banners waving an Iwo Jima or at Ground Zero after 9-11, seeing these sort of images can be so moving. And even little kids not yet well versed in international politics or in the facts of history, even these little kids can understand the the power of a banner, at least in a small way, anyway, when Like when they play a game of capture the flag where the center of attention, the focus is on that banner, on that flag. The flag represents the best of us. The best of our hopes. The best of our dreams. The vision of the power of our past and of our present and of our future. This is what a banner does. And God is our banner. And not just any old run-of-the-mill God, the one true God, Yahweh, our Creator and Covenant-making God. And yes, there is a military aspect built into this banner idea, but more prominent, particularly here in Exodus 17, we need to understand is the rulership aspect. The military is represented insofar as it represents the might of the King. Our main thought from Exodus chapter 17 should not be that Yahweh is a brilliant field general with amazing military prowess, although that might be true. Our main thought should be Yahweh's kingship. He is the divine warrior king. So all these things we didn't talk about last week and now this week, what's it all mean for us? What's it mean for you It means a reversal. The Amalekites and those that they represent, they seek to blot out Israel, God's chosen people. But it is God who blots out the Amalekites That will come to pass. Let's read Psalm 83. Oh God, do not keep silence. Be not quiet. Oh God, be not still. See how your enemies are astir, how your foes rear their heads with cunning. They conspire against your people. They plot against those you cherish. Come, they say, let us destroy them as a nation, that the name of Israel be remembered no more. With one mind they plot together. They form an alliance against you, the tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites, of Moab and the Hadrites, Gabal, Lamon, and Amalek. Philistia with the people of Tyre, even Assyria, has joined them to lend strength to the descendants of Lot, Selah. Do to them as you did to Midian, as you get to Sisera and Jaban at the river Kishanon, who perished at Endor and became like refuse on the ground, make their nobles like Oreb and Zaeb and oh, there are princes like Zabah and Zalmunya who said, Let us take possession of the pasture lands of God. Make them like tumbleweed, O my God, like chaff before the wind, as fire consumes the forest, or a flame sets the mountains ablaze, so pursue them with your tempest And terrify them with your storm. Cover their faces with shame, so that men will seek your name, O Lord. May they ever be ashamed and dismayed. May they perish in disgrace. Let them know that you whose name is Yahweh. That you alone are the most high over all the earth. The seed of the serpent, represented by all those various names in Psalm 83. Did you catch all the variety of the names there? Edom, the Ishmaelites, Moab, the Hagrites, Gabal, Amon, Amaleth, Philistia, and so forth. All these names will be defeated. The seed of the serpent will be defeated. And God will do it. In fact He already has. In the person and work of Jesus Christ. He is our warrior king. He is the perfect Joshua. Jesus is simply the Greek version of Joshua, after all. It's the exact same name. Just one is the Hebrew version, one is the Greek version. And when he returns. When Christ returns, that's the final bell. Fight over. God's people win because Christ wins. God's people win just like they did at the Rumble and Rathedim. And like Moses, we must intercede with prayer. God He uses our prayers to accomplish His purposes, but let's remember It's not our prayers that accomplish the victory. God chooses to use means, like our prayers, but He accomplishes the victory And he has guaranteed its accomplishment. Because Jesus is the intercessor. And like Aaron and her, we must help to support our leaders. This is something actually that came up last week during our discussion time. We just must do what Aaron and Herb do. We must support our leaders. And we must must help to see, help the world to see that the Lord is our banner, even if we think we might end up looking silly in the process. And like Joshua, we must get our hands dirty. On the battlefield, we must work hard, but our works don't accomplish the victory of themselves. Again, God uses what we do as a means to his ends, but he has guaranteed the accomplishment of his will. Through Jesus, the sword. As we head down the home stretch here, I want to make a comment on verse 16, the original Hebrew there. Very difficult to nail down. It seems it could be fairly translated several different ways. And this is why you will see a variety of translations in different English Bibles. If you've got one of those parallel Bibles, you might see verse 16 very differently in different translations. But it's interesting, all of these different translations, they all end up taking us to the same place They all tell us that we should trust in the Heavenly King. Some of the translations, they favor the idea of a hand placed upon the throne of God. Therefore, it assumes some sort of a connection with the hand of Moses on the banner, on the staff. The staff of God, representing the power of God, the throne of God. So that's one way of understanding this verse and therefore translating it that way Other translations, they favor the idea of a hand reaching toward the hand of God, perhaps in a posture of prayer. A very common picture that we see in today's contemporary Christian worship circles. This picture of a dependence on God, hands raised. That's another way to think about how to translate verse 16. Still others favor the idea of a hand raised against the throne of God. Meaning a fist lifted in rebellion, a very common image on t-shirts these days. This would assume a reference to the Amalekites raising their fists in anger at God. But it really doesn't matter much which one of these is the right one. By the way, I tend to favor the first one for what that's worth. But in every case, no matter the translational decision, the point remains clear. God wins. He will wipe out his enemies through all generations, whether it be the generation of Moses or Joshua or of Jesus in the first century or of us today. The seed of the woman is preserved, is triumphant, because we have our divine warrior king, Jesus Christ, who reigns eternally. He wins. He's already won. And there ain't gonna be no rematch. Let's pray. Father, we praise you. We're so thankful that you have called us to yourself that we can worship you as such a mighty God. A God who wins the victory and shares that victory with His people. We thank you for the evidence of these actions throughout history that remind us of how true this is. We ask that you would help us to see how you're moving in similar ways in our life even now. Help us to recognize the victories of your kingdom over the devices of the enemy. And help us to celebrate you and your work in those things. And to praise and thank you for allowing us to be useful to you as a means to accomplishing those ends. Helps us to do so more readily, more obediently. To live a life of righteousness, to wear the full armor of God, to be engaged in the battle. A battle that's already won. And yet the mop-up operation continues. We thank you for preserving your word for us all these years that we and continue to study it, learn from it, and apply it to our lives. We ask that you would help us to do that well. We praise you, Lord. We thank you for what is pictured here in Exodus 17, the picture of our warrior King Jesus Christ. Christ. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. I'm going to shut down the stream. I invite you to go to our website, household of faith in Christ. com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. Till next time.