Welcome to the live stream portion of what we do here each weekend at the Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ. You can visit there and catch up on all our previous sermons, learn more about what we're all about, find good Christian uh vetted resources and uh You can all my contact information there if you're looking for a good church. We might be a fit, but maybe you don't live nearby or we're just not a good fit for what you're looking for, but you're looking for a church, you can reach out to me. I'm always happy to help people plug in to good Bible-believing, Christ-exalting, faithful. churches. So without further ado, let's uh get into our sermon message for the day. For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord. Plans to prosper you and not to harm you. Plans to give you hope and a future. It's difficult to say what the most commonly Bible verse would be if we were to run around asking a bunch of Christians the question, so what's your favorite verse in the Bible? Certainly John 3. 16 would make that list. So too would Psalm 23, verse 4, I trust. And it might be a silly thing to try to determine. But I think if somehow we were to be inspired by the old late show with David Letterman and try to come up with the top ten most popularly quoted verses of the Bible, I think It's a safe bet that Jeremiah 29, verse 11 would be on the list. Jeremiah 29, 11. It's so popular because it's So comforting, I suppose. And we all have a tendency to gravitate towards those things that make us feel good, hence our difficulty in breaking sinful habits. And sometimes we like things for the wrong reasons, actually, and it can end up being good for us anyway. For example, I knew a guy once, he would wear the same hat all the time. Almost every day he wore this hat, and he wore it because, well, he thought it made him look cool Well, despite this self-absorbed reason for wearing the hat, it did in fact shield him from the element. So he liked it for the wrong reasons, but it did him some good anyway. I think oftentimes we're prone to reading a verse like Jeremiah 29, verse 11, as merely a message of comfort, saying that God is full of love and peace and mercy. And then we apply this feel-good message directly to ourselves as individuals. And this isn't horrible as far as it goes God is without a doubt full of love and grace and mercy. And God's word, it does apply to us as individuals. However, if we were to cannot scratching of the surface after unearthing only these very few fine nuggets Well, this is to keep us from discovering the fullness of the riches that await us in the depths of fuller understanding. So, what is the fuller understanding of this verse? We'll answer this question, I think we do well to begin by understanding the context of the verse. When we think about context, we might most often envision considerations of where the particular passage falls within the book that's being studied. And certainly this literary context is very important. But that's not all that we should keep in view. And after all, God revealed Himself in the context of the history of redemption In which history he acted in mercy and judgment to redeem his people. And so we're going to look at the passages of Jeremiah that precede and follow the 11th verse of the 29th chapter. We are going to do that, but we're going to be paying special attention to what is called the redemptive historical context. Of Jeremiah's message from God. So who is Jeremiah? It's a prophet, lived about 2,600 years ago, lived in the southern kingdom of Judah at a very difficult time in that nation's history. It's a history that finds its beginning in a sense at the beginning of time. When God created the universe, the early chapters of the book of Genesis, that tells that God, He created everything that we see all around us by speaking it into existence. And the apex of this creation was mankind, who made his own image, and men and women they were to live in right relationship and fellowship. with God, but as the story goes, Sin fractured this relationship when Adam and Eve failed to trust God's word. And in response to this disobedience, a curse of death fell upon the creation, but God promised that he would provide an answer to this curse from the seed of the woman. That's been a bit of a theme for us in recent weeks. Throughout the pages of Scripture, this line of the righteous seed is traced through Seth, to Noah, to Abraham, to Jacob, ultimately to Christ. And there's a whole bunch of biblical history that just got skipped over right now. There's a whole bunch more names on that list other than the four or five I I just mentioned. But the point that I'm making here is that the line of the seed is traced to Jacob, who has his name changed to Israel, and thus he becomes the first Israelite. And Jesus Christ would later be shown to be the perfect Israelite. But in the meantime The nation of Israel represents a sort of a type of this chosen and perfect seed. The nation of Israel was therefore to be set apart as holy. It was to be a beacon of light to the other nations of the world, the other people groups that were all around them and God especially and spectacularly even cared for his chosen people. Think about the dramatic exodus from Egypt, the provision of food and clothes during forty years of wandering in the wilderness, the inspired leadership of men like Aaron and Moses and and others and all these things are just a few of examples of God's provision and care for his people. Before they entered the promised land, the Israelites, they were given the law through Moses. In obedience, would bring blessing. In disobedience Would bring curses. And for years, the Israelites, sadly, they lived largely in disobedience. And curses were to come crashing down during the lifetime of Jeremiah. Early on in their history of the Israelites, they demanded to have a human king, like all the other nations around them. And after just three of these human kings, the kingdom was split in two with brother fighting against brother. Now the northern kingdom of Israel was led by a string of nothing but wicked kings. And as a consequence, they were taken into captivity to Assyria. And they have been warned by a number of God's prophets that doom would befall their nation if they wouldn't repent. But Elijah and Isaiah and Hosea and others, they were all ignored. Then about a hundred years later, Jeremiah brought a similar message to the southern kingdom of Judah. And one would think that Judah would have learned from the negative example of their brothers to the north. In fact, it seems they almost did during the reign of King Josiah, when the book of the law was rediscovered in the year 622 B. C. And due to the prophesying of men like Zephaniah and Habakkuk and Jeremiah, the discovery of the law led to a great number of religious reforms under Josiah. However, this would simply prove to be the calm before the storm. Now the Assyrians who one century earlier had overrun the northern kingdom of Israel, they had themselves since that time been overrun by the Babylonians. And so now caught between a fading but still very formidable Egypt on one side and an increasingly powerful Babylon on the other, Judah's king Josiah, he decided to place his confidence in geopolitical alliances. just as had the kings of the northern kingdom of Israel. And he ended up losing his life in battle And the kings that followed, they quickly unraveled his positive reforms, and the people returned to their long-established habits of Selfishness and immorality and idol worship and all sorts of abominable acts. Unfortunately, as William Van Gemerin tells us, the practice of real politics that made Judah a nation like the other nations. Judah was left with very few distinctive marks of the Sinai or Zion traditions. It was in this historical climate, political climate, that Jeremiah was called to speak to God's people. To God's chosen, they were to trust him. They trusted instead in economic prosperity. In military might, political alliances, even foreign gods. They were to bring glory to God's name through obedience. They sought instead to glorify themselves And their own selfish ambitions. And by this time, God had made the point that He is merciful and patient. He had waited long enough for the people of His seed to repent. And Jeremiah was given the difficult task of telling his countrymen, times up. This is the primary thrust of the story in the book of Jeremiah. It's no wonder Jeremiah is famous as the weeping prophet. He is preaching a death knell against his own people. Now Jeremiah, yes, he he prophesied against Judah's enemies, to be sure, he did that as well, but at the core of his message, he was primarily concerned with the fall and the destruction of Jerusalem itself. And while there were other prophets, false prophets, telling all the people everything was going to be just fine because, well, we've got the temple with us, don't you know? Jeremiah was saying, no, no, no, no, no. You're doomed. Understandably, it was not a popular message. And so Jeremiah was either ignored, ridiculed, persecuted, and under threat of losing his life. So Jeremiah complained to God about the consequences of his calling. And God's response to Jeremiah basically was, Jeremiah, you better buckle up. It's gonna be a bumpy ride. If Jeremiah thought things were tough early on, God said, you know what, you better steal yourself, young man, because in comparis in comparison to what's still to come, you haven't seen anything yet. Truly, life can be very hard in this world for a true prophet of God. As John Golden Gay writes, the visible mark of prophecy is Does the prophet turn people away from their evil way? Does he follow them in sin or lead them from it? Does he encourage adultery and deceit or resist it? Does he offer vain hope? Or unpleasant truth. Well the unpleasant truth, the the hard judgment of Judah was not merely a possibility, it was as good as a done deal. So much so that God tells his prophet to not even pray for his people anymore. It was just simply too late. We see that in Jeremiah chapters seven, eleven, fourteen, and fifteen. But in the midst of all this darkness there would be this ray of light. In chapters thirty through thirty-three in Jeremiah's book, these chapters focus on the glorious restoration that awaited Judah in the future. See, after the judgment there would be deliverance. Jeremiah even uses in this context the phrase New Covenant. Language of New Covenant. This is language that is found nowhere in the entire Bible until we get to the New Testament, except for in Jeremiah. So it's tempting to understand Jeremiah 29. 11 in merely this context. However, there's a problem if we do that. This glorious renewal, it is not the context of the passages that lead up to Jeremiah 29, verse 11. I mean Jeremiah, he would be charged by the heart of heart for treason for what he writes in chapter 29. This traitorous thing, Jeremiah says, is that the Jews should not fight against the exile from their land in Judah. Instead, they should go willingly and they should work with their captors. See, God has a plan for a remnant of his people, and his plan involved his people going to Babylon. In Jeremiah, he wrote a letter to the exiles, and he told them, Settle down, raise families. This letter form is the content of Jeremiah chapter 29. He told the exiles to be peaceful, to seek the benefit of the people who took them captive. And he also warned against any false prophets who would come along to say anything different about how they should respond to their circumstances. And then he mentioned that in 70 years things would be different. In 70 years. That's Jeremiah 29, verse 10. However, for two generations practically, they were to pray for their captors. Graham Goldsworthy. He highlights the scandal of it all, writing, This would be unthinkable under the terms of the covenant promises if it were not for the promise of restoration to come. For the promise the purposes of God to be centered in the great harlot city of Babylon must have been inconceivable to most Jews. However, it stands as the climax of the history of judgment on covenant breakers that pagans should be the instrument of God in the chastisement of his people. It is also an amazing expression of grace that God will sustain a remnant of the faithful until the right time should come for their restoration. Now the seventy years that I mentioned, the seventy years of Jeremiah, these can be and have been understood in a variety of ways through the years. Some say that refers to those years between the deportation from Jerusalem in the uh year 605 BC to the return of the exiles under the order of King Cyrus in the year 538 B. C. Now that idea would require us a round up. to 70 years, because if you do the math, it's more like 67, 68 years, something like that. Others think that the 70 years in Jeremiah refer to the period between the the final deportation and the destruction of the temple, which takes place in 586 B. C. Up to the temple's rebuilding in 516 B. C. , now it has the advantage of being 70 years. A third idea, similar to the first In that it doesn't require us to be woodenly literalistic about the 70 years, but rather that we should see the period referring to the average human lifespan, which is 70-ish. Well then the angel Daniel of Daniel 9 comes and turns a whole bunch of this on his head by recasting the 70 years of 70 weeks. Or more precisely a 77s. And this, of course, has also led to a whole bunch of disagreement within the church over the years, and there are dispensationalists they see each day within the week or within the sevens. uh as representing a year and then they use this passage in support of their view that uh sees a post-rapture tribulation period of seven years. So there's that view. Others, they see the 70 years multiplied by seven to give us 490 years, and they see this period taking us from the time of Jeremiah and Daniel up to the ministry and the death, resurrection, ascension of Jesus Christ. Now there are various branches, by the way, within all these different schemes and views that I've shared, uh lots of various branches within these basic outlines of interpretive thought. This sermon isn't about Jeremiah chapter 29, verse 10. It's about Jeremiah 29, verse 11. So in the interest of time, let's just suffice it to say that all these different interpretations, or most all of them anyway, they basically have the same thing in view, just understood slightly differently. They all look to a future. A future When God would lead his people out of trouble and into a blessed time. So one way Or another, the the reference to this future event we see it referred to in Christ's all about discourse, it it suggests Ultimately, the cross of Christ is what should be understood as the principal fulfillment of this deliverance in the future. And so then this really is the context that leads into our verse that's under discussion here today. Clear in all of this. Is the fact that God is sovereign. He is sovereign over history. He is sovereign over nations. He is sovereign over individual leaders And so God, he sends his people into exile using the Assyrians and the Babylonians as his tools But he will restore them again, as the great theologian John Frame says, he sets up kings and deposes them. He chooses Cyrus, the Persian ruler, as his instrument to bring Israel back to the land of promise. Through the edict of this pagan king, God ends Israel's exile. Their return is at every point the work of God. Note also how the Lord says, I will, in Jeremiah's prophecy of restoration in chapter 30. Thus, God sets the stage for the central point in human history. It is to restore to Israel that God grants the visit of his son Jesus. So Jeremiah twenty-nine verse eleven. It is a verse of hope. And more than this, it's a verse of assurance. And therefore, it's really a verse of faith, since faith is the assurance of things hoped for and not yet seen, as we learn from Hebrews chapter 11. So there is no uncertainty that's involved. God has a plan. He's in control. He will see it through to fruition. And the verses that immediately follow in Jeremiah's letter, they say that God's people will, again, call upon his name And not only will they seek God, but they will absolutely find God by turning their hearts toward Him. So their captivity, it will come to an end. Do you sometimes feel like you're in exile? You're a captive in Babylon. There will be no more exile for God's remnant. There will be no more. This is wonderful news. So What's wrong with seeing this verse as a verse of comfort for the individual Christian believer today? Well, as I mentioned earlier, there's nothing wrong with this particular understanding as far as it goes. The problem comes, though, when our understanding goes no further than this. When we see only the blessing in this verse, we can lose sight of the context of judgment and tribulation. The message of this verse is delivered in a letter from Jeremiah to God's chosen people while they were in exile. The people were at that very moment experiencing judgment from God's own hand. And yet, here we have this promise of astounding restoration that would come through that judgment. So here we have an indicator. Of the ultimate judgment that would bring the ultimate restoration. Approximately five centuries or 490 years, if you prefer, later when Our incarnate God offered himself to take the judgment upon himself We must also remember that God, he says in Genesis chapter 3, that he would put enmity between the seed of the woman and the serpent. During Jeremiah's lifetime we see this very clearly with the enmity between Babylon and Judah. And yet God tells his people, make peace with this enemy Because God has it all worked out. The Jews, they they don't have to take things into their own hands. Rather, trust God And similar to this, we should remember that there are these words from Jesus where he tells his church, she will be persecuted, just as he is persecuted. And Peter tells us it's a privilege, it's a blessing really, to share in the sufferings of Christ. But we will be persecuted. Yet the church is, as far as it's up to her, to seek peace with her enemies. God has a plan. And part of that plan has been revealed to us. Regarding the enemies of God's chosen remnant of the seed, God says, it is mine to avenge I will repay, said Deuteronomy 32. So the comfort of Jeremiah 29, verse eleven, it It's not that one who trusts in God will be spared pain and suffering. The comfort is in the fact that God will see his people through the pain and suffering. And he will ultimately deal with the cause of that pain and suffering The exile, according to this is Willem van Gemeren. The exile was an era of desolation, and at the same time an era of restoration The fall of Jerusalem meant the desolation of the temple, alienation from the Lord, the break of the people from the land of promise, and the removal of the Davidic monarch. The exile also had a positive impact in bringing about the unity of a godly remnant from both Israel and Judah. It opened up an era of spiritual transformation by the spirit of restoration. evidenced by a renewed loyalty to Yahweh, to the canonical revelation, to his wisdom and judgment, and by a renewed hope in the full restoration. Likewise, this 11th verse in Jeremiah 29 can bring comfort to the individual. But this is not a verse that is aimed merely or even primarily at the individual. Again, I want us to remember Jeremiah is a letter that was written to fellow Jews who were in exile. A group of Jews in exile. He's writing to the group. This is a corporate letter that he's written. It wasn't just one Jew that was in exile. It was rather the entire basket of good figs. who were in exile. I'm referring here to the vision of the two fig baskets recorded in Jeremiah chapter 24. The good fig, they represent the remnant of God's chosen faithful people. The bad figs, they represent those who have rejected God. And in a counterintuitive twist, it's the good figs that are sent into exile. See, God is using the situation to purify a remnant unto himself Each of the individual figs has its place in filling that fig basket, I would suppose, right? Logic would dictate that that's true. But the message of Jeremiah is delivered to the group, not just one fig. It's the group, the fig basket. This is the audience that's in view. This is the point of the lesson. Therefore When God says that he has a plan to prosper you, he's talking about a corporate you. In certain portions of the United States, particularly those portions south of Richmond, shall we say. Might better translate this verse as, I know the plans I have for y'all, declares the Lord. Plans to prosper y'all and not to harm y'all. Plans to give y'all hope in the future. God's plans are for his people. Through the saving work of Jesus Christ our Lord. And insofar as each individual is part of the whole, this first then does apply to them individually. But inappropriately, though Seeing this verse exclusively or even primarily as a message to just the individual is to minimize the grandness of this word from God. He has a plan for a whole people. He will prosper and not harm an entire nation of believers throughout the epochs of human history. In ways that we don't even recognize or ways that we rarely acknowledge during those rare moments when we do recognize them To accomplish this purpose, God has always preserved a faithful remnant of contrite praying people who live their lives in abandonment to him, abandonment to his will And this group of people will receive renewed bodies and will be made holy and will live in harmony with one another, with God in his kingdom forevermore. And this is a powerful promise. When it's understood on this larger scale, it magnifies the work and the love of God. So rather than only finding comfort for ourselves in this verse, we can glorify God through this verse. And as God is glorified all the more, we can find even more comfort, realizing that we have a great and powerful God. One who is sovereign to accomplish his purposes. God so attends to the regulations of individual events, and they also proceed from his set plan, that nothing takes place by chance. Those are the words of John Calvin. God's purposes include a plan to glorify his name. by blessing his people. And this blessing has already been inaugurated in the righteous Messiah. Indeed, God has a plan to prosper his people That prosperity, Scripture proclaims, it comes through the finished work of Christ. And as the prophet Jeremiah makes so very clear, there is blessing from God in the midst of pain and suffering. Nay, I'll go further. There is blessing from God for his people because of pain and suffering. And that not their own. But rather they're saviors. So we are called to live out lives that honor his name amidst the trial. and the many difficulties that face those of us who bear his name in this fallen world. Because in the end there will be no more death. or mourning or crying or pain because there will be no more curse. But until the complete unfolding of God's plan. The lesson from Jeremiah strikes me as particularly poignant. Until the complete and folding, God's people live in an era of already not yet. In which these blessings, they come in the context of pain and suffering. Because spiritual warfare is still being waged And yet the battle is waged knowing that the outcome has been determined due to God's righteous and loving judgment. The judgment is placed upon the one for the salvation of the many. So all of this now gives you the fuller meaning of Jeremiah 29, verse 11. Praise Jesus. Let's pray. Father, you are so good to us, even in the midst of our struggle Even through and because of our struggle. Sometimes we need to be chastised by you, we need to be corrected, course corrected. Tugged back to obedience, and we thank you for your faithfulness in that regard. We thank you for your promise that shows us that well though we face many slings and arrows from the world, and sometimes we Face the uh correcting corrective hand. Here corrective right hand We are loved. And we know that the ultimate judgment, the judgment we deserve, that ultimate judgment has fallen upon Christ. Your son who offered himself up. to pay that price willingly for us. Demonstrating his victory all over all of those things through his resurrection and ascension. So we have hope for a glorious future. When we, just like our our brothers of old, more than 2,500 years ago, when they faced an exile They had a hope of being returned from that exile, and we know that your people will be returned to the way things were meant to be at the beginning of the garden. And it'll be amazing. You're an amazing God. We have an amazing Savior. It's in His name. In the name of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen I am going to shut down the stream. Appreciate you following along. If you were, find us online again at household of faith in Christ. com, Household of Faith in Christ. com. Until next time. God bless.