And then we're on. Hello, Facebook. I was gonna say it's good to see you, but I guess it's good to be seen. Thank you for joining. Us. I'm going to give you a few notes early here to help you so you can follow along with the message today. So if you don't have your Bibles already, I encourage you to grab it. If you like to do your you know use your phone or something like that, that's fine. Uh but it really can be helpful to use an actual physical, you know, paper Bible and leak through and look learn exactly where the books of the Bible are and have a you know pencil or something to make notes or something, I would encourage you to, if you're not already in that practice, to think about getting into that practice. If you want to put a little bookmark in Acts chapter 2, verses 44 through 46, just put it in Acts chapter 2. Colossians chapter 2, I'll go through these again in a second. Colossians chapter 2, verses 8 through 15. Galatians chapter 2, verses 17. through twenty-one, just to change things up a little bit. Romans six, verses one through fourteen, and Philippians three, eight through eleven. So you can run through those really quickly again in case you uh wrote them down and you didn't get it all down right right away. Acts two, forty four through forty six, Colossians two, eighteen, or eight through fifteen, Galatians And we're going to be uh reading a few of uh three of those here in just a moment and then reference the others during the sermon message itself and so that way you'll be able to flip really quick and you can read along. Make sure we're not making anything up that's actually in your Bible too. be a good thing. Oh Tyler's having a cameo. Hey black big boy. How's my little man? Hmm. You want to say hello? You know I think grandma's watching. Wanna say hello to grandma Tyler? Hi. Wanna wanna wave at the c see my phone up there? Yeah. Grandma might be watching. Wanna wave and say hello grandma? Hello Grandma. She can't say hello back though But she's happy to hear you say that. Okay? Okay. Okay. Oh. Well you have a joke? Oh. Oh yes. Tell you what, how about if uh do you mind opening us in prayer and we'll and then uh then we'll have a joke and then we'll do uh Bible passages? Ready? Oh, joke first. I told my suitcases that there will be No vacation this year. Now I'm dealing with a whole lot of emotional baggage. Yeah, it's a good thing as a s short joke, because like in the gong show they wouldn't have had time to gong you. Oh, it's already over. Hey honey. All right, well, on that note, you can only go up from there. But uh if you would pause for a word of prayer with us. Thank you, gracious Heavenly Father. Thank you for gathering us all together, Lord. Despite the challenges, we still have so much to be grateful and thankful for, Lord God. And we are grateful and we are thankful. And most of all, we're grateful and thankful that you are still on the throne, you're still in control, no matter how things look. And we just dedicate this time to you, Lord. We ask you to have your way in it, Lord. We ask you to bring people to watch who would benefit from this. And we just ask, Lord, that you be with us in everything that we say, Lord, and sharing this word. Lord God, and let many hearts be touched and people be set free. And we thank you and ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. passage I should have mentioned is uh first John chapter one because that's the what we're focusing on in the message. We're doing a series on the John's first epistle here. First one last week So we'll be looking at first John chapter one again uh and uh primarily focusing on verses three and four this week. So but before we get into that, um Angela, would you mind reading Um Colossians two eight through fifteen first, and then you can do Romans after that. Okay. Colossians two, eight through fifteen. See to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception, according to the tradition of men. According to the elementary principles of the world, rather than according to Christ. For in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form And in him you have been made complete. And he is the head of over all rule and authority. And in him you were also circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, and the removal of the body of the flesh By the circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised up with him through faith and the working of God. Who raised him from the dead. When you were dead in your transgressions and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together Together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions, having cancelled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against Against us, which was hostile to us, and he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. Oh sorry Oh it's okay fifteen says when he had disarmed the rulers and authority he made a public display of them having triumphed over them through him. Sorry about interrupted here. Now Romans chapter six, first first for first fifth uh fourteen verses. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? May it never be. How shall we who die to sin still live in it? Or do you not know that all of us Who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death. Therefore, we have been buried with him through baptism into death, so that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his dead Yes, certainly we shall also be in the likeness of His resurrection. Knowing this that our old self was crucified with Him in order that our body of sin might be done away with So that we would no longer be slaves to sin. For he who has died is freed from sin. Now, if we have died with Christ, we believe That we shall also live with him, knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, is never to die again. Death no longer is master over him. The death that he died, he died to sin once for all, but the life that he lives, he lives to God. Even so consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alone To God in Christ Jesus. Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its lusts, and do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin as instruments Instruments of unrighteousness, but present yourself to God as those alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God. Not be master over you, for you are not under law, but under grace. Okay, and now Galatians chapter two, verses seventeen through twenty one. But if while seeking to be justified in Christ, we ourselves have also been found Sinners, is Christ then a minister of sin? May it never be. For if I rebuild what I have once destroyed, I prove my To be a transgressor. For through the law I died to the law so that I might live to God. have been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself up for me. I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness comes through the law, Okay, and yours is as well, right? Yeah. So um I'm gonna when I'm reading Reading in my translation is going to be NIV. Don't be thrown. It's all these same original Greek and Hebrew words. It's just the American, you know, translations, the English translations can Slightly different choices here and there, but they're generally saying the exact same thing with slightly different words, so don't be thrown by that. So I'm going to actually go back over here so that I can be in preacher mode. And And I'm going to again read what we started with last week and read chapter, the first part of chapter one from 1 John, verses 1 through 4. what we're going to be reading. And before we do that, let me just uh have another quick word of prayer. Father, we thank you for bringing us together to celebrate and revel in your We ask that you would open our hearts, illuminar minds, to apply your truth to our lives, to comprehend it, to not only Know what it is we believe, but why we believe it, and be in a better position to share it with others. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So 1 John chapter 1 verses 1 through 4. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked at, and our hands have told us. Touched. This we proclaim concerning the word of life. The life appeared. We have seen it and testified to it. And we proclaim to you the eternal life which was with the Father. Father and has appeared to us. We proclaim to you what we have seen and heard, so that you also may have fellowship with us. And our fellowship is with the Father. Father and with his Son, Jesus Christ. We write this to make our joy complete. All these passages that we've heard now over the last five-ten minutes The revealed written word of God, inerrant, inspired, infallible, a perfect guide for rule of faith and guidance in our life. It is the very word of God So in talking about the first two verses last week, that was our primary focus as we looked at 1 John for the first time last week. We emphasize what John emphasizes for us. And so in this letter, John, right out of the shoot, he wants to make clear to us that Jesus really existed. There are witnesses who can attest to this. They saw him, they touched him, they heard him. He's a real, live, human being who walked the earth. What's more, he's a son of God incarnate. He is deity in bodily form. So he is both God and he is man. There is no contradiction. Both of those things are true at the same time time and that's a difficult thing for us to get our heads wrapped around, but it is true nonetheless. And it's really important that we come to understand That God, the Son of God, comes in bodily form in the in the body and form of Jesus Christ to do what He did, to say what He said, to teach us that He is the way. And if we don't, I Understand this truth, then we don't know the way to life. There is eternal life and blessing in Christ, and if we don't have that, then we have to pay the consequences of our own sin And the consequences of our sin are not life. The consequence of our sin is death. So this is essentially what John is saying In the first two verses of this epistle. And he first verse one pretty much laid that all out. I expanded upon uh all The layers of meaning behind his word choice. Then he kind of repeats himself uh after he tells us what he has to say in verse one, he tells us again in chapter two what it is that he has to say for emphasis, gives us reason. We have confidence for believing it again, all these witnesses. And then he sets us up for the why. Why is it important that we know this? Why is he sharing all of this. Why is it that John and the the the others who are witnesses, why are they sharing what it is they have to say? Sharing what it is we need to hear Here, well that's where we pick up in 1 John chapter 1 this week. John says in verse 3 that it has to do with fellowship. John wants us to have fellowship with him and with the others who share his same Christian test Well, isn't that nice of John? Perhaps he's going to invite us over for coffee and Daniels in chapter 2. Now that's a little bit facetious, but isn't that usually what comes to mind when we think about fellowship? We're gonna get together and have some Christian fellowship We're gonna we're gonna hang out together. We're going to share something of ourselves, or maybe not. Kind of depends. If we're simply a couple of fellows and we're riding along in the same ship, hence we hit the word fellow ship. Does that sound about right to you? Well, obviously the word fellowship it actually has a much richer, deeper meaning than this. Webster's College Dictionary tells us that the word fellowship means the condition or relation Of belonging to the same class or group. Now the root word, of course, is fellow, and so Webster defines fellow as a person belonging to the same rank or class Equal, peer. We see this full sense of fellowship demonstrated for us in Acts chapter 2. Peter had just finished speaking to the crowd, and 3,000 people were baptized, and what follows that is this amazing scene. of fellowship complete with breaking of bread and teaching and miracles. And then in verses 44, 45, and 46 we read All the believers were together and had everything in common. Selling their possessions and goods they gave to anyone as he had need. Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts. What a beautiful picture, a biblical example of Christian fellowship. And did you notice anything in particular about verse 44? It says all the believers were together and had everything in common. common. And that sounds like the Webster's definition for fellowship, doesn't it? The people are equal. They're peers, they're of the same class or group. They have everything in common. This is fellowship in its fullness. And this is what John has in view. In 1 John 1, verse 3. He wants us to have this sort of fellowship with him and with the other Christians who are preaching the truth about Jesus. Well, like I said before, wasn't this nice of John? We should all aim to be so kind and warm in our letters to others as John is here in this letter to us. However, as nice as this is of John, there is even more. The first half of verse 3. It might merely say that John and the others who testify about Christ, they want us to have fellowship with them. But the last half of verse 3 That packs a walker. Again, remember, if we're in fellowship, this means that we are of the same class. We are we're we're peers. We belong to a a common group. People who are in fellowship are equal in some important way. Now keep this in mind and take a look again at the last half of verse 3. John says that his fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. John wants us to share in his fellowship with God This is the sort of thing that if you're standing up, it makes you need to sit down. And if you're sitting down, it makes you want to jump up. I don't know about you, but to me, this is exciting stuff John wants us to share what he and the others who testify of Christ are. Have and what they already have is fellowship with God. John wants us to share in Christ Have you ever read this verse and truly thought about the connotations? Do you really appreciate what it means to share in Christ, to have unity? In Christ. You know the union, the the the believer's union with Christ, it's at the center of Of the Christian salvation. This is why the phrases in Christ, in him, in the Lord are found in the New Testament more than 150 times Everything that Christ has, believers have. Christ himself teaches this in John chapter 14. 14, his gospel, John's gospel, not first John, chapter 14, verse 20. On that day you, Jesus says, will realize that I am in my Father, and you are in me, and I am in You. The Apostle Paul writes in chapter 15 of 1 Corinthians that Christ has now in fact been resurrected, and that Christ is the first fruits. Believers are the harvest to come. Due to the believers' union with Christ, they will not merely be raised in the future, but are also now raised in Christ. Christ in some sense. and Galatians chapter 2, verses 19 and 20, and Romans chapter 6, verses 2 through 13, and the surrounding verses for those passages, because they are making this Point. In being raised with Christ, Christians share in the justification and the sanctification of Christ. In the legal aspect, justification, Christ is for us. And in the vital sense, sanctification, Christ is in us. This fellowship with the person of Christ brings with it all of Christ's blessings, such as favor, mercy. Love. And again, these benefits, they also include justification and sanctification. They are distinct, but they're inseparable. both tied to our union with Christ. Paul eloquently expresses this in Philippians chapter 3, verses 8 through 11. Got that bookmarked as I suggested earlier. I would encourage you to turn there and read along. Philippians 3, beginning with verse 8. What is more? I consider everything Everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them rubbish. That I may gain Christ and be found in him. Not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ. Christ, the righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. I want to know Christ. And the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, and so somehow to attain to the resurrection from the dead. Christ's justification is the believers justification. Christ's sanctification is the believer's sanctification. Christ's suffering Victory, resurrection, and everlasting life is the believer's suffering, victory, resurrection, and guarantee of everlasting life. By one man, Adam, we are all condemned and inclined to sin. But so too by one man, Jesus Christ. Christ, we are justified and sanctified. Believers are no longer in bondage to Satan. sin, but rather have freedom in Christ. Believers are no longer dead in sin, but made alive in Christ. Are no longer under the curse of the fall, but are blessed in Christ. Amen. Hallelujah. It's hard to imagine that it's possible for John to have packed all of this into just one verse, verse 3, and then we remember that all things are possible through God. In verse 4 of 1 John chapter 1, which is the last verse we're going to now look at in detail today. John says says, we write this to make our joy complete. Well I'll say If this doesn't make a joy complete, I dare say nothing will. Now the word complete, that's a word that I think most of us understand pretty well. Something is complete, it has nothing missing, it is it is finished, it is whole, there's nothing more needed, nothing at all. It's perfect This is the sort of joy that John says he has in writing this letter to us. And again, remember that if we're in fellowship with him, we too share this sort of joy. Now I mentioned that we all likely have a pretty good understanding of the word complete. But I wonder how true this is for the word complete. joy. We could spend hours studying what the Bible teaches us about joy, and we don't have time to delve into all of that a full-fledged study like that right now. However, I do want to touch upon the the general idea of joy as it's found in the Bible. I mean think about all the passages. Let's speak of joy. Let's speak of shouting for joy, leaping for joy, skipping for joy, singing for joy, even rejoicing with joy. Can you really get a mental picture of this? A dear friend of mine once shared with me his understanding of joy using an analogy, and it's likely one of the better analogies enjoy that I've ever heard. And like any analogy it it falls short of absolutely perfectly fully capturing it, but it gets at the gist, the core of it pretty well I think And so I'm gonna share that analogy with you, this this little short story, if you will, this mental picture that I'm gonna try to paint. So imagine that it's either pre-COVID-19 or it's pre- Well, post after COVID-19's over and there's baseball games with fans in the stands. Okay, so imagine that kind of a setting. Imagine you're at a baseball game. And it is the biggest game of the year. And the stands, they are packed to the rafters, and there's been attention. and energy hanging in the air since before the first pitch is even thrown. And you're surrounded by a multitude. Of like-minded, die-hard fans. And the home team has been your favorite routine since early childhood. And this despite the fact that they've done nothing But disappoint year after year after gun-wrenching year. But they're still your team And you know, this year. This year, things seem different. And yet, however, here it is. The most important make or break gain in franchise history and your team is losing By more than a few runs. For the whole game they've been losing. Are you imagining yourself there? Well now imagine it's late innings. Everyone's kind of getting restless on the inside, but remaining almost motionless on the outside You're there afraid to even hope that your team will come back and win. And then the opposing pitcher walks the first batter. And then a ground ball. Dribbles between an infielder's legs. And then a fly ball, an absolute certain out is dropped, followed by a base hit, and then a smash that drives in several runs, and the stadium crowd erupts The noise from their shouting, it can't even be described. Everyone's jumping up and down the fight songs blaring from the public address system. Everybody's singing along. You turn around and you hug the person behind you, an absolute stranger, and you give them a hug. You know With the absolute certainty of hope, your team will win this game. This is joy. This is what John says that he has, because he has shared the gospel message. With us. You and I, as believers in Christ, can share in this complete joy. Share the gospel as John has, and make your joy complete. Let's recap For a moment. First four verses of first John establish, among other things, that the author of this epistle and his buddies were eyewitnesses to God in Incarnate. They saw and touched Jesus Christ, the Son of God. This is not fantasy, but It is reality. Jesus is both God and man. And again, in addition to seeing and And touching. John says that he and the others they heard Jesus. And what they heard, they now testify and proclaim and declare and write about. And why is this message from Jesus shared with us? That we may share in the fellowship. With Jesus Christ. And by sharing the truth of this fellowship with others, by sharing the gospel message. To make our joy complete. And John's going to go on in the rest of 1 John chapter 1 and beyond. to say that this fellowship with Jesus is important because it is in this fellowship that we're cleansed of our sin Forgiveness for sin. It's the end result. Praise the Lord. But what does this fellowship with Christ mean? Look like? How do we know if we're really in fellowship with Jesus? John says we can recognize our Forgiveness for sin by our freedom from sin. And this is the issue John's going to begin to tackle in the rest of chapter one. But that is the subject for next time. So let me close the message with a word of prayer. God, we thank you for your revealed truth. We thank you for the the power and the magnificence of this truth and the encouragement that we can draw from it. We thank you for preserving your inspired written word for us all these years later. That we may proclaim it and study it and internalize it and better share it with others. live in a season when it's difficult to stay focused on having any joy whatsoever. Help us be re to put into practice what we've been reminded of here today. That you've told us how. to go about making our joy complete. And we ask by the power of your spirit that we would be better, more able, more consistently diligent in doing the show Thank you, Father, for hearing this prayer. Thank you for the gift of your Son. Thank you for the strength we draw from your spirit. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. So we've got half hours or so before seven. o'clock so we have time for discussion. I don't know if the ladies have anything that they wanted to come in on to start or if anybody's been jumping on or is going on jump on the Facebook comments. I noticed that when we're doing the hot topic stuff, we get a little bit more of a comment stuff on Facebook and maybe it's not more as natural to offer comments on a Sermon, I don't know, but we didn't get much in the way of comments last week. But so that you know, comments are welcome and encouraged. They can be flat out comments, they can be questions, observations, they can be retorts like that never understood out pass it that way. Are you sure that's right? It can be whatever. Um you know that's that's part of that's what this dialogue is for. But I'll start with uh you guys. Any first reactions? Um I would say, and you had touched on this, that it is definitely a season of difficulty with having joy in the Lord because we are not being encouraged to fellowship in the Lord because of what the situation has done to our ability to gather and how it's um frightened even so many people who um who are Christians, you know, who are um maybe immune compromised or whatever that they are um legitimately afraid to be around other beliefs. And so that that is hard. That's a hard pill swallow. Um and I find myself getting going through different emotions vacillating anywhere from anger to sorrow. to frustration, to then okay, but it's not about this world. But we're supposed to, we're called to have an abundant life now. Not just then and so what does that look like? How is what John said then still applicable now Well, one of the important things to do when reading the Bible is understand the context, not just the literary context. You know, what is John saying within his own argument, within his own letter? Letter. But we can compare that with other things that John has taught in the other parts of the New Testament that he wrote, and compare it with that. And of course we compare it also and cross reference with other parts of the New Testament, like we did in the message. We we looked at a lot of stuff that the Apostle Paul wrote, for example, and then the broader biblical narrative of both the Old and the New Testament, and all of that. And then Beyond that though, there's a historical context. And we know there wasn't any picnic for John back in the day. Uh and what a distinction, and I I didn't phrase it this way in the message, but something I think it's important for us to keep in mind. Very often in a in a Christian church context, we we we we talk about fellowship as something we do. And what John is saying here in his letter is that fellowship is something we have. Whether we gather together in fellowship or not, we We have fellowship in Christ. That is something that we have. We have a fellowship of believers. It's something we have. And when we come together and and do that thing that we call fellowship, that's an extra expression of the fellowship that we already actually have. We're we're putting that fellowship into into some sort of a form and a practice. So there's a spiritual reality, a spiritual Fellowship that we have in Christ that is always and forever true for the believer. And so even if we can't get together with believers, we still have that fellowship. But what's frustrating is you want to be able to express the truth of that fellowship and you want to do all the other things that come along with that fellowship and be encouraging and be uh iron sharpening iron as I said last week a couple of times. So we want to be able to express what we know to be true, to express what it is we already have. Um if we aren't supposed to be forsaking the gathering with one another and that that's a a point that's where my point of frustration then comes. I mean we're grateful to have Angela come because Angela's in our house every every day anyway because she works with Tyler. So there's never been a time, praise Jesus, where we haven't been able to have fellowship throughout this whole thing. And so So that's where I'm grateful and thankful for for you and for us that we're able to do this and never ever once have we broken the law, you know, by doing that. Which again I'm grateful for, but it's there's still a point of frustration that we can't take this and then be able to share it with other believers. Yeah, and again, just as a point of encouragement, because I mean in any sermon or any you know biblical teaching there's gonna be be the the the the the challenge you're gonna try to convict the heart and challenge someone where they are and and and encourage them to walk in what they have in Christ. So it's kind of both of those things. And so, yeah, the the challenging part would be something we've been talking about in the recent weeks and something with John MacArthur's church in California is saying, look, we need to gather and I'm going to challenge if the uh governmental authority structure and I challenge my people to to come together and to live out this fellowship that we know that we have and so I'm gonna challenge you but the encouraging side of that That coin is what I was started with, which is whether we gather together or not, the fellowship is true. We have union with Christ. We are in fellowship with each other, the body of Christ. Because if we're in union with if I'm in union of Christ and you're in union of Christ and you're in union of Christ and you're in union with Christ, we're all in union with each other Where we can't express it, but we have it, and so we get frustrated when we can't gather together. So how do you do battle with that frustration? Well, John I don't seem to indicate that the way to do battle with that, to exit your frustration and to enter into joy. In fact he goes so far as to say it's entering into a complete joy is to fit Figure out ways to share the truth of salvation in Christ and the gospel message, whatever that looks like. Absolutely. One of the reasons why we do this one of the reasons why we do this Facebook Live thing, but you know absolutely that's a big a big part. So I'm not disagreeing with you. And not only that, it's become Yeah, but we've been spoiled because the Bible tells us that But it seems like it was you know, to each his own, like it was okay. If now it's like you're a Christian? Oh, you're one of those. You know, and it's There's animosity towards us as opposed to, alright, you do your thing and I'll do my thing. Now it's oh no, you can't do your thing. Because what your thing is is hatred. And it's like Well we've come to a place where we can appreciate you know what we've had it during our lifetimes up until now for the most part in America, these religious freedoms. Yeah, we don't have it anymore. And I was sharing before I'll share it with you now, talking to Dina and Angela before we started at six o'clock. You know, in China this week the news came out that the Chinese government is forcing churches to remove all symbols that are Christian from their churches. Like if they have a a steeple with a cross on top, they have to take the cross down. Um and they're going to people's homes. And if you have a cross in your house or a picture of Jesus or something like that, anything that's Christian, uh they're going into your house and they're taking it down and replacing it with pictures of the leader of the Chinese government. And they're asking you to To worship him. We're not that far gone yet here, but that could happen too. I mentioned this too, John MacArthur. If you're not familiar, Grace Community Church in Southern California California, John MacArthur's a pretty high profile, relatively famous Christian pastor um for the last forty years. And his church finally said enough's enough. a formal statement this past week saying, look, the government is overreaching, the governor is is is is is overstepping the bounds of what his authority are, and we as a church And the leaders of this church are basically asserting our authority over church matters, and we're going to meet. So the government now apparently is threatening to possibly turn their power So things in this country are turning and I think that's why it's even more important for us to to look at. Basically the power was turned off on John The Apostle John. He was sent to a remote island to live out his final days. The power was turned off in a biological sense on Peter and Paul, and you know they they they were they had their lights turned out. Uh in a biological sense. So maybe it's coming to that year. Yeah, well if I didn't know the end of the story, I would be discouraged. You know, I mean I would be I would be like, Oh, we lost another battle, oh we l but I know the end game. And we and we win. We have won. But the world Can I pick up on the fellowship um thing that you brought up about um we not being able to fellowship? I just Um I I think one of the things that I see the Lord working out in this COVID situation. I I think he's working on fellowship. But for a lot of lot of people, maybe even perhaps the majority of the body of Christ. He's working on this piece that John talks about, our fellowship with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. Mm-hmm. And the reason why I say that is because um the church, the Western church has been right I in my in my opinion, rightfully criticized for being more of a social club than functioning as the church. I agree. And so when the church did get together, it wasn't really about the gospel. It wasn't really about um living a godly life. And so was it real fellowship. Well maybe it was a Maybe it was a perverted kind of fellowship. It was a social club fellowship, not a gospel Christ centered fellowship. People had fellowship with each other in a social club way. but who truly had fellowship with the Father and with the Son. And I think that one of the things the Lord is working out in the who are willing to repent is how to have fellowship with him. Because if we learn as a church how to have fellowship with him, we'll have the right kind of fellowship with each other. other and we will function as the church. So I think that's one of the things that God is working out of this COVID situation. I I don't believe the church will reopen the same way that it did when it closed. And I don't think it can. And I I I I think that's by design. I think that's a good thing, you know, 'cause you know, the Lord will bring good he can bring bring good out of anything. And I think that's one of the good things he's bringing out of this. And so that the real church, the true church, I'm not talking about the apostate church. Right. But the true church Will come out of this having fellowship with Christ and with the Father because they've been isolated in their homes for months, you know, however many months it turns out to be They've been isolated in their homes. I, you know, God has used that time to teach people how to have true fellowship with Him so that we will function as a church when we finally do open up. Yeah. So the I understand it's part of our our our language, but it can be a little confusing. Like the you know, something you've been saying, if you're on social media or even talk to you know some of your Christian brothers and sisters these last few months you've probably heard several times if you're like me you've heard it dozens of times that you know that Church isn't a building and we don't have to gather gather together because, you know and there's a certain amount of truth, and again, I wanna I know splitting some hairs here, uh but if th sometimes it's important to know how to split these hairs because sometimes the moment demands a wise response and we don't know So when they say that the church isn't a building, whoever they are, they're right. Because I would say that with them. There have been times past when I have said those exact words. The church is not a building. Let's not get confused. We have some churches The spiritual reality that John is getting at in First John here, these first few verses, is that the fellowship is a spiritual reality for the believers all of the time. We have fellowship. We're peers. We're equal in some sense. And that That is true and actually ties into the whole Black Lives Matter movement. You know, and in a Christian context, there's one Christian race, right? The whole body of believers is is a royal priesthood. holy nation. So that is true no matter what. However, what gets missed, and this is getting at the core of Your frustration is there's there are certain blessings and certain commands and certain affirmations and Certain practices that are meant to be expressions of those spiritual realities. And so those coming together in gatherings for worship, coming together in gatherings for Bible study, coming together in gatherings Gatherings for focused time of prayer as a group, as the body coming together. Yeah, you can all go in your prayer closet, and I encourage you go in your prayer closet. cause it and pray, but there's also something about coming together as a people to pray. Yeah we can worship God alone our backyard, but there's something about coming together to do that, to express the spiritual reality. And when you take that away, it's lesser. It doesn't necessarily mean that So there are some churches that have made a decision based in their context and their population. I was once the pastor of a church that was very elderly. The average age of the church was probably what would you say eighty, eighty-five maybe? And they were an old church. And so and so there they would be highly at risk with the COVID-19 stuff that's going on. on now. And I'm not certain exactly because I haven't had to think about it in exactitude, I'm not exactly 100% sure how I would handle that when everybody in my congregation, other than And me and my family are in that high risk group. How would we handle it? I might have made a decision to say, you know what? We're not gonna have all seventy of us show up in the same room because I don't want to have to do a dozen funerals in the next three months. Like I who knows what my thinking would have been. So I wouldn't have been wrong to do that, but I would have been I would have had to, if I'm going to be biblical, I would have had to acknowledge that making that decision was making a decision for the lesser. At least temporarily making a decision for the lesser out of wisdom. It wouldn't have been But most churches aren't in that situation where their entire congregation is the at-risk population. And so it is frustrating. I mean Dean and I have these conversations off outside of Facebook. It's incredibly frustrating that so many churches have just laid down. Well I think the other thing that gets frustrating is and I this There's a a little bit of um embarrassment maybe isn't the right word, but I'm not quite sure the emotion that I am feeling, but that people who you know, I I thought were really strong Christians or whatever, are completely content with never going to church again. Like this is good for them. And and I'm like, wow, okay. Hmm. How did I how did my how did the Holy Spirit within me not like sense that or I I don't No, I don't maybe so am I really a Christian? Like this all of these doubts come creeping in and I'm like, what is going on? And I feel unsure of the state of anything if I'm honest and then I have to okay, Lord, you know, discipline me 'cause I know you discipline those who love and you love and he does So they're like, okay, yeah, I still belong to you. But that what really has me like, what's going on like I feel like I'm in the twilight zone. Like, okay, are you my brother and sister? Christ or aren't you? Because I want to get together you with you and do song and talk to each other with psalms and hymns and that's encouraging to one another and that You know, like I said earlier, I'm blessed. Angela and I will spend time together when I come home from work and pray together and talk about things and how rich that is and what a blessing that is to me in this This season when I can't get that any place else. And it's just it's crazy. But I wonder if that if if that attitude from these people, let's give them the benefit of the doubt just for a moment and say that they really are Christians. Oh yeah, I'm not asking you to I'm just thinking I'm just trying to think. Um would that be really an indictment of the church? Because the church that's been meeting has I agree. nothing real there. Well and let me build on that actually because I totally agree with you. If we think this happened in four months, if we think this is happening in four months, we're kidding ourselves. This is this has been a long time coming. You know we what One of the things that defines America is consumerism. We have a very consumerist mentality. And we've allowed we, Donna Church, have allowed ourselves to be motivated by consumerist attitudes And so people go church shopping and they look for, oh, that church has a really good concert for a half hour every Sunday morning. Let me go to that church, or I like the drummer in that church better than I like the drummer of the old church Um or you know, I like the the the tilt of the pastor's head at this church better than the tilt of the pastor's church at that, you know. And they start shopping around and then the churches aren't Coordinating their efforts to keep tabs on people that really aren't committed to doing anything faithfully. And so you can get away with it. And then we most of our quote unquote Bible studies don't even open a Bible. You know, it's the uh popular Christian author of the month and and it becomes a book study, which In certain contexts could be the right way to go. It depends on who you're trying to reach and you want to meet people where they are. But the goal should be to draw then into a conversation where you actually open the Bible. And too many times that's not Not what ends up happening. And then you look at the uh the the the church youth culture. So many Christian quote unquote Christian parents drop their kids off uh at the church uh for the youth group activity because I'm not going to disciple my own children. I'm not going to do family devotionals. I'm not going to train them up in the scriptures because I don't know them well enough myself, as it turns out. So I'm going to let them the church do that? You drop them off at youth group, and what's the youth group doing? They're playing hot scotch and basketball and, you know, face painting, and they're not being discipled even by the church. And so then A time comes like this and they're like, well, do I really have to go for face painting this week? Do I really have to go to the concert this week? But we've we've reoriented what the worship service and the and the time of gathering is supposed to be. Yes, it is fulfilling, it is fun, it is relationship enhancing, it is all of those things But it's also spiritually dynamic. And we've so diminished the reality of that. There's such a blessing in the spiritual dynamic And then three, four months ago when all the churches started closing down, they were going so out of their way, I think this is your point, going so out of their way, said that's okay, we still have virtual church. As though that's good enough. And so when the churches do finally open back up and all of them open back up, how many people have now been trained up in thinking, I don't have to actually go? just watch online. If you're gonna watch online, who says you have to watch your pastor? You can watch some pastor in Tim Buck too. And probably the guy in Tim Timbuktu might be a more gifted orator than your pastor, right? So we really set ourselves up. Does she have to go out? I don't think so. Sure. Do you have any more comments? No, you come with a name in the shadows? I do not see angels with the comments. Angel about? Come on, Angel. Go down. He's back there. Poor dog. Our dog is losing her hearings. She's fifteen. Um We have Kathy, Ray, and Danny and uh Neela Chong and Connie watching and uh your sister watching, although it only says three people watching is a whole lot more names. So they must have been Well um what time do you have? Can you tell? I can't tell. It is. Oh Okay, so we're basically at an hour. So I was uh transit. We have a a question that was asked and we'll tackle it in an upcoming week. I'm not sure exactly when or whatever, but the question was why do we pray? When God already knows everything. And so we will address that question. I thought we might possibly sneak it in today, but it might be a longer conversation. We've turned this into way over an hour. We don't we're trying to avoid that habit. So we'll if we don't get to it next week or the coming week, then I'll set aside a Sunday where I start with it to make sure we get it in. But anyway, so uh either of you want to close us with prayer? Sure. Lord, thank you so much for dying for our sins. Thank you so much for having fellowship. With us when you already have fellowship with the Father and the Holy Spirit. You don't need to have fellowship with us. To have fellowship with us because you can't bear to be apart from us. That's why you gave yourself up. You gave your life for us to have fellowship with us, to be with us forever Thank you. Encourage us to truly examine that and to truly understand who you are, who we are. are and how we are in fellowship together, how we have that fellowship, caused this time when um things are not what they used to be to be what they need to be, to be what they should be. We pray that your church would come together unified stronger on the back end of this than ever before. for for your glory forevermore. Thank you again for this time in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you too. Thank you for watching watching first John is a pretty short book of the Bible. We're going to be spending some time in it. If you haven't already read all the way through it recently, I would encourage you to uh open your New Testament and read first John. We'll be picking up where we left off this week, but it's short enough. Read read the whole all five chapters. Make sure that you've got a sense of what his overall arguments are, uh and it'll help you follow along on this scene. Cerries until next week up us.