Well, good evening. I'm Troy Skinner bringing you greetings from the Household of Faith in Christ. The brothers and sisters there pray for you. So hopefully encourage people out there praying for what's going on here at Fairview Chapel. I wanted to do something a little bit out of the ordinary for me. I'm going to read a portion of scripture right off the bat, and it's going to connect to what we're doing later on, so that's why I'm doing this. So this is from John chapter 6. I'm picking up with verse 5. I'm going to read through to verse 14. When Jesus looked up and saw a great crowd coming toward him, he said to Philip, Where shall we buy bread for these people to eat? He asked us only to test him, for we've already had in mind what he was going to do. Philip answered him, eight months wages would not buy enough bread for each one to have a bite. Another of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, spoke up Here is a boy with five small barley loaves and two small fish, but how far will they go among so many? Jesus said, have the people sit down There's plenty of grass in their place, and the men sat down, about 5,000 of them. Jesus then took the loaves, gave thanks, and distributed to those who were seated as much as they wanted. And he did the same with the fish. When they had all had enough to eat, he said to his disciples, gather the pieces that are left over. Let nothing be wasted. So they gathered them and filled twelve baskets with the pieces of the five barley loaves left over by those who had eaten. After people saw the miraculous sign that Jesus did, they began to say, surely this is the prophet who is to come into the world. And they weren't wrong. That's who we come to sing the praises of today. So if if you're if you would and if you're able, stand and we'll sing our first hymn together. Uh hymn number trying to get it here, 216 in the uh blue hymn notes. Well time, no, we have no. No, no, no. She does the last troubles, he will start which breaks on a friend like the world each year. No, no. You will make my friend who are three. No. Never not blow it like the tree will be hill but not water We will not be our friend like the holy Jesus. No not one Everyone may be seated and I apologize for taking my jacket off so quickly, but it's a warm one today. So let me see. I think I made it about five minutes. The tie will probably be gone in another five minutes. Um that's the first of our announcements. Somebody else probably has uh more edifying announcements than that about the life and ministry here at Fairview Chapel. Who has those today? Oh gosh, okay. All right. That's great. The second week turned Peterson. And over night we have Dr. Delay I can't Have to be. Yeah, that that's that's two weeks. Okay. And I can tell you that I like looked at the uh sign-up schedule and noticed you had almost everything filled for quite a stretch except for one lonely one that nobody seemed to want that was a just a few weeks out So I snagg that one, uh, and then you guys are gonna be good with no pressure to have to worry about the pulpit being filled at least until into uh September, possibly even October. I can't remember exactly where the cutoff was, but you're you should uh be good for the next three or four months. So I know it gets a little dicey every once in a while when you're like five, six days out and you're like, is somebody gonna sign up? So I figured I'd alleviate you the uh the the the stress and pressure of of that. So anyway. We're going to uh have whoever handles the the ushering responsibilities for the taking up of the offering for Ministry of Hair for Fairview Chapel I want to remind us all that everything that we do here during this hour or so together is an aspect of worship of our Heavenly Father, including this time now. God has been so gracious to us Even if we feel like we're struggling mightily, he's still so gracious to us. What we do here is just a very small token of remembrance, of giving back to him. Small portion of what he's given us. So this is an aspect of our worship. I guess we'll have some music accompaniment and after the the the offering is taken up we'll all stand for the singing of the doxology. With our common of blessings low, praise him all Christians here before, praise him all but We have praise father's father. Father, we thank you for being so loving and gracious towards us. We thank you for giving us so much bounty in our lives that we take for granted too often. We thank you for moving the hearts of those present who have contributed to the ministry here at Fairview Chapel. We ask that they would give wisdom to those who are responsible for stewarding these funds. It would be uh a blessing in the lives of all the people who have contributed and and all of those who desire to contribute, but for for this uh moment in time they were unable uh to do so. We thank you and praise you. You are a generous God. We love you so much. Help us to worship you well this evening. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. All may be seated. At this point we're going to have a time of corporate prayer. Some churches call it the prayers of the people And with a gathering this uh this intimate, the prayers of the people can, in a more literal sense, be the prayers of the people. And so um usually Theresa's okay starting this off, so I'm gonna assume she's okay with that. Teresa will open us with a word of prayer and then anybody who wants to pray aloud in turn, one at a time, please. You can pray aloud if you are not comfortable doing so or have nothing to share right now. That is fine, but I will encourage you to do so. It is a blessing. uh to the hearers to hear other saints uh seek their God in prayer. And let's not forget that He is a God who's worthy of praise. So our prayers sh should and can include uh supplications, requests of our Lord, but let's be sure we try to find some opportunities to praise Him as well. And then after everybody seems like everybody who's going to pray has, I will close us in prayer. Okay. Father Yamaha, we come into your presence with thanksgiving in our hearts. We say Enter my course of praise and the gates of Thanksgiving. So we thank you for the glory today for the beauty that you create around us and all of creation And for the way Lisp praises to you, Lord, we can hear the birds singing and just praising your holy name. We really can't hear the trees and Rocks, but your word says that we're silent, the rocks will cry out. So we know that all creation is raising tonight. And we just join in And Lord, um my heart is a little heavy tonight because my dad is in the hospital. But I know that Lord you are walking with him through everything that he is facing and before we stretch you for be there with put your key on hand up on him Give me your peace and your comfort room. And I thank you for the joys in my life, for the piano recital my students presented today, and that was just a joyous thing. Thank you for um the gift of music as well. We thank you for your good And mercy and for your thing for us and fuller. We thank you for our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ who made and makes this relationship possible. Father, I ask for Healing and my wife Ann Smith touching healer raised her up. We can praise and give you thanks the Holy Jesus. You said you're a standard market installed Stacy Rivers in Brandon. He needs so much help to your gosh. And take care of you. By the way, thank you for the sound of the birds crying out and singing your birds. We thank you for giving your people hearts that sing your praises as well. We thank you that we know that you are with us ministering to us, indwelling us by the presence of your Holy Spirit. Even when we have times of struggle, concerns weighing on our mind, heartache over the brokenness we see in other people's lives around us. We thank you for reminding us in times like these that you are your provider, God. A victorious God, a warrior king, you have defeated all enemies including death. And while we might struggle in this life, that they are light and momentary. In comparison to the amazing gifts that await us for all eternity. Blessed, you help your people that have hearts that are convicted to act upon the truth And are encouraged to continue to do so in those areas of life where we are most obedient. Thank you for this gathering, brothers and sisters in Christ. We thank you for the fellowship we offer to one another, reminding one another that our sustenance, our strong power, our firm foundation is Jesus Christ our King. In his name that we pray. Amen. We're going to sing our next hymn now. It's 374. Whiter than snow. Not sure if there are other color hymnals or not, but I know for sure it said blue in it. A mí me zijo, me dio. So she was going to have a price, and where we don't need the price, why? Don't see it for me and three. I can see why she was keeping my daughter. Why is this well? All may be seated. Lord Jesus, you see that I patiently wait. Come now and within me a new heart create Love that line. So let's admit it. We are all grumblers. We grumble about our low pay, about our poor working conditions, about our idiotic co-workers. For unemployed, we grumble about the stagnant economy, corporate greed, the injury that forced us onto disability. We grumble that our husband leaves his dirty socks scattered all throughout the house. We just grumble we uh grumble that our wives save us so much money every time there's a sale. You know we grumble that our kids don't listen, that our parents won't listen And that our friends are all too eager to listen and then share what we said with others. And let's face it, we grumble against God. You might rightly grumble against all that selfish injustice in the world, but we also grumble against God. There's a story in the Bible about God's people grumbling against him and what this says about us And it also tells us about God's response to this grumbling and what this tells us about him. Exodus 17 contains one of my most favorite stories about Jesus. So we'll encourage you to turn there. It's going to be a rather meaty, densely packed Bible message today. You're most definitely going to want to pop your Bibles open if you can. And you heard me correctly Exodus 17, second book of the Old Testament, contains one of my most favorite stories about Jesus. Verses 1 through 7 it says, The whole Israelite community set out from the desert of sin, traveling from place to place as the Lord commanded. They camped at Rephedim, but there was no water for the people to drink, so they quarreled with Moses and said, Give us water to drink. Moses replied, Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you put the Lord to the test? But the people were thirsty for water there, and they grumbled against Moses. They said, Why did you bring us up out of Egypt? To make us and our children and livestock die of thirst? Then Moses cried out to the Lord, What am I to do with these people? They're almost ready to stone me The Lord answered Moses, Go out in front of the people. Take with you some of the elders of Israel, and take in your hand the staff with which you struck the Nile, and go. We'll stand there before you by the rock at Oreb. Strike the rock and water will come out of it for the people to drink. So Moses did this in the sight of the elders of Israel, and he called the place Masa at Meribah. Because the Israelites quarreled and because they tested the Lord saying, Is the Lord among us or not? This is the inspired word of God. Therefore it is inherent, infallible. It is fully sufficient. As a rule and guide for our faith, for our life practice, I encourage you to receive it as such. May those with ears hear. So to begin, I'm going to hit you with a pretty heavy theological thought. A thought that helps us to better appreciate more fully how Christ Is the main character of Exodus generally, and how he is the main character within this passage of Exodus particularly. You might think the only place we find Gospels is in the New Testament. However, when we study the book of Exodus, we find that there are Gospels. Even in the Old Testament. Now, I'm going to take a minute here to clarify how I'm defining the gospel genre. It's any book of the Bible that centers on a divine covenant. while also focusing on the career and teaching of the covenant mediator. So that's the definition I'm using, and this is exactly the situation we have with Moses in the Exodus and with Christ in the four Gospels of the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And capturing this connection between the Exodus covenant mediator And the Gospels of the New Testament Covenant Mediator is a key to realizing the full meaning of Exodus 17, verses 1 through 7. There are so many reasons that are given to us for making such a connection. Think of all the shared ideas that we see in Exodus and in the Gospels that theologians sometimes like to refer to as significant type anti-type distinctions. In Exodus, the covenant mediator is Moses. In the Gospels, the covenant mediator is Christ. In Exodus, the mediating representative teaches his people the law. Within the Gospels, the mediator teaches his people the true meaning of the law. You ever notice all the foreshadowing that we see of Christ from Exodus 2, the four Gospels of the New Testament? Both the Israelites and Christ, they head to Egypt for survival, only to then return to the promised land later. Israel spends 40 years in the wilderness. Christ spends 40 days in the wilderness. In the Old Testament, God reveals his law on the mountain. Christ reveals the true nature of the law during his sermon on the mount. In Exodus, there's prominence on the Sinai narratives and the career of Moses, the covenant mediator. In the Gospels, there's prominence on the Passion narratives and the career of Jesus, the covenant mediator. In the New Testament Gospels, the covenant mediator is also the covenant maker. And when the covenant sanctions are handed out It is the covenant maker who absorbs the punishment. In Exodus seventeen Verses 1 through 7, the covenant mediator, Moses, is not the covenant maker. Yet a careful study unveiled that even in the Old Testament, the one true covenant maker is present. And he absorbs the punishment when the people violate the sanctions of the covenant. Are you following all this? Hang in there, because it's pretty much going to be downhill sledding from here on out. I've given you this introductory setup So that as we continue, the true meaning of Exodus chapter 17 will hopefully explode into your mind in a way that it never has before. And if that happens, boys, that is exciting. When reading Exodus 17, those first seven verses, what do we find? What's going on here? What's happening? Well, Exodus 17 starts, the chapter starts off with us seeing an overlap of two trials. These seven verses, they tell the story of the chosen ones of the Lord Turning against God. And God rescuing them from such folly. If we thumb back a few pages in our Bibles, we'll see the people they have been put to the test by God for several chapters. And their response to this test, it proves they're guilty. They turn against their saving God. Let them marinate for a moment. To the one who brought them out of bondage. Their response is to bring charges against him. And in doing so, they unwittingly bring charges against themselves. In this passage, we see the court is called into session, but not by whom one might expect. A guilty verdict is rendered, but not against the one initially thought to be on trial. Punishment is executed, but not upon the guilty party. This is an astounding portion of Scripture, and it connects directly to the good news of the New Testament in dramatic fashion It illustrates the very center of redemptive history, and I'm not kidding. Throughout history, even those who are called God's people. Have shamefully grumbled against him and against his covenant mediator representatives. And we are going to be retaught today that God's response is to execute justice. while at the same time lavishing love upon the grumblers. He does this not only by interceding through covenant mediator representatives such as Moses, But even by acting as the covenant mediator himself. The grumbling theme. Within Exodus. It's clear immediately from the very mindset of the people. As they were freely traveling from slavery to the promised land, they carried with them an attitude problem They were unhappy at being thirsty, and they blamed God. They blame God not only for being thirsty, they blame God for even bringing them, rescuing them out of Egypt and into the wilderness to begin with. Chapters fifteen and sixteen indicate that the people had been carrying around this sort of grumbling spirit for quite some time, and it reaches its head in chapter 17. In fact, the people appear to have been grumbling almost immediately following their rescue from Egypt. Right on the heels of the victory songs of Moses and Miriam, we see these songs recorded for us in Exodus chapter fifteen. In fact let's turn there, so if you would flip your pages. Your Bible back at page or two and find chapter 15, you'll see it begins with a really long victory song by Moses And then right on the heels of that, there's a very short victory song by his sister Miriam. It's verse 21. She says, Sing to the Lord, for he is highly exalted, the horse that its rider is hurled into the sea. We have these great victory songs, and then just three verses later. Just three verses later, the people are said to be grumbling. Look at verse 24. So the people grumbled against Moses, saying, What are we to drink? Verse 25 of chapter 15, we're told the people are being tested by God. Yet they're also being provided for with purified water to drink. The miraculous provision of God that continues in the very next scene, which comprises the whole of chapter 16. This is the well-known story of God providing manna for food, which God sends Believe it or not, as a continued testing of his people. That's what we're told in verse 5 of chapter 16. You can turn there and see what I'm talking about. As they're tested, the people continue their grumbling Through large swaths of the narrative. Look at chapter 16, verses 2, 7, 8, 9, 12. John, let's read that. Exodus sixteen. I'm going to read chapter sixteen verse two through twelve. In the desert the whole community grumbled against Moses and Aaron. The Israelites said to them, If only we had died by the Lord's hand in Egypt. There we sat around pots of meat and ate all the food we wanted. But you have brought us out into this desert to starve this entire assembly to death. Then the Lord said to Moses, I will rain down bread from heaven for you. The people are to go out each day and gather enough for that day. In this way I will test them and see whether they will follow my instructions. On the sixth day they are to prepare what they bring in, and that is to be twice as much as they gather on the other day. So Moses and Aaron said to all the Israelites In the evening you will know that it was the Lord who brought you out of Egypt, and in the morning you will see the glory of the Lord, because he has heard your grumbling against him. Who are we that you should grumble against us? Moses also said, You will know that it was the Lord when he gives you Meat to eat in the evening and all the bread you want in the morning, because he has heard your grumbling against him. Who are we? You are not grumbling against us, but against the Lord. Then Moses told Aaron, say to the entire Israelite community, come before the Lord, he has heard your grumbling. While Aaron was speaking to the whole Israelite community, they looked toward the desert, and there was the glory of the Lord appearing in the cloud. The Lord said to Moses, I have heard the grumbling of the Israelites. Tell them, at twilight you will eat meat, and in the morning you will be filled with bread, and then you will know that I am the Lord your God. Chapters fifteen and sixteen in Exodus, we see God is leading his people. He's providing for them and he's testing them. Would the people remain faithful? Would they continue to place their hope and trust in God? Or would they turn against God? What about us today? Will we continue to place our hope and trust, our confidence in God, or will we turn against God when life seems a little hard, when we're thirsty In chapter 17 of Exodus, the people respond to this period of being tested by God with their own test of God. By grumbling again against God, the people show that they have failed the test. This sort of grumbling against God is a protest against God. And their act of filing this protest against God is proof that they have failed God's testing, that they're deserving of standing trial to face judgment. How ironic the people are bringing charges against God, and in doing so, they're bringing charges against themselves. And so God convenes a courtroom scene and he delivers judgment. I want you to note convening the elders, assembling the people as witnesses Bringing the staff of judgment. This is all the stuff of a courtroom. And again, I want us to note it's God who calls all of this together. The elders, everything else, they were not already convened. And yet Moses, he's afraid he's about to be stoned to death. What? Where's the evidence of a fair trial? Was Moses about to become the victim of a hastily gathered unlawful sham trial like Jesus would be in years to come? The words grumbling, casting, they lie at the center of understanding this portion of Scripture. And we know without question this is so because of the names Moses gives the place at the conclusion of the passage. Masa. And maribha. They mean test and strife. And at the root of that word naribha, the word for strife is the word breatha. Which carries with it the meaning of dispute, complaint, lawsuit. The lawsuit idea behind that word is pops up all throughout the pages of the Old Testament. And now as we consider how often in the Old Testament the meaning of what happened in a particular place was forever remembered by the naming of that place in memorial. And the setting for Exodus chapter 17, verses 1 through 7, it is memorialized in just such a way. Driving home the point that all people should remember this was the place. Where God tested his people, and that their sinful response was to strive against him with a lawsuit. God was looking to see if the people would follow him, even if it meant hardship. And the people did not want to follow in this way. They challenged his leadership. They even seemed to reject his leadership. They even questioned his very existence among them. In a sense, one might say the people were impeaching God, but he would not be removed from office. Ironically, he had every right to remove this mob from being his people, but he did not Now earlier this evening, we read a portion of John's Gospel account. We started off our worship gathering to John chapter 6, because there's a direct correlation between Exodus and the Gospel of John here. At the opening of John chapter 6, Jesus miraculously feeds a crowd of 5,000. And then later he uh tells the people that he is the true manna. Right? The true bread from heaven, the true bread of life. Now we're going to be partaking in the Lord's Supper later in this service. And during that time, I want us to remember what it is we're saying right here. Jesus is the true manna, the true bread from heaven, the true bread of life And this point that Christ is the sustenance that his people need. It's amplified in John chapter 6 by three dramatic I am statements later in the chapter that we didn't read earlier this evening. But Jesus Says, I am in John chapter 6, verse 35, verse 41, verse 51. And then, astonishingly, we're told that Christ's disciples were grumbling about this among themselves. Now in this grumbling the disciples they didn't go so far as to publicly level legal charges against God As of the Israelites in Exodus chapter 17. But the disciples, they did have difficulty processing the hard teaching, it says. And so Jesus asked if they wanted to abandon his leadership When God's method of teaching seems most difficult, when it's hard. Are you tempted to abandon his leadership? Sometimes Sometimes. If we're honest, right? There have been times like this for us. Or we could at least Acknowledge that there could be times where this might be true of us if our most prominent fears were to become our circumstances, right? But we don't even have to live in the hypothetical. Every single time one of us sins against God, we are forsaking his leadership. I don't like your way. I'm going to do it my way. And sometimes we might find we somehow stumbled into sin. At first we didn't realize we're sinning, and then somebody calls us to account that, hey, you know, that's a sin. And sometimes even then we'll say, I don't really feel like repenting. At least not yet. Every time we sin, we are rejecting God's leadership. To remember, God's ways are higher than our ways. We all know this So may ask to what do you cling when God shows his love for you by allowing you to be taught through loss and struggle? It's so very hard to learn and to follow for people like us when our job is ripped from us. When our home with her beloved cute cubby little pet still inside burns to the ground. When our child's life is knocked out in an accident. And we were the ones driving. When our bodies are attacked from the inside and we beat back the cancer only to have it return. When our lover is taken from us suddenly by the interrupted beating of their loving hearts, we have a lot of people who are not in the world. When a lifelong struggle just will not be lifted from you No matter how long, how hard you press. These are all teachable moments. Devastating. But teachable moments, hard teachable moments And of course there are difficult concepts and ideas that we all struggle to understand, to apply, to accept as true. How do you know it's true? How do you go on to follow? How do you overcome the doubt? The disciples of Jesus they faced these very same sorts of questions, including that question of testing. Do you want to abandon God and the leadership of Christ our King? The disciples said no, because they were reminded that by his word he provides eternal life. And God's Spirit opened their eyes to the truth of that word. The Israelites in the desert, they were living through a time of hard teaching, testing. And they began doubting God's permission. And so God reminded them of a sort of object lesson. He is the provider of eternal life, sparing their lives by accepting upon himself their punishment. These ancient people, even in the midst of God's provision, they forgot God provides And so the need to remember was retaught over and over again, and yet the people of God will continue to forget and quickly. In Judges chapter 2, it's just one generation after Joshua, who was the successor to Moses, it's clear that the nation of Israel had already fallen away from remembering God. It says in Deuteronomy chapter 6 As a reminder, they shouldn't abandon his leadership. Do not test the Lord your God as you did at Motha Despite this warning, which harkens us back to Exodus chapter 17, the people forgot God and continually tested him, and this is true for all of Israel. including us. True for all God's people, except for the perfect Israel. Jesus is the perfect Israel. This perfect representative of Israel, the perfect covenant mediator. He remembers God Even when facing hardship. In fact, Jesus quotes directly from Deuteronomy 6, verse 16, which I read to you just a second ago when he was responding to his temptation in the wilderness Do not test the Lord your God. Jesus passes his test in the wilderness, whereas the Israelites fail their test in the wilderness. In Exodus 17, and throughout all of redemptive history, we see a reversing of God's testing. The people have failed to pass the test. And so God intervenes himself as the ultimate covenant mediator, and in the person of Jesus Christ, God passes the test for us. That is the glorious good news. And there is so much more, loaths more to be said about these seven verses. So I'm saving those for the next time I'm here with you to finish our look here at these seven verses in Exodus 17. So now let's pause and close the sermon time with a word of prayer. Father, we praise you and thank you that you have preserved your word for us all these years. So we can look back and read it and grapple with it, study it, learn more about who you are, about ourselves and our need for you. Yes, you would help us to always, as we're reading the scriptures of our Holy Canon, to identify where the gospel is. Where is Jesus in the pages of the Bible? Your son father tells us in John chapter 5 and Luke chapter 24 that scriptures are about Him Help us to be diligent in seeking to identify Him in the pages of your Word, not only in the New Testament. For the new words as well. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. That's uh those who have the energy in the seat to stand and sing. Uh grab your uh hymnals, hymn number 113 Break thou the bread of life. The image of the whole time is me, small prayer, pray myself by So we got two ones with my home. You all may be seated. In 1 Corinthians chapter 11, we find these words beginning with verse 23 For I received from the Lord what I also passed on to you. The Lord Jesus, on the night he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body. which is for you, do this in remembrance of me. In the same way, after supper, he took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this whenever you drink it in remembrance Of me, for whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Therefore, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of sinning against the body and blood of the Lord. Man ought to examine himself before he eats of the bread and drinks of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without recognizing the body of the Lord eats and drinks judgment on himself. That is why many of you are weak and sick, and a number of you have fallen asleep, but if we judged ourselves, you would not come under judgment When we are judged by the Lord, we are being disciplined so that we will not be condemned with the world. So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for each other. If anyone is hungry, he should eat at home, so that when you meet together it may not result. In judgment. So the word judgment shows up a couple of times there, doesn't it? And that can spook some people Uh I'm not sure exactly how this has been taught to you, but the way I teach and understand what's going on here is there's basically two different ways to think about how we're to judge ourselves One, this is a covenant family meal, right? This is the body of Christ coming together to share in the body of Christ. And so one of the things we're to do is to judge, are we Christians? If we're not Christians, then this meal is not for you, and you know I would encourage you to abstain so you don't reap judgment upon yourself. But also at the charge. This doesn't mean that if you've sinned uh today or this week or whatever, uh that you can't come forward and and participate. But it is a charge to identify those areas where you're not following the leadership. Of Jesus Christ. And to recommit yourselves with this reminder. It's a reminder of our baptism. It's a reminder of a call in our lives. And so we are to judge the nature and character of our walk And endeavor to do better, because we all can do better. And of course if you're not a Christian, just judge, well, I guess I'm not actually a Christian, I'm just a visitor or whatever, so I guess I'll I'll sip this one out. So that's what I think is going on here. So it looks like we have all of the elements this time. Last time I was here we're we're missing uh parts. So I'm I'm gonna step down and uh and handle the um the bread if somebody I don't know if somebody's designated or how that's usually handled, but if Sony wants to handle the cup, uh that wouldn't that would be probably helpful. So do I do have Sony who's gonna handle the cup? Okay, that'd be great. So the Lord prayed and and then they partook. So I'm going to I'm going to pray and then if you're comfortable doing so uh you'll notice in that person script on your thread instead of they all kind of took it together. I don't know if you're having fear, but I think it's a nice symbolic gesture to do. So after you uh grab the uh take the bread from me and uh do the intention uh with the cup you can hang on to it for a minute but if it gets too soft and messy for you don't worry about it That's okay. I'll do it last. Father, we thank you that you called us to yourself as your government peoples. We thank you that you've given us these reminders of who we are to be and who you are in our lives. We thank you for the heightened sense of the presence of us and experience at times such as this. We know that these are so easy to remembrance and yet they have so much They symbolized the sustenance that we draw from the body and blood of Christ, our Lord and Savior, who gave Himself, who million himself on our behalf. You would give us some credit cards and use this time to encourage us for the many blessings and the abundant creation we have. Thank you, Lord. Impressive nice. So you're going to show you that. And when we ask your mind here what this symbolizes, and what you feel in your heart that you Christ's words to us shows that as often as we do this, it will do it in the membranes again. Having had a moment to meditate on the import of the moment, let's all stand and sing one last time. Let's just close with the the Alleluia. May all depart in peace as we enter together into the mission field that surrounds us all. God bless. Okay.