Welcome to the live stream portion of what we do here each weekend here at the Household of Faith in Christ. If you're curious to learn more about what we are all about, you can go to our website, Household of Faith in Christ. I want to uh add that in Christ part so people try to find us just household of faith or household of Christ or household of faith in Christ. You can find links to our sermons, other biblical resources, and that sort of thing. If you need prayer or you're looking for help to find a church, we're glad to help in those kinds of ways. So in 1741, which is quite a while ago, there lived a struggling 56-year-old composer who was heavily in debt following a string of musical failures. His prospects they were dim. It seemed to him that his best case scenario was just admitting his career was over. That was the best case scenario. Worst case scenario, he could be forced into debtor's prison. That's how bad his flight was. But then, after getting what he believed would be his final concert performance, He received a lifeline from a friend who had written some lyrics about the life of Jesus Christ. But he needed a musical score to be added to it before it could be presented. as a benefit performance, a a concert for charity that, rather ironically, would help to free men from debtor's prison. And so this down and out composer, he got to work, and in just 24 days He finished the composition and orchestration for the complete 260-page oratorio During this time, as you can imagine, he barely slept. He skipped a whole bunch of meals. He often was found to be in tears as he composed. When he completed the climax of what is now considered by most to be an absolute masterpiece, he reportedly told his servant, I do think I did see. All heaven before me, and the great God Himself seated on his throne with his company of angels The first performance of this work was a success, but then its popularity for some reason it waned rather quickly and so a number of the scheduled performances were canceled and then the show was just completely removed from the schedule altogether. So it's a rather meager beginning. But it would eventually, many years down the road, become a staple during the Lenten season, which is a little interesting because today we mostly know it as a Christmas time tradition. And I'm guessing you at least are somewhat familiar with what it is I'm talking about. We're talking about Handel's Messiah and his glorious hallelujah chorus. The inspiration for this classic is found in Revelation chapter 19. So I would invite you to turn there now. I'm going to read the first six verses. I'm going to pick up with verse one and read to the end. of verse six. Again, that's Revelation chapter nineteen. After this I heard something loud like the loud voice of a vast multitude in heaven saying Hallelujah. Salvation, glory, and power belong to our God, because his judgments are true and righteous. Because he has judged the notorious prostitute who corrupted the earth with her sexual immorality. And he has avenged the blood of his slaves that was on her hands. A second time they said, Hallelujah, for smoke ascends forever and ever Then the 24 elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God, who was seated on the throne, saying, Amen. Hallelujah. The voice came from the throne saying, Praise our God, all his slaves who fear him, both small and great. And then I heard something like the voice of a vast multitude, like the sound of cascading waters, and like the rumbling of loud thunder saying, Hallelujah! Because our Lord God the Almighty has begun to reign This is the inspired word of God. It is breathed out by God Himself, and therefore it is fully sufficient as the rule and guide for our faith. For our life practice. Those of the ears, let them hear. Such a beautiful scene we have here Do you recall the heavenly throne room scene that we studied way back in Revelation chapter 4? Holy, holy, holy, Lord God the Almighty, who was, who is, and who is coming. Remember? Our Lord and God, you are worthy to receive glory and honor and power, because you have created all things, and because of your will they exist and were created. Those are the opening lines to what has been dubbed the great Te Deum, you might remember. Short for Te Deum Laudimus, which means, oh God, we praise you. Lyrical songs of praise they pop up throughout the book of Revelation as the great Team continues on many of its pages. And these praises they continue all the way up to and then find their conclusion in the opening verses. Of chapter nineteen. These are praises of the one true God This is highlighted in verse 4. Because you see, when I read verse 4 just a moment ago, there technically was a word missing. The Holman Christian Standard Bible, which is what I'm reading from today, it says, Then the 24 elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God. The translation you hold in your hands, it probably says the exact same thing. But the original Greek language, what it says is, if we translate into English, they fell down and worshipped the God. has a definite article before the word God. There's really no grammatical need for inserting the word the here. The way that Greek works, the definite article, it's generally just assumed. In most cases, it does not have to be added. Now there is a reason for adding it to make absolutely sure that people understand, the readers understand what the subject of the sentence might be. So there are times when the definite article is incredibly helpful and should be added But doesn't generally speaking have to always be added. And yet John, he uses it in the apocalypse almost every single time. Thaos, that's the Greek word for God. It shows up in this book 96 times in all but three of those times. The Greek text says the God. One of the three might not even be original. There's some debate about the sexual manuscript evidence that we have. So it might be that there are just two exceptions that prove the rule. So our author here, he is making a point. Just as he does when he goes out of his way to write the Word, the Lamb, the Christ, throughout the Revelation. Because you see, it's God's Word. It's God's Lamb. It's God's Christ. The unique Messiah, the only Savior. There is no other. It's absolute uniqueness. So the fact that the definite article it is used over and over and over, and also in today's passage, verse 4 here of chapter 19, it helps to emphasize for us that this is the one and only God. The true God, the Creator God, the God of salvation, of glory, of power, the God of justice and righteousness, the God who avenges evil He is the God of authority, the God of judgment. And in contrast with the beast, he is the God of grace and mercy. And faithfulness. He's the Lord who perfectly subdues the devilish world powers and the false religious systems and the corruptions within his own church and well all the crimes, both public and secret, because he sees all with his eyes like flames of fire. He sees not only outward appearances, but he sees into the depths, the very depths of human hearts, including yours. He is the embodiment of fidelity. He is a substance of truth His integrity is unquestionable. It is no wonder that the vast multitude in heaven shout, Hallelujah! Verse 1. It's no wonder that the chorus of men joins the singing in verse 4. It's no wonder the entire universe creates a cacophony of praise in verse 6. And that's how my mind kind of imagines this playing out in my head. First there's an angelic chorus, and then there's an earthly chorus, which is pictured by the four living creatures and the 24 elders that we see. in the text. And then everyone everywhere joins the chorus at the end. Sort of like some of the songs we sometimes sing here as a church, first the ladies and then the gentlemen, and then everyone together. Now, what is the occasion for this choir scene? Because God's judgments are true Because God has judged. And God has avenged. That's what we're told at the start of the very first sentence. So here we s we hear a faint echo of Revelation chapter 15, verse 3, and Revelation 16, verse 7, and also again here we have an example of the Apostle John giving us themes that tie us back to the Old Testament, like in Deuteronomy chapter 32, where God claims the right to put to death the enemies of his people? It is God who, in the words of Moses, quote, avenges the blood of his sons. As we've been reading for a large number of chapters now, God's people have been under attack. The notorious prostitute has corrupted the earth. Babylon used sexual immorality to make slaves. Blood was on her hands. And so Babylon fell, as he saw in chapter 18. And then Beast 1, Beast Two, the Dragon, they meet their demise. We're going to see that in the upcoming pages. I mean, one right after the other. Bang, bang, bang, they are destroyed. These eternal losers. They had the temerity to judge God and his world and to find them wanting. Who does God think he is? They ask. What is it that's so great about his bride, they wonder? They're judging God and his people. That's one of the ways, by the way, the verse 2 could be translated. Rather than saying that the prostitute corrupted the earth, another way we might translate that is the prostitute judged the earth. Because there's some debate about the manuscript evidence here. So if this reading about judgment is correct, and there are a boatload of theologians that think that it is. . What we would have here is an application of Matthew chapter 7. The measure they use to judge is then used in measuring them. And for Babylon, the judgment is final. Hallelujah. Her smoke ascends forever and ever. Amen. Hallelujah. With these words, we have the response to the command that is found in chapter 18, verse 20. You might remember. The command to rejoice. Over her, heaven, and you saints, apostles, and prophets, because God has executed your judgment on her. At long last we've arrived at the answer to the question that was asked way back in Revelation chapter 6. When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the people slaughtered because of God's word and the testimony they had, and they cried out with a loud voice, Lord, the one who is holy and true. How long until you judge and avenge our blood from those who live on the earth? Well, the closing section of the Revelation, which includes right here in chapter 19, this is the climac. The era of Revelation chapter 6 verse 10 is now over. History's climactic moment, which was introduced to us in chapter 18, and then continues over the next few chapters, which of course includes then chapter 19's Hallelujah chorus, all this sort of stuff we're talking about right now. This is what inspired Handel and his buddy all those years ago, nearly 300 years ago, to compose the Hallelujah chorus. I think I mentioned this last time that I preached here with all of us gathered. I think sometimes we take the word hallelujah for granted. I think that maybe the majesty of today's passage can be almost lost to us because hallelujah, it's it's a special word. It's a somewhat rare word. Do you remember how many times the word hallelujah appears in the New Testament? I think I mentioned this last time. Just four. And all of them are right here in chapter 19, verses 1, 3, 4, and 6. And do you remember me mentioning how many books of the Old Testament contain the word hallelujah? Just one, the Psalms. And this Hebrew word, what it means basically is praise the Lord. Or if you want to be a little more wooden, it's praise yeah. With Yah being understood by most as shorthand for Yahweh, the covenant name of God, the one who was, is, and will be. You know, very often the word hallelujah is used within the pages of Scripture in a particular context, the context of God punishing the wicked. Such as what we see in Psalm number 149 rather famously. Well, this is also the case in Revelation chapter 19, of course, right? In the previous chapter, John's vision showed us the fall of Babylon. And now here we have God receiving spectacularly loud praise from all corners of his creation for delivering his people. For judging the enemies of his people, and permanently crushing rebellion as the sovereign God who is in communion with his people. These people of his, you might have noticed they are described in rather politically incorrect terms in verse 5. Praise our God, all his slaves who fear him, both small and great. Well, this is like Psalm 135, which is one of the helly Psalms, by the way, where it says, the slaves of Yahweh and those who fear Yahweh are invited to bless and praise. Yahweh. Now maybe you don't really like this slave and fear language, and I can kind of get that to a certain degree, but I gotta tell you, I'm here to tell you. You are either a slave to Christ or a slave to sin. You either have a healthy reverent, trembling fear of God, or you have a debilitating, destructive, trembling fear of the world. It really is that simple. Those are the options. And being a slave to the dragons Babylon, well, that is a horrible circumstance. Yeah, I wonder. Does the import of verse 3, does it really impact us in the way that it should? This is the verse that says, a second time they said, Hallelujah, for smoke ascends forever. And ever. I mean, does the meaning of this verse truly land squarely in our brain? This is yet another Old Testament illusion by John. Isaiah chapter 34. Her land will become burning pitch. It will never go out, day or night Its smoke will go up forever. It will be desolate from generation to generation. No one will pass through it forever and ever. This forever rising smoke that we see here in Isaiah and these sorts of passages, a kind of a prophetic hyperbole. It's an image that serves as a testimony of God's ongoing zeal for his people as he delivers everlasting justice to the enemies of his people. See, God is he's jealous for his people. And biblically speaking, this does not mean envious. Biblically speaking, to be envious is to want to have what doesn't belong to you. But to be jealous is to defend what does rightly belong to you. And God defends those who rightly belong to Him. destroying those who reject and oppose him and his people This rising smoke, it's a symbol of finality As was the millstone that was hurled into the sea, you might recall, from chapter 18. What we're to understand is that when the day of final judgment arrives, God's judgment will be irreversible. And our response to this truth, it should be like what we read in verse 6. Then I heard something like the voice of a vast multitude, like the sound of cascading waters, and like the rumbling of loud thunder, saying Hallelujah. Because our Lord God the Almighty has begun to reign. The Lord God Almighty Almighty, that's a favorite word of John. He uses it nine times in the Revelation as a title for God. We see it at the very beginning in chapter one, we see it near the very end, in chapter 21, and we see it seven times in between. And two of these occurrences, they're right here in chapter 19, because we're going to see it again in verse 15. God is almighty. He's omnipotent. That's the other way we see this word translated in English, omnipotent. God has unlimited universal power and authority. And thus his enemy is soundly trounced, completely vanquished. And his people, in response, loudly sound out by singing his praises. And those who are his people will sing these praises Forever, because God's reign is forever. The great whore, admittedly, exhibited rather impressive strength, but this prostitute's reign has now ended. According to verse six, the Lord Almighty has begun to reign. Now that is the uh HCSV translation, and it's a fine translation. It's a favorite among many Southern Baptists, actually. And other translations in English, they say precisely the same thing. Because the translation I'm using today does or say something that's quite similar. But there are other English translations. They opt for simply rains or raineth, if it's an old English kind of Bible. See, they dropped from their translation the idea of God beginning to reign. And I gotta say in fairness to the translators, the thrust of the intended meaning here in the Greek is It's a little tad difficult uh tad difficult to uh to capture this in our English language, what's going on in the Greeks, in fairness. But if you learn a little bit about the original language, you you you come to find out the emphasis there is somewhat clearer here Because when the text says that God reigns or has has begun to reign or has taken his reign, depending on your translation, what's being said is that he reigns now. Once and for all. In case there happens to be a language geek among us in the audience, the form of the word in Greek here is the aorist indicative active. What does that mean? was suggest single completed action. It's a done deal. Game over. Cash in all your chips. God is king. Of course, the Lord He never lost his kingdom. He alone is eternally ruling with power immeasurable. But there's a rhetorical device that's going on here There's a sense in which God's gracious reign over creation, his gracious reign, was interrupted in a way by humanity's rebellion And so paradise it was lost to mankind, but God has won it back for us through the passive and active obedience of Jesus Christ. And so once again, he now exercises his reign of love and grace. What was once prefigured in the Old Testament with his gracious presence in Zion and in the temple. In his revealed word, is fulfilled in Christ, who ends the old sacrificial system through his incarnation, death, and victorious Resurrection. And now he has ascended to his throne after announcing the arrival of his kingdom. Being crowned as king on the cross. And then, at this world's end, oh, you just wait till Christ returns. And he displays his lordship over the cosmos for all to see. Taking his exalted position openly to rule forevermore over his saints in a renewed heavens and earth That is a beautiful truth to ponder. In a lot of ways it would be an excellent place for us to end. But I want to wrap up instead with a very short addendum. Just a short one. Because more than once today I have drawn attention to how John, he's writing from a place that is heavily immersed in the scrolls of the Hebrew scriptures. I've mentioned this throughout our look at the book of Revelation. So as we read the revelation, we do well to likewise be heavily immersed in what is sometimes called the Tanakh T-N-K, an acronym that's gets pronounced Tanakh. The T is for Torah, the N is for Neveim, the K is for Kettavim. It's the Torah, the law, the instruction, and the Neveim, that's the prophets, and the Kedevim, that's the writings. We have the law, the prophets, and the writings, the Hebrew scriptures. So we need to understand John, he's singing as a song, and he's using the Old Testament as his melody. And we can't properly hum along with what it is he's written if we're not reading from the same sheet music, using the same tune. This is true throughout the entire book, going back to the beginning. Look back at some of the letters to the seven churches, church in Ephesus. Remember it mentions the tree of life? Well, can that be rightly understood without knowing about the Garden of Eden and the Tree of Life that's talked about in the book of Genesis? Something is lost when we're reading about the ten days of testing in the letter to Smyrna if we don't know about the book of Daniel. Same thing with the church and Pergamum, right? The heavenly manna is mentioned there. Well, that's introduced to us in the book of Exodus. If the letter of Desyatira mentioned the name of Jezebel, well, what's that supposed to mean if you're not familiar with the stories found in Kings? And the seven spirits in the Sardis letter that connects to description is found in Zechariah. And there's the key of David mentioned in the Philadelphia letter. Well, that echoes Isaiah. And there's a rebuke that's received by Laodicea that's pointing back to words that are first found in Proverbs You can continue one by one making correlations that are tied to language of protection and images of provision and issues of persecution in Leviticus and elsewhere in the pages of the old covenant text. In fact, just now I haven't even mentioned Ezekiel yet. In the Revelation, in many ways, it's basically a recapitulation of Ezekiel. The four living creatures? That's Ezekiel chapter 1. The eating of the scroll. Ezekiel 3. Marks on the foreheads, famous part of the revelation notes from Ezekiel chapter 9 The care of God's people by their kinsmen redeemer despite the rebellion of Jerusalem? Well, you find this connection in Ezekiel 16 The mention of Gog and Magog, which is just right around the corner in our look at the study of the book of Revelation, well that's from Ezekiel 38. Do you recall the measuring of the temple in the Revelation? Ezekiel 40. The river of living water, Ezekiel 47. I mean the similarities are striking. Have you read Ezekiel recently? In both the Revelation and Ezekiel, we are introduced to a gaudily dressed prostitute who is drunk with the blood of the righteous Who commits adultery with worldly kings? You see, if if one doesn't know about the first half of the Bible's vast influence on the Apostle John, then properly interpreting the imagery in the revelation, it is, well, rather elusive, to say the least So I encourage you to read your Old Testament. So with that short excursus completed, we're going to draw to a close. I think it's been a healthy reminder that The astounding God who receives the praise of the biblical Hallelujah chorus, which uses actually a direct transliteration of an Old Testament word, hallelujah. See, Kai, he's not only the God of the New Testament. He's the God of the Old Testament as well. In fact, he is God even before there was an Old Testament. And he is remains God even at the conclusion of what is sometimes referred to as the New Testament era. He is God forever He is to be praised forever. Amen. Hallelujah. Let's pray. Father, you are so good and so worthy of praise. You had a plan since before the foundations of the world. To call to yourself a people whom you love, care for, provide for, protect To crush your bride's enemies, to crush those who are in rebellion against you and your word, the truth of who you are and what you teach and what you've instructed us to proclaim. We thank you that you're so, so good to us. That you have a character that is impeccable. Help us to take solace and security in that, to always lean upon you. To not work to do things in our own strength, on our own timetable, but to to rest in the assurance that you've got it all worked out. And yes, you call us to obediently be involved in the world, to have our hand to the plow. But you're the one who brings about the harvest. Thank you for reminding us of these truths. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. I'm going to shut down the stream. Thank you for watching and or listening, whether live or Or later if you have a podcast and Odyssey or Sermon Audio or someplace like that. By the way, a little tidbit of trivia for you. Next time you're at a social function, you want to impress your friends. You ever wonder why sometimes You see how Louis spells an H, and sometimes you see it spelled with no H starts with an A. When it spells an H that's a nod to the Hebrew spelling and pronunciation. Hallelujah! And what's with A, that's a wink and a nod to the Greek spelling and pronunciation. Alleluia. So that was for free. Not charging for that one. Till next week. God bless.