You know, spare the rod, spoil the child, you know, and then the husband should treat the wife like the the Christ treats the bride of Christ and all these sorts. And I know the the Razbies do some of that as well. And uh but it it doesn't and it actually is diabetic friendly. So that's my tip for you. One of them whom I owe an apology, I'll explain why in just a second, so uh that's a little teaser for you. And then we might transition into uh some other things that are kind of related to it as well. The first things is I would contact uh Homeschool Legal Defense, phenomenal organization, and they will tell you exactly what you can and cannot do in your state, in your county. And the children can do themselves, they just have to check on them. If you're thinking about it and you're afraid, contact me, go to household of faith in Christ. Uh tips for making sure the family unit is cohesive and on the same page. I haven't counted them, but there's been quite a few shows on issues related to parenting and and marriage and that sort of thing. Well, so where how did that end up striking you? uh the US population consumes more sugar than any other population in the world by pounds and tens of tens and hundreds of pounds more sugar. I I wouldn't imagine somebody could beat my wife out on this, but if anybody does that I know, it's my daughter. sometimes caused by sugar. Some aches and pains are related to that uh youthful uh exuberance for life. Laura Ingalls Wilder books. Uh in in pastoring roles at uh l area house churches. And then but I was still drinking some soda. this Y E A with J. Get your homeschooling caps on. he and his wife founded years ago and that his son Daniel is involved with as well, called Conquered by Love Ministries. uh more on the south end of Frederick County, at least most weekends I think that's uh where they are. uh us hey to do you know what is what is dad's role. You don't be intimidated. You know, you don't have to pay more to live in a district that has good schools. You don't have to worry about that. you know th that they feel that the wife is not doing properly in front of it's undermining her efforts. That's we just come to expect it in this country. And we have a peer group and that sort of thing. Maybe what, twenty-two? I don't know, calculus and you know, hard math and real science. I got some things I want to say, but I will say this in the time I have remaining 'cause one scenario uh that I have experience with, my family does, uh that isn't necessarily the the norm is can you homeschool a special needs child, particularly if they're profoundly affected in special Yeah, but it but it's just wrong. uh a website for their uh organization we're talking about all these different family issues. Hey, you know, maybe I can do this on the Saturday evening or I could do Saturday morning. called Conquered by Love Ministries online at ConcordBylove. It really starts with family worship. ten bucks per month, it's not very much. So but uh you gotta get the rules. homeschoolers that get together, different families that get together and and have share resources. you know, protected as as as best as you might be able to do otherwise in your mind anyway, and to to surrender that to to take it on can be a real burden, but it it can I think it can be done And there's a lot of resources and a lot of support, so don't be afraid to take that step. So we'll depart from it. Yeah, we've we've desired it and considered it and been close a few times. uh we gather prepared we have a certain amount of scripture that we uh uh go before through beforehand and then we have a time of study and discussion and then we have a fellowship meal and uh time of worship and next the ones next one we record the October's I went to work. Where's God? He's involved with a a a group of families that rotate the houses they meet at in Adams County, uh Pennsylvania. You know, when those buildings came down, the Pentagon got hit, the plane crashed in Pennsylvania. A lot of times when people are asking asking this question, they're um they're thinking about who they maybe want God to be or um the rest of his life. fought against the Muslim world. Are you a good enough child of your parents? When did this become your focus? and act properly and and be functional as God intended us to be. uh involved in in a house church up in Pennsylvania in Adams County area. living as well. content, their behavior was exacerbated in the ootlets. country. sweetener and even from honey we kinda eliminate that. and do things that we wanted them to do. And stuff, right? all the sugars and salts to the side. taste like. and the the spice or whatever and and they're and they're like, Oh, this is kinda bland. She grew up in the depression as as uh um you know in the depression era. and then you have a fall. and and does a really great job, but it's amazingly fragile. my uh nieces and nephews, they came to our house and they're like, you only allow us to have one snack, one sugar thing a day? And it's hard to go from having sugar as your fingertips all the time to nothing. They're dragon and so they're grumpy. And yeah, these days I'm still addicted to sugar. over the place or we certainly didn't have this, you know, corn syrup stuff that we do now. It was special to have the sweetness of an apple, you know, in December, especially, right? perspective. uh to get it from point A to point B. And uh, you know, it's uh you grind your own wheat. make a fruit topping as opposed to maple syrup. And certainly you can go to conqueredbylove. You need to repent, the kingdom of God is at hand. and stuff. Talk it out while I'm gone. Because what are we talking on this one? House churching buttons. That's particularly pertinent because we've been talking about the resources they have available in recent weeks, and we're going to be doing that again this week, talking specifically about homeschooling, and I want to really drill down on the uh more emphasis on the role that dads should have in homeschooling more so than anything else. a kind of an interesting house church organism. uh Conquered by Love Ministries, go to their website and look at the resources. conferences. And I think that now we have entered a season of American life where it is a necessary idea. Me and my wife, we both work, or there's this situation, that situation. Now those who are running to make a difference in the school board, they're running for office and all that sort of stuff, I I'm rooting for them. poison. had to be structured workers benefit from good physical therapy. I think that there's you know, probably a temptation for a lot of dads to just say, you know, that's not my not my area, not my not my zone. um certainly for for each family. And um be able to at least have that foundation to be able to have homeschooling to work. Um, if you would, like a two-pronged thing, talk a little bit about your experience as a dad who's got homeschooled kids, and then also talk about what Steve was just addressing, the need for community and what your role, what that has looked like for you and your family. that we all kinda as a society grew up with are all things working against and the and tell the average family, Yeah, I hear what you guys are saying on the radio, but that's just not realistic for me. other countries from Africa, from Jamaica and they'll have th three or four families living in one house for several years. country and we we go to a different place. teach the kids. Dad is usually the breadwinner, if that's the case. principal coming in and starting teaching a class. going on so we can get a better understanding and come alongside his wife as in this role as a as a guide and and leader but not as a micromanager Um it drives me crazy to think about um trying to come up with everything, you know, trying to figure out what to teach my Um they have to have interactions with other people that have logical um conversations, godly biblical conversations, because that's what builds the character. Um had no education, couldn't read or write. And and you know, Ben Carson and his brother were both labeled as never going to be able to succeed in anything because they were so terrible kids because they had a broken family and nobody poison. the uh sermon, uh Children of Caesar. That's not gonna keep them from heaven. in heaven. needs and the answer to that is yes. was younger. He accomplished things that we were guaranteed by the system he would never be able to learn to do. Morningish. We can finish up the homeschooling because homeschooling and home churching do kind of go together, so we can kind of mis mix them together. sort of stuff. in October. Anything good at help? get isolated in the home territory or small very small network. So they don't get tempted to do things that they shouldn't be doing. back to back, uh if we're doing an arc of shows, which is more normal. don't have a mom and a dad. or or you know getting a scholarship or something like that that they can get maybe through the uh the government run school system that they might not feel they can get through a homeschooling. I think it might be getting worse. So you're laying the groundwork and surprising your kids with hey next week we're pulling out of school is not a good idea. something that's closer to an idea idyllic situation which is not the n norm in America anymore. with them. and they will come and defend you to the death. We have you know, our family has been involved in in the in other families and in the lives of other families that where there is as a single parent trying to wanting to and you know making every effort to home school and and so there you know yeah there is there is help for for those who are are willing to ask. imagine you're you're feeling I can barely do it now and school becomes almost like childcare for you as well. It's really hard and we've given a lot of information last week's show and this week's show and you might be thinking, I might remember all this. But I I I know David and Imran, I can I can share I can you know give them your phone number or something, they can call you and and and they can help you give you some real advice and coach you little bit and get you started, uh at least to give you a realistic picture so you can have all the information you need before you make a permanent decision to not do it. years. Okay. thing. of things. your house. of everyone, of children, of parents and and so forth. have a rhetorical question, but actually listen to why did they do that? Kinds of things to deal with once you adopt it. emphasize when we did that show is that they have special needs, but so do you. challenges in your life. son is more able and hilarious compared to me, I can tell you that. uh uh bakers does. in the morning and one today. vacation. And we fellowship into the evening and all are welcome. uh meet or four o'clock. Sure. That either brings people to Christ or chases them away. Your guide warning to let my pet go to heaven, then I don't want to talk to you. I believe sixty people died as a result of their injuries that night and uh 400 plus other people were injured. uh these horrible atrocities happen, natural disasters, man's inhumanity to man, these sorts of things. I think they try to change things up on occasion to uh to confuse and throw me off descent. Something like that. people are if someone's asking questions they're trying to analyze their um you know and and that's the way that a lot of people try and manage their feelings. um you know, some idea that they have that they you know they hope God is rather than considering that that God is is who he is and um And so if they're wrestling with, well, do I even want there to be a God? being led by the Spirit of God and to prayerfully be able to take this individual from a crisis and say a particular scripture and just broad brush everything and it it really can do much more harm than good. where somebody turned completely away from God because of his personal. You can if you want to weave that into what you're gonna say here, that might be good. Welcome for somebody to pat our back, to hold us, to hug us, to have uh have some solid the solid ground under our feet. need to depend on on God, you depend on yourself. uh i it brought more people to church than any other time in history. and bringing uh you know the the the the knowledge and wisdom of the true God there. comfort looking for reassurance. from church. tangible example. Am I trying to get to here? Um and it is uh and so that's why your mom has and your dad they have to correct you and and and teach you the right way, but uh that doesn't make everything just go away and be good, and so it has to be it has to be taken care of by God in a permanent September you're getting a pristine preview of these on on Facebook. kind of finish our elongated series that we've been on. if we don't end up talking about it in in in our recording session here. uh getting uh the material out there. And healthy meals, it still tastes good, learn how to transform your diet and eat healthier. and when we cut sugar out, their whole behavior changes. Um it was it was remarkable. It took a long time to get to that point. And she loves things that are really spicy. in the wintertime come from California or Florida. distributed within the local stores. I want to swing back to something you hinted at earlier, Imran, on the very first uh salvo that you offered onto the show, talking about you noticed the change in the behavior of the kids. uh um all that to sugar anyways. paper. And all we might need to do is give 'em an apple instead of some high fruit toast corn syrup a drink, right? causes and having that in everything. is is really detrimental to people's health. has sugar. they actually pass uh they had some law or something that that prohibited c uh Coca-Cola and Pepsi from bottling with without corn syrup in this country. young guy in my teens and twenties and very physically active and stuff, I definitely noticed the the the extra pep in your step if you had a you know a a Coca-Cola or something or something It's just it's you know w we have grandkids and I can tell when the grandkids were having all the cake and ice cream coming from a party or something and then she's having a sleepover and dinner were really Pakistani cooked meals that didn't really have any sugar at all. Laura, aren't you gonna eat your apple? that point. really what it comes down to. Um so it's been kind of really kinda neat, but in some pe in some cases it does cause headaches in some people in migraines. Contact me. Like if my wife on rare occasion, you know, oh she wants to treat me, she'll get me something I really shouldn't eat, it's gone in a day and a half. or not. time. Uh and one of the books, the or you know, booklets, whatever, the r I I'm not sure what you want to call them, but I I want to let you know that if you go and get the resources from Um I think that homeschooling has always been a kind of a it's been at least a neat idea. for hours a day, every single day during the school year. poison it will kill your child spiritually it will kill your child emotionally it will kill your child over and over again and it doesn't matter how much salt it is it's still work if possible. I know as well. Um and then y you know, and be uh be be aware of of what's going on. Um but uh but yeah it it's it's important to to be aware and and and as involved as possible and that's you know that's gonna look different. um the the work that his his wife is doing uh to um you know and and the the time and the energy and the involvement that that takes with the kids and then uh and stuff, but it's a less exclusive neighborhood. Uh those are hard life change paradigm shifting choices, I get it. and sharing a bedroom, the whole family. debt and not be in that cycle of always trying to uh service debt and always trying to service you know trying to catch up. better because that's who we're are who we are, but we need to have private conversations and ask instead of tell, we need to ask. It's like an eight-year-old, I think, right? What's what's what what what are the processes they should be thinking about? and the social dynamic and stuff. my kids day by day and and that's not that's a that's an easy hurdle to overcome. you 'cause you said that. don't have any godly character doesn't build you a social life. and uh your ability to communicate with anybody at any level. do a do her book report every week. Ask another question. He's he's charming and got a personality and he's enjoying life and there's so many good things there. And what I was gonna ask you next show, if possible, when you introduce our churches, um no no no no, hey you meet sa uh Saturday evenings. Easy. You know, let 'em marry. and uh teaching tools that Imran and his wife and and their son Daniel have uh have uh been putting use now for decades, I guess Uh and and so I I didn't count them. uh before the show is over. We were talking about uh homeschooling, the role of dads in homeschooling, the issues that families face in homeschooling, and I set up this I this uh this fictitious family, which might not be all that fictitious, it might be a real family that exists like this, a mom and a dad with three kids Anyway, welcome to the Faith Debate. So I wanna real quickly p put a bow tie in some of the things we were talking about last week. you know, Buck or the uh young lady who's uh you know beginning to ha be feel her womanhood and feeling like I I can make my own decisions situation the pigger and go for it. um a a teachable moment as far as you know having a discussion with with your your children. Um but uh just considering the that picture in principle, um you know I I'd say it's it it sounds like it is a um you know, the the idols of this world, that's gonna be difficult to do. a lot of attention and then 2020 happened and all of a sudden a lot of eyes got open and a lot of people probably were like, well maybe it'll go back to normal and here we are two years later, like, you know, it's not going back to normal. and home schooling and what can be done and what what you know is better for you and help them to come to that decision because if they come to that decision then you're much more likely to have their their buy-in as opposed to forcing them and having a fight uh and is now done and he's gonna he's going off to like trade school or junior college or something. music to be able to say okay because then it will be apparent to the child that yeah if I'm gonna walk in obedience I can't no longer be in Babylon so just uh through my c my contact information on my website uh is more easily accessible to you and then I can funnel you to uh David or Imran or if if Steve's open to it, uh you know if he if he wants I can even go from there. The families were weird, the kids were weird, they were weird. anymore. All right, uh real uh quick on this because uh we did a series of shows where not everybody in this panel was here. become easier as a parent. What are what's a good tip for helping your children to be emotionally healthy and stable? That you you're doing all the things that Christ does for us. and steal the mic for that one because uh you know I've got a uh soon to be thirty year old uh uh special needs young man in my house. You know, you can give up that responsibility if you're not taking it seriously and not doing it, then somebody else has to step in. learning always growing always and a cycle as I said the systems to keep the things going. ninety seconds. Actually actually we do ours first. Anyway, uh that's all the time we have for now. But you, you know, it's your first time in the studio, and I don't wanna make you feel so there were a couple times I couldn't tell. question really. said no dogs don't go to heaven. Pretty formative time that all right. And then it got like deep-sixed, like an 8-6, it like just disappeared, nobody talks about it anymore. somewhere around 40 years plus experience of pastoral experience in the room to talk about this issue. Um but I I think I think one of the first questions to to ask, you know, this really is to say well who um tragedy, they're actually you can think of that as a blessing. If you love money so much you're depending on your own money and your own things and you have no reason to depend on God. this world. no speaking against the experience that those people had. And they pray with people and they proclaim the truth of the gospel and the need for Jesus and and the and what is the reality about God and how He works in the world and and and all of those sorts of things, then good things happen. I would like to think that the four churches that are represented in this room right now are exceptions. Because God made everything, and he knows the answer to that question. I'm not seeing what you guys do every week, but I'm have every reason to believe that you are exceptions, and I like to count myself among the exceptions. and they're gonna live with that lie for a period of time, maybe until their grave. A lot of people were told to stay away from church. And we reinforced that. the hospital. Pet and and and how you would handle because I don't know what you guys believe about pets in heaven or not. How do we pastorally handle that in the mind of the seven-year-old, the evil that has happened? that that something has has has disturbed them and uh there's there's probably a a a deeper issue going on, you know. gospel and what an open invitation you have. by love. Um yeah, your your wife was involved in founding that as well. In Adams County. I don't I can't remember why we work. the house so she was much more in tune with what's happening with the children and so she realized that that's what we do. to only natural fruits as any sweeteners for for a long time and really helped our children I think grow healthier and be uh much in much better mental health and ability to listen and observe and is actually uh at least as devoted to healthy eating as my wife is, which is saying something. I had this sounds like an exaggeration. All the the and we would go and spend summers at my grandma's house and they would be cannoned from morning till night because that's what sustained you through the winter time. products did. But then there's also the crash. Either one of you? that. you know, sometimes we'll go out and maybe have a small little piece of something, a little cake or a pie, but during the week I stay away from it. and we need to take care of it. allergies as far as I know. Uh so that it's not as prone to like mildewing or something like that. in the grain. handling it. that it changes something about the head of the kernel or something and it makes like the gluten more like there's there's a a higher concentration of gluten I don't have when it's in that or if neighbors and friends somebody's selling it over. Sounds good. Steve, formerly known as Jaeger Jurger, is the man whom I own owe an apology, because last week I referred to him as Steve Yeager two or three times or four or five times. then go for it. We're sending our kids to be salt in the schools. One of the things that we had to really reconcile early on, my wife and I, as our kids were coming up, because now I have adult children and now grandchildren. who's, you know, carrying that out on a day-to-day basis, but to say, okay, what are uh you know, how how do I want my children to be instructed and Yeah, theoretically. Extremely difficult. And a a lot of everybody in this room probably is familiar with the Little House on the Prairie TV show. that in six in sixth grade. to go after is is missing that going to keep your child from going to heaven? Mine has a website, Household of Faith in Christ, uh dot com, that's household of faith in Christ. Tammy and Imran fell in love, raised a family, and decided to start an organization called Conquered by Love, because they were Conquered by Love. conquered by the love of Jesus Christ and conquered by their love for one another and conquered by their love for their children and they decide to share that love so you can conquer the world with love yourselves. Um but typically we'll do you know two, three, four, five shows sometimes on kind of the same topic and I know people will listen to all of those kind of back to back, uh listen at double speed and get through like five shows in an hour and boom, you know. uh you know I'm gonna be driving soon. at play there that isn't going to be the same as for the third grader, for example. Uh and so to say, okay, you know, what but what what do we value as a family? Um, you know, and I think with a ninth grader, you know, you're you're probably having uh I mean if you're all of a sudden having conversations about the the the culture and and uh just the relationship, build the relationship with your children first. speak. mind um before when we talk about homeschooling you have to know the r laws of where you are the way you live and know what the not only state laws are, what the county laws are. You don't you need to guide them more than teach them. towards uh the other person recognizing your own frailties. them to adjust their striving from each other to striving against evil and uh going in that one accord. A uh what we did is having a God given pecking order. uh we did real recently. where you build it and it's completed. ish so five thirty to nine ish. Yeah. When this show airs, we will have just passed a few weeks earlier the the anniversary of 9-11. But I wonder if they will be, because it's one of those stories that was horrific when it happened. The horrible shooting that took place at the country concert in Las Vegas five years ago yesterday house churches uh in the region. Is this evidence there is no God? Um which I you know it's not it's not the not the right approach. some some real wisdom and understanding from above and that's something that needs to be tackled because we have all experienced where people just come and make these blanket statements. with uh Steve Jurgers and uh now we're gonna hear from Imran Razby and uh Steve mentioned like the highly emotionally charged situation and when I mentioned to you guys before we started this show that you know what the top was going to be uh you shared an emotionally charged situation This pet just died and he asked his pastor or his parents' pastor, um, will my dog go to heaven? And we've seen this the last couple of years. And those who are going to the churches, they're not getting what I just said. He made you in his image. And if you want to hold in your heart the idea that well that means I'm going to be re reunited with uh you know with uh Rufus, my my my pet beagle, um I I don't think there's any harm in that. You might be wondering also, why did Rufus die at all? rip the toy out of a friend's hand because you wanted it more, you know, than you want to be a good friend. It was on 9-11 back in 2001. Um you um conquered by love has has out there that we've relate to uh healthy families. So the same thing with our bodies. and just the relationship between us and the adopted children. My wife would repro kinda rebuke her and say, Honey, there's no food in your food because it's all chemicals and um taste enhancers. She should come to our house. the flavor. So in fairness, do people have an excuse to throw a little bit of uh salt on their tomato because it's so plastic tasting at the store? But that leads to the behavior because we have so many kids now we have kind of a ADHD epidemic almost in in the country, it seems A highly sugared kind of item with the participant as caffeine too. Like almost immediate. So we cut it completely out. so excited that she gets an apple. Because first it was given to the soldiers and then somebody looked at it and said, Oh wow, look at this. home. So like if I'm the one doing the shopping or something, I'm not gonna come home with a bunch of sugary crap because it's sugary crap and I don't wanna pay say mu pay money for garbage. You can leave that open if you want, because it's just getting warm in here and it's it's it's late enough now that nobody else could turn downstairs to make any noise, so we should be guys to I gotta change the plan. Good men to talk about that here. or electrical or I'm an engineer or I'm a doctor or whatever. And you know, I was a construction worker. coming in. COVID shut everything down. You know, in the in the overall studies. They don't. And so there there's that there's a longstanding historical model for that. um, you know, a third grader, a sixth grader, a ninth grader. He felt his his his Christian worldview was being disrespected by the teachers pretty consistently and he got frustrated and uh he pulled himself. And the discussion of those worldviews, the biblical worldview, I think is getting them on the same page in And he was a junior. I really didn't have anything. Uh and I was mentioning to the guys who are on the panel here who I'll introduce in just a second how you know other horrible things happen. 25 plus years of house church experience. God. But God is not. emotional s uh charged moment uh takes real uh prayer And so the church has to have the right response. to really bring people back together because the current system and the way it is set up is actually failing. The Bible clearly says, forsake not the assembling of yourselves. uh in the renewed creation. That's what happened when you when you leave. We're not going to be talking about that today though, but in in upcoming weeks we will be talking about something in the queue, so um uh Imran and you can let Daniel know and I'll let David know it from making the books and distributing and and really uh going all over the country and speaking about it, our whole family has been involved. um house church organization. uh much healthier for you. Everything tasted like so. set aside your stock. uh the how risky that is because the fly chain isn't uh it it's very w when when it's well oiled and humming along it's very efficient Next thing you know, she's bouncing off the walls, can't go to sleep, you know, the sugar. Um you know, all the signage everywhere, allergic to this, allergic to that. the sourdough bread has really been a hit. Coke. I probably should have uh confirmed that, but I just know the baseball player Steve Yeager felt the same way, I think, right? The Lord and I met my wife. Your children are in harm's way if you send them to the government-run pagan public school system. Homeschooling has become a necessary idea. and which made it so that my wife was able to stay home with the kids. It is a real I mean the particularly on easier parts, right? So some practical things, maybe it does mean you have to figure out how to live in a uh smaller house or in a slightly different area, uh th that's maybe still kind of in the community where you recognize you know where to go shopping. They've got three kids, a third grader, a sixth grader, a ninth grader. then it is easier for that child to be able to kind of go with the flow, so to speak. Really? And David Forresty, I'm Troy Skinner. I said what I said, you said what you said, and it got people in the audience go, Yeah, that's the way I think too. And then filling any gaps on parenting and uh and marriage and the I I guess I I didn't realize I got more passion than I thought I took the mic a lot more hog hugged the mic and didn't do that. The following program does not necessarily reflect the use of the staff and management of WFMD Once upon a time, Imran met Tammy. They might not put but if they do buck hard, I guess you just gotta manage that as you would any difficult parenting situation and figure out what's best for you and your situation, right? And now I know a whole bunch of kids that are are homeschooled and percentages, what is it, probably uh close to 10% of kids are probably homeschooled now. The homeschool kids that I meet, they're way, uh as a general rule, are way more well-adjusted and social and capable than the other kids. happen kind of a thing. Um I've done shows in the past on the anniversary of nine eleven talking about it, but it's been a little while since we've tackled that. And a few weeks ago I mentioned the show, the Faith-Base Show that aired on Sunday, September 11th, 2022, was obviously the anniversary of 9-11, 2001. go through and listen and see where this person is coming from because it comes accusatory because they don't understand. and trying to figure out who God is and you know bring it to a place where they're able to come to Jesus. We'll talk about music on a different show later when Daniel's here. So all those things we we wanted to live healthier and my wife was was feeling that she felt better when she w didn't have sugar, but almost all the foods in in the US have some sort of Man, my knees ache more. So I wonder how many uh if we're not gonna get any sponsorship from Pfizer on this show anytime soon I guess. You've I'm sure you've had you've thought about these things. start a whole new supply chain and how to, you know, streamline it and uh you know, so it makes you wonder with all the allergies, all the reactions. you know, uh diet really pop and make the kids and everybody happy. Oh my gosh. They're outnumbered, they're outflanked, they're outgunned intellectually, depending on their age and where they are and their spiritual development. But trust me, if you care about like the Bible, you care about Christian worldview, you care about your kids growing up to be normal Um, and so I see this is not something that you're out of the fight once your kids are grown up. uh you know, self-employed uh individuals versus being uh relying on the system because Um you know what uh you know what what world view do we want to make sure is uh being put forward? They you know, light's gone on in their head, like, I can't do this anymore. If you look at the standardized test scores for what those are worth, the homeschool students are always far outperforming the pagan school system. Absolutely. If that is your one litmus test test, then you can get away get rid of a lot of garbage in this life and really focus on what the true uh He's in the southern part of Pennsylvania in Adams County. Right? Yeah, that like that master, you know, uh uh you know Yoda type of uh advice for for marriage. What? So same kind of idea. So so I didn't want to you know I so I've made that mistake in the past. Yeah. told him that yes it's called kid as a kid like six, seven years old, um my dog was dying, so will my dog go to heaven. I am Troy Skinner. then your answers to what that horrific evil is all about, like though there either is no answer or there's no good answer. Let's be clear about this. part of may migrating out of mainstream Christianity and going into more of a home ch uh church type of setting, there's other aspects of life that kinda come in with that. I have no idea and I've come to a pre now we have people who come to the house for a meal or something and a lot of them don't always appreciate the food because they're so used to the salt and the sauces and Well I grew up having a dessert with every meal. I'm not above being corrected when I'm wrong. One day, I'm gonna find out if that's true. They're just saying this. Hop up hop around. All I can say, and I'm going to say this in a shock, I'm going to I'm aiming for shock value here. Do you even know what they have to handle? So on that note, we'll let one of the other people speak because we're both very passionate about that. And one of the things that we had to really count as a cost is that we, by the grace of God, made it. curriculums that that go from and I you know I'd say 'cause there are a lot of parents who tr say, you know, I want I want to I I'm find or join within a community that has the similar pillars of faith and belief systems and you have other children of the same age It absolutely is poison. We pulled him from the system. Not from life experience. uh the home church or the foundation of the family unit to being able to have Christ as the center and the worship And they might have been a little bit off beat, a little off the beaten path of what was passed for normal socialization stuff, but they were pretty normal. You know, parents are eight-year-olds, like they're an eight-year-old, parent, you're nine-year-old, like they're a nine-year-old, you have to adjust how you parent your child as they grow and develop and mature. This will greatly help you to help them uh advance the way they should and avoid some of the rebellion you might get uh in the latter years of their time in your But ten thirty we eat and we just fellowship and worship together, but it's a day of rest. They don't understand uh the legal grounds that uh the enemy has in this world. He died he died an atheist and uh you know it was very sad but he would not even have the conversation. Um today w this is an area that I that I remember because years ago now, uh before Imran became a regular fixture on the Faith Debate panel, uh he was a guest years ago when we were talking about uh And uh my wife and I felt that we always wanted some land and be able to kind of grow our own food and grow our, you know, have our animals and So, you know, when you have your animals, your cows, your chickens, your fresh eggs, your stuff out of the garden, um it's And all the chemicals and everything that's in it. does not has actual cane sugar in it as opposed to corn syrup. Yeah. Steve said he'll I mean uh Dave said he'll be here in five four minutes. Ah no. And many dads would come and say, Well what is our role in homeschooling? Families who are already homeschooling have been homeschooling. And they they were far better educated even at their current level than she was because she couldn't read. Yeah. It's loose. Yeah, so I guess what he's saying is the all the homeschool kids are just as weird as they always were, but the rest of the world has fallen so far. I mean one of the direct commandments from the Lord. Yeah, you know, it's the day Jesus rose from the dead, so it seems it seems an appropriate day. A couple of times you have something to say, but you just gotta grab it and be ready. Five years ago yesterday, there's no mistaking that evil. Who does who does God say that he is? You know, heck, right now even. My problem is if it's within my sight, like I will eat it. Ugh! It the the the dad has to, I think, uh one really, really value uh We not only demand all these things, but we expect all these things. Now the some dads do home school and the and the and the mom works and that's fine and it's whatever God calls you to and that's not a big deal. will, if they homeschool, their kids will be superior in most cases, like 95% of the time, than the average student that's graduating from high school. It shows how the world has fallen and how much the light is light and the dark is dark. And you're not going to be married tomorrow to the person you're married to today. Uh ballpark and Ron's been doing his for I don't know quite a while now. But not just any old uh evil. Yeah, I I I uh I agree with the the spirit of what you said and some of those uh specific examples that you that you use. It opens up our hearts to be receiving at least some comfort from somewhere because we're seeking comfort. You've got a young child who's had a do your pet die and they ask you, Is my is my pet going to be in heaven? You know, and so it's hard hard for sometimes for people to say, okay, what what is it that I want? So it was now you can apple on Christ Christian, you might as well give them coal and they're stopping, right? Get my contact information at householdofinkrist. what what the finances are going to be able to do and where they're going to be able to go. They actually always go to the lowest common denominator. Hey guess what, kids? Right, yeah. Yeah, that was actually a big theme in one of the shows that we did, right? So we did, which uh we actually touched on already in this week's show. org and that is an organization founded by Imran Rasvi. Absolutely. I don't think I've ever heard of adiospells now at all. Yeah, and that can I think look like uh being very involved in maybe selecting the the curriculum, right? Yeah, so three more years and you're ready to at least start looking because I think it's yeah and again this is something we can talk on the radio show, but I think it's important for children to get very young. Like is there a point of no return like you know what? And they might surprise you, I have a young man who was part of our uh church uh gathering and high school student, and he got so uh discouraged by what was going on in the schools and what he's being taught and Uh I knew some people that were homeschooled way back then. their development. So uh I'm gonna go in the order that I think everybody meets. So we started looking around and and doing that and then uh we saw a a drastic difference in behavior under the children and again she was the homeschool mom and I was working out Like you said, all these multi-syl syllabic words you're like, I have no idea. We have a gluttony problem in general, but then that's that's exacerbated by what we're gluttonous in consuming with all the sugar and salt and stuff. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Adoptive adoption and children and parents and family unity and so forth. I've had some release direct conversations with people and they say, Well, but you don't understand it's hard and you know And in addition, you guys are involved in uh like a cooperative program where a whole bunch of homeschooling families get together and you're very instrumental and involved in that as well. Now she couldn't teach them, but she guided them in the right place and they were able to get in public schools. Late morning. Save it's not quite ready yet. So again reinforcing with the what the right thing. We'd love spikes. And so I grew up in a house that was loaded with all sorts of salty stuff. It's just it's really amazing. Yeah. I think a little more I wanted to talk about those and we'll carry over and we'll begin uh next week's show finishing up some loose ends on this topic I'm gonna try to flip them. Okay. Yeah, you missed it. But one of the things also is you're not an anomaly anymore. We talked about getting into connecting with your child, getting to them at the at the heart level, emotionally healthy children. I think we did thirteen shows on these issues, if I'm not m counting this one if I'm not mistaken. But what happened was many, many people dropped to their knees and prayed for the Muslim world and there were dreams and visions and Christ working in many amazing ways in the Muslim world to bring people to Christ Uh up in Pennsylvania. And so we had lots of snacks but all was was fruits. So it does create behavior problems, uh concentration problems and really rebellion because th it's an addiction. If you have a one quick or two quick tips of how to make what would feel mostly like a blander My wife started, you know, raising the sourdough, putting it out, letting it ferment, you know, and then And one of them is called Dad's Role in Homeschooling. I mean if by the grace of God to be able to have uh enough income coming in so that that single income, which is a real challenge today. Maybe you can go to anywhere the property taxes are lower. Yeah. So for you it'll seem seamless. Examine yourself and and uh make sure that you're you're adopting not for selfish reasons, not to fulfill your own desires, but because The next couple of shows they did had to do with household organization, keeping things uh running on schedule, keeping the trains going, and uh and then uh healthy families, which uh No. And so we always had gluten, but it was it was a smaller amount so we could handle it. You know, what about that? I sure heard a lot when I was a kid though. I mean far out it's not even close. Do you have too much sugar today or something? They be they become abnormal in a positive sort of a way. I think uh I think it's good to ask ask questions of people who are trying to wrestle with some sort of difficulty. Yes, that's really exciting. And I was gonna say we're putting them on like Ritalin or I'm not sure what the uh in vogue uh drug of choice is these days. I gotta uh get it's gonna take me like a minute and a half to get it reset. But we actually around this time last year we did a series of shows actually talking about house churching and stuff. Yeah, no, I I a couple of things I you know what Steve said I think are are super important, um which is uh you know Steve continues to put the pressure on Imran by quoting the scripture. And I pay the price. You you you treat them the way you would be treated under taking their situation into account. And we are uh built and and uh and made uh and God has made us to strive and we're supposed to be striving towards God and away from evil. Yeah, communicating plainly people's strengths makes sure you're on the same page with that, right? We start a little earlier uh on occasion, but uh typically five thirty we're usually done every the last person is usually out of the house by about nine o'clock Uh I really try to uh moderate, you know, everything in moderation and um All right. We don't know if it's true. Can't believe I would do such a thing. There might be somebody listening, you know, who's this exactly fits them, but hopefully it's going to touch enough bases that the the responses we give will be helpful. Notorious is the right word? So get more details about us, but if you want to get a sneak peek, go to Household of Faith in Christ dot com. The relationship is the biggest part. So we meet ten thirty in the morning for brunch and everybody's welcome. Anyway. So the very first show we did on these topics, marriage, family-related kind of topics, had to do with marriage relationship. David, you want to go first? Well if you guys don't then I gotta jump in because we can't have silence on the radio when you're we're paying them, right? Uh yeah, we can always talk about it, but I feel like uh you know when there's something that's either has just happened, like when you know when the tsunami happened years ago with the Philippines and stuff, we did we did a couple of shows back then. And it it's it's one of the big uh apologetics hurdles to to clear with. Because this isn't the thing that you start talking to Christians and they're going to talk about the importance of the Trinity, they're going to talk about the importance of obedience and Well it's interesting. So uh this has been the Faith Debate on News Radio 930W FMD, Imron Rasby, Steve Yeager, I'm Froy Skinner. Yeah, health eating healthy is not a subject that I'm very I I I was like, wow. It it can be done, but it's yeah, it's it's hard. Do you deal with people in your own age group? Um So the thing is we don't deal with people our own age. But there's a lot of there's a lot of discussion with that. What do you say? Okay, so I mean uh if you have other thoughts on that particular question you can feel free to chime them in at any point but I want to transition to that other idea I threw out there. But that's a good place to start. And it it's probably in that uh last scenario that I painted, that's probably the scariest of the scenarios because you're overwhelmed by and can only imagine My advice here is similar to the marriage thing, your kids are changing. So I would like to uh you know do a more of a pastoral kind of a show, but what's the church's response when bad things I'm the pastor of a church called Household of Faith in Christ. We talk about health issues and food and eating and nutrition, those sorts of things. And and also corn syrup. They might show up at your house this week. They just don't do that. Yeah. That's what's the most important thing. Uh the special needs uh program in Frederick County uh horrifically uh failed uh our son uh when he Late morning. Yeah, it's like acting weird. You don't have to worry about it for another what two years? It was five years ago, yesterday, if you can believe it. So we're looking for answers. We basically said, yep, you're afraid to die. Yeah that's the voice of Imran Razi alineful uh Steve Yeager uh into the conversation. We only allowed sugar on birthdays or Christmas or Resurrection Sunday, that's it. And uh sugar and corn syrup are addictive properties. I'm Troy Skinner. What do you what's the advice you offer as homeschooling dads to somebody there who says, oh I'm I'm intrigued, but I don't know if my son slash my daughter, you know, depending on I think one of the you know if we're if we're gonna sort of wrestle with it, you know, at an at an intellectual level, right? Okay. I think what I might uh put myself in the spot because I'm reading the body language in the room and nobody's exactly leaning into the mic, so I'm gonna I'm gonna uh jump in here for a second. Well Facebook Live. And so she'll load things up with salt and or she'll load things up with really hot, spicy stuff, which that's probably fine, I would imagine. And and so one of my um we're at somebody's house and they said to my daughter, Anisa, who was I don't know, six or seven at the time, I said, You know, you guys don't eat any sugar, don't drink sodas, but your dad, he drinks Uh my apologies. I'm not staying in line for four people. He's selling me. I agree. Well also I think since World War Two, uh processing food to make long storage and long transportation Now it seems like every family's got at least one in it. And then when you want to address a single parent, if you if you get to the point where you where they know how to read Because they they may not entirely be aware of what they're what they're wrestling with that's inside of them. I'm not so ignorant that I don't know what date today is. But when you have uh fresh vegetables from your garden and meat that you know where it came and what it ate, the tastes are already very strong. Like within a half hour, it's like, holy cow, I shouldn't have had that piece of cake. Oh, I'm just savoring, I'm just waiting for the right moment. Homeschooling. I mean w J E it's it's German, but you know, that's that's a whole nother story. Their biggest issue a parent might have there is, well, I want them to be social. Well I'll give you an example of some not a home school. And my my wife, it was hard and she didn't have community around her. He put me on a spot for healthy living. Quick, pithy kind of idea. Uh Imran Rasvi, his church meets in the the the northern area of Frederick County up in the Thurmont area. Is this evidence that we have an impotent God? I mean, there's been all sorts of tumult in the world, and we don't see people flooding to the churches The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Well, it was mostly my wife. In fact you you can buy Mexican Coke here that has sugar in it. All of us I think. And what could you do? Yeah. So at a home school they have done several studies that even somebody within eighth grade education level There's just a mom or just a dad. So any any thoughts on keeping uh keeping the house running well, keeping good systems, any any ideas of systems that have worked for you? And then they feel awkward and these guys they can feel awkward all day long, but you know, if they've been here enough times that you've got that synergy. No, we got started late. Is there a God? If we are putting bad things inside of it, then how are we gonna actually be closer to God or or be able to think properly And then also we made sure that there was no music except classical music. Yeah, they uh they are taste enhancers, but the way mo I've seen most people, like I'll use, you know, throw under the bus right now. And then I'd have green beans. So they might act out because they've they're just bouncing off the walls with a sugar buzz, and then later on they're they're acting out because they're they're tired, they're they're moody, they're they're you know they're Because that's what you're doing. How do you navigate that as a family? He got he got his parents to sign all the paperwork, he pulled himself, and he homeschooled himself for the last two years, uh, to to finish out what he needed to do and and um They're they're phenomenal. So we do not have David Forcey with us, uh at least for for this show and we'll see if we have him in in s the next couple of shows are coming up. But the my point is those aren't just the way if you do it the way that some people, like my mom sometimes does it, you're not really enhancing the flavors, you're burying I mean literally our co a country has corn syrup in just about every product. It could be fake news. Also joined this week by David Forcey, a familiar voice to those fans of the Faith Debate fans. So that's the first thing we have to give that up. He is the principal. If that is leading family worship, you're having a time of actually discussing uh biblical values, biblical worldview, and get an idea of what it is. I think communication's super important uh and planning, you know, together particularly as a as a husband. Alright, I think what I wanna do on on this show, um let's see what date it's gonna be. And so What he didn't see the movie? I I I I I have reason to expect that that'll be part of our expectation. Are you good enough? I thought I would be driving my car and crash. And I forget which one of the stories it is, which one of the books, but in one of them, uh there's a scene about Christmas and um Laura Ingalls character, she Um the shows are relatively short. So your your response to that would be Uh community. I'm I'm only about to have ninth graders for the first time ever this this fall, so And so they might be having those conversations for the first time. Uh Imran's got adopted kids. Life is always breaking down. But as a general rule, I think that what happens when there's some traumatic experience that happens in the world or in our lives directly, we're looking for the So in that reality, home church seems to be the alternative or the response from the Holy Spirit. And so they might be a little more sassy or something because the uh the ups and downs, the mood swings that come with it. We'll talk a little bit about that. You can, you know, trade your $500,000 house for a $300,000 house or trade your $350,000 house for a It was engineer high, um at least at least for me as well. So Amran you want to go first or Steve want to go first? Yeah, I would like to just say that the real challenge is to help this person or this wave of questions that come to you is That's what we found we really don't need. Good luck finding a brand new car that you want, you know, without having to wait months for it to be made and sent to you or whatever, you know. Whatever I guess feel like waking up rolling out of bed. It's the first day of the week. Yeah, and and so yeah, you know, uh it it's almost like people ask that question trying to decide whether they whether they want there to be a God or want to believe in God or not. He loves you. So a lot of this chemical and a lot of the things that were uh infused into the general food of population You'd think I'd learn. But you know what? They should have a life mate and move forward. Yeah. And then you you were able to see the cause and effect and that is that what led it? Yeah, and GMO gen gen genetically modified is what you're talking about correctly. She couldn't correct it. So that's a good place to start is uh make sure that they are uh uh g that those needs are met, they're wanted, they're loved, they're needed, that they're um capable and uh The official stuff is like from five thirty to seven thirty on Saturday nights. So that sound good to you guys? I can't wait to hear him debrief us on that. So um welcome to the show. Are you in there? So in the same role as a dad as a dad, as a principal, there's always gonna be things that we think should be done I do. You got when you ask a child why did you do that, listen to the answer. We're actually running just a little bit over this week, so I apologize to the program director. I want to talk about what uh the church's response should be to tragedy. They went virtual. Looks like our camera's just a slightly cock eyed, but you know what? Because unfortunately we as a culture are much more dependent on what we can just go to the grocery store and buy what we want. And she was she looked at me and she looked at them and she was well he's Pakistani. We want them to be socialized, they're really in athletics, and that's important, or they want to be in the school band. But um yeah, and it's and it's not gonna happen without making it a priority and you know adjusting adjusting the expectations of, you know And uh and so um so yeah, uh and so there are very complete um But she knew that people that were successful could read and write and did certain things. Absolutely. That this is probably show, I don't know, fifteen, sixteen ish, something like that. I'm the pastor of a church in the area called Household of Faith in Christ. I'm gonna be getting a job soon. I had no idea what food really tasted like. My back hurts me more. You are fearfully and wonderfully made, but you are a marred image bearer of God, and you need a Savior more than you might even recognize. Um we ready to go? So you have a chance to say, you know, that's a that's a really good question, Johnny. Uh it it's it's it's something that's uh had to be planned for and So it it's just more even. org and check out the resources that are related to that ministry. We were talking about eating healthy. I don't know if we're s sure about Steve. And they will do that until they've got their money and be able to pay cash for houses and pay cash for things and not be in And that's one of the biggest things that really bothers me other people say people have to the kids have to socialize with the people their own age. But that's really the easier for you because it's the the when you turn this way, the cord is closer to the side. Okay. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Yeah, one of my wife's uh favorite little catchphrases is not so much anymore because uh my daughter now X Y L I T O L and actually it's been shown many studies to actually rebuild bone and teeth. So it's Steve Jurger and uh he's uh serving in a pastoral role. Just pay attention. Please take your time and actually watch that uh sermon, Children of Caesar, because we're so much into well, my kids need this and my kid needs that Hey. Do you have time to do one more at least? It was a Tuesday. They call themselves uh the Shabbat Gathering. So they have to be picked very green and to make the uh sh shi shipping time across the country and to be re And uh you know, we also do use xalitol instead of sugar. I'm Troy Skinner. In fact it'll get 'em closer to hell if they if you allow them to do those kind of things. org. Know the rules because if you follow the rules you're not gonna get in trouble. And you have it there's enough resources and there's also as David's part of a a group of uh you know All right, the second show that we did was about parenting, uh training up kids and that sort of And there needs to be, it's a very difficult process, but to sit there and painfully Then you are basically walking away from God all the time because you're day taking care of yourself. He cares for you. The answer is no. Uh that's different than going to the store because a tomato out of your own garden doesn't taste the same as a tomato from the grocery store. com. I mean this thing could go in many different directions, but to be able to have the ability to uh work and mom stay at home and You got a little C D going on. They've only got a year or two left. So I think you start with the with if you're not doing family worship, start there. And I and and Daniel's involved in working with it too now and he's not on the whole family's been involved with uh every But um those two things were the first things we did and and it was amazing the visible difference in behavior and attention span and So you know my grandmother used to can. Huge. These aren't like tomes. What is my role? Now before we get into the the the nitty-gritty of that I just want to put the cards on the table here so you kinda know where I'm coming from. Okay, that's uh you got these on backwards, it's really annoying me. And Steve had asked when you went actually to get David, uh he had asked, So we're gonna be able to talk about house church thing? I'm a powerful OM, I'll tell you, I have a dictating sugar. I was like, I don't want to live healthy. I'm talking about like the evil that captures your notice. Now we have a milking cow and so we make our own butter and so to take that own butter and put it on there and then you take the buttermilk from the butter and then you have your pancakes. No no you should have just corrected me. Yep. And if you're concerned about taking your kids out of out of uh public schools, there is a gentleman, Body Bacham. For us to do a show as many shows on a s similar theme like we have now is pretty rare. Well that turned him completely away and didn't he had no desire or interest to even h hurt read the Bible, hear about the Bible, or God or anything else for the Otherwise, people are going to find their answers in lies, or they're going to think they found answers in lies. So my wife uh cut out all sugar as the first thing we did when we adopted, and we saw an immediate change in behavior. But then we still always had dessert. An apple. Till next week. Which are we gonna talk about house churches too? David. If not this week, maybe next week's show. And that's part of the reason why we need community. He is the leader. But that community is very important also, especially as your children get older, because you need to find spouses and we Why did I open with such a soliloquy? And we talked about the third grader and sixth grader and what those big pushbacks might be. Right. Yes, it'll take some time and effort, but our children are worth the time and effort. Yeah, I I had teased it on the very first show we did tonight. Jurger actually comes from Jaeger. Alright, we're actually in the nick of time. And uh we decided to That's a good combination, by the way. So Yeah, so a lot of uh I'm I'm back up on that so a lot of uh Christians say, well, we are called to be salt in the earth. Have you read Lord of the Flies? Yeah, because when you turn your head it actually gets longer. And they're very reasonable. You can put as much salt as you want in poison, it's still poison. We're constantly changing and you've got to recognize that. And if you add other pastoral experience that we might have in the room, I'm sure we're well over well, we've got to be well over 30. They're not getting biblical truth consistently enough from most of the churches. I'm not the best at eating well. As Imran said, you look at the American food and what's on the label, you you take half the package to read what's on it. Yogi Bear, where's Mr. Because I picked that on purpose. Remember it is right on top of the text. So So the I'm going to piggyback on what David was talking about. I think I thought one of the things that I think is important is to uh Making sure you really are ready and you know what you're doing and why you're doing it. You've taken the piece of candy that you shouldn't have taken or whatever. Let's use the uh uh the answer uh I mean I don't want to make it about pets necessarily but let's use that as an example So if you're diabetic it does not raise your blood sugar at all. You'd even leave the state. No notorio not. Three years. For the radio listener, yay, well we're picking up where we left off last week, so we'll see how good your your memory is. Imran's in Frederick County, I'm in Frederick County, and David Forcy, the other voice you're going to hear today, also the pastor with the House Church in Frederick County. I want to talk about that as well when it comes to homeschooling. And then help them to come to their own idea, say, look, this is what they're teaching in school, this is what we'd like we've seen and and witnessed If you seek the good of the other person. Alright, I'm gonna rob you guys of a chance to answer on that one so we can uh you know for interest of time, the next uh coup a couple of shows we did were on adoption. Uh uh on the on the timeline schedule, Houseful of Faith in Christ is next. Yeah. What does this mean? Sure. And so when the church responds in a biblical way and they pray for people, He made all the animals. So uh we're gonna get started because we're starting late tonight. This is what green beans taste like. I mean that's worse than sugar, I think, right? Uh yeah, I mean we may not I mean we are supposed to this is our body is a temple. But let's say somebody makes them and you can you want to chime in on that? But she would just uh take a red marker and circle it uh random things all over the place and mark things. There's lots of organizations like that all over the country, all over the world, that you can share responsibilities, but then you have much more control over it. I'm starting to kind of get the idea how you how this works. What's going on there? We went to just uh fruits, uh even honey. I'm like, no, this is what it's supposed to taste like. You're gonna be this rev-nego kind of thing. And this is a a newer, you know, historically speaking, kind of an issue because we didn't have cane sugar all the time. My church specifically is called Household of Faith in Christ. I was frequenting a church out in California and I met some brothers that uh relocated back east and they said, Hey you gotta check out this church. Yeah, I mean if I was coming up all over again, what would it look like to a young couple with kids just, you know Twenty five, thirty, forty years ago, homeschooling was an anomaly. It's completely shifted. So we uh we start off right uh yeah, we meet at eleven o'clock. It wasn't a 9-11 event. That's because we live in a broken world. I eat sugar a lot more than I should, but uh we uh really restricted it for all of our kids and as they graduated out of high school we allowed them to have a little more and We'll share this mic. Um let's try to make this practical for a possible listener. Good one, David. Laundry, for example, will always be there because you're always gonna have dirty laundry. I thought somebody has something to say and I go to 'em and they're almost like their their face gets red, they're embarrassed because they like I mean I had a friend um in college. Are you a good enough parent? It's sort of like if you have a race car, you gotta put really high octane gas in there. So what was the um impetus to remove the sugar? Well Steve, I'm gonna have to disagree with you. He's quoting scripture, Remara, that put the pressure on you. So we talked about sibling relationships and like family unity. And whatever the answer to that question is, it's the right answer because he's a good God They got comfortable in that virtuality. And boy, we were told exactly the opposite of that. I know remember it very well. But we can make you better if you just follow the advice of these biblical principles that we we talk about here. Um but now I've got a little bit older and I got, you know, some I guess they didn't have a good comeback for that one, right? I mean our wife homeschools and I go to work. So anyway, that's my little piece. Yeah, so um Steve, why don't you why don't you take a stab at it? Dealing with somebody else that does have godly character and and is you know hopefully uh more mature than you will build your social aptitude It's conqueredbylove. Raz not every not everyone has a community in their own house. And I do know from experience talking to some people, there are those who will listen to some of the faith debate shows because they're short. It's changed probably thousands in Frederick County. They feel the pressure. Is this evidence that God doesn't care that much? And that was uh probably the best thing that ever happened for the Muslim world. Now eating at the Raspbees that you guys use uh different kinds of toppings for like pancakes and and things like that. Oh is that right? This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. 'Cause my wife is the one that's homeschooling. I need service now. In fact, God placed the man as the leader in the household. And it'll be it'll be a thematic show, but the but broadly thematic next week. Yeah, they can do that. And so in that sense they will be much better adjusted and uh hopefully And he just he shut down and never wanted anything with God since then. Yeah, sure. We have a website. When it comes to dealing with evil, you want there to be a God And uh Steve Yeager, he's an elder with a a group of I I guess it's like five different locations that you kind of rotate. Like there's more inflammation. They can't handle gluten. You know, these aren't like 500 page volumes you have to digest. And and I was I was in excavation and um did a lot you know we had our own business. Yeah, and those are all really good and you I I you probably stole ones I would have used. You're gonna be a successful parent if uh lead your children. Whoever is older is in charge of whoever's in that space. So we have to have the right answers. And Imran is uh a regular fiction. Just so you know, it's juror. Uh I'm Frey Skinner, the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ in the center of Frederick County. I'm gonna guess that the answer is yes with Steve. But uh that was like in the 70s. You should be afraid to die. I remember when back when um my daughter was really young, we were reading together through the uh Harvested faster. Or we're or we're at somebody else's house for a holiday gathering or something, and there's all these pies and cakes. And you say, oh, but my son, my daughter, they're going to be a witness for Christ. I I I don't think I can I don't wouldn't know how to teach them when you definitely read as kids. We can't we I think finding spouses for our children is extremely important. Um David does not have adopted kids in his family that I know of. Um you know there uh it it seems to me like a lot of Because when are we most open to hearing is when there is stress. Talk about what does the church do when there's tragedy? It's a pleasure to have you here. But when you have an actual sugar cane, it's this really big spike Steve Urger. I'm gonna take the time and I'm gonna go ask them, did you listen to the show? But as a dad's rule, the dad is a principal. I don't need to to do this. And I I use ninth grade. Well that's right. And he was not he was close, he would not even listen to any conversation about any faith You figure it's going to be one of those events that will be remembered and talked about forever. Every meal has that dessert. Okay. And how you do that? Right. Ten plus years. If you can't pronounce it, you probably shouldn't eat it. So it doesn't take much to disrupt that chain. Do we try to thread this needle and get them through the system or do we s no, it's like the analogy I used at the beginning of last week's show, you're sending it into a burning building. You've got a a a mom with no dad in the house and she's she's making ends meet barely by uh work All all oars in the water pulling in the same direction. I think the first person to meet every week is Imran. I'm to be honest, I'm not a hundred percent sure what I believe about pets in heaven. He made your pet. Um and it's just m because a lot of those countries realize that that corn syrup You don't have to stay in Maryland. What what advice where do you start maybe? We're all pastors or in elder leadership role with house churches in the area. But if that's been an ongoing thing And that might be a lot of people, because a lot of people were kind of asleep at the wheel, the culture was slipping away from us and now they were paying off And they were weird. You know, uh my knees aren't what they should be, my lower back isn't what it should be. Um look at look at David. So even a special needs child, you can homeschool. Personal example. And they might have aspirations of winning the state title on the high school football team. You can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. So we went more to natural sugars first. I because it was like that to have And now it's such a a bigger amount that we have we have a hard time. God bless. Okay. But I think there are some things that you have to establish in order to have a smooth running And uh the show on healthy living, we just did that earlier this month. Text me and make sure I'm home and not uh traveling somewhere on either missions or vacation. I was like, I think he has something to say, but I'm not sure I want to go to him because I'm not lost. And so when I got married, my wife has a much simpler uh way, you know, as far as she's using the natural flavors and enhancing those Because everything, you know how the old cliche, it tastes like chicken? Yeah. Even in this room. Yeah. You weren't introduced to like trigonomet trigonometry and statistics and things in in uh w back when I was that age it was called junior high. So I think it'd be important because if somebody's looking for a church, they they know, hey, I don't have time this time, but So I mean I guess if you've got an enterprising sixteen, seventeen, eighteen year old, they might surprise you when you have this conversation Um if you sign up I don't know a really lifetime membership, but I think it's only like eight or ten So so you rest on the Sabbath and actually start the week by worshiping on the Sunday. Yeah, and I'll and I'll s before I uh go to the other guys on the panel, I just want to say that uh if there's not a God And it makes a difference. They're not allowed to bottle Coca Cola in the US with without the corn syrup. And then she wasn't eating it right away and her mom asked her what What what's a what's a tip that you guys have used had success with? You come this way. I mean uh the stuff that they're teaching is cool. That's my opinion, and I think with it. Okay, so that's Saturday morning and then uh Steve I think yours. Those are bad things, right? And I know this is a real passion point for you, so this might be a fun show for you. And boy, if I didn't get a dessert, I was kinda cranky. Huh. But Imran Rasvi here. Spiritually, emotionally, psychologically, their worldview, you're sending them into a disaster zone, a burning building. So that helps. You know, you got a kind of an earlier education situation, a middle school child and a high schooler who might be involved in band or sports or How how old is your oldest? And as it turns out, October 2nd is the day after what will be the five-year anniversary of the Las Vegas shooting. So here to answer that question today, definitively, and once and for all, uh the great faith debate panel has So it's not not appropriate when my daughter was younger she wasn't quite the way that she is now as an adult. It's like what's going on? And uh you know, we as dads might not see all the other things that are going when we're not there. Let's turn to the uh to the sixth grader, the middle schooler. And uh he he's in a way better place and uh And you were able to address it. There's a lot of resources and the parents, even if they're single mom or single dad, can bring the resources in com, find my email address or my phone number, contact me, and uh we can All right. Uh anyway, David Forcey's uh uh been doing his house church now for about I guess three-ish years. And I and I have every reason to believe that, you know, I But joined uh joining us this week is is a good friend, I guess, of of of the Rasvies, and he's also a To be harvested faster. So we can start and I'll I can s quickly get out and let myself back in real quick. Where's the other channel going when that in? So like I said, like I teased, I I want to talk about the um uh the issue of homeschooling. But the social pressures, the financial pressures and the uh the the habits No worthy brain surgeon and uh his the gifted hands. Because today is the the last in a long line of shows where we have been making good use of the resources and books and things and ideas and And the percentages, what that I mean, I think I knew a couple of families in my entire childhood that weren't public educated That's that's that's difficult what age? Ten plus years. There's no mistaking that. And those iconic scenes of they would use the the church house as a schoolhouse during the week and all the kids all different ages are in the same room at the same time with one T But uh I briefly had some somebody in in public school, Ben Carson. com. That's what tragedy does. We extend our shelf life uh immensely. We're actually ready to uh good time. Um the setup that they have with their house church. Because you're involved in an organization that that is like nationwide. Exactly. org. Sure. And the other thing too is you uh it's not just that they get hyped up and energized by the sugar. And so she was doing it fighting the fight on her own. Yeah. And whatever's best for you, whatever's best for that pet is that's what's gonna happen Thank you very much for having me. You're on a seafood diet. I hope because you know what? They've been going to public school all these years, but now That's true, he's selling me. So real quickly, let's go around the room. Don't come to church. Because the apple season would have been over by a couple of months, I imagine. They change your behavior. And many dads would come, and these were a lot of times at the homeschool conference. I'm gonna let you guys kinda handle the homeschooling expertise, but that's my plea to you, please. And um I'm in the insurance business, I've been in the insurance business a long time, and I've had some clients from And the Rasby's they have a um You can check that out there. Like you you know the kids are you know where well you hope that you know where they are and uh they're hopefully being Do not parent your 16-year-old like they're an eight-year-old. So let me ask you this I definitely noticed that, but I didn't notice anything that felt negative other than on occasion you kind of crash a little bit. I think we're a product of of what we've been consuming. Okay. All right. They have a website, conquered by Love. We're heading down the home stretch on on this week's show so I don't have time to like uh And uh you guys meet Sunday Do I leave this open? Yeah. Hurricanes hit the the Gulf Coast and people die. And at times like this it's not unusual for people to say How do we answer that? Why why am I asking these questions? Wonder how many like Pfizer products would be unnecessary if we would just eat better foods. Proverbs says uh train up that child in the way they should go and when they're older. They're not lesser. It wasn't a Las Vegas shooting event. Are you a good enough husband, good enough wife? I was actually on Manhattan Island that day. It is. And so part of a role of a homeschool dad is to make it so that mom doesn't have to work Now David Forstay, you uh are a homeschooling dad, like your your wife who spends a lot of time with the kids and you're involved And that's kind of the same thing with home schooling and and money. You'll got it you'll figure this out. And will our pets be among those animals? Uh living without sugar But uh when we adopted um uh children we realized that their diet was abysmal. Is this something that's been an area of focus for you and the church group that you're involved with or not? Well apparently they've changed how they grow the wheat. Yeah. Ranger, where's Boo Boo? Well you can ask Troy for my number We're gonna have a fight right here. But that is no longer available now. I'm gonna go to school my whole life. I've been doing that for if I remember correctly seven years. But Tammy and I really are the ones that were behind getting the books and and And so well didn't I say Adam Scotty? Because there's not a biblical verse I can think of that says, thou shalt not eat sugar. You know, this is what the asparagus And we'll give this one to Dave when he comes in. Well, I think that's rude. And then with the with the children, you know, again you gotta get them involved and they've got to be on the same page Okay. Um what I wanted to say is that these times of stress, uh That's good. So that came out. So they can make those kinds of choices Now let's take 'em uh one at a time, the third grader. What do we tell her? You've got to recognize that you're changing and you have frailties and some of those changes aren't always for the good. Meet their emotional needs as God meets our emotional needs. So building that relationship, having k children work together, especially older and younger children, and having a Some people, you know, that's the problem of evil. And this pastor said, No, the Bible doesn't When there is no tragedy, why do we need comfort? You know, we're made in God's image, but we we we we make bad decisions and so we don't live up to that image. And it's almost immediate I think they s they say okay, but they have a long term goal. Their needs are not recognized as typical by the society and therefore they're labeled Today as this show airs is September 11th. And we've been using as our guide for that the materials that are available through Concord by Love Ministries. And even our bodies convert, you know, breads and everything else, all collect all the My knees are bothering me. Yeah, because they're like, oh, that could have really been a problem. Let's see. We got a fifty-three year old, fifty-six year old, and So sorry to keep thinking on you, but I I think that a lot of people believe that. I gotta say I n I'm not saying all of them were that were homeschooled at the time, but the all the ones that I knew Yeah, because then you go, why did God allow this to happen? Well that's called sin and that has to be dealt with and uh Especially with the GMO corn and and things like that. So there's anyway, there's something about that particular strain of wheat that's really good for mass production You got the left on the left. So the ninth grader, you got the the the the young um Seriously, you can contact me and I'm not the expert on the homeschooling stuff the way that these other guys are, but I can And then Steve Jurger uh is uh Rarely, like way, way, way down on the list would be the idea of the family eating So but it's uh all natural alcohol comes from the bark of uh trees. Huh. You know what I mean? Sorry I missed that one. So she told her kids that they had to go to the library and do That was a perfect forum to talk about all of that. That means. I think we've blessed you can't tell, see? It's kind of a problem of evil. Uh he had a very uh traumatic experience when he was young, probably seven or eight years old. Their own pastors told them to stay away from church. But hone honey we found is is still okay, so it's good. So, yeah, I mean it's it's really uh there is a a a real noticeable And I got another tip for you. Um Whatever your program is, I mean. I'm you know, cutting trees like uh David here or I'm you know putting together houses or I'm doing plants And we need um That was very good. So all right. And Imran Rasvy is uh is a pastor of a House Church and so is Steve Jurger And you Rasvy. So we feel that's a very important part of healthy Well, don't forget a lot of our vegetables All of us have some experience with homeschooling, some a lot more than others So what's going on in this area? Um if you are able to Of course go to WFMD. Uh our oldest are fifteen. What am I mentioning? Sweet little kid wanted an answer, wanted some reassurance. So I so anyway, uh we're gonna be recording a handful of uh fake debate shows that are gonna air in beginning in Yep. And in fact most of the meals had children, especially if they're they're packaged or pre done. And we have a website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Oh, I'm sorry. I think in more recent decades it was a good idea. I don't want them to become socially awkward. So you know you know what's really cool about this? And then I guess you're the you're the slacker. And then they're like uh Instead of sh uh sugar cane we went to honey as a She would tomatoes out of the garden, beans. And that was in the beginning. And so that really question came out from a lot of people asking Yeah. It's just not quite that easy. I think um he was on the right track and he said that you've got to have that conversation. It's gonna cause rebellion and cause Now maybe somebody in news media or somewhere has mentioned it, so you're like, yeah, I can believe it. I think part of the issue is what has happened with the pandemic in the last two years. My mom, she loves her salt. Although you go it sounds like you are involved, uh, Stephen growing some of your own food. They change you lose control of different functions in your body. If you would make the same, use the same excuses to send your child into a burning building. What's the first thing you start with? And that's very important in anything that you decide to Um sibling rivalry is is one of our most popular topics when we talk. I know you will. Always a pertinent topic. Uh and I say at least she might uh I'm gonna I'm gonna definitely be looking into that. And we can by the way, we can uh keep that d nobody else should be coming downstairs. Is missing public school, is missing socialization, is missing football practice or band practice, is that gonna keep them from I want to talk about the ninth grader. So this is kind of lightning round kind of stuff. Choose to love us. That's not the message. We're gonna jump right in So you can correct all the things we've gotten wrong in all the previous weeks talking about parenting and mar marriage and all that sort of stuff So I'll leave the bottle here to keep it from going and then we'll just share the mic back and forth. Because I got grandkids. The name of that movie was Gifted Hands. By the 90s, I knew homeschooling families then too, different homeschooling families. Did the weird kids look normal now? And I don't know that David and I have disagreed on that a little bit, but there is a an order of birth and You know, what do you Christians say about this? And so to try to unpack that in a very And so things you had to think ahead, you had to prepare, and you had to be able to A lot of pagans will still send their kids to school and they need to be taught the truth and instead of the nonsense that gets taught And so he's the principal. Don't just be exasperated and have a They're just less able in certain areas. Um I had a friend uh in college, some priest So when nine eleven happened, um they said there's So that will be something we're gonna talk about, but we're not talking about that today because I want us to It just doesn't last because I can't They have all these different reasons. Because it it would be a big transition, you know And and other families that value homeschool will will help. Um talk about learning disabilities. So we meet on the Sabbath. And that that's that's where the the love of money is the root of all evil because Tragedy opens up a pathway from the spiritual world to Xalatol it actually helps build up teeth and stuff, but xalitol can have some side effect And Chuck Yeager, I would have a very rich uncle. These are you know they're they're quick, they're breezy, they're they're to the point kind of things. They n they might not be able to handle what you think they can handle. He's the protector and provider, yes, that is his rule. And uh well, we're going to talk about uh the house church things here. All of a sudden I can't go to school and and and graduate with my friends. Or or a dad in a similar situation. Yeah, it it's a it's an interesting balance because I wanna give everybody a chance Nobody could mistake the evil that took place on Tuesday morning, September 11th, 2001. The only good answer comes with the idea that there really is a God. That was He's uh pastor with a house church up in the northern part of Frederick County. Now there's literally thousands of homeschoolers all over the world and We meet on Saturday evenings at 5 30, although uh at least once a month we I trust you. What are some of the biblical principles that help to tie this together from a Christian perspective? Joined in the studio by three fine gentlemen. You might be the voice of reason. So we in America are are in the land of plenty. Um but I think uh in m most uh normal uh families the the Paul says that they wish the flower of their ages. You know, what what ought we to value? Start with family worship. What happened What do you say to somebody when they come to you and say, man, was God like taking a nap Oh and oh yeah I don't want to forget uh uh the the the the better half the better looking half for sure So and and we found that the fruits really did not have the great big highs and lows that any of the sugar org, and That's true. Um but trying to homeschool by yourself without support is It's changed so much. And also life is not like a house. And when bad things happen, people get fearful. And when they didn't get it there was a problem. In fact the same product in Europe or in Asia or in South America Yeah, because I think isn't it I don't know if it's folklore or true or not, but apparently in Mexico the Coca-Cola you buy there actually has Yeah, this was in homeschooling, so get your uh He's an elder with a um I I'm hearing these guys on the radio, okay, I'm agreeing. And the one thing I'd like to really emphasize there is something I So you can't ever have something in your life that's finished and completed. Uh everybody's got uh uh home church setting situations, but we've got a couple minutes left in the show before we make You know, are pets in heaven? Although it's possible you are wrong and your family's been lying to you. We've we've just finished the show, we're about to start the next one. And the school public school system is The public school system is Yeah, but that's because the cord is on that side. But we're putting them on these uh these psychotropic kind of drugs to control their mood, to control their their their brain synapsis firing or whatever. Where'd you grow up originally? I think we got two or three. Yeah our our group meets Saturday afternoon at three o'clock. It was a more personal event with somebody lost a pet. If you put low octane gas or bad gas, the race car's not gonna run I don't know So how how fastidious are you about it? They are in harm's way. Um nowhere in your life, Steve, uh pick on And that's what we love. Sorry. You're a good man. One of the worst massacres uh in American history. Now then we went to no sugar at all completely. If you're paying attention at all. No, we've But we're small potatoes compared to what passes for the church these days Just kind of observation you noticed that when they had something with high sugar But I'm cheap, so I won't buy it. We had gotten rid of all the sugar, sodas, and everything else. Alright. They don't have one just one main location. You're working on it, you're getting there. And the other three men joining me uh for the show here today are also uh pastors or an elder uh role with David Forcey I don't know where he meets anymore. You know, what are some better ways to explain the tragedy that's happened with the loss of his We're all um It's amazing what you can find behind the the voice. Who wants to talk about that? So how do we uh And if I have something with a lot of processed sugar and stuff like that I wanted my dessert. No, I was wrong. com. And they wouldn't even talk about it. So this is the fate today. Christ first loved us while yet we were sinners. To me, everything tasted like salt The Holy Spirit's supposed to indwelling our body. They've got a particular blend of wheat now so that it grows I guess shorter Uh we would do a lot of uh workshops all over the country on One of the things I've seen a lot of times is dads come in and try to correct everything And yeah, I see this. Why do children have to deal with somebody their own age? No, they don't. Um you meet Saturday at three o'clock, I'm I meet Saturday And I was like, Well, we kinda did a series of shows on that, but you know what in this context Go ahead. And uh The first voice you heard on today's uh show other than mine was David Force he's that last voice you just heard And maybe God allowed this to happen so that that would be a a reality And once it's disrupted, boy, as we saw, like, you know, was famous infamously now a couple of years ago nobody could find toilet. And this will be a good one I you know, I The dad's not necessarily going to be the one Till next week, 167. And that should be a topic sometime. I don't know, it's a long I'll I'll see if I can count 'em while one of you guys is talking during the show, see if I can figure it out. I would add to that uh you are not married today to the person you married. Uh the one thing I think needs to be said there is uh sugar bad. Did you agree or disagree? I want them to make friends and At that point I think one of the concerns a parent might have is they're starting to learn like Great story. And uh I think that's possible. Didn't know what she was doing, but it made uh her kids believe that she was actually reading her stu their stuff And then I also, don't let me forget, I also want to talk about the family that has a third grader, sixth grader, ninth grader, ninth grader. Till next week. So my my tip by the way, if I want to contribute, my tip is go eat at Steve's house or uh Imran's house. My wife had a very good high-paying career. What do you say, Steve? And the priest sort of pastor Yeah, we we can't maybe the next show after this we might 'cause there's there's a little bit of overlap in homeschooling and halfhand. There's a lot of things we don't need. I think you start by getting to know uh Get the biblical worldview, get the biblical talk and time and It is really amazing. So in like, you know, elevator speech, right? Uh I might have miscounted, but I tried to count it as I was going. So um I don't eat healthy. I mean we can disagree, but you know what? And ninth grade might be easier than eleventh grade You you wait till last. There's a lot of good properties about honey, but we went to actually You don't need to do all There's a lot of allergies, a lot of problems that corn co Uh sourdough bread has really become quite a treat to Uh he's uh pastoring a house church that's uh uh Um It's more stereotypically the mom, but I want to address that but first I want to go back to one thing that was not Uh the horrible tsunami that hit the Philippines a number of years ago. So many times uh you talk about we have an obesity issue in this country, we do I just I feel better, I sleep better. Okay, let me uh you guys can Well So if you've taught them and met their emotional needs, life doesn't We're gonna spend the next half hour talking about shit, but If you look look at him, his mother uh Good morning ish. They have an organization When I was little, which feels like a different world 'cause it's changed so much everything. Exactly. Yeah, when I was a kid nobody had a gluten out So I'm good as far as that goes. Venice, California. However many times I said his name, I said it wrong, every single I'm gonna go by. Um so all together that's uh we we got And we don't have Daniel with us. And that'll make it a fun show for us. Um and then we can You guys can play off of this or not. In fact that's one of the worst things you can do is put a whole bunch of eight year olds in the same room and and think they're gonna learn something from each other. You all probably heard of Ben Carson, know who Ben Carson is. The faith bay will return about 167 hours from right now. We've been doing this now for a couple of months of shows, actually. They have to do use corn syrup there I want to thank Imran Razvi and um Steve Jurger But you know what? Sabbath is uh Friday night Friday evening. Yeah. They don't understand the dynamic of the kingdom of darkness and the kingdom of I think what I might say, uh I mean everything's an opportunity to try to share the You can check that out. You're gonna have a successful marriage if And this show is going to air on October 2nd, which will actually work out. Right? And that uh takes um We have a website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. I would like to piggyback on what Emmett said Uh the big uh I'll I'll I'm gonna jump in uh and and Isn't that amazing? And the Bible doesn't say a whole lot about that although I do have reason to believe that there are animals. Um and we have an obesity problem in this in this country. And So we have to be very cognizant about it. Can you explain to me what what's Well actually, you know, it's interesting because last week, you know, uh Laura Engels Wilder came up. They're like, you know, twenty-five minutes or less per episode. Yep. So you ready to just kinda jump in? And I understand I've had conversations, trust me, they're I I've I've probably lost friends over. I've been going to school for all these years. Okay. Now when I was younger I definitely noticed, you know, well say uh Really? You know we're talking about is If everything's hunky dory, everything's perfect, you've got all your needs met and you don't need In fact we um mentored a couple of Everybody thinks the E is long, or you or you know. And I'll report back and let you know if we actually are representing their views You might not be able to handle what they have to handle Um I'm not wise enough to know for sure, but you know who is God He has a uh video out there that One of the You do yours on I don't know how this works, Steve. I think it's mostly on the south side of Frederick County, but I think If you'd like to know more about what all that means But in the role in homeschooling, he's the principal. Don't let uh let them lead their Well we uh we have a book on uh the five emotional needs of Of course you can go to WFMD. My my wife does, and I'm terrible Not that it's bad as it's German or not, it's just Um There might be some truth to it, I don't know What do we say about this? Why, or you might ask. Uh love your neighbor as you love yourself. And what would you want if you had these sorts of They just know that Do you have a piece of cake ever? And that's We use fruit. So That's kind of the big umbrella issue. We don't have long term goals. They don't. And uh I used to drink a lot of soda They kind of Um You're going to make some bad choices and you've got to be willing to be forgiven. Yep. He's uh he's like, I don't know, drinking fresh water out of Lake Tahoe. Now my mom cooked everything so you know, lunch We've got some Okay. 5 hours from right about now. So it it's just a different lifestyle and they We're gonna have the door open to get a little bit cooler in here because it's starting to get rather Your spouse is a sinner. What uh So it's like the Rotisserie League Oh. Hey, if so long as we love Christ, that's really all that matters But if it's in the house It's up to you. Dealing with other eight year olds that In fact 30 seconds or less kind of So we blend frozen fruit and some fresh fruits together. We don't need all the different fills and things but that So one of the things as as parents we need to do is help He's got an organization Absolutely He said if if So there are some there are a couple of books that And that could be a whole nother conversation on What's going on with this thing It's okay Well Brought East Okay. But I think But even then, as you would said mentioned a minute ago Now So we we I read an article that uh That's a very good question because Uh the kinds of things to think about before you adopt and then the kind It was very terrible. com and learn more about the faith debate Okay. She was a physical therapist. In fact if the line is more than four people in this Which is also not normal People always ask There's a social dynamic You don't see a I'm gonna put it back in that corner so I get The evening I mean we went and fought the West went I think we did uh Figure it out It's always They've been talking about it for the last twenty-four hours. What do they do? But you know Some people will listen to two or three or four shows kind of Like Johnny, you've made mistakes, right? Um He can't come in and te Do you send your child into a burning building for the next two years? You weren't introduced to that stuff in my in junior high? They have a website Conquered by Love But if the church doesn't do its job Yes Um God bless. God bless. And it's not a problem. But And And they I was.