Well, hello Facebook Live. We're recording the face debate shows. They're going to be airing actually starting in a month or so. So you're going to get a sneak peek at these things. If you uh pay attention to the cast now. We usually do at least three, if not five, three five shows and recording session. Topics tonight are what you need to have in place to work before you would recommend a church, some thoughts about worship music. And we've got some other topics too. I'm gonna not promote those right now because I'm not sure if we'll get to them. So We will see. This first show that we're recording is going to air on October 9th. Let me get this set up real quick. And David Forcy is not in the house just yet, but he's on his way, so he says, so he'll be joining us soon. Daniel and Imran Razvi are are here. So I got a text from his number, but it could have been a bot. Yeah. Yeah. That that'd be rather random. There's a lot of buffs these days. Yeah, well I don't are you much you don't do much on social media, do you? I don't I stay away from it intentionally. Yeah. Well Well, 'cause then I do some stuff on social media to to uh pri primarily do uh I started getting on social media to promote this show. I was like the only reason I got any of the accounts and now I have 'em. And I get people who will like things or even share a post or whatever. It's like, well that's cool. Or the comment. I was like, well that's kind of cool. But I click on the profile and I'm telling you, I mean you can't prove it It's got to be a bot, like half the time. They have no friends, they have no Yeah. They're not real people. Yeah. And they're getting better though, some of them actually do have friends and phones. Yeah, no, some of them are tricky but and I'm always suspicious the people that have like um You know, like, I don't know, forty-eight followers, but they're following twenty-seven thousand people, something like that. Like, okay, wait a minute. Right. Something doesn't add out there. All right, so we're ready to go. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. And today is probably as good a day as any to present to have that announcement running because I'm sure we're gonna tick some people off. Shake it up. Shake it up a little bit today. So A number of months ago, before we started our series um on all the family and and uh parenting issues and stuff, we did a series of shows on it. I think it ended up being, if I'm not mistaken, somewhere on a baker's it was either a dozen or a baker's dozen. It's like twelve or thirteen shows that we did on those. And so that covers like three months worth of shows. And before that, I can't remember exactly what the topics were, but somewhere in the mix of a month or two before that series started Um I made a c I don't know if it was a topic or if I just made an off cam comment about, you know, it I'm hard pressed to find a church in Frederick County that I in good conscience is feel comfortable recommending to somebody outside of the people that are re represented on this show. And this show by the way is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. You can find my church. And information about this show and people on this panel at our website, Household of FaithInChrist. com. And the two voices you'll be hearing additionally are Imran Razvi. You want to say uh hello so they recognize your voice? Hello And Daniel Razvey and uh their pastors with a house well they they have a uh ministry called Conquered by Love. They're online at ConcordBylove. org and they uh have a church on the north Called the church that meets at Imran's house. That's right. So you he put a lot of uh dark marketing research behind that to find out what would really resonate and that's the Yeah, it's it was the Bible, you know. Yeah, and actually that's where Household of Faith came. from you know Galatians talks about the house of the faith and no one went here with any faith so you have faith. So so I wanted to make it I wanted to make it clear that we were not just any random faith, but you know, a Christian faith. And so that's where we added the in Christ part of That's how we got our church names. It wasn't not a lot of marketing research good in that either. And well go ahead. So uh so in in in the topic that you had, you can't find people or churches to recommend people. And it's not because we're not tolerant or we don't, you know, like people or whatever, it and also it's not just a general feeling, oh I don't I don't get along with it. No, there's actual logical reasons why you would choose to go or not to go to a specific church, and that's kind of what we want to get into today, right? Right. Yeah, and there's two aspects. And the first thing I want to uh uh to throw out there just so we remember that this is at least for now, now what we're talking about, and maybe we'll swing back to this as a separate question. What we're not saying is if the things we talk about today aren't checking boxes where you already go, we're not saying that means you must leave where you are. Right. Because that's a separate question. But if you're not going somewhere already, or if you've made up your mind, you know what? I mean, my church jumped the shark A while ago and I've been doing the best I can and I've got to find a better situation to worship for me and my family and that sort of thing. And they might come to somebody like us, because we're pastors. in town, we have a radio show, and they're like, hey, you guys probably know a lot of people. And I'm not really so keen on going where you guys are you're not close enough, or I don't like the smallness of your churches, or you know, there's some weird theological thread that you guys are involved in that I just It's not where I am. Who else would you recommend? It's in that spirit where I'm like, I have a hard time because my rubric has changed. in the last couple of years. A lot of churches that I might have recommended a few years ago have exposed themselves as people that given the the moment in history that we are, I don't know They could to trust or recommend them. Or did you s uh stand strong and the world moved? Yeah, well, you know, I like to think that, right? We all like to think that. So the world changed, I'm fine, I'm steady as she goes. So anyway, so if somebody comes to us Let's run through some of those things. The checklist of things like what are what would it take for you to recommend a church to somebody? So you can start disqualifying churches really simply and really easily just by by asking a couple simple questions to the pastor. And if they if they don't have a satisfactory immediate answer to these two questions, then you know to run, first of all. So One is during your service do you read from the Bible at all? It's amazing how many church services just never do. So that that'd be one if the answer is no or oh sometimes or we teach about the b then run. Run don't don't walk. Run away from that church. And the other one is, what do you believe about abortion? And the answer should be immediate. Abortion is murder. It's killing a baby. If they can't say that, or oh that's a complicated oh I'm then run. Those give a really good um sounding board for which way a church is going, but there's a that you can get a lot deeper than that. And these days you may want to ask other questions about traditional marriage and things like that. Yeah, traditional marriage, homosexuality. First of all, you have to have a biblical worldview. And if you don't know or don't don't are not sure about your biblical worldview, that's the place you should really start the your study to find out what is a biblical worldview. And uh then from there then those are the questions you should ask the any prospective church or pastor uh about those view views. If they don't have a biblical world view, then they're not a biblical church. They're just a um a funhouse waiting for people to show up and and make money. Yeah the problem is I think that people who really want to go to a good church that's gonna teach the Bible have a biblical worldview, they might want that because they realize, you know what, I don't know that I have the view the Bible tells me I should have yet. So I want to go to a church where I can learn what that view is. So they don't even know how to ask the right question. I will say this, and this is where I said we're gonna you know we're gonna take some people off. You can lop off the vast majority of the churches uh in Frederick County from from my position for two very simple reasons. I'm a Protestant, so I'm not going to recommend a Roman Catholic because there's a reason why I'm not Roman Catholic. And so all the Roman Catholics are, what's you're bigoted. Hey, you're you're not Protestant, so you wouldn't recommend a Protestant church Yeah, well that's a that's a that's probably a good topic for another show, by the way. Um the other thing is the main line Protestant churches, I couldn't recommend any of them conscience because they they exposed themselves years ago as being theologically liberal. And by that I mean they don't believe the word of God is like the inspired, inerrant, infallible, you know, authoritative word of God. And well, okay, then I might as well just join a country club and ask everybody their opinion about things. So I'm not and I'm obviously not going to recommend any of the uh uh non-Christian organizations or the places that might call themselves a Christian church that are are you know among the Christian cults and I can recommend those either. So that's pretty narrow right away. Even out of those people that will say the Bible is inspired Word of God, there's a lot of churches that either have now or would not be opposed to having a woman pastor For each on Sunday mornings. Right. Yeah, so now we're getting into some of the the uh the more specific things that will help add some clarity. Yeah. And I you we're all on the same page, right? I'm not gonna recommend a church that has female eldership, a female preacher, pre uh a female their leadership. I'm just not because Right. Based on what I see in the inerrant word of God, I don't see where you can be in accord with Scripture and and go there. So I want to argue many churches in accord with Scripture. are are very clear in scripture but these gay w for one is something you cannot be acting in that lifestyle and be a Christian. But uh w being a woman and being a pastor There's some verses that are very clear about that, so you can't really hold positions saying the Bible is a hundred percent true and inspired and you must obey every th word of it, but also you can have a woman pastor. two things don't go together. So if you've compromised on one issue like that, then you're likely to compromise on other issues. That's what you find with people who start becoming more accepting of the gay community and so on. transgenderism, when you compromise on one issue, then you're more likely to compromise on other issues. I mean the church that allows female uh leadership and f females in the pulpit uh Give them enough time and they become the churches that have, you know, uh so you people who identify as homosexual or even engage in homosexual activity preaching. So you may not have a deep understanding of the theological arguments about the different types of baptism. But you can see from the church leadership, just Google them, go on the website. If there's a gay pastor, there's a female pastor, or if the church tells you that being gay is okay when you're a Christian. Those are some easy things you can look for and you don't have to be steep And having had conversations with people who listen to this show and then they see me, you know, uh out and about or something, uh I I know there's at least a couple of people that they they listen to this show hoping to learn a little something beyond just the the very certain now we're not there are better resources than us for really going deep. But for those who want to know, the issue about women uh in leadership would be the complementarian versus egalitarian uh position. And so churches that are egalitarian are men and women, they can both do the exact same thing. The scripture doesn't uh what scripture says about that can be nuanced in such a way and contextualized in such a way and culturized in such a way that it doesn't matter. And there's the complementary complementarian view, which is that it's not that women are unimportant, that they're not valuable, that they're not gifted. That they're not talented. Or even if that's important. That they're not amazing. In fact, I'd be willing to bet I could identify a handful of women I know personally who could preach a far better sermon than most of the men that stand up and preach on Sunday morning in this county. But they can't because the Bible says they shouldn't. So it's not about hating women. It's about trying to be having integrity towards God. But you brought up the baptism question. That's not one for me. I would recommend a Presbyterian church who baptizes infants as readily as I would recommend a church that would only baptize No, they they shouldn't be. I think peop people have uh the hills that they die on that they really don't need to die on those hills. And there's a lot of issues doctrinally. And times is another one. Even I would say to some extent um reformed Calvinism versus Arminianism. And to some extent I think even that is is not necessarily a knockout. Depends on to what extent, maybe, uh to one extreme or the other. But It's a sort of thing. So do you want to take a sec that has an issue we've talked about in the show a lot of times in our eighteen years now of doing this show. However, I can't assume everybody's listening to every show we've ever done. So Calvinism, Armenianism, those are probably terms that should be I can define them, but I'm not sure. So Calvinism comes from John Calvin and uh the theology is people now call it reform theology generally. Um it's uh it not trying to be And our minion would be the opposite of all of the reform theology, but there's a lot of nuances between them. And so generally Reformed theology is more has more emphasis on the sovereignty of God and controlling when who gets saved and when they get saved. And the the uh Armenians uh um or a free will doctrine has more emphasis on the person having a choice to come to Christ or not. And if you look at it there's actually verses in the Bible that talk about free will and predestination and they're both there Um and so that's kinda why I I say look you can be really bigoted and dogmatic about one side or the other, but there are verses that talk about both and I don't think it's a reason not out the the church. Yeah I think a lot of the um uh churches that would uh the recognize as Calvinist, Reformed churches, I wouldn't recommend if they're hyper Calvinist, if they're like cage stage Calvinists or they're just like crazy and and it's almost cultic and and that's a real problem. Well can you can you give an example of what that means? Because hypercalism is kind of a Buzz word too. Yeah, well okay. Well let me finish my my thought and I'll swing back to that. And then on the Arminian side, uh which is uh named after Jacob Arminius, uh uh with the emphasis both both views have a view that that uh that individuals have free will the question is to what degree do they have The free will. And so the Arminian view would be that humans have free will to such a degree that that is preeminent when it comes to salvation. And the Calvinist or Reform view would be that yes w people have free will, but it's below God's free will. Free will God's free will trumps our free will. And even though we have free will, we're slaves to sin. So we can do what we want, we can choose what we want, but we're gonna choose Sinfully. We're gonna sin to reject God because that's the state we're in now. So it it it it it's very nuanced, it's very difficult. some extent. Yeah, yeah. All three of us. And I think one if David should join us in the middle of the show, I I think he would fit that bill as well based on the conversations we've had on this panel before. So but the Armenian view I will say that most of the Armenians uh that I know, if you start to have a dialogue and you're not getting into the argument. You're not labeling, you're not trying to prove a point. They're just talking or sharing as a pastor or as a believer. Functionally, they're way more reformed. They have a much higher view of God's sovereignty than their system even allows them to. But the problem with the hyper Calvinists is it becomes uh uh plastic. That's where you get the idea of the frozen chosen. Like you don't have to evangelize what's the point. God's already decided. And it's like and it's like, no no no you're missing and they get argumentative and they want to put up the Well the phrase I've used is when it comes to my reformed ideas, I hope there's there's we won't get into them now. There's five basic pieces to reformed doctrine, they're called the doctrines of grace. Yeah the tulip is an acronym that's used for it. Is it an acronym or acronym? Acronym? Acronym acronym is the word. Anyway, I hold all five, but I hold them nobody can well on the video you have a video going right now Uh uh uh people in video can see. I hold them like this with an open hand. Yes. I hope my hand is open, my fingers are spread, and I'm holding them like this, and it's like the doctrine is like it's like spaghetti and it's kinda dripping and oozing through my fingers, but I'm hanging on to all of it The hypercalvinist attends that they clench that fist and they squeeze the snot out of that spaghetti. And it's not only that they're holding it so tight, they almost made a an idol of a doctrine, but on top of that, that's a fighting posture And they're very prone to want to fight. And I don't think that should be the Christian attitude on these sorts of things that Christians are wrestling through. together. So yeah, that's not an issue that I would not choose a church over. But what are some of the ones that you would say, in in addition to the ones you've already said, maybe some newer ones. Trinity is one. We've come across this. I I've come across this a number of times. I think we talked about this on the broadcast before. There's a growing number of believers, especially in the home church movement, and as uh and especially in uh um some non-major denominations, you know, that are rejecting the idea of a Trinity. Um to to to be more specific, they're believing that Jesus is a lesser God or less than the Father somehow, or that he came from or was created Created by the Father. And that's this heresy. The Bible is very clear that Jesus is God. He is the Creator. He is um the Almighty. There is no difference. There they different manifestations of the same person, but they are all the same person. Um and you can go farther to the extreme and you can have the oneness, the oh they're just one, they're not three. I think actually that's more doctrinally sound than saying that they're three separate completely and one's better than the other or greater than the other. That's a doctrine you want to ask, do you believe in the Trinity? And yes, the word Trinity is not in the Bible. I understand the word Trinity Trinity is not in the Bible, but Jesus and God are equal. No, the the teaching and the Holy Spirit for that matter, the the the the the the teaching is there. And people who teach it have come up with a they've coined some somebody, I don't know who, but somebody somewhere along the line, of Athanasius or somebody, coined the term And we use that term to recognize what this system of teaching from the Bible is all about. There's a lot of things that that we have labels for that uh you know It i you have to unpack what the word means and what it means is what we're what we're talking about. It's not about you must believe in the a Trinity. What you must believe is you must believe that there's an eternal father, an eternal son, and eternal Eternal Holy Spirit. They are co-equal. They are one being, three persons. You must hold to that. If you don't hold to that, you do not understand the Bible. You're not teaching the Bible And then you're not a Christian. And so if that's the case, then I can't recommend your church to somebody if that's if you're not teaching that. So absolutely that's the well known the pseudo-denomination that holds to that will be the Jehovah's Witnesses and they would not be a Christian denomination, their separate religion, but there are some that call themselves Christians that that would also hold to that. Right. Yeah. Well all of all of the what are called the Christian cults would would pretty much as far as I know they all deny the Trinity. As far as I know in my sphere of the thing, I think. And if you have to have another book or another set of books or people to explain the Bible. That's a problem too. You should be able to uh just really rely on the Bible and the Bible itself can uh uh can reference the other parts of the Bible. Use the Bible to prove the Bible. That's it. You don't Need somebody else's theology to say, oh yeah, or that God changed. He did not change. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. And Yeah, is that a problem with some some believers that believe that there was a different God for the Old Testament and a different God for the New Testament? So that would mean that but you wouldn't recommend the seventh day. Adventist church because they that the writings of L and G White that they kind of hold on a very high level, like it's scripture, right? New Revelation. Ellen's writings Ellen White's writings to that degree. They b view her as as a author of books that are commentaries, just like you can read Calvin's commentaries too. Paul, right? Um so Yeah, there's middle school and old school Seventh day at Venice, but the denomination as a whole is still I think uh the official denomination the the the denomination's official position in the last thirty years or so has been that the her writings are not scripture, they're not divine, they're not sure. So they've officially changed that, as far as I'm aware of the thing. Okay. That's interesting. That's interesting. Um I I do I disagree with Seventh day Adventists more on the existence of hell. But again, I don't think that you have to believe in hell to be saved. Um I I think you should probably look for a church that does believe in eternal hell. I think That's probably important. Right. Um, but I don't I don't know that you're not going to be able to do that. Yeah, I I don't I don't really buy their soul sleep doctrine either, which is related to that issue. So yeah, there's a lot of things there that I might not be a good idea. I wouldn't call. um recommend a Seventh day Adventist Church. No, I would recommend it. Because of all the reasons why I'm like, yeah, I just there's just too many things I can't agree with. No, I would recommend resting on the seventh day. I would recommend resting on the seventh day as opposed to the first day, but that's a separate issue. That's not really uh and um about the denomination. And I don't think that that's gonna be something that's keep Here's one that you may not be thinking of because it's not really a doctrine thing, but I think it does speak to kind of the culture the broader culture about the church. I would hesitate before going to attending that or being a member of a church that had a Sunday school for children. that was separate from the service. I would very much hesitate to go to any church or to recommend a church that has programs for children that teaches the children separate from the parents. That they're not in the worship service. I'm very much in favor of family integrated services, meaning all the families there at once. You hear one service for everybody. If you want to have additional small groups time or outreach to different things But the parents need to be involved with the children. The church should not be teaching your children separate from you. I have a strong preference for that, but I don't know that if somebody said, Hey, I'm looking at a couple of different churches and I find out that both of them have what you just described, I don't think, oh, you gotta stay away. I think I'd still be okay. But it's uh I would be very concerned. Because there's a lot of danger of having your kids hear things that you don't know what's being taught. It's just like sending them to public school, just like you shouldn't have your kids in public school or private school. for that matter, it should be in homeschool. Um for the same reason you should not have your kids being taught by Sunday school teachers. Oh but they're saved. Yes they're saved. Maybe they're saved. We're hoping that they're saved, but there's a lot of weird, nasty stuff that goes on in youth school groups in Sunday school. I have a lot of um anecdotal and personal experiences with people that I that that I know and have talked to. I mean they had had seances at youth groups um like Bible-believing really inerrancy of scripture preaching churches um have had you know um uh uh uh fornication and things during Sunday schools youth groups. There's a lot of weird weird stuff. A lot of it's just some sort of a glorified babysitting and a lot of case So if they're playing fun and games, they're watching movies, they're doing something silly, they're getting themselves in trouble, they're not really learning anything that's edifying or gonna have help them mature and grow a lot of the time. There are some good ones out there, I'm sure. Um and a lot of them have great intentions. But the the the thing is is that what they should be uh Spending their time or s would it be more edifying for them to learn actual theological truths from the pastor in the in the church sitting? And in most cases, you know, it's it's much And when will they be ready? If they're in a youth group all their life, when will they be ready to understand the actual Bible? And so if you're with them and they're learning with you, then you can also actually have that discussion with them with them on the d dinner table in the car ride home. But if they're not with you, you can't discuss anything. I mean what do you know what uh you don't even know what they're learning. You know, we've only got uh a little over two minutes left on this week's show. So I think uh and there's some things that I anticipated would come up quicker than they have, uh, but we're talking about some long-standing issues that But the kinds of things we've talked about so far, the kinds of things that I would have said, and you guys might have said five years ago, ten years ago, fifteen, a lot of the same things. But there are some new things, I think that have garnered some well-deserved attention that we need to be thinking through and deciding where do we draw the line on some of those things. We haven't touched on those at all and talk about things that are related to the so-called uh pandemic and you know that that sort of stuff. Uh so and and and re things related to that where people showed their hand on some things that are troubling to me and and give give me some pause on whether I could trust them with somebody's soul to recommend that they go sit under their leadership. And then uh maybe we'll pivot from that point too and talk about if if somebody's maybe going to a church it's not ch some of these boxes we've already mentioned, some of the additional boxes that we might mention next show, when it's time to think about leaving and what the circumstances need to look like and how you can best handle that. And you know um people struggle with hey I'm the salt in this church. If I leave them there's nobody left to even help them Yeah, so that's and and that's and that's uh can be an interesting argument and I've heard so many make it and you know um in some cases maybe it was the right decision actually and in some cases uh I'm not so sure it was. So maybe we can figure out how to help people find some wisdom in all of that. So this has been the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. The person you said heard say right just a second ago was Daniel Rasby. And the person talking right before that was Imran Rasby. In case you're wondering, yes, they're related. They're twin brothers. No. Uh Imran is Daniel's father. And uh they pastor a church up in the the uh north end of Frederick County. Up in the Thurmont area. Household of Faith in Christ is uh pretty much dead center in Frederick County. And hopefully he'll be here for next week's show. If not, well, he'll be here eventually. David Force is usually part of the panel, and he's pastor of a church that meets in the southern end. of Frederick County. Find us online at household of faith in Christ. com. Of course you can follow the show at wwwfmd. com uh keyword faith. I think the keyword system still works and I haven't checked it in a while. And all the podcasts are there, but really one stop shop, the the podcasts, my sermons, uh past pastors blog information about the panelists on this show and anything you might imagine, resources you might need. If you want to make a request for prayer, our contact information, all that sort of stuff, is there, household of faith in Christ. com. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless Okay. We didn't get to COVID. Well there's so many things that can be talked about. But you can already get rid of ninety percent of the churches Just by asking, what do you think about abortion, transgenders, women in the church? The things we've already talked about in ninety percent of the churches. And then when you when you throw in the COVID stuff, that's where I'm like, how many are left? Right. That's the that's the problem That's the problem. And again, I don't want to process this. There's one that my my uh my brother-in-law listens to this. My brother-in-law listens to this uh um Facebook Live and and he would he he would say probably that we would be remiss to not mention um the impact of having a a church with a clear leadership and enforcement structure I'm not gonna recommend somebody go to a church that's not elder led. That's one of the big drivers why I got a problem because I'm in a house tree and there's only one elder, me. That's a real problem. What do I do about that? That's why you have us. And so I was like, I gotta figure this out. And I knew David, I knew you guys, like, you know what? We know each other, we we like each other, we trust each other, we've got some differences, but I think you know we've got a enough commonalities in the areas that really matter that we can hold each other accountable. That's a big that that is the reason why. So decoding. So that's going to air on October declare 9th. I think we're good. Alright, so this next one will air on October the 16th. Yeah, there's a uh a special uh what's called a cart number for the show. And I did the show for like twelve, fifteen years. I had to look up the cart number every single time 'cause I didn't trust I was remembering it right. And I'm finally, uh what did I just say the sixteenth And finally confident I'm now finally yeah I know what it is now. How long is the number? It's uh five five five digits. I know exactly. It's just like self-delic. I've got my own head, you know Got me on air. That's funny. My uh my mom made me memorize long strings of numbers for brain development in home school and so now I memorize like all my credit card numbers and bank account numbers and um you know whole watch other stuff. I like I like memorizing long strings of numbers. All right, so we'll jump right into this next one and we'll see what when Dan when David said I'll be you know I'll be there in a bit, we'll see what a bit means. Yep. code at the at the uh cabin or the program does not necessarily reflect the use of the staff or management of WFMD So you're going to a church and you're thinking about leaving, should you? Or you're not going to church, you're thinking about going to one. You don't know which one to pick and you find one, you think maybe that's the one I should go to. Should you We're here to try to help you navigate through that on this week's edition of the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Also on the FM at uh 99. 9 HD2 if you got one of those fancy radios. And we're heard all around the world and probably out into the uh universe somewhere at www. wfmd. com. You can listen to us live or you can listen to the podcast later. And you can connect to the podcast uh and all sorts of other information at my church's website that's household of faith in christ dot com household of faith in christ dot com I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of that church, and two other pastors of another church in Frederick County are Imron and Daniel Razby. They're on the show as well this week and they've got a ministry that has a website. It's called conqueredbylove. org. Conquered by love. org. So last week we started with the idea of the setup was that I had mentioned a few months back now, probably five, six months. months ago now on the show that I was hard pressed to in good conscience identify churches in our immediate area, in the Frederick County area, that I could feel good about recommending because I just don't know There's some I know I I would never recommend, and there's some I felt like, yeah, I I think I would recommend them three years ago, but would I still recommend them today? And we talked about some of the things. They have to they have to be believing the Bible, they have to read the Bible, teach the Bible. uh not make up their own stuff, make the Bible say what they want it to say. They have to be uh you know they have to defend the the right to life of the unborn. Uh they they have to uh be biblical in their sexuality questions, what you know, whether it be uh uh uh promis uh promiscuity in or outside of marriage among uh a man and woman or you know sexual identity issues uh among those that identify as uh as um same-sex or homosexual or anything like that. They have to be biblical on those questions. I'm trying to think so we said that some of the non Issue well they they they're important, but they're not the kinds of things that would keep us from recommending another church is if they disagree with us on questions of baptism or end times view, um or trying to think significantly. That has kids and parents worshiping together. Right. Yeah, that wasn't a knockout blow, but yeah, we have we would have a strong preference trying to find a church that's gonna really help to equip the parents to train up their kids rather than take that responsibility from the parents and try to train up the kids Exactly. And you know, if you're offended by what we're saying, then take a moment and think about it and maybe reach out to us and say, Hey, uh you know, I think I have a good church and this is why. We'd be happy to talk to you. We're not here to bash churches We're here to promote God, promote the Bible and God's word. So this is not a a a show that we're trying to say, hey, we're better than everybody else. No. God is better than everybody else. The Bible is the truth It's not just a like a cliche thing to say, oh I know I'm sure we get things wrong. No, I'm sure we get things wrong. There are things that I know that we're not doing as well as we might because of you know, the stage of development our church is in, the nature of the people we have, my own personal l uh limitations and I I I would benefit from having somebody who has different skill sets to to come up and join what we're doing or there are certain things that I know at week in and week out. It's like, boy I wish we So I'm not saying that we're perfect by any sense, but but we're being as ob as diligently obedient as we can identify given our situation from the pages of scripture. That is by that is the motivation. And that's what I'm saying with these other churches. Yeah, and one of the other things that that we came up after the we uh the show last time is there should be a um um specific leadership and uh accountability. When a pastor does not have accountability, that tends to lend itself to being become cultural Unless it's a church plant and there's like three people at the church or something. You need you need to have elders. You need to have multiple multiple men, not men and women, multiple men that are accountable and deleted. Absolutely. In that case they're gonna have some other sort of oversight and accountability and structure in place that's gonna help them with usually, not always, but usually. And if they're smart and savvy, they're going to realize pretty quick, I better address that and they're going to figure out how to build that quickly. So yeah, you find a a new church and they don't have that in place with just the one pastor, but you talk to the pastor and he says, Yeah, you know, uh it's a it's a ch challenge for us, but we're going to have some sort of an elder-led structure in place inside of the next council. I mean if you've got like ten people in your church and the only person qualified to be an elder is the pastor We're not gonna take unqualified people and make them elders. That's just not gonna happen. There's a there is a list of qualifications in the Bible for what to be in Timothy and um in one other book. Uh the two different lists of the book. But there are there's two different lists of you must be this and this and this. We're not going to go into today, but you can look it up. What are the qualifications for an out of the Bible is very clear. So it's not my list or your list, it's it's what the Bible says. There's one thing that may come up, and I and I think you'll agree with me. Um do you think it should be a requirement that the pastor or elder has a seminary degree? No, because there's no biblical requirement or anything. Particularly depending on the seminary they went to and how how awake to what they were being fed by the seminary. Like uh there are some people that are really rock solid biblical teachers in the church who went to liberal seminaries. By liberal, I don't mean they voted for Hillary Clinton and Joe Biden. I mean liberal theologically, and by that there is some overlap Because uh liberals politically, uh part of what defines that is the words on the page of the Constitution don't really mean or need to mean what the words on the page of the Constitution mean. And I think that same ideological stance with the Bible too. The words on the pages of the Bible don't really mean or need to mean what they really say. They can mean whatever I want them to say. It's a living, breathing document, and I'll just import my own ideology into the white space on here. Back then, you know thousands of years ago. So that's what I mean when I say liberal, but so definitely stay away from a church that believes or teaches that. The pastor may have been trained in one of those seminaries and that's something you should be very careful, make sure he doesn't actually agree with that or believe that. But uh many many I I guess most seminaries these days are liberal seminaries. And to be honest, I'll be honest, uh in the old days our uh show open for the faith debate We've had a few of them over the years, and one of them would introduce me uh as you know Troy Skinner with a Master of Divinity Divinity degree from Reformed Theological Seminary. Well that's not something I want to brag about anymore because RTS has drifted increasingly in the last few years in a uh woke direction. I don't think that they're full scale hardcore woke right now But they're working right on the edge. Exactly. And some of them I know, some of those professor uh professors I know really well, and I don't think that I I like to hope they would never actually drip but they're gonna be outnumbered before they know it. So that you give us a good segue, right? There's a lot of passes we know that we were really surprised. And then two years ago something happened. So what happened Troy two years ago In March of twenty twenty. Yeah, well and it and um three years ago almost now. And it's not just related to uh the uh the virus that came out of the lab in Wuhan. It's also related to all of the protests and civil strike that were happening that year. 2020 was just a crazy, crazy year And so you got the combination of a, I feel, unbiblical response, generally speaking, by the church to the government uh dictates about how to handle women. worship or not handle worship. Uh and on top of that, I mean wokeism has been a rising thing for years for people paying attention. It's been gathering steam for decades. And it really started to pick up a lot of steam probably about seven, eight years ago. And then three years ago-ish, like 2019. It just it was a hardcore sprint to the finish line and that came began to really come to a head where people ever were able to see that the next year in the summer of 2020 with all those BLM riots and all that. that sort of stuff. So the combination of the and I don't know if everybody knows what I mean by woke. I'm talking about this idea that uh well you're hearing a political ad probably of if it If you consume much media, you're hearing a uh political ad right now. Michael Huff running for county executive is running uh an ad or his people who people who support him, I'm not sure if it's him or people who support him running an ad, uh a hit ad against uh uh Jessica Fitzwater, the Democrat candidate, where she back in 2020, she's on record, is a video recording of her saying that she's a white person and therefore she has white privilege and she says, I am a racist. So Jessica Jessica Fitw Fitzwater is an an admitted racist, but we gotta understand people like you shook your head. I first time I heard it too, I shook my head. She's got to understand from that point of view. It's a good thing. Now there's a hypocrisy thing because if she really believes that she has too much privilege and that she's taking taking power from somebody who's a person of color, then she should not be running for the lead position in the county government. She should be backing some person of color for that position. So there's there's that issue. But they they're proud of it. And there are a lot of churches a a a lot of churches that pastors stood up and they told the white people in their congregation that they needed to go to the black people, either if they or if there were black people in their church, or black people they knew, and apologize to them for being racist And even if they did this, they would still be guilty of having white privilege and being racist because you can't ever change the color of your skin. So you're always you you just are always going to be. And a lot of churches use that in the Bible. Well m that's the problem. Well when they're teaching social culture and not the Bible, that's the problem. See their argument would be and I'm not making the argument for them, but the just the their biblical argument would be that, you know Jesus and God always cares about the down downtrodden, the underprivileged, the poor, and we need to be concerned for them. In our cultural context, that would be, you know, blacks and Hispanics and people who've been held down for generations and so if we really love them And we're going to recognize that our ancestors played a hand in that and so we have some guilt by association and we need to own that. The problem is uh my grandfather's sin is not my sin. I do believe the body the there's a biblical principle of generational sin. And it can be become habits within families and there and there can be these these these strongholds where, you know, um I I don't believe that alcoholism is an inherited thing, but I do believe it can be passed down because if somebody grows up in an alcoholism, alcoholic environment, they're more likely to take on that habit themselves because that's what they've been immersed in. So I do think there's a generational sin in that regard. But if my father was an alcoholic, I don't and and he beat my mother, I don't have any responsibility for that I didn't beat my mother. He did. And so to to t for me to take the guilt that belongs to him is is is not biblical. And that goes into honor honor and shame discussion as well, which maybe Yeah. So the um anyway, so that they would make what they think is a biblical argument, but the problem is it's only focused on taking care of the poor. And so you're showing partiality to the poor, which the Bible explicitly, specifically says not to do. You shouldn't show partiality to the rich or the poor And so it's a tot but they're not d they're not reading scripture. And so any church that is quote unquote woke that has bought into this This this church of God. Exactly. And that's a lot of the churches, and so I can't recommend any of those. Right. And there's you walk a to a pastor and you say, Hey Let let's say you were a woke pastor. You're not, Imran. I know you well enough. I know you're not. But if Sonny didn't know you, I didn't know you well enough. The last thing you want to do is go, so Imran, are are is you are you in your church? You woke Absolutely not. You're gonna say no whether you are or not, right? You're gonna say no even if you m probably eighty percent of them are gonna say no because they realize it's kind of the third rail and You want to nuance it, well, I don't know, it depends on what you mean by woke. So you've got to ask them questions carefully like, do you believe that all men and women are created equal in the image of God? and that uh melanin count in your skin has no effect on whether you're sinful or not sinful. You've got to ask them very specific, do you think it's okay to show partiality to the poor because Jesus says we need to take care of the widow and the orphan? If you phrase it that way, they're gonna say, well, yes, of course. And you know, you got 'em. Because the answer should be, well, no. We don't show partiality in anybody ever. God's not a respecter of persons, and neither are we with his church. Yeah. That's the right answer. And and when you're doing your research and you look at the websites of different churches, if they have yoga and reiki and mazes, stay away. That's all Eastern cultural mysticism that's gone in and that's no that is demonic. It's very demon demonic. I was take a stand here and say that yoga is demonic. Yeah, if while we're listening to this and you've done yoga and you're thinking Yeah. Yeah, actually yoga has its roots in Hindu religion and it invites demonic possession. I think that uh yoga uh as originally imagined, I w I agree a hundred percent but I wonder about you know uh mostly it's women but it could be men too the men and women that are just doing stretches that have been developed by people I'm just doing push-ups in front of the bale statue. It's just to build my muscles. I'm not sure if you're not a big thing. But there's certain poses and stretches that they do that were probably developed in a yoga context, but that at this stage have zero typically the certain order of poses is designed to open up your uh mind and soul to demonic possession. And this works the same way whether you understand it's being done or not. Um that's maybe a topic for another conversation. Yeah. I don't know. Um but definitely stay away if your church is sponsored. I'll make a note that maybe we can bring that up. I think I might put it in that category. So what Daniel's saying is look, there's a locked door. And if you press the keys in a certain order, it opens the door. Whether you know that you're pressing the keys in that order to open the door or not, you're pressing the keys in that order to open the door. So when you're doing yoga, and again we're off the back a little bit. Uh hypnotism. Hypnotism opens up your mind to suggestion, including by demonic uh presence. And you could be doing hypnotism just for fun or because you think it's funny or a joke or for psychological reasons, but it opens up your mind to demand because to take these topics and swing them back into the main s stream uh line of thought what we're talking about today. If a church is advertising Reiki and yoga and uh and some sort of anagram diagnose of personality profile or something Those may you might not be as hardcore as Daniel and possibly Imran are on those, but I will say those are tells. Like if you're playing poker, red flags. Right? These are flags that are popping up. It's like you shouldn't need an Enagram profile. You've got the Bible You shouldn't need Reiki. You've got, you know, uh biblical prescriptions of how to handle certain things. So those would be red flags at the least They for me they wouldn't automatically be knockouts, but boy, they would raise a lot of questions. And I'd be I'd be willing to bet that if I dug just a little bit deeper I'd find a whole bunch of other issues that I wouldn't need to have that be the knockout issue. There'd be other things that would just be part and parcel that goes on weather. So the other big thing that happened in twenty twenty was COVID. Was COVID and the uh and the lockdowns that went with that. What is your guys' view on if a church went along with the lockdowns? I think it depends on the how alone right because w they kept telling us at the beginning, oh it's just gonna be two weeks, we need to make sure we protect the people who are too vulnerable and we would not you know that they're gonna g this is gonna spread too fast, we don't want to overwhelm the hospitals two weeks, and then it turned into two months or whatever. But if your church was still shut down, let's say June of twenty twenty, that was a problem It's one thing to say, okay, you know, if there's an outbreak, there there is biblical precedent for mask wearing. There's biblical precedent for quarantine. Look at the what lepers are supposed to do. Lepers are supposed to put a covering on their Right. So the the what Daniel is saying at that point we had a lot of mixed information. We didn't know what to expect. We were given a lot of false information, uh false guidance. And if you're if you don't know what to expect about the sickness somebody could be carrying it. Yes, it's uh it's prudent to be w and wise to be cautious. But cautious for a little bit But not to the point where you're shutting down service and you're requiring people to wear masks and you can't sing without masks. I'm happy to be able to say that we did we did absolutely nothing to protect our tra You're still alive? We nobody ever wore masks in the church and we never ever asked them. In fact we encourage people not to. Um and And nobody ever required vaccines or anything like that. We never stopped anybody from wearing a mask. Now, the there are some the many churches that required masks for the longest time and some of them actually required vaccines or they separated vaccinated. I would not recommend a church unless they've repented of that then I would recommend them. But so me, it's not just I'll start with the points you did make. You made the point about the length of time. That is important. Now I Because of the nature of the way my my brain and my motivations work, and because I happened to catch wind of the story in a particular context that had me way ahead of the curve compared to the average person I was very early, like before the lockdowns, I was predicting the lockdowns were gonna come. And people like you're crazy it'll never happen. It's a free country. No, no, no it's going to come and they're gonna do it for the wrong reasons because I was looking at the data as that says you can trust what you're getting out of China and Italy and all that. I was looking at all the data and I was like the narrative they're trying to weave here that I can tell I could feel the momentum. It's not true. They're lying to I don't know the absolute truth of it, but I know they're lying. And it's nowhere near as bad as they're saying this is crazy. But not everybody's gonna b be as insane about that kind of stuff as I am. So I get it. So people are caught off guard and everybody's panicking and saying this is the worst thing ever and the death rate's like five percent which is catastrophic and so they they shut down their churches. So the length of time, because you shut down for a few weeks to figure out and you you Take the time to dig into the data, to dig into the stories, to see who's telling the truth. And it should have only taken a handful of weeks, a month at the most, in my opinion. Because that's about how long it took me to figure out. If it took me a month, it should take and I'm not, you know, I'm not the smartest guy in the world, so if I could do it in a month, other people could figure out a month too And I'd be a little more menial. I think a little more meaning. I say by the summer of twenty twenty things. Everybody really knew. It it was obvious by that point that COVID was not what it was cracked up to be. Okay, so a f a few months. But it's not just how long. That's that's part of it. But also the motivation. Did they do it because of pastoral concern for their congregation? And this seems like it could be the worst thing ever, and I don't want my people to die on my watch. protect them I'm sure that or did they do it in their heart of hearts because the government told them to and they didn't want to get in trouble. Well if you ask them they're gonna say because we can't do that. And if that was their motivation, then they gotta answer to God for that. Because the church was more needed then than maybe any time in the last twenty years. The church was needed and we went AWOL. So aggravating. So many of the churches and the church leaders have said, Well, we have to obey the laws. And if the laws are these band aids, we have have to be able to mandate. And I I know a few pastors that really had a good heart, but they really did not want to disobey what they felt was a law. And they were not able to rationalize what the Bible said compared to what the law said. Right. And that's what happened with John MacArthur famously, you know, now in California. They shut down for about six weeks I believe Uh and then they realized no we need to open back up and then they got challenged by the government there and then they won. And then they really dug in deep and they came out with a statement against it and they went to court and they won and they got a financial settlement and all that sort of stuff. So they ended up on the right side, but they didn't start out on the right on the right side. John MacArthur's one of the more famous pastors in America and so His when he speaks, it it resonates and travels through you know social media and stuff. And early on, back in March and April, he was saying, you need to do what the government tells you, Romans 13 And I'm at the time like aghast. I'm like, John MacArthur is one of the good guys. How is he so wrong on this? Well when there's a bomb exploding, you step back and there's But now his position is Romans thirteen, he basically he he hasn't gone quite so far as to admit that he's specifically was wrong, but what he's saying now is the polar opposite of what he was saying in the spring of 2020. So he is I I feel like he has uh uh matured his view of Romans 13 where now it squares with what scripture teaches. And I've got some grace for that. But McCarthy they say, hey, we righted the shit, we did we shouldn't maybe shouldn't have shut down as long as we did, but we fixed it, and now we're moving forward. I would recommend his church. Very much so. Right? If he was in Frederick, I'd recommend it all day. uh uh and if somebody moves to California I would recommend they go to his church. So that's not what I'm talking about. But the other thing is the requirements. If a church recommended somebody Recommended. No, if something recommended, recommend all you want. If somebody said you must wear a face covering in order to come and corporately worship God Help somebody help explain to me how that's not a violation of scripture. There is no ac that's an extra biblical requirement. There's no requirement to wear a face covering before you can come and sing praises to the Lord. In fact there's precedent for certain false religions requiring that. uh masks of certain kinds uh uh in worshiping uh demonic things and uh uh and uh many Satan worship is done with masks on and six feet apart. So you go figure. And if you've got a num uh just the right number of people, they would be six, six, six feet apart. And that was made up by the way. I mean the whole thing's pe pastors m I I've I've had some doozies on this show. I've had pastors that didn't know that Christ and Messiah were the same thing. on this show. So I mean not all pastors are that bright. But as a general rule, pastors are generally pretty bright people. And for them to be so hoodwinked by this sort of stuff is just it it makes me wonder about the condition of their heart and the condition of their of their strength of leadership, which is what we really need to get into, and we haven't even gotten into that yet, and now we're almost we're up against the clock on another episode. I think we're going to carry this over one more week to talk about because I still do, we teased it last week and we didn't even get to it this week Let's say you're going to church and you've been wrestling with, I I think I maybe need to leave. We need to help that person figure out when it is time maybe to leave, and if they do, how they should go about handling that. We haven't addressed that at all. And I think that's an important pastoral thing for us to do. Uh we got about a minute. Um give me your elevator uh pitch. I'm in the elevator with you, and I'm some pagan heathen Satanist and you need you need me to know what the truth is. You would share the truth with what words and run. Uh you you want to build a relationship. If you're just preaching, the person's not gonna hear. You have to at least ask questions and find out where they are and find out what they're looking for and and and go f go from that point and care about somebody. You know, ask questions and listen to what they're saying and then What kind of questions? I mean the questions are, you know, where are you gonna go for eternity? Do you know what's gonna happen after you die? Do you and why do you know that? Where does that knowledge or wisdom come from? And who makes the rules You know, why do you do something right when you say it's right? Why is it right? Who makes those rules? And that gets you the question of actually finding out where God is and who God is. Because if they don't have the fear of God, there's no wisdom. You can't argue with a fool And we're going to let that be the last word for this week's show. Imran Razby is the voice you just heard. Thank you. Daniel Razby also on the show this week. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. You can find A whole bunch of information about the show and us and our churches, and you can put out a request for prayer or ask a theological question at householdfaith in Christ. com household of faith in Christ. com. Of course you can go to the station's website to connect with the show as well. That's WFMD. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless. Let's see, I guess we'll best fit, trim off the end Oh, did he just get here? Yeah, I guess he just texted. You mean you've given you guys have given a lot of reason. Yes. And then this last one, this next one's supposed to be um if you're at a church and you've decided this really is not the church for you When is a good time to leave and how is the best time to leave? Hey, how are you? This is self-explanatory, but later on you can ask questions about it. I'm gonna keep the train on the tracks and rolling forward because we gotta get some rhythms. No tell sense. Indeed, indeed it is. I like months. So the uh the the the sh t you you missed two shows. Those are the shows that air on uh the ninth and Yeah, you didn't really have an opinion about you know what charts you This next one is going to be October twenty. Yeah, sure, that would be the that would be the question What question should you ask? Is it one of our churches? If not, don't go. Well it sounds so self-serving, but I mean seriously? You know, I I I I think after having a a little bit of a dialogue with Peter, I think I probably I I I it sounds like he handled COVID well as far as I can tell I don't know for sure. I know that they didn't stop meeting. I'm not sure if he required masks or separated the congregation. We didn't get a chance to go to any depth on that. Let's see. And I think we probably should well at least I feel like I want to give some voice as to why I care so much about this. I think you guys would probably agree. Well that would not be message. All right, so you covered why to not go to the court. Um We thought we could do that in one show. Okay. We ended up doing it for two shows with a couple of little small rabbit trails that threw us off course and probably gobbled up a little bit of time that might have kept us from thinking We got one or two more thoughts that probably need to be brought up about that. I said yoga was an immediate red flag that he should never go to a church if it wasn't And that's the mic position. But it's to pivot to a slightly different question, which is it's not about recommending a church to start going to, but it's let's say you are going to a church and you recognize this is probably church I need to leave. Okay. What does that look like? Because I think that some of the indicators would be different. Sure. And how you and then how you handle it. So that's where we're kind of going. Yeah. But if you got a I mean I'll I'm gonna run through a list as best I can remember something that came up so you'll kinda catch up Don't go to church if the pastor is always late that's saying things. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. I mean thinking about it, I'm not sure that this show ref represents the views of of me or the panelists on this show sometimes. I don't I don't know. What does that say? This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD on the FM 99. 9 HD2 and on the web at WFMD. com. You can listen live or you can catch out uh catch out check out the podcast later on. Of course you can connect with this show and um sermons I've preached and the the church I lead and the pastor's blog and and vetted trusted resources and learn about the people who are on the panel on this show and all that sort of stuff. It's a one-stop shop for all of that, Household of FaithInChrist dot com, Household of Faith in Christ On the panel again this week, Daniel Razby, Imron Razvy, and you missed the last couple of weeks, but he's here to join us this week is David Forcey. All four of us are pastors of churches in Frederick County, and I made the Oh, I th as I rec recall, it was kind of an offhand comment. I don't think it was the topic of the show. It was an offhand remark about me feeling hard pressed to comfortably recommend a church in Frederick County outside of the churches that are represented by the men that are in this room. And it sounds very So basically if you want us to recommend your church, reach out to us and Yeah, ex yeah. Exactly. Yeah, and now I'll I'll and I've done that not locally. Well uh in and w I've helped some people try to find churches in Washington County. Uh I've helped people try to find churches in Virginia, uh where else have people reached out? to me. Uh I think in the Carolinas, those people that find me online and they you look like the kind of church I would go to if I lived like within driving distance, but if you don't, do you know anybody near where I do? And In in some cases, uh, you know, I might in one case I actually did know some uh of a church. In other case I don't really know, but I did some homework and I was able to help them figure that out because I know some of the red flags and yellow flags to look for that they might not. I don't know them all I'm sure, but I recognize certain ones and so and some of those would be I look at their leadership and uh if they don't have a board of elders that elder led, it's a church I'm probably not going to be comfortable Recommending doesn't mean that it's a bad, unbi uh ungodly church. I do think they're unbiblical in that regard, but it doesn't mean that they don't do everything else perfectly well and that's their one blind spot because we all have them Um, even if they are elder led, if anybody who's uh one of their preachers, teachers, or making spiritual leadership decisions for the body uh is a female, I feel like that's out of accord with the Bible and so I'm not gonna f comfortable recommending that church. If they don't take a biblical stance on sexuality questions, sexual identity questions, on the uh the importance of protecting the life of the unborn, those sorts of things. So basically so far we've knocked out all the mainline churches. Um right, all the traditionally big, you know, what what used to be big churches, now they're just big buildings with no people in them. But the big mainline church, what are called the mainline churches, the old line, Presbyterian, Lutheran, uh Methodist, um th those kinds of uh churches. I'm a pro Protestant, so I I really wouldn't probably ever see myself recommending a Roman Catholic church. Um certainly not going to recommend a uh a a a a a Christian cult. So there's lots of things that are you can knock those out right away. And we we I don't know if it was on the air or in between shows, but uh s I don't know if it was Daniel, I think it was Imron said, well we just like knocked out ninety percent of the churches much like that. And it's true, I think we did So you're left left with 10. And so I would say that as recently as three, four, five years ago, I probably would have been reasonably comfortable, you know, maybe I would have made some Makes, but reasoning company were probably recommending about ten percent of the churches in Frederick County. And then the BLM riots happened and all the wokeism went crazy, and the COVID lockdowns happened, and all the restrictions that were placed on worship happened And I'm like, okay, I don't think it's ten percent anymore. And so the question is, what percentage is it? And if and I don't know, let's say there's three three hundred churches in Frederick. I don't know if that's a made up number, I have no idea. But if there's 300 churches and we're the only three that we would recommend we're down to one percent. So but I don't know. So what are some other we did not finish talking about the restrictions because of the government mandates We did talk about catching David up and you listener catching you up if you missed last week's show. If your church shut down for any length of time Uh more than let's say uh do you want to be hardcore more than a month if you want to be a little bit more gracious more than let's say three months? And they didn't open back up And they haven't repented from that, saying, you know what, we're never doing that again. That's probably not a church I would recommend. Uh it doesn't necessarily mean it's a church you should never attend. I'm just saying it's not a church I would recommend If they put in place a recommend uh a recommendation that you keep some distance or wear a mask, I'm not a fan of that, but I wouldn't recommend against that. I could oversee that. But if they required it. If you could not come to worship unless you wore a face covering. Or you got a vaccine. Yeah. Yeah. Or or yeah, or require that you got the shot. Or require, you know or separating the body and saying, you're you're the clean, you're the unclean, and you must stay apart. You can't greet each other with a holy kiss. I've got real problems with that. And unless they've repented, publicly repented of it, I don't think I would be c comfortable recommending them. And why am I so hardcore on this? Because of the times we're in. Things have changed palpably. Things are way more dramatic and hardcore now than they were just a few years ago. And a few years ago you could kind of get away with, well, yeah, they probably shouldn't have done that. But you know what's the big deal? It's a big deal. We've had a lot of freedoms as the church in this culture under this government for reasons that are slipping away in one regard, being stolen from us in another regard. And if we don't do something about it, it could happen fast. I mean it Troy, are you just now realizing we're in a spiritual war We're feeling the profundity of that in America uh in a new way in the last three years. It's becoming much much more evident and much more easily definable that this is a spiritual war. It's not a war uh uh of anything else. And whereas before people could have hard to pinpoint that, now it's very visible spiritual war Yeah. So the I think I hit all the big ones that we ended up talking about. I mean there was some talk about yoga and Reiki and things like that, but those were secondary things. And we did also mention there were a few things that we wouldn't uh choose to make issues to not recommend to church. Like if they differed with us on our view on baptism, uh our view on end times, I'm trying to think Yeah, if they're reformed versus Armenian, you know something like that. It's like, you know what? I would say if they're hardcore Armenian, if they're hardcore then they're really Pelagian and I'm not gonna recommend Pel Palladian church, I'm using some real theological buzzwords here. But uh uh but basically if they so emphasize human free will that God loses his sovereignty, I'm not gonna recommend in that church. We must maintain the sovereignty of God. And oh the Trinity, they must be Trinitarian. You know, we talked about that a few shows ago, a couple shows ago. So those are all must-haves. Um and I said if they're if they're reformed, I'm certainly okay with that because I'm essentially reformed. Uh I I don't know if I'm as hardcore as a lot of Reformed guys would like me to be, but I'm essentially reformed. Uh but I am nervous about some of those uh hyper Calvinists Cage stage guys, the frozen chosen, we don't need to evangelize. Uh if you don't believe in limited atonement, you by definition are among the uh the damned and you're going to hell because you disagree on that on that issue of of s of soter. Yeah I I I heard a pastor from there argue that and he said, you know, you should go out and evangelize, save as many people as you can, let God sort it out You know, I think you can sort it out. You don't need to worry about that. any God's plans to uh have the Holy Spirit save that person. So are there any those are the big are there any issues that you know you're thinking about David? Yeah that you're like I would never recommend a church that did or didn't do or No, I think I think you had a a lot of good things and you know and certainly those are um You know, and I think it's good that you mentioned this, right? Like if there was a church that uh in some way responded to um you know, in like manner uh with their their church is all the business. were, you know, during COVID times, if you will. Um you know, uh and I think it I think it is good to say, okay, what is you know, what is their perspective now, having looked back? Like have they realized that they were, you know, in the wrong. You know, and I and I think a lot of that is also in the church is like evidence of you know, what are their how how how well do they discern things, you know. Um and the times call for discernment, right? Yeah. But also a question you might want to ask yourself, uh when you're looking for a church, are you looking to be entertained or are you looking to have a relationship with Christ. Because a lot of these churches, that's what they do, they entertain. They have basically, you know, it's a rock concert. And that's what it would have been. upcoming sh show very soon. Possibly next week's show, we'll see. You know, see how things go, but very soon. But yeah, but yeah, you don't that's not a reason not to pick a church. Right. Because because uh because they don't have gifted enough singers, so I'm not gonna go there. you know you might need to spend a little bit of time there at the church to to be able to observe this but uh you know is if a if a church is trying to um do th do everything entirely new, right? Is is not looking to um practice the the faith as it has been you know regularly practiced throughout centuries and millennia Um, you know, if they're trying to do things very, very new in every way, uh that to me is a flag. Yeah, but David the uh one I think one of the peop the things we're trying to answer is people that don't know what those traditions are are because we talked about that briefly. Some of these people really don't know what's look what is the biblical worldview. If you don't know the biblical worldview, how do you discern that this is a church that has it or doesn't have it. Well the the world view or like the you guys talked through like formative practices like uh I think that they're both related. Formative practices of what the church has done for millennia. w as well as what the biblical worldview is because they're related. If if you don't have a biblical worldview then you are going to bring in, you know, uh the unnecessary or or uh uncalled for senses or the the sense that God banned and and those are new things, uh new ways to worship God. That is not acceptable. Strange fire. Strange fire, yeah. Right. So I I understand what you're talking about. But w what uh we would we've discussed a little bit is how do you dis how does somebody that does not know or is not as uh uh does not have that experience, how did they find or red flags uh before they get indoctrinated and and realize they're in way over their head. Yeah. Uh I mean I I also I I guess I'd say you know, my approach would be like I'm looking I'm looking I would look for green flags first. Mm-hmm. Right, 'cause the the more the green flags And the first green flag we said is do they do you preach from the Bible? Do you read the Bible? Yeah. That's a good green flag to have. And and do they pray? And do they uh um you know do they Do they believe in the power of God that it still exists? Right, right, right. Many churches don't. They they believe that the power of God is gone. Do they use the Bible to interpret them Bible, right? Scripture interprets itself. Yeah, for sure. So I'll tell you one of the things I look for, you know, like when I've helped people try to find a church like that's not in our area, and I'm and And they'll say, are there any churches that you know are near you that you that are on your radar screen that you're curious about? I'll look at those first. And one of the I'm looking for buzzwords Because a lot of people, like if you go to a pastor who mentioned this a couple weeks ago, if you go to a pastor and say, hey, is your church woke? Most of them say, no, we're not woke. But if you say, so do you uh do you believe that um Does everything end in justice? Yeah, exactly. Do you believe that yeah, is everything social justice, economic justice, uh sexual justice or whatever? Are are they using words like diversity a lot on their website or equity on their website? Um uh uh a a lot, things like that, inclusion, things like that. Tolerance. You know, uh if if they're emphasizing now there is something to be said for diversity. I mean we're there's gonna be great diversity in heaven. But we gotta be careful having uh what I like to use a bit theological So we take what's going to be real for the future in glory and we pull it now as though we must have it now. So if a church is all about their main goal is to have an ethnically diverse and uh uh uh and uh demographically diverse with eighth age group and that sort of thing congregation and that's their drive. I've had pastors say that. Oh we're we're all about being diverse. Well Don't you think you should be all about sharing the good news? Like, shouldn't that be your main thing? And if God chooses to bring different people into your context, that's great. You should be welcoming to them. But you shouldn't have as your mission to be diverse, God will bring the diversity, you should have as your mission to share the good news, to go and make disciples. Right. That's you have a great commission to fulfill, and it doesn't have anything to do with being diverse. So if they have all the kind of buzzwords, those are huge wrench words. topics. And then I'll listen to a sermon and see if they actually preach the scripture or if they bring up a verse and then they have just some topical thing that has almost nothing to do with the verse they read. That happens a lot So we're gonna get to why we would leave a church. Yeah, so let's let's commit to that. I think that is I want to share my experience. Okay. I was going to a biblical church that I knew the pastor, who was a great pastor. And we miss you, Imran. We hope you come back. But uh over a over a period of time I was involved in teaching Sunday school and uh very involved with the church and uh My wife was as well. But got to a point where we were starting to feel that we were not growing any longer. And uh there were some other people that were getting upset with us because we were actually having our children memorize the Bible and they felt uh convicted that their kids didn't know the Bible as well and and we were judging them and that we were being more conservative in our dress. Um we weren't letting our children wear, you know, very skimpy outfits. And so those things started culminating and Um so it took us a year. We had decided that this is not working, we want to start changing, want to start trying to do something. We talked to the elders, talk to the pastor. And it took us a year. But the the way to leave a church is to talk to the elders and pastors. You shouldn't leave on bad terms. You should put bring your concerns, say, hey, this is where I'm uncomfortable. This is you know what I'm being led to. And you should really pray through this. Spend time in God's Word, spend time uh searching out what God wants you to do and then talk to your pastors and elders and say, hey, this is where I feel uncomfortable, this is what I'm looking for. Um and don't expect the church to change for you because that's not going to happen. Okay. Now you may have said some things that might convict the elders or the pastor to move in a certain direction, which would be awesome. Then you should try to do that. But at a certain point there you just have to look someplace else. So we ended up uh leaving a a very good Bible church because We wanted more growth. We wanted more um deep deep discussions and meet and getting into the Word of God and actually discussing things as supposed to just being preached at and so we ended up with a house church and the pastor that ran the house church I didn't agree with on a lot of stuff. But you know what it did? Just like s iron sharpens iron when uh when you're when if if both irons the same, they're not gonna sharpen anything. If they're this friction is what sharpens the iron iron, right? So there was friction and that made me go much deeper into the Bible, learn more. And you know, pretty soon we parted ways from that to church. Not too soon, we it took to spend a year or so, but it we grew a lot. But the whole thing was we my wife and I and my family really we're searching out what does God want for us. So the right way to leave church is talking to them and and talking to the pastor and elders and actually having conversation and say these are my concerns. And it has to be something that I I feel is best if you don't just have a conversation with the pastor to say, hey, we've been thinking about it, praying about it. talking amongst ourselves about it and now we're informing you that we're leaving. I think you I think it's helpful to let the pastor and the leadership of the church know that we have concerns and we're we're seriously making some cons giving some consideration about making a move, making a change, and giving them a chance to address your concerns before you just made up your mind we're leaving because maybe there's some things that they They could correct you on that you misunderstand where they're coming from, or they could make some accommodation, like, wow, we never realized that that was so important to you. Give them a chance to try to sell it. I don't think just showing up and saying we're leaving. I've made that mistake in the past And uh it wasn't well appreciated by the pastor, and he was uh rather uh rather uh agitated in how Jews Yeah, I don't think he handled his I don't think I handled it as as as courageously as I should have, uh but I don't think he handled it as pastoral as he might have in response to my lack of courage. But I would just encourage I would encourage anybody who's thinking about it. This should not be an easy decision. This should be a hard decision. Very, very hard decision. Absolutely. And with us we remained friends. We had a lot of friends in the church. It wasn't um we were leaving the church because it had a woman pastor or it had uh started ordaining uh homosexuality or things like that. It wasn't that. It was we wanted something deeper and we wanted uh we were really concerned about the promiscuity of the the the dress of people that are coming to church and raising the clothing. I mean when, you know, my son Daniel was only about eight or nine years old and you saying, Well, how is that woman's dress staying up? Yeah. Now we had an issue there. So we wanted to that's something that was something important to us. evangelicalism. Uh Rick Warren is a big name. You know, he uh he he he did a discussion with the presidents uh a number of years ago was a big televised event the kit presidential candidates. Uh he wrote a uh a very successful book about you know how to live a more Christian life. And I I would not recommend his church. Purpose driven life is the name of the book that went for those like huge bestsellers. So he's a pretty big known big name. And so we think, oh, Rick Warren, he's a big name, he had a best-selling book. He must be good. But he's been drifting more and more and more over the years, and he's gotten really wobbly on the question of we talked about this I think our first week on this subject matter a couple weeks ago, on the egalitarian uh complementarian issue. And he's totally fine with female pastors and teachers and leaders And he's still he's still in the Southern Baptist Convention which goes against the even going back to doctrinal statements, I don't understand how but they now he's now stepping down and he's being replaced by a husband-wife tandem team So if that's you, but okay, I guess this is my last Sunday coming here. Is that the end or do you go talk to me? Let me clarify because husband and wife tanteen and I don't know the situation in this case. But there's a lot of churches that I've uh seen that I actually would recommend that are led by a husband-wife team. They're listed both on the website as pastor and pastor and mister and misses. I actually would still recommend those churches And you see this a lot in the black community actually. It's a very common way of of putting it on their leadership team. The woman is not actually preaching. But shall we mean to be the pastor then? They just call them both because she's leading the women in the church she's pr teaching the women in the church. But he's the only one preaching. Not I'm not I don't know what Rick Warren's church is, that may be different, but there are certain churches where the the pastor and his wife are both listed in the leadership team, but she is very explicitly not given any teaching Most of the church are teaching. I know the the church the uh the environment, the cultural environment you're talking about there, most of those churches I'm familiar with that have that kind of a setup will r at least the ones that I feel like are trying to be really biblical, they will refer to they will make up a title, at least it's not a misapplication of a biblical title, and they'll refer to the pastor's wife as the first lady of the church. Yeah. That's that doesn't really bother me. That's okay. That's not really a biblical title, but at least you're not calling her pastor. Those are called pastor, I gotta say in my experience You maybe know some of the exceptions. All the churches I know where it's a husband-wife team that both have the title pastor, they both preach. I don't know. I don't know. And if they do, that would be a r a big red flag. So I would be uh I would not be a favorite. So let's say you're let's say you work Rick Warren had a church in Frederick. Actually we have an example of this. One of the biggest churches in Frederick County is uh Frederick Christian Fellowship and they had a a male pastor for the longest time and now his number two, if I understand correctly, is a woman. So and I don't know if she preaches or what her what her role is in leading and discipling and shepherding the 'cause there's shepherding involved that doesn't always involve preaching. Right. Right? So and and there's example in the Bible. You were going there, which is the OCF? Well there's an example in the Bible of Priscilla and Aquila, right? Uh uh A Aquila and Priscilla were husband and wife, and they both mentored and discipled Apollo's together. They took him into their house, and they both mentored and discipled Apollo's and said in Acts 17, 18, something like that. Is she ever she ever positioned in scripture as a pastor though? She's positioned as a mentorship and uh mentor and disciple or To she she taught together. Right. So that that's the type of role that a d w a woman can have in the church, but not preaching in the church service. And I think pastors don't only preach. That's a that's that's a misnomer, right? They think the only the only job the pastor has is to preach. Trust me. It's not the only thing pastors do. Uh it can be rather overwhelming. The other kinds of things you have to do that have to do with the the discernment issues we've been wrestling with on these past few shows. Like what's the direction we need, how do we respond as a team, as elders, we need to determine how are we going to respond to these government mandates Whether you're preaching or not, you're involved in making a spiritual leadership decision, and that's something that I think the Bible reserves for those who are the elders. I mean I think one of the issues that you know that comes up with you know your example of Rick Warren or you know or even probably uh FCF is You know, is there's a I I I would be leery of a church that is so large that you don't have uh a personal relationship with with at least one or several of the elders. Of the elders. Yeah. Um because there is no very good way to leave such a large church and and you won't be as missed probably unless you're one of the few people that, you know, is so involved that you that you do have a a close personal relationship with with some of the elders. So you guys didn't really give me a straight answer yet. If you were recording, if the woman's preaching during the service then that will be a time So that's like that that would be a knockout in that case. But now I do differentiate. I do differentiate that some time at some church services there's an open time of testimony. and sharing. And there's n I don't think there's any prohibition in the Bible of prayer or giving a testimony by woman. It's when you're teaching and preaching. That's the difference. Right. Yeah. No, I I I'm agreeing. just just to clarify. It doesn't mean if a woman ever opens her mouth, oh she can't sing. Okay. No, that's not what I said. Right. Right. Yeah. No. She's preaching the sermon. That's I think we're gonna actually transition probably into the music question, but it actually is related a little bit to this. uh uh the question of what you're looking for in a church and and and what what what's good biblical. So we're gonna talk about uh worship music, worship style, worship uh song choice those sorts of things on next week's show. So thank you, gentlemen. David Forcy joining the party. Daniel Razby Imron Rasvy, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD, online at WFMD. com, and you can follow us through my church's website as well, Household of FaithInChrist. com. That's going to put a wrap on it for this week till next week, but 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless Man, it gets warm in here, doesn't it? Heated conversation. Heated. We have a lot of hot air coming out of our mouth. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well I promise you we're gonna have some people that go to churches that don't check the boxes or suggest any should check I know people that go there. And it hasn't been difficult for a long time. Long time in my in my view. I've I've visited there a few times And some of the stuff I've heard taught there are like cringe worthy. There was one time, seriously, my wife knows me well enough, so she read my body language. She put her hand on my leg because she knew I was about to to stand up and like don't hit anybody, don't hit anybody. She's like, you're gonna Will Smith Soccer? I was I I'm not kidding. And so we're leaving and I said to her, I said, you know what, it was all I could do not to stand up and shout heresy. Hmm. And she said I could tell. That's why I put my hand on your leg. I said, yeah, I know. So out of respect for you, good thing you were here because I would have. If she wasn't with me, I was that I can't remember exactly what it was now, but it was so over the top bad. It's like what are you doing? And sometimes it's not the case that the church itself is preaching this. Sometimes they just have a very inexperienced um associate pastor that says something that really out of line with the one uh I I went I went to once to visit a church where we have been going You know, twenty years ago. And the pastor we know really well, but he had an associate pastor fill in for him and the key saying a whole bunch of stuff like, Oh, look uh you know, um The g and he was reading the passage about God striking somebody dead in the Old Testament. He's like, Hey, aren't you gonna glad we're not living in the Old Testament when God strikes people dead like that? Like, um, okay You're saying God no longer has the power to do that. I guess you haven't read the New Testament. Yeah. And I suppose anybody. So there were several things like that and that were very egregious and we you know uh but it was him, it wasn't the teaching of the church. It was that one. And I didn't have grace for things I'm like, okay, that's that's just wrong. If it's a if it's a part of the sermon, like the whole message was like putting forward like the thesis of the message was unbiblical. And then the way he was even trying to structure and teach the message was like not a biblical way to try to teach something, because there's no exegesis at all taking place. And then even the format of the setup and stuff, he had he was preaching from behind a desk. The whole staging was made to look like late night with David Letterman. And I'm like there's like not one thing you're doing that I can really value and appreciate. Did you see the the uh the church that redid its wh whole thing in in Tron colors and Tron uh Like Trump Legacy, the sci-fi movie. They did they did everything like that to be secret friendly and said we're gonna make the whole stage. Was Trump that big of a movie? I don't know. That pastor must have looked I mean I don't think it was that big ahead, was it? It's a rather forgettable movie. I never I never saw it, but uh I know what what you're talking about. Right. Well it was like these I guess they're blue blue dark blue and black colors and the unlike all of a sudden just lines. And they read the whole church like that. Fancy. That's some good good resources that they're just going to be able to do. Welcome to the Faith Debate. We go for another round, another week. They they keep having us back. One of these days they'll come to their senses and Cancel us. Tell us not to come back anymore. Hopefully that won't be for a lot of years. We uh are on the cusp of entering our nineteenth year. The very first show we ever did of memory serves was the first Sunday in November of 2004, I believe. So this is the last Sunday in October of 2022. Boo. Happy Halloween and all that, as we're all into that. Reformation ground. Happy Reformation Day. October thirty first. Yeah. So anyway, lest we should forget, we just had the five hundredth anniversary of that not too many years ago. Um anyway, we're talking the last few weeks about what to look for in a church, what the document And one of the issues that drives those kinds of decisions for a lot of people is music. And so we're going to talk and we're not this isn't necessarily meant to be, so when should you leave or how should you choose your choose a church based on music, although that might be part of what we talk about. But what are the things that should be thought about when uh when we think about conducting music in a worship service and Um some people think it should be psalms only, it should be a cappella only, um, you know, or it could be psalms but also hymns are okay or hymns only. Some are all about the praise and worship, contemporary songs, you know, and Yeah, so what's the what's the right mix? Is there a right mix? Is it is it you know, is the the right way to do this? And I'm gonna start with a story and let you guys run off the races. There's somebody that I know personally who's I have every reason to believe is is an actual believing Christian, lives a good Christian life, so all the evidence of the fruit is there. And yet, despite this, uh he and his family chose a church when they were when they were looking for a church They visited a few and the first church, this is his own testimony, the first church they visited that had a drum kit is where they stayed. That was the litmus test. It wasn't a theological question. It wasn't how biblical, how good the sermons were, wasn't it wasn't anything. It was did they have drums? And if they had drums, you're like, okay, this is gonna be a cool church, because I guess they're gonna entertain me, they're gonna have good music. That was probably the idea there. And so and I will say, in fairness to him, he s he seemed to make an okay choice for him and his family. They stuck there for a long time. They're not there anymore, they've moved out of the area. But that was his thing I know people who've left churches because they didn't have drums. So personally I think that's kind of ridiculous either way, but I think Daniel actually has some uh different uh Maybe hardcore well formulated views on some of these questions because he is a musician. Yes. My background is in music and so I'm very passionate about music. So we can start with you and pivot off of that. So what are we looking for with our music? If we start with Daniel and the wheels and a chance to do that. Oh okay. Maybe start with something else. But what I what I would say before we get into the substance of it is I think it's very important for there to be clear written guidelines about what types of music you allow in the church and why. And so we have that for hours. It's a very it's only a one-page document, but it's very clear. Here's the things and here's why, and here's the biblical verses to back up each of the points on the list. Uh because I think a lot of times pastors, especially churches with an older pastor that may be retiring soon, they had very strong opinions on music and they knew what was good and not too good to have in the church And as they start to shift their leadership and responsibilities away to the younger generation, the younger generation just does what's cool and what's fun and hip and they really undermine a lot of the music. I've seen a lot of churches backslide when the music changes It's usually the first thing, I would argue, even the f before uh some of the woke stuff, the first thing that changes is the music, and after that changes a lot of other things. when it's non traditional music. So anyway, that's what I'll say. Do you think the music is the is the catalyst or the like the harbinger of the I'd say both. A little bit of both depending on the context. I've seen some very dramatic changes in churches where the first thing that changed was the music and then almost immediately after that a whole bunch of other things started. Almost like it uh like it it opened the door for for other changes. Almost like that, yeah. Um Yeah. But I think it's a leading indicator of if they're not gonna have really savvy, you know uh uh there's l if there's not a lot of wisdom in their decisions on their music, it's probably an indicator they might not have a lot of wisdom in Right. That's how I would think about it. But I think uh I I think music is very uh uh you know, usually a very good gauge for you know what a church is about, you know. Are they um are they looking to be very similar to or very tasteful? you know, for those who are used to being of the world and in the world. Um you know, and uh uh uh and then also uh you know and that's that's music style probably, you know, that would Would tell you that. Do you have written documentation of the kind of music you would do in your church? No, I have nothing in writing, Troy. I don't even have a website, remember? I know nothing. I mean we have a website so a lot of Basically everything that we have in writing you see on our website. I don't have I don't think we have anything in writing that's not on our website. So if you want to know what we have in writing, what we believe, and the things we thought were important enough to write down. go to Hells of the Faith in Christ dot com and it's all there for the world to see. I'm not so sure of that you you mean that the there's probably some wisdom in in having it written down, but you're not saying that like it should be a requirement that churches would have that written down Because I I'm you know, I feel like if you've got good men in leadership, when that retiring pastor goes away, if he's got good elders in place and and and they do a good job hiring a biblical pastor to replace the outgoing pastor, they're gonna continue to make good biblical decisions that would include the music. So I'm not so sure that I feel the weight of importance of having it written down But there might be some movement that I'm just going to do. Um there's a lot more that music has involvement. I think it's often put on the back burner. The pastors either don't care so much or and they let somebody else who knows about these things pick the music. Um but i I think there is some deep theological importance to choosing music and why you choose certain music. Um so there's a couple points that a lot of pastors will say if they care about these things they'll look at these first. One is the lyrics. You know, if you look at all about music, usually you say, okay, is the lyrics are the lyrics biblical, first of all. And then, you know are are I I think a really good easy test is if you can't tell whether you're singing to God or to your girlfriend, then it's probably not good lyrics in the in the song. Right. Um you need to have it clear that you're singing to God, to the God of the Bible specifically. So there needs to be good theology in the lyrics. Uh there's there's a lot of resources about that and and you can kind of read the song and and kind of figure that out whether it's biblical. Um there's a lot of difference in doctrine based on those. The other the the major area which has a lot of stuff had been said on it and you if you Google this you can probably find it is rock music is of the devil and you can't have that in the church. You may have you've probably heard a I'm a child of the sixties, seventies, and eighties. I heard that a lot. It was just I was just on the heels. I was born on the heels of the whole Elvis is Devil music. So I grew up in that environment big time. So I mean There is iF I I've done a lot of research on it. There is something to be said for certain types of music and I won't use the word drop music in this sentence but Certain types of music are evil and demonic. It is possible to be uh spiritually oppressed with music. Now you probably have something to that effect in your written document. And you said that you have like scriptural support texts and stuff for all these positions. So what would be scriptural support texts for that? So There is there's a few di a few different things. Um one is certain types of music um are elicit the wrong emotions, the sinful emotions Um Joshua on the top of the mountain, when he heard uh you know the people with the golden calf, he said to Moses, There's a there's a voice of war in the camp. But they weren't fighting, they were singing. And he said, it's it's singing. But they're they're at war. Right? He could tell there was evil music going on in the camp. that was sounding like a warhabing. And there's a lot of scripture that talks about um being uh at peace and in one accord and things like that. There's there's many things uh from a music theory perspective um technical and we can get really technical we won't have time to But there's a lot of things from a technical perspective about syncopation and heavy backbeat that is against nature. It's against it's b uh backwards from the heartbeats that God created in nature. a lot of natural rhythms that are throughout nature um that is just against the natural order of things. Are you talking about like heavy metal kind of stuff? I'm talking about if you have four beats in the measure, then stronger on two and four will be a back beat. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. So that's the the classic rock beat where you have stronger beats on two and four. That's in unhealthy rhythm as a I'm not gonna call it evil necessarily today. There are evil music. Uh I'm I and there's there's gray areas too, I would say, but that's the opposite. The the more natural rhythm is one, two, three, four, where you have strong So there's something with the beats. Um that's that's a good thing. The ones and the three is you go to a black church that's where they clap, right? Uh usually if you go to a white church they typically clap Right. And the reason for that, I would say, is there's a lot of um cultural things that the that that certainly churches understand and in Africa for example there's a lot of a lot of the wish doctors use some of those rock beats and if you go to church in Africa Africa. Um most of them are gonna be very what I would call healthy music. They're maybe very opposite of that because they understand that certain music does invite demonic activity. And so they would actually be opposite And they would have what I would term healthy beats, clapping on one and three, t for example. Um so I think that that is one part of it. There's music has several parts though. They got the beat, we got the lyrics, but then we have melody and we have harmony. And there's melody, th so there's there's a lot of different things that go along with all of that. But even backing up from the type of music, how do you perform it? How do you play it? And I just use the word perform. It shouldn't be a performance. If it's anything it's a performance to God, but If you're clapping at the end of a song, that's probably a red flag. If the church is clapping, 'cause you shouldn't be clapping you shouldn't be cheering the people who are performing, you're cheering God. And usually when you're clapping, you're clapping 'cause oh that was cool music. I love So those are some of the things that we written down. So it's not just about the types of music, it's about how you play it. Yeah. I don't mind clapping during the song, but I want to talk about it. I've been to churches where they do, and I will say red flag's strong I think I will say I've I I think I've thrown some yellow flags depending on how that's handled. I think that it's a natural instinct in our society when somebody sings a song uh and they do a good job like to show appreciation by clapping. I think it's just like an instinct, it's inbred and it's it feels so flush awkward to tell somebody don't clap But I've heard churches handle that re reasonably well by saying, let's all give praise to the Lord, let's clap for the Lord, and He's blessed us with this music. I've heard them pivot and make it God directed. And I feel like that's it that's an attempt to try to do that. I I would say yeah, but our natural urges is also to sin and we should suppress those. So just because you naturally want to clap when somebody plays a song doesn't mean it's a good thing to do in the church service. So Yeah, but see that's where I'm I'm I'm there's there could be some wisdom here, but you know uh that's what I'm I'm trying to I haven't thought through all of these things as much as you have, but I I'm have I'm having a hard time thinking like off the top of my head. Like even the the passage with Joshua saying, I hear the I'm still hearing the sounds of war, maybe there was singing mixed in, but I'm thinking there's also some hootin' and hollering and some some aggressive noises coming. It's not just well he said specifically that it was singing that he heard. It's not the sound of men that cry for uh for help or for or or or yelling and shooting and hollering. But it's the noise of singing that he hears. So it was he was pretty specific on that. Now obviously we don't have a um uh sheet music from what they were singing. Right. It's a particular kind of a st he would he would recognize as a general himself, he would recognize a military man himself, but this is the kind of thing that gets people amped up to go to war. Right. And that's what they're singing now Or you know um I don't know. I I feel like I w I'm thinking it's I'm taking this in to think how do or you know should I imply this with household of faith in Christ and I'm I'm not hearing anything. There's a mix in my change or in my guidelines is a mix of there's biblical verses principles that we follow, but where also there's a lot of scientific research to go goes into this. So I and I spend a lot of time I understand you know looking at the human body and behavioral, especially for children and when we do the child training and things like that, music has a hu uh plays a huge role in children's behavior. Um And so then we look okay, this type of music has certain effect and why is that? And so we we dig more deeply and you we find a lot more information. And then we there's a lot of verses that do speak to that but there's there's no sheet music in the Bible. So it's it's it's hard to show okay well see this is where you're clapping on this be that's not there obviously but music around the world in most cultures is what I would term healthy music. There's only a couple cultures um namely in Africa and in South South America that the traditional music from that culture is what I would term unhealthy music. Um but it's not really metered the way we think about it. I mean they Almost nothing rhymes. Uh there's not a necessarily uh tarotic in the psalms. Yeah, there's not a necessarily the poetry is very different from Exactly. And and they were singing that and it wasn't like every line has the same number of of uh syllables where you could beat it out, you know, measure the beats or something. So I I don't know what it might have sounded like, but it probably sounded nothing like what we think of as Western music But one of the things that I think is is good about this conversation, because I I feel like a lot of people, you know, probably several minutes ago were like, well th this is just overthinking it, Daniel, like, you know There's like just, you know, let it let it let it go is is it really that big a deal. But I I think this is a a good conversation to have. I think it is you know, this is a good demonstration of Really trying to um Uh you know, like you said, like it doesn't give us sheet music or examples of melodies or things like that. And but but we should say, okay, but what are what are the biblical principles for for life and how And and just because the Bible doesn't explicitly talk about a thing doesn't mean that there are biblical principles that guide that, right? The Bible doesn't mention television. But we all have some pretty strong opinions on what kind of shows you You should be watching or not watching, right? So music is the same way. The Bible does actually talk a lot about music. It does talk about, you know, in the Psalms it says there's a verse that says, Play skillfully with a loud noise. So it's actually important to be well trained in a musician. And if your church doesn't large enough that has that, uh that's not like you're a bad church. And to play loud music. And to play loud yeah. Loud noise. I'm all for loud noise, heavy beats, plenty of instruments, okay. But our guidelines do have a few things. Our s our guidelines say no drums in our service. Not because I'm against drums. I actually think drums can be do it done really well. And I think if I had drums and played them in the short war service orchard service, it would still be healthy music, but I have a fear that it's very easy in American culture to play drums and also guitar, those two specific instruments. grum drums and guitar to play them in a more um pop type of way that is not traditional either traditional western or eastern uh method. It's is the the guitar music and drum music we have is more African in in most most of its influence in Western culture now. And so I say, look, it's better to do without there's no requirement that it has to be you have to have guitar and drums during the service in the biblical uh you know mandate, so we're just gonna leave 'em out Um but I have no problem on a on the face of having that instrument. There's no I mean Baba talks about drums and I would be happy to go to a Jewish congregation, for say a Mes Messianic Jewish congress congregation and listen to their drumbeats all day long because they have very healthy beats generally. Thankfully you chose the piano which has both strings and percussion all in one. Exactly. Um you have a uh you play the guitar. I do. So you have guitar music at your church. I'm not offended, Daniel. Right? Does anybody else in your church uh play an instrument? Uh kids do I guess. Yeah. Uh probably maybe at more of a novice level. I don't know if you're we don't have anyone else who uh who is is comfortable uh uh yeah skill wise. And we don't even have that in our church, so we're singing to you know recorded music because we we don't and there's a coup I have we have some old hymnals and stuff and we might sing the ones that we know well enough. We just sing those a cappella out of the hymnals. But we don't have any musicians. I think my wife's a pretty good singer. Uh for the most part I can hold the tune, but I don't I'm certainly not like a trained great singer or anything. But it's about as good as we get. I mean if if possible you want to be educated about the things that you're that you're doing. That's all. Um but there is one thing I want to get to which is not to do with the music at all, uh the type of music, and this is something that I don't hear enough pastors talking about. I think it's really important. Most churches, when you go to if it's and if it's got any sort of organization to it, during the church service, near the time uh they either they have an altar call if they're that type of church or they have a closing prayer or whatever they have, the pianists or the musicians will start to play music during the prayer. I am so strongly against that. It's really, really bad. The primary reason is music is a language. You are saying something with the music. So when you play music, you're actually saying something different than what is being prayed. Unless you're the one praying. So it's one thing if you're praying and you're the pianist and you're also playing music to go along with your prayer. That that's I I could almost uh uh be condone that. But if the person speaking is a different person than the person playing music and they're praying to God, now you have an issue like in um First Corinthians where Paul says you can't both speaking at once because it you you can't hear each other over and when I because I'm so steeped in music, like I don't hear la la la, I hear A, G, flat, you know No, C sharp, like I hear those notes. So it's I I'm weird that way. When I So to me when I was in church. When I sit in church and I and I'm praying and I'm praying with the guy who's praying and then I hear This music, that takes me completely out of the zone and now I'm thinking about the mood that the music is in, which is totally different mood often than what's being taught. So I can't stress that enough. Please don't play music. Yeah, I find it distracting. Uh I find it manipulative. Mm-hmm. And if I feel like somebody's trying to manipulate me, boy, that's a huge turn off Like do not try to manipulate me. So that's uh that's a problem. And the other thing is it it almost forces the the way the prayers will be delivered. Because usually it's this light little twinkly stuff, you know, elevator music kind of a thing Good luck pre uh praying and a precatory prayer with that going on. Like you know, it it it dictates the mood and tone of the prayer. And that's it so that's three strikes in your eye. I got three reasons. I am not a fan of that. I I I'm totally output by that. I think one of the things just to sort of look big picture, okay, why why music at all? Uh is the you know w when when music is being played when people are singing the The voices of the church are being joined together, right, in in unity to to praise God by speaking truth, by you know, calling on his name And uh and so yeah, and and music has the power to do that, to to unify and to help, you know you know, even just tonally, right, to get everyone on the same page. And uh and and that's why I think that's why music is a big deal. And uh why people why people feel strongly and and it's interesting that that ends up being one of the most divisive things in churches a lot of times. The thing that is supposed to be the most unifying you know in in Music can be very addicting. It can be like a drug. You know, rock music especially can be very uh very addictive. And I think that's why people get so offended very easily about when you talk about their music. Oh no this is my music, this is my personal preference. Okay, well you know it's your personal sexual orientation preference too, but God has a lot to say about that Right? So do you do you feel like the the music in in the church should be especially set apart, different? You know, a a almost you know, a a kind of music that is only done when believers gather together. What do you think about that sort of idea? No, I I think there's there's there's there should be a distinction between secular music and religious music. Um I mean it should be clear that you're singing a religious song, um, but I don't think that you can not sing that song other times, right? I wouldn't play Beethoven's symphony during search service any more than I'd play a Beatles song during search service because neither of those is religious music. I'd say the Beethoven symphony is a lot healthier music than the Beatles song is for a number of reasons, but you still don't play it during church service, right? Just because it's not church related. Yeah. Um I mean you can uh uh you You can have a a a a Turch bake sale fundraiser, but you don't do that during the service either. You do it afterward, right? Um there's things like that. Yeah. I well and and I I think I think, you know, it's instructive to us that throughout history like certain music styles have become certain music styles because they've started in the church. True. Like like gospel music. You know, for instance. Um I I I I really have to say most cultures and I've studied music from a lot of different cultures and you're right. Western and culture uh uh Western music is very different than Middle Eastern music, very different than Chinese music and and and uh you know South American music. But in the majority of the cultures, the ac the the roots are very healthy, what I would term healthy. It's just from a couple cultures in very uh interestingly, very heavy uh areas of very heavy demonic activity, such as some places in Africa. America and some places in South America that are known for having a lot of wish doctors and things like that. That's where a lot of the unhealthy music really has its roots and it's influenced Western culture. to push back on that. Well we're going to uh begin to wrap this up with about a minute or so left in the show, so I don't want us to get caught short. Uh I'm not sure uh you probably have a heck of a lot more you could say about music. I'm not sure if we want to next week you at least start with some other thoughts about music or not. Um I mean I I haven't given this a lot of thought. I have some opinions, but they're not all that well formulated, so I don't have a whole lot I necessarily feel the need to to put out. out there. But anyway we can figure that out between this week and next week's show. Uh David Forcy, uh he he did a lot of talking this week and and uh Daniel Razley did a lot of talking this week. I think we heard Imron early in the show and then I think he went and took a nap or something I'm not sure what happened. We lost Imron somewhere along the way. We'll pull him into the conversation. Next week, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. You can find us online, of course, at WFMD. com. You can hear us every week at uh on the FM at uh 99. 9 HD2 or in listen live on wfmd. com listen live option. And you can connect with us through my church's website because I've I'm kind of the the hub and the the uh one-stop shop for connecting with all of us here on the show And that website is household of faith in Christ dot com, household of faith in Christ. com. The Razzies they have a website too that's called uh conqueredbylove. org, conquered by love. org so you can visit that as well. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless. I just texted you uh one page your my actual guidelines. There it is. Now you have it written down for your truth. I have a lot of verses listed there that you know you may or may not see how they relevant and you're welcome to ask me if you want at some point. But the Those are the things that I'm going to do. I don't actually say hymns only or songs only. in there. But we do in practice just use one hymnal and whatever somebody wants to sing out of that. And we have just piano in practice. The main thing is if you don't have a position, then anything goes. Yeah. So you should have a position. Yeah. Well right now the way it goes. Maybe we're handling it. So I'm not I'm not a musician, I'm not good at I don't really know music all that well. I don't even know the songs all that as far as like I know what the theme of the sermon's gonna be. I'm like, ooh, I it'd be nice to have like three or four songs that would tie into that theme, but I don't know the the library of music well enough to to make those decisions And uh we have somebody in our church that's, you know, listening to praise and worship music like all week long and she's all about it. It's like, you know what, I'm gonna let you handle that. And we'll say for the most part she does an okay job There are times when she picks a song like, We should not be doing that song, but I don't even know what the song is until we do it. So but the song You could ask for them ahead of time. I could. So we're so what I've been doing is on the fly is I'll I'll use it as a teaching opportun. So it's interesting that song talks about this and this and you know actually I think it would be better if that lyric said this or it you know and shifted into a to a teaching moment Uh but still allowing uh the person who's handling the music right now to feel like they're they have a particular task that they're charged with, give them some ownership. If we ever got somebody that could play the piano or guitar or anything, I would probably have them just take that over. But even there you need guidelines, otherwise it does get out of control. And that's one of the things that Daniel and I are yeah, I and I don't know anything about music. That's why I kinda kept quiet. But it tends to go towards sin. Everything in life, everything in this world tends to go towards sin. So unless you have a guideline you