Yep. I think we're out. Yep. Alright, I got a message that said that disconnected, but now I think we're connected. It says live. We're gonna roll with it. Hello, Facebook. And now that we're posting these on YouTube after the fact If you're watching this in recorded edition, then hello YouTube. Alright, before we do anything else, we have a joke to get us started. Okay. Um not just yet. Well we're going to uh be spending some time in a variety of passages, so if you want to start to bookmark your Bibles, you're encouraged to do so so you can follow along more easily. Later on. We're going to read a pretty extensive section of 1 John chapters 1 and 2. We're going to be looking in the Old Testament at Jeremiah chapter 22 And then a variety of passages from the Apostle Paul in the New Testament, Romans chapter 10, 2 Corinthians chapter 20, Chapters 2 and 6, Ephesians chapter 2, and 2 Timothy chapter 3. So if you want to bookmark I'm going to reference them later, but it might be easier for you to flip and find them. So Romans ten, second uh second Corinthians two, second Corinthians six, Ephesians two, second Timothy three. and Jeremiah 29. And of course uh 1 John beginning uh in first in the first chapter because that's where we're going to kind of be jumpstart Starting. So anyway, do we have a joke or no? I'm trying. Okay, so I got I got it. Oh, okay, see if I can remember it. A child asked his father How were people born? So his father said Adam and Eve made babies. Then their babies became adults and made babies, and so on. The child went on to his mother and asked her the same thing question and she told him we were monkeys then we evolved to become like we are now. The child ran back to his father and said, You lied to me. His father replied, No, your mother was talking about Yeah, you gotta be careful a joke like that in today's climate. Some people would say it's a racist joke. Yeah. Oh. Okay. Well take it up with Last Factory. Yeah, take it up with LastFactory. com then. I just read it. I do remember you sharing that one before. Yeah. It shouldn't be. It's only can be construed as a racist joke if you buy into the theory of evolution. And you look at different race So from a biblical point of view, that would not be an offensive joke at all. But in today's world, every joke is offensive these days, don't you? True. Alright, so um I'm gonna just jump up and and get jumping into the message. I'll open us uh with prayer right into the message and then we'll go from there and we'll have our time of discussion after the message. So if you want to turn to first John. Oh, the dog left us in presentation. I was wondering Oh, for the love of Pete. Alright, well this will be interesting. Distraction time. You little thinker. You are a little I'll I'll open us with prayer, I guess, uh and then we'll quote. This is real life, right? Christians doing life together. Father, we thank you for bringing us together to learn more about you and study your word. We ask that you would clear our mind from distraction. Open our hearts to receive your truth and give us the courage and the sustenance to apply your truth to our lives and live it out with wisdom and boldness. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. So we're going to begin reading here in a second from 1 John chapter 1. uh beginning with verse six. And I'm going to read all the way to chapter two, verse six, and then I'm going to jump ahead to chapter two, verse fifteen, and read through verse 17. So 1 John chapter 1, 6, through chapter 2, verse 6, and then also 1 John chapter 2, verses 15. If we claim to have fellowship with him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie. We do not live by the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is the light, we have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus, his son, purifies us from all Sin. If we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. If we claim we have not sinned, we make him out to be a liar, and his word has no place in our lives. My dear children, I write this to you so that you will not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have one who speaks to the Father in our defense, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins. And not only for ours, but also for the sins of the whole world. We know that we have come to know him if we obey his commands. The man who says I know him, but does not do what he commands, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But if anyone obeys his word, God's love is truly made complete in him. This is how We know we are in him. Whoever claims to live in him must walk, as Jesus did. Do not love the world or anything in the world. Now picking up at verse 15. Do not love Do not love the world or anything in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For everything in the world, the cravings of the sinful man, the lust of his eyes, and the boasting of What he has and does comes not from the Father, but from the world. The world and its desires pass away, but the man who does the will of God lives forever. Now, this is the word of God inspired, inerant, infallible, but those who have ears to hear But them here. So pretty big chunk of of a letter here. It's not that long, right? Pretty big chunk. But this captures kind of the central core kernel thrust of what this letter is is really kind of all about. And so we're tackling this is to grab the theme that John has for us in his letter. For the Christian, what does it mean to be a believer? How can the professing Christian be sure of salvation? There's a couple of big questions. Well these questions are related, I believe, as part of a larger question, which is what we're going to aim to be talking about this week. And next. What is expected of those who trust in Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior? What is expected Now God's perfect love, it is demonstrated powerfully by His gift of salvation. And we are commanded To respond properly to this gift of salvation. Now, from my perspective, and talking to people over the years, Few things weigh on a person's heart more than concern over one's eternal salvation. What does the Word of God say about these things? that I've brought up so far. If you were participating in what we did last week and the week before, when we tackled the first part, the first four verses of 1 John chapter 1, we went pretty much Micro. We talked about each sentence, in fact each phrase and in some cases individual words, and spent quite a bit of time unpacking what was really behind all of those words and made a big point to say, man, John is saying so much with so few words because every word was so loaded with teaching and important stuff. This we And next week, we're going to take a completely different tack and we're going to go macro rather than micro. So that's why we're reading this big chunk of the letter here. And we want to grab the broad themes and we want to have it reinforced for us that it's not just John and his letter in his opinion, but it is the biblical message as a whole. So we're gonna spend Almost all of our time actually in parts of the Bible that weren't written by John. So we're going to begin by looking at Romans chapter 10. I mentioned that a few minutes ago if you had bookmarked it. If you want to follow along, we're going to look at a few verses here in Romans chapter 10. Uh most people probably know where Romans is in the New Testament, um, you know, right after the Gospels in Acts. So hopefully you can find it relatively quickly if you're not already there. We're gonna begin by looking at Romans 10 verse 13, which says, Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Have you called on the name of the Lord? If so, then you're saved. God's word says so. However, what does it mean? And how does it come about that a person should call on the name of the Lord? The same Romans passage that was just quoted in the back going on to address this exact Question in verses 14 and 15. It says, How then can they call on the one they have not believed in? And how can they believe in the one of whom they have not heard? And how can they hear without someone preaching to them? And how can they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news. So you see what Paul is saying here? Seems pretty plain, right? I mean we can we can't truly call on a Lord in whom we don't believe, and we can't Believe in someone of whom we've never heard. And we've heard about this one and only great and glorious God through the preaching of those who have been sent by this very same God. And what is preached is None other than the good news, the gospel. We've heard over the years over and over again that the gospel is the good news, the good news is the gospel, they are interchangeable in meaning, gospel means good news. But because of the way we speak about it, sometimes I wonder, do we really have a proper understanding of what the God gospel is except to say that the gospel is good. Well this is helpful to be sure to know that it is good yet well let's ask him what exactly is this good gospel, this good good news that's proclaimed. Well God gives us the answer in an earlier verse of the same chapter we were just in of Romans chapter 10 verse 8 says that what is proclaimed is the the word of faith faith in what well faith in Jesus our Lord. The full verse says, but what does it say? The word is near you, it is in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of faith we are proclaiming. And the thought continues in the following verse that if you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. So the point that's being made here in this Romans passage by the Apostle Paul is really quite simple. We are saved by faith in Jesus Christ. And we We know in our hearts that this is true because of the testimony of the Word of God. The Word of God didn't reveal this truth to us? Well, we'd be utterly lost. And we can trust the word completely without any reservation. In this matter or any other matter, because from the very beginning the Word was God. That's John chapter 1, 1, his gospel account I want us to pause on this point for just a moment to reflect upon the impact of this truth. The word is God. Think for a moment, but all the things that we know to be true about God God is love, and he's good and light and holy and truth and righteous and trustworthy and everything imaginable that is perfect If these things are true of God, and they are, then they're also true of His Word. We can't Can and surely completely trust not only God, but also His Word, because they're one and the same. And God tells us about Himself, reveals Himself to us in and through His Word. And one of the things that He tells us is found in a passage of Scripture that I find it the most comforting. It's Jeremiah 29, if you want to turn there. It's not just me that finds it com uh comforting. This is a very popular verse in this particular house. Tell me the top ten passages of scripture of all time in the Skinner household. Jeremiah from I think we still have it up in the house in different places. And it used to be in more places in the house. You couldn't turn a corner without seeing this passage somewhere. Jeremiah 29, verses 11 through 13. For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord. Plans to proper Plans to give you hope and a future. Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will listen to you to you. You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart. This passage begins with God basically saying to his people, look You can trust me. I have only the very best of blessings for you. And he proved that he is true to his word When he humbled himself, became a man who was rejected and scorned, ultimately killed as payment for our sins. And he demonstrated that he has power and victory over even death with his resurrection and a ascension back to heaven. And so we he did this so that we might prosper and have hope and a future. As it says in Jeremiah 29. Unless we forget God, He didn't do this for us because we deserve it. We deserve only Only punishment and death. But despite the fact that we deserve death, God gives us life In Christ. The Jeremiah passage in chapter 29 ends by telling us that we we will find God when we seek Him With all our hearts. Now, in seeking him, where should we look? Certainly we should seek him in prayer and In times of worship and by the guidance of the Holy Spirit. These things they're grounded in the primary place in which we are instructed to see Seek God, to find God. Scripture. Flip ahead if you're in your New Testament to Second Timothy chapter three This is one of the key passages in all of the Bible to help guide the discipleship of Christ's followers. 2 Timothy chapter 3. Verses 14 through 17. The Apostle Paul writing. But as for you, continue in what you have learned and have become convinced of because you know those from whom you have learned it and how from infancy you have known the holy scriptures which are able to Make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. All scripture is God-breathed and is useful for teaching, rebuke. Correcting and training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good work. Imagine that so far I have really said nothing that's particularly earth shattering or shocking to you. You know, as as I progress through today's Message and next week's message, and purposely seeking a common ground from which to begin. And over and over again, these things have been taught in the church over the years. Less so recently is my fear, but certainly over and over again over the years. If you're a member of a church, you've probably at some point given assurance. To these sorts of things. That you you confess Jesus as your personal Savior and that you fully believe that He was raised from the dead in victory, so that we might be raised with Him to eternal glory And I trust that you have some sense, at least, of the implications for your belief. As believers, one of those implications is that we are New creation in Christ. Let's take a look at the second epistle to Corinthians, 2 Corinthians chapter 6, or as they like to say in Europe, to Corinthians. Corinthians, 2 Corinthians chapter 6, looking at verse 17, and then right after that we're going to stay in 2 Corinthians and hop really quick to 2 Corinthians chapter 2 Verse fifteen. But first, Second Corinthians six, verse seventeen. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has gone, the new has gone Has come. And the Holy Spirit now lives in us and has resulted 2 Corinthians 2, verse 15 says, We are to God the aroma of Christ. We smell good. To God. Because to God, believers have the aroma of Christ. Because we're united in Christ. Let's look at one last passage today, Ephesians, chapter two, the last passage we turn to for this. evening, unless we turn to one during our discussion here in a moment. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10, it tells us we are God's workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works. Which God prepared in advance for us to do. The entire New Testament is really all about this amazing It's an amazing truth. We're not merely saved from eternal damnation for our sins. As wonderful as that is, we're not merely saved from eternal damnation for our sin, but we're actually in Christ, and we share in his inheritance. Oh. And we've been adopted again, not because we deserve it, but because God has seemed fit to make it so. We're desperate sinners who have been saved from our own sins. And more than this, we share in the exaltation of Jesus Christ. Now earlier I had asked that we pause for a moment and reflect upon the fact that the Word is God. Well now, I'm going to ask us to pause for a moment. reflect on what the the New Testament and the Old Testament too clearly teaches us. God's people, followers of Jesus, we believers. We share in the exaltation of Jesus Christ. We are so unworthy of This honor, we whose righteousness is as filthy rags, we're made to share in the inheritance of Jesus Christ, our Savior. Who allowed himself to be humiliated for us. In fact, he not only allowed himself to be humbled for us, but he caused himself to be humbled for us. And I know it sounds cliche using a phrase like this, but the truth is we can't even Even really begin to fathom the breadth and the depth of God's sacrificial love for us I mean the impact of this truth, if we truly begin to fathom it, it should bring tears to our eyes as we contemplate it. And it should motivate us to do those good works that have been prepared in advance for us to do. We'll talk more about these things in next week's session We're going to pause there. And if you want homework assignment, I mentioned it last week and the week before. It's a short book. Read through first, John. Read through a couple of times. Really try to get a sense. Of what it is John is saying and feel feel and hear his heart and have in your own heart reaffirm the truth of the gospel. So let me pray before we uh Enter into a discussion. Father, we thank you for the sufficiency of your word and the full sufficiency of your son for our salvation. We thank you for preserving your word that we can study it, press into it, even now, these many years later. Thank you for the unity that we have with each other as believers. The unity is bound up in union with Christ Himself. We ask that we would Be more motivated to live out lives that give evidence to the good work, evidence of the union that we have. evidence of the thankfulness we have for the gift that we've been given. We thank you for the presence of your Holy Spirit here among us this evening. We ask that you would Leave and guide our conversation. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. So that is basically a straight-ahead gospel kind of a message getting into some of the X's and O's and the basics of the gospel. Um okay. And some parts of scripture lend themselves to to that realization more readily. Some are Like, wow, this is clearly the gospel. And there are other parts of the Bible where it's not as clear, but the whole Bible is about the gospel. And so as you're reading your Bible and you're reading s sections of it and passages And if you haven't quite figured that part of it out yet, then you haven't fully understood everything that's in the passage for you. But anyway, that said, any thoughts or comments, questions about Today's message. Ms. Angela, anything on your mind or part? Not yet. I will say that one thing that has um occurred to me of recent is you know, I I I believe through reading scripture we are in last days and through the reading of scripture I've also noticed that there is a point Pouring out of the Holy Spirit in these last days to give everyone an opportunity to receive this wonderful gift of everlasting life so that when when we look at what's going on in our world right now, it's very um devastating. It's it's Deadly. And I don't necessarily only just mean COVID. I mean everything. And there's a desperation and a hopelessness if we're honest with our ourselves. When we look at the amount of people who are taking their lives, which is not being reported, you're not taking your life because you're Okay with everything, you're taking your life because you're hopeless. You're you're feeling devastated. You're feeling like, what's the point of living? And even as believers, I find my Saying, what's the point? And I have hope in Christ. So I can't even imagine the magnitude of the hopelessness that is going on to a suffering world and how I'm anxious in a good way to see those who will be touched by the power of the Holy Spirit, repent and then come into the family of God and how awesome that'll be and how much their lives will literally Turn around. I remember the day that I gave my life to Christ and I went for a walk and the birds were singing to me. I mean it was as if they were chirping to me and it was as if the flowers it was it was and the flowers the vibrancy of the colors were just eye popping and I th Everything afresh and anew, and that's part of the good news. You see hope in a desolate land. You see purpose in your life. And that is what I'm um thankful for and encouraged in these last days. Because otherwise I get depressed. I'm just being honest. And I lose I lose sight of the gospel and the good news. And we do need to get in reminders, you know, kind of like gospel inoculation on a regular basis, you know, because uh it the impact of it, and that's what I was emphasizing, and I encourage you to do this whenever you're reading scripture, that you take time not just to read through But to pause and to contemplate what it is you really mean. Let it get root in you and take hold of you. And um if it doesn't come naturally then maybe force yourself to say, okay, I've read this a bunch of times before, but let me try to see what can I get out of it different this time? Let me focus on a word. What does that word mean? Or what's that sentence really saying and how I've always thought about it this way. Is there another way I could think about it and really try to understand uh in a more tangible, heartfelt way the reality of the gift? Because that's when you're floating on cloud nine, the color's more vivid, the birds are speaking to you and all of that, it's um because you realize how much God loves you and and then you're uh in that moment you're loving him in a heightened kind of a way as well. It's kind of like when when people are dating and they're courting and and they start to get serious and people People can go a long time without even sleeping, it seems. You know, they're just they're just the endorphins are so high. But of course that fades. Uh so it's the same thing. We have we should have these kind of these endorphin Because we live in a broken world, completely lost, devastatingly lost, including ourselves. We don't deserve anything good. We are rebellious. We have been granted life, given an unbelievable favor from God, and yet we re- our heart attitude is still too often. To rebel. And even when we appreciate, we don't appreciate enough. Even our righteousness is as filthy rags, as the Old Testament tells us, and as I referenced in the Methodist today. And so we need to come to grips with that. And so knowing that there's a lost world out there that doesn't even know these truths, which is Dina's part of her point, and knowing that we need to be reminded ourselves This is why it's been frustrating for me as a pastor that churches aren't meeting, too many are choosing not to meet of their own volition, even in spite of what government leaders are telling them. And even the the ones that are doing it for you know trying to be um obedient to government uh authority um It's been demonstrated that there might be some workarounds there. And it's interesting to me that those who are committed to There are people gathering to support police, there are people gathering to defund the police, there are people who are gathering to show that we're all in this together. There are people gathering to show that there's racial divide and this horrible need for reconciliation that you can never quite grasp. Um and so they're gathered by the thousands because they're committed to a cause. And the church doesn't feel like it's all that committed to the cause right now. And the cause is crucial because as Paul says in chapter ten, people can't believe unless they hear. How are they going to hear if nobody gathers to hear the word preached? And then how are you, as a believer who's not a pastor, going to have your faith reinforced and your and your n your bank of knowledge uh reinforced if you're not hearing the gospel preach So you can then go share it with your neighbors. So you're equipped to then give a reason for the hope that lies within because it fades. theme as we mark through march our way through first John. John repeats himself a lot in this letter. And a big part of that I think is because he knows how forgetful we are. Even in the midst of reading one letter, it's like, oh yeah, you just said that two paragraphs ago. Yeah, that's right. And then three paragraphs later you forget. And so then he tells you again for the third time. Oh yeah, that's right. I know he said that just a second ago and he already forgot. We Need to be reminded constantly. Now I'm surprised that nobody's raised the question. Maybe you guys don't have any issue with it, but uh the theme of this message actually is subject of some debate in Christian circles. This idea that um you know people have to know Jesus and they have to have therefore heard about him and have to be preached and proclaimed and it often will raise the question of well what about those who never hear? You know, classically it's usually put as what about that tribesman on a remote island that the missionaries never got to? Well those sorts of things. I I mean I I'm gonna jump in with my answer. I mean I've heard of testimonies of people being, you know, having dreams and visited by Jesus and so I don't think there's no obstacle. I mean there is no he's supernatural. He's he's omnipresent, he's omniscient. I mean if If you if he knows that you're gonna receive that the gift that he has, he's gonna make sure he presents the gift to you. I have no doubt in my mind 'cause he knows the end from the beginning So I I don't think it's at all. Maybe that's why it didn't pop into my head. I don't know what Yeah, it didn't pop in my head either, but what did just pop into my head was a testimony that I watched online It's it's from CDN and I looked it up. I didn't look it up, I I just happened to come across it, but it was the testimony of um uh a Muslim woman who um her father was very disappointed that she was not born a boy. And so he she said um he didn't even look at her like for the first three days of her life and so she felt this incredible of rejection and but um she finally got her father's approval and she agreed to go and and and and do jihad and kill Christians and die in a soup on a suicide mission. And so um right before that happened she got a dream and she said in her dream she was in a graveyard and she was trying and it was very dark And she was trying to find her way out and there was just no exit from this graveyard. But then uh she saw uh this light a little bit in the distance and she saw this man and he was calling to her and he s and he was asking her to follow him. And she said, I don't know you, I don't think I want to follow you and she said and he stopped and he said, My daughter Follow me. And she realized that he was a he had the way to lead her out of the darkness of the grave graveyard into the light. And and she when she asked him who who he was, she she said he told her, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Wow. And so when she woke up from that dream, so she started following them, and when she woke up from the dream, she said she was so disturbed that she you know she she was supposed to go to these classes to to find out how to do this Jeep. Right. So uh she accompanied her mother to uh a hospital hospital appointment and she met a man and um they they had a conversation and he challenged her about something that was in the Quran and um he challenged her about eternal life and he quoted something from the Quran. He said, Well your your your prophet says that there's no guarantee for you. And she went back and read it. and found that he was right and she said, and that really intrigued her. So then she goes back to the man and and he gives her, you know, he gives her a Bible and um Uh oh I'm sorry, she goes back and she she she tells the man about her dream and she tells him that she saw a man and he told her, I'm the way, the truth and the life. And she said the man got Tears in his eyes and he's like you know, that this is what you dreamt about. So he gave her a Bible and she he showed her in the Bible where she said, I didn't even know she said I had never heard those words before Wow. And she was a Muslim. And so when she read who it was that said that and realized that he led her out of the the blackness of the graveyard. How symbolic was that? Right, right, right. And to the light, right, she gave her life to to Jesus. And she wound up, of course, you know Her family didn't accept that but she but she wound up marrying that same Christian man and she's now living in the state. So um the bottom line is that I believe that we When the Bible says all the gospel will be preached in all the world and then the end will come. I think what that means in practical terms is that God's people will go to every place that they are able to go you know a as missionaries and those places that are that the enemy has such a stronghold on on that they will not allow Christians to go into, I believe the the Lord is going to find a way to manifest himself. To manifest himself, to speak to those people. I agree. The bottom line is, you know, God is sovereign, can speak to us. He spoke to Nebuchadnezzar through dreams. He spoke to Pharaoh. He can speak to unbelievers in dreams. Right. And then find a way to confirm what he said. Absolutely. So that they know, oh, this is this is a God named Jesus. And all. And and then they have an opportunity to resp to respond one way or the other. Exactly. That lady could have said, don't care. Yeah. You know, I I I want to right, I want to die in jihad, you know. Right. But she did it. So I I totally agree with you. Um there's only so much God is ever going to trust us to do in we're limited. Absolutely. We're limited. We're limited. Even when we have access to people, we're limited. Sure. You know, so I just well and we and we don't save anyone. Yes. It's the move of the Holy Spirit. God is the one that saves. Right. Now he uses us and there's great great uh humility and honor and privilege and just wow you know when when the Lord allows you to be a part of what he's doing. Right. I don't want to diminish that. Right. But I want to encourage us that it's not up to us to save anyone. That's a huge burden I'm glad I don't need to bear. Oh me too. I mean when when we are able to witness to people, we're just a mouthpiece. The Holy Spirit doesn't con Convicting and convincing. Right. He will convince people of righteousness. So, but in those situations where isn't it's impossible for human human humanity to get to the people. Right. God's gonna find a way to get to the people. Yeah, absolutely. This is still his he's still sovereign, this is still his creation. Well and the other thing, you know, sometimes We do share the gospel and the person doesn't do anything with it. And you think, oh, that was for nothing. But God knows again for him time is but one second and so I have a friend who isn't local but we went to college together and she Is of the Jewish faith. And she knows my testimony because when I was younger I wasn't saved, and she and I used to go out and do all sorts of fun stuff together. And it wasn't shopping. It was partying and dancing and I mean nothing beyond drinking but still that you know not just drinking socially, it was, you know, to have a good time. Anyway, um she called me up after knowing my testimony and you know, we would touch base here and there. She doesn't live locally, she lives in another state. Long story short, she called me up so excited and she said, I had a vision when I was taking a shower. She was In a lot of pain, she has a lot of health issues, and she said Jesus appeared to me and he told me the truth. And she said it was And she said, and I believed. And but she had to kind of keep it under wraps Because her family would not have approved would not have approved. And so she still is a closet Christian for lack of a better word. And it's hard. But her neighbor, who just moved in recently or at least she just met him recently, is a believer. And so she said, We have great conversations. So the other point I'm wanting to make is God is the one that then also is responsible for our sanctification. And so here I am thinking, oh no, and I sent her a Bible in the mail and I was all excited for her and she said send it to this old Don't send it to the house, you know, and all and I get that. But I know that and she said this man is so um helpful for me. And she's Alexa's sleeping tie. We don't have Alexa. That was at your sister's house. Oh, okay. But in any event, um I guess that's the other encouragement is you know, God will in raise up people wherever we you know But gathering together is so important for us as believers so that we can do what we're doing and encourage one another and and share with one another and spur one another on because right now we're feeling isolated. Yeah. Even the remnant is feeling isolated. And that's just a tool that the end Enemies wanting to use to discourage us. So anyway. It's helpful to remember that you know God is sovereign, he's in control, he knows those who are his. not bound by time in in the way that we are. Yeah, you mentioned some people that were spoken to in their dreams, you know, and Jacob and um uh Well Paul uh had a conversion experience that was, you know, a direct apparition uh from Christ himself. And so there there are these almost exceptions to the rule, but the The normative way of Bible, and that's what Paul is talking about in chapter ten, this normative way of things, is people can't believe in a God of whom they've never heard. And how are they going to hear unless somebody tells them And who's going to tell them except for those that have been sent to tell them? And what is it that they're telling them? The good news. And so the normative way is to go proclaim the gospel, preach salvation, preach repentance onto salvation uh to the whole world. And I'm not so sure that that's happening as well as it might right now. And it I saw I'm I'm cautioning against us having like giving ourselves a get out of jail free card. Like, well, we don't really have to do that work because God can do it anyway. What he calls us to it is not just that it's an obedience thing, it is an obedience Obedience thing. But it's obedience with a blessed thing. As we talked about last week of the week before, in John's letter in First John, the f those first four verses. He talks about his motivation for writing the letter, for sharing the good news, for providing testimony and witness. John is doing for us in 1 John, and in doing so, he makes his joy complete. So we have an opportunity to make our joy complete by doing the same thing. And so I think that Part of why, I mean, because you mentioned a couple weeks now, two, three weeks in a row, how you feel kind of a malaise and down, a little bit depressed, and well, your joy isn't being made complete. I think we're also sensing the collective malaise that's in the atmosphere 'cause I remember when nine eleven happened there was a collective fear that was very, very powerful in the atmosphere. So I think we're also sensing spiritually sensing other people's fear and depression. Right. And I agree. That's that's part of why we're we're feeling what we're feeling and and I I also believe that um this this um temporary um shut in and and and and in a in a man man of speaking closures, you know, I I use that, you know, not not is it the best word I've come up with, but closure of at least of the church building. I I I just feel that the Lord is also well we we all know that that the enemy has he he has his plan and God has his plan. That's always been the case. So the enemy's working trying to to work with he wants to work with us but I believe that the Lord is also doing a lot a lot of sifting and and and and and revealing of heart. And re feeling of attitude you know and blinders are coming off and masks are coming off. mask, I mean spiritual mask and prayfulness are being really revealed in this season. So um I you know Well, God tests our hearts. So even people who maybe who are are leaders in in Christianity, um, you know, they're being revealed to themselves, I think. Yeah. As a result of of this what I would personally believe is a manufacture crisis. Not that COVID isn't real But I think it no there's heightened there's height attached to it that is manufactured, that's what I'm saying. But in any case, um there there's a there's God's doing a lot in this and um one of the things that helps me 'cause you i y if you if you don't watch it, you will get sucked up into the malay into the in in the spiritual depression that's going on right now. And one thing that helps me keep my joy up and thereby keep my strength up because it's the joy of the Lord that you strengthen. When you get depressed, it just drains you with energy. And I'm not saying I'm I'm perfect, I do this perfectly, but I I do this. One thing that helps me to keep get my joy back and keep my strength up is know Oh, I just lost my train of thought. It's um it's remembering first of all that God has a plan that He's bringing through this, He's revealing heart. He's testing hearts, he's revealing hearts, and that he ultimately, because he is a sovereign, we can go visit somebody in their dreams. He's a sovereign, therefore, as As long as I agree with his plan, the enemy loses. So the enemy wants to do in this, it's not going to work. But in the meantime time in the meantime a lot of of exposure is happening. And if we look at the news, exposure is happening. It's it's happening spiritually, it's manifesting A lot a lot of exposure is happening. That's what helps me to get my joy back. God is up to something. You know, and I'm looking forward to what he's up to because he had Jeremiah twenty eleven And plans for us to prosper us. Right. To give us a future and a hope. We are not without hope. Right. Um one reason why I don't I I I'm I don't want to hopeless. I'm totally with you. The alphabet media has a totally hopeless message. Well the problem is not even it's not even the news. Sometimes I feel like it's not even news. It's like fiction. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's short stories. It's a better word. It's little short stories of fiction. It's fiction with a purpose. It's really, yeah. Yeah, it's amazing. It occurs to me some people like to learn about, you know, deeper theological uh words and arguments and stuff. So what we were talking about uh a few minutes ago about the Necessity of having uh of hearing and knowing the name of Jesus Christ so you can then know who it is to turn to and trust in. Uh that debate typically falls into one Two camps. There's one camp is called inclusivism, the other camp is called exclusivism, uh the inclusivism. So the exclusivism camp the the exclusive camp would say that uh Only those who have heard the name of Jesus come to know who Jesus is, or at least the idea of a Messiah and a Christ. If not Not the name Jesus per necessarily Jesus, but they understand a Christ, a Messiah, that sort of thing, and they hear about that and they and they glean that from the word from preaching that sort of thing, that those are the ones that uh are able to respond by the power of the Holy Spirit and have salvation. And then there's the inclusive, and by the way, that is the majority view in evangelical Christianity. The inclusive view is uh more about what we're talking about with God can speak super naturally but they make it far more normative. So God's doing God is can't not only can but is doing it like all the time. Would be kind of their attitude And you know there's that that's an intramural debate uh among Christians. Uh the Bible doesn't explicitly answer the question about some a guy uh what was that Tom Hanks movie, Castaway, he's abandoned on an island. You know the Bible doesn't have a book of the Bible dedicated to a castaway alone on an island with no access to anybody else and no access to uh the Bible or anything. So it doesn't speak specifically to it. So we make our best guess based on guesses based on past Like the ones we referenced here today. And then there are those that try to borrow from both schools. But anyway, in case you're curious, you'd like to know these sorts of things. There's the inclusivist. camp and the exclusivist camp on that. But it's important for us regardless of what camp you stand in, we are told to witness, we are told to go and make decisions We are told to share the good news. We are told to call people to repentance. advanced for us to do, that is a huge part of the work. In fact I would say that is the work. When we're doing good works, meaning we pay our taxes And we help old ladies across the street and we you know, we we we return things that uh we've borrowed and those sorts of things. We do those things as a testimony About the gospel. So everything is motivated about pointing people to Christ. Those are the good works that that we've been called to. And that promise in Jeremiah Jeremiah 29, it has been accomplished. Christ says at the cross, it is finished. So that plan to prosper us, that good plan. That he has in store for us, it has been fulfilled in Christ. And we're trying to point people to that fulfillment so they can have union with Christ that as well so they can share in that wonderful thing that is Christianity, uh the the truth of the gospel. And it's not just Um trained thought for half a second try and get it back. It's not just the good news that they're sinners and you can have salvation, which is where you too often stop. in our in our witnessing and stuff. We we want to point out to people or help them to discover in their own lives their need that they're sinners and they have need for a savior and then they in some c context they would pray a sinner's prayer or they would come forward in a church service or they would uh they would surrender their life to to Christ in some fashion and then give a public testimony and be baptized. And all those sorts of things, and then like done. And that doesn't take it anywhere near far enough. Christ's gift to his people is so much more than that. rescued from death and we've been given life, but that's like saying that our children, you know, were were merely given you know biological life by Dina. That's it. They've been born Done. And that's wonderful. And they should be grateful and thankful that they've been all of us should be grateful and thankful that our mothers have have birthed us and we have biological life. But it's so much more than that. They share in everything Right, your children they share in everything the parents have. We need to appreciate that reality too. It's so much more. And when we have that reality in mind our hope is more focused on that reality and less focused on the things of this world. That's where we get turned inside out and turn you know corkscrewed. Yeah. I think my biggest struggle for this season, and I and I appreciate what you said, Angela, because it helps me to refocus when you said there's a m kind of a malaise in the land, kind of a uh you know, we were feeling all that because I have such a sensitive spirit, that's one of my spiritual giftings. It like I'm like a magnet with it and so I feel it and see it much more than someone like you who has different giftings. So it's helpful, which is why it's so important that we do gather as the body so that you can say, Dina, you're doing it again. Get back to reality. This is this is your true focus. Yeah, it's good that you have that spiritual gifting because then you're able to discern and pray certain ways, but careful it doesn't eat you alive type of a thing and you don't lose your hope and you don't lose your joy because let me remind you this is so I appreciate that. Oh thank you. That's the thing that I want the Holy Spirit. Yeah, no, it's very helpful for me, for someone like me who does you you know, feel you know, I have I have such I have such uh empathy and so but that empathy can then use be used against me by the enemy because you know We're under attack even as believers. Well he always tries to use our strength against us. Right. Right. And and he gets turned positive into negative I I I also believe that that sensing things spiritually, I think that's um not only true about things like, you know, depression, but I think it's true about certain sins. I think certain sins are literally in the air and it's just easier right for people to think you know I uh there was uh a post that I saw about a b a prominent Christian minister Who um he made a public apology because he's been in ministry many, many years, but he made a public apology because he um asked acted inappropriately with some of his female staff. Now he didn't my sense of it was that he he it didn't it didn't de devolve into actual bus fornication or anything, but you know, uh this my sense of it was that maybe you made a comment here or that he flirted a little too much or something something along those lines. And um you know I I I someone made a comment, you know, about, you know, yet this person did this and um you know it the the comment was a little on the negative side and I I kind of jumped into the conversation a little bit and I just said, you know, we gotta hold each other accountable, but we also gotta remember to restore each other gender. Amen. Because um we are in an environment where you know sexuality is, you know They use sex to sell toothpaste. I mean they use it you know, everything is so sexualized. It's like and and now it's in it's like it's in the in the atmosphere Like if you and and um if you haven't repented, you know, you you're really caught up in it. But even if you've repented, you know, you've got to be Be careful, guard your eye gate, guard your ear gate because it's so hyped up and just so in your face. Those spirits that are behind that have grown so powerful. Right. And so you know, I I we is we we need to we yeah we we we constantly have to be sensitive to the spiritual environment and s and sense sense it to the word of God and interpret these things, you know, th through through the word of God and and um and remember to help each other right. You know, help each other to um um be one another's support, you know. Um and and and when we see another brother or sister in Christ that's you know, kind of slipping in some way. Mm-hmm. You know, we we really do need to be compassionate and I I try to try to remind myself the difference between you know, um dealing with a charlatan and and and and a true Christian that's just missed it. Right. Because I you know I I need to know that difference between that I mean Jesus called out hypocrites. Right. To their fa you're a hypocrite. Right. He exposed them. Right. But he didn't call out quote unquote Sincere believers who messed up. No, I mean look how he interacted with Peter. Oh my gosh. me three who says that? Yeah. Hey you're gonna stab me in the back but I'm gonna be praying for you. What? After he did it, he just asked you the three three three questions. You love me, you love me, you love me. Yeah. And and Peter said yes every time. Right. And he just said, Well then just do this and show that show show me that and he didn't pull out the whip and just glitter, you know. Right. And um we we need to be careful, friends, not to do that to each other. And we a Christian can be so guilty of it's like you can do ten thousand good things as a Christian. If you step up one time, somebody's right there to go, you screwed up. I mean you look at Well and I think what people want to interrupt you. I think I think that we as believers forget that we're still sinners. I will probably offend you if some point. Not intentionally. But I will because I'm still a sinner in my core. Repentance, trying not to do it, but I'm still Well, sadly, a sinner. It's in my DNA. Amen. I get you. I'm a that's I do. It's not okay, you know. You know she's in trouble with it herself when she has all three names. So herself. I'm gonna push you inside now. You've got to the Lord and confess that. We were at about seven o'clock in about an hour. So any uh shout-outs, comments, thoughts from the gallery? We've had people in and out. Um just a couple people watching. Uh Tracy checked in, Anna checked in, Connie checked in, Jerry, Julie, um, your sister. And Joey has watched for a little bit too. So the two faithful watchers the whole time. That's always good. Alright, so uh Well, do you want to close this in prayer maybe? You want to? Okay. Thank you, Heavenly Father, for this time together. We thank you for the people who checked in and checked out and for the people who say and we just hope Lord that uh everyone that um listened in got something that was helpful and useful to them Lord um that they were built up somehow because of it, Lord, and um we just thank you for giving us the privilege to plant seeds, Lord God, and we just trust you. for the increase. And Lord Lord God, we ask for um your um the blessings of your protection uh Lord and and the blessings of your presence, Lord, as we go about the rest of our day and as we head into the evening and we and we lay our heads on our bed and on our beds and we go to sleep, we ask Lord that you protect us. Lord Jesus, you prayed and said, Father, I don't ask you to take them out of the world, but that you would keep them from the evil one. And so Lord, we just ask that you would keep us all from the evil, keep the evil one from touching us, Lord God, and um and from from um bringing misfortune and calamity to us God and to our families, our family members and to all that you've given us. And Lord, we ask that this blessing be for anybody who would watch this. after this this um session has ended that the same blessing Lord God would be extended to them as well. We thank you, Father We bless you. We appreciate you. Your joy is our strength. Help us to remember that in Christ Jesus, there is always Hope. We never have a reason to despair when you are our God and you are almighty and you are good and you are on the throne We never have cause to despair. Help us to remember in our weakness, Lord. Help us to remember that truth in our weakness. And we ask this Father and the precious and mighty name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well thank you for viewing. We'll be doing this again next week. Same time. six o'clock on Sunday. If you live within driving distance and you'd like to uh come participate with us in person, you're welcome. Just contact me and let me know in advance. God bless.