Welcome to the live stream portion we do here at Household of Faith in Christ. Don't be confused. Don't check your calendar. It's not Saturday. We're having our worship service on Thursday, on Thanksgiving Thursday this week, as it turns out. So welcome to it. You can find us online at household of faith in Christ. com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. You can find links to all of the social media, all the previous sermons, links to hopefully helpful resources and that sort of thing. So I invite you, encourage you to go there. We're going to be in Revelation chapter 20 today Picking up where we left off last time, so we're going to be looking at verses 4, 5, and 6 of that chapter this week, as we're now in the seventh cycle of judgment. And we're heading kind of towards the the the the fruition and fullness of of that cycle. So without further ado, we read the first three verses last time. Let's jump right into verse four this time. Then I saw thrones. And they sat on them, and judgment was given to them. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of their witness of Jesus and because of the Word of God. And who also had not worshipped the beast or his image, and had not received the mark on their forehead and on their hand. And they came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is the one who has a part in the first resurrection. Over these the second death has no authority, but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with him for a thousand years. This is the Word of God, part of our holy canon. All the scriptures, all 66 books of the Bible are God-breathed. The technical term there is theonastas. It's breathed out of God, and therefore it's without error. It's an errant, it's infallible And it's fully sufficient as the rule and the guide for how we live our lives and what we believe. So I encourage you to receive it as such. And that those with ears would hear. So today's passage it begins with the words, then I saw, just as did verse one. You might remember from from last week. So once again here we note that we are jumping into a vision midstream because when John is starting a brand new fresh vision, he says, after these things then I saw. There's no after these things here. So this is Part of connected to what just happened that we talk covered last week and is uh part of actually what happened the week before that And also in this paragraph we notice that the thousand years is mentioned again as it was last week, because it was in the previous paragraph, and it's actually touched upon in what we cover next week as well. So we're going to have a little bit more to say about that topic today. And we note language here about the first resurrection and the second death. And these phrases, they have captured many an imagination. Therefore, we're going to have a few things to say about that too. So let's Jump on in, starting by looking at the opening sentence. John saw thrones, and judgment was given to them who sat on them This is a rather curious thing. Just who might these throne-sitting judges be? Someone suggests that these represent a select handful of folks who are raised to life to live and reign with Christ for the thousand years. Maybe it's the 24 elders who we met earlier in the Revelation. Precisely and only 24. Actually, I think this idea begins to get at it. Because I think it is the 24 elders, insofar as the 24 symbolically represent the entire people of God. Because after all, Jesus himself says in the gospel according to Matthew in chapter 19, Truly I say to you that you who have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne You also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Now, of course, Jesus, he says those words while talking to the twelve disciples, so perhaps it applies only to them. But I don't think so. I think he's talking about all of God's saints. I mean, first of all, why would the twelve disciples need twenty-four thrones if we're talking about the twenty-four elders who are raised and seated in Revelation 20? Plus, the words of Jesus that are recorded by Matthew, they mention very specifically the regeneration. Do only the twelve disciples experience this regeneration, the rebirth? Similar words are found in Luke chapter 22. Do these words from Jesus sound like they apply to just a handful of men or to everyone who walks in the way? Here's Luke 22, picking up with verse 28. Now you are those who have stood by me in my trials, and I grant you a kingdom, just as my father granted one to me, that you may eat And drink at my table in my kingdom. And you will sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Now, if we read these verses in isolation and we commit ourselves to the idea that they must only And ever apply to the twelve disciples. And you know what we could probably kind of sort of force that fit But forcing the text, ignoring the full biblical context, that's never wise or right. In 1 Corinthians chapter 6, the Apostle Paul asks a couple of rhetorical questions. Do you not know that the saints will judge the world? Do you not know that we will judge angels? In Romans 5, verse 17, Paul writes, those who receive the abundance of grace. And of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the one Jesus Christ. This is the truth, and this is the truth that's found in not just the Old Testament in the New Testament, but in the Old Testament too. Of course it is, right? In Daniel chapter 7, there's mention of the throne of the ancient of days. That's in verse 9. And then it says in verse 22 that the season arrived when the saints took possession of the kingdom. And then in verse 27 are found these astounding words. Then the reign, the dominion, and the greatness of all the kingdoms under the whole heaven will be given to the people of the saints of the highest one His kingdom will be an everlasting kingdom and all the dominions will serve and obey him. Do you hear those words? Do you feel those words? Did you understand those words? Christian, you sit upon thrones God has a plan, and that plan has you reigning with Christ. Even those who are persecuted. Even those who suffer shameful deaths who are degraded by a world that afflicts them each and every day. Yes, even these co-heirs of Jesus, God exalts. And they are brought to perfect safety where they rule from thrones that are given to them by their Savior If this were a sermonette, I think I would just stop right there. What a wonderful thing to be so thankful for. on a day like today. But there's a lot more good stuff to say, so we're going to continue. Next part of verse 4 talks about the persecution and affliction that I had just mentioned, actually. In fact, it's it's brought up by John here using a very rare word, the word beheaded. It shows up in the Greek Septuagint, so that's the Greek version of the Old Testament, and in the Greek New Testament, so the entire Greek Bible, it shows up exactly once. In other words, this word This verb beheaded, this is the only time it appears in the entire Bible. It was a very infrequent and gruesome act among the Semitic people. It wasn't a very common thing. Who wants to talk about barbaric dismembering anyway? This kind of horror actually is part of what has turned so many stomachs even this year. Right, we've heard the stories of babies being beheaded in Israel. Absolutely horrible. Beheading. This is how tradition tells us that Paul was killed, by the way, the Apostle Paul. And King Saul he had his head cut off by the Philistines, but that was after he was already dead, so he wasn't killed by beheading. Read about that in 1 Samuel chapter 31. Now there are a handful of English translations. They don't even use the word beheaded at all. Not even in this verse. They opt instead for a translation something like slain with an axe or some other turn of phrase that's kind of like that. And this is understandable. The word here, the Greek word, is related to the verb that means to cut, to chop, to hew, as in to be smitten with an axe In other words, it means that you're you're killed by having your head cut off. That's what it means. So beheaded is a good translation. And why were the ones here in John's vision, why were they killed in this way? Well tells us because of their Christian witness. Because of their faithfulness to the testimony of God's Word. Because they bore the mark of the Lord upon their lives. Because they bore his mark, therefore they refused the mark of the beast. What they thought, what they did, was captive to Christ Is this true of you? Is what you do and what you think captive to Christ? Well, if so, then after you physically die, you will be brought back to life to reign with the eternal King in his forever kingdom. We can be greatly thankful for that too. So boy, that would be another great place for us to just stop for the day. But instead we have to press on and discuss verse 5. And verse 5, boy, this brings with it a tone shift and A whole bunch of debate if you pay attention to what the theologians have written back and forth to one another over the years. Some of these theologians they teach that the rest of the dead, as it says here, is talking about the Old Testament saints, and some would even include the godly heathens, known as the God fearers So they're saying it's talking about people who feared God who who lived before the time of Christ's atonement on the cross But some they take a different attack, and they they say that the rest of the dead here is talking about the bodily resurrection, not of the saints, not of anybody who's worshiping God, but of unbelievers. Talking about these unbelievers at the end of the present world. Now look, I do not want us to be pulling pistols on one another over these sorts of disagreements. If this is not a a core teaching of the gospel message. And what's more, this parenthetical statement that starts off verse 5 is actually missing from a number of ancient manuscripts. And so it's possible John didn't even write these particular words. Now personally, I believe these words are original. I think John did write them. Do we really want to be picking a fight, though, if we can't be completely certain? Certain as we are with the overwhelming majority of the biblical text? We don't have these kinds of questions for the most part with any of the Bible. It's very rare we run into things where we we're not as sure. So anyway, I'm sure you can see we need to exercise just a touch of caution here. When it comes to millennial views, this text Along with a number of key other texts in both the Old and New Testament and their interpretations, these sorts of things really drive people crazy. We've seen it even today. Pay attention to social media, it's driving people crazy And it's because precise conclusions are not always that that easy. Because the well the language here isn't that easy. The language we're studying here, in this particular case, it's not that concrete. So for now, we're going to attempt to drop our boxing gloves and we're going to try to look here at how John, carried along by the Spirit, reveals to us The truth of things that we can be certain of, how true it is that God comforts and cares for his persecuted saints. And he does so in practical ways. With assurance that great benefits and even triumphant rule are ours. This is true whatever our millennial position might be But that said, we are now going to proceed. We're going to try to do so gingerly as we bring verse six into view, because verses five and six are basically tied together, each of them mentioning the the first resurrection. Or if you wanted to be more word for word, more wooden in the translation, you'd want to translate it as the resurrection, the first one. And then uh verse six by extension, it it adds mention of the second death to the first resurrection idea. Now these words and concepts, they they deserve quite a bit of detailed attention, far more than we're even going to be able to commit to them here in this sermon. A lot of attention is needed here because Well, what in the heck is John talking about in these verses anyway? He's given us a knot, quite the knot, to untangle. Requires a lot of patient effort for us to untie. If the second death is spiritual death, as some would teach. Then how does someone who is already spiritually dead die once more? And if the second death has to do with history timetables, as some would teach, with dead sinners raised to physical life once more so that they can get a second chance, only to then die again Well then how does that fit even a little bit with the overall teaching of the Bible? And what about the first resurrection? Is this a resurrection that coincides with the second coming? You know, with with a return to physical life for dead saints, so that they can rule with Christ for a thousand years, after which there's yet another resurrection of some sort? As some people teach. I mean all of this is it's mind-bending kind of stuff. It's very challenging to work out, honestly. Now, some of the speculations that are thrown out there can be discounted rather quickly. But other ideas, they're harder to jettison, even if they don't at first sit well with what we think it is we already know. Again, this is tough sledding. Therefore, I'm gonna do my darndest to firmly put on my pastor's hat, place it firmly on my head, and strongly encourage all of us. To not blast our fellow brothers and sisters in Christ for drawing conclusions that don't precisely match ours. Now listen, some Areas of the faith are of course not negotiable. Because some areas of the biblical teaching are absolutely perfectly crystal clear. And they're core, central to the good news. And in those areas, we do contend earnestly for what is undoubtedly provably true from the pages of the text. I've been known to endeavor in those sorts of discussions over the years. But this isn't the situation we face in this text. There is some wiggle room here. Now that said, you're probably not going to be surprised to hear me say this. I do have what uh what I believe to be the right view. So I'm going to do my best to articulate it in a manner that is hopefully edifying to all who hear my voice, endeavoring to avoid the use of polemic argumentation. And I just want to say if my understanding of this text should happen to differ from yours, please understand I am not fighting with you. That is not my goal. I'm simply teaching you what my study has uncovered and what I believe the Holy Spirit has revealed to be true. I'm going to give you my best, and I'm going to hope for your best in return. There are a few turns of phrases here by John that begin to draw my attention to what it seems he might be telling us here. For instance, in verse 6, He writes, they will be priests. And he uses their verb, essentai. This is the future tense of a rather famous verb in the Bible, Amy. Egoemi, covenant name of God. It's an important verb in the Bible. He uses the uh essentai version of that it appears to be influenced, his usage of John's usage of this word, influenced by a Semitic uh idiom that describes something as being true now. and continue to be true forevermore. Now, if this is grammatically what John is doing, well then the Greek, it could be reflecting the a particular Hebrew imperfect tense. The call, the Q-A-L, it's called. And he's meaning here then that Christians serve as priests now, starting with baptism, we might say. And then continue to serve beyond the present time and into the future. There's something like this at the end of the verse as well, where it says that believers will reign with Christ. Well, there's a textual variant with the word there in the Greek. Textual variant, that means that uh not all of the ancient manuscripts are in agreement with one another. But the best evidence is for a Greek word that is pronounced basilucin, but there's a possibility the word could be basaloosin. Did you capture the difference? There's just one letter of this difference. Basalususin, basalou sin. So in English, it's just there's an S there or there's not. That's it. It's the only difference in the words One of them is future tense. And one of them is present tense. And it's really easy to see why a scribe somewhere along the line might have added or dropped a letter As they were copying from page to page, or a lot of times the scribes they were gathered in a room and one person was reading the main manuscript and others were making copies of what they heard. And so maybe they misheard. It's an easy thing to hear one way or the other. But also they're not going to capture the mistake in in the in the grammar anyway, um, because in the context here With verbs like essenti, for example, which I mentioned a moment ago, this this grammar and this context that's being said here, it tells us that you probably should understand that this this rain that's being described, it it is a present reality and It continues to be a reality into the future. So it's both present and future tense. So you can see how a scribe could offer one word over the other. Now, I grant you that's a lot of headache-inducing grammar. But here's some really happy news. We don't even need to know Greek to see this both and this already not yet in God's Word. We see this present and future reality from the pages of our English Bibles too. We crack open our Bibles, we see all sorts of reasons, plenty of reasons for understanding the first resurrection as a spiritual resurrection. The one that's already begun. In John chapter 5, John's Gospel, Jesus indicates the moment was already present. When the dead, the oi necroi, or as in necromancy, the dead hear his voice, and they come to life. Truly, truly, I say to you, an hour is coming, future, and now is, present, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. In his writings, John regularly speaks of eternal life and resurrection as present realities for Christians. Theologians they have a fancy phrase for this. They call it inaugurated eschatology. Eschatology, last things. So inaugurate has already started. So the last things have already started. Now the Apostle John he hammers on this point in his gospel. In chapter 3 in verse 36, just 20 verses after that very famous verse. In the Bible 3. 16. Well, 20 verses later, it's 336, we find eternal truth written in present tense. He who believes in the Son has eternal life. Now we already read from John chapter 5, verse 25. Well here's what it says in the verse right before that, in verse 24. Truly, truly I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life, and does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life. And in John chapter 6 and verse 47, Jesus says again, Truly, truly I say to you, he who believes has eternal life And on the heels of this, Jesus, our Lord, says, He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. Saints have already passed over from death to life. There's a newness of life And we have it now. We see this yet again in John chapter 11 in the context of Lazarus. Lazarus, he he had died, and Martha, she comes to Jesus. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. And Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live even if he dies. And everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Ever. Do you believe this? End quote. Such a great question. Do you believe this? Do you? Martha answers yes. But do you? What's your answer? Something maybe for you to be thinking about during your personal devotional time and prayer time and study time and pressing into God's Word. For now, let me just ask a quick follow-up question. In what Martha first said, did you recognize that she wasn't exactly wrong She said her brother would have resurrection life at the end. That was a true thing, she said. But then Jesus, he augments what she said as if to say, look, woman, you have only begun to taste the scrumptious truth here. As if to say, you found, you know, as icebergs go, you found only the tip of this one. It's a huge iceberg. You've grabbed the thin edge of the wedge, my lady. You know? In other words, you're going to need a bigger bucket. A much bigger bucket, because what you said is a mere drop compared to the deluge of blessing I've given you. Do we really appreciate and understand this? Do we get it? I mean, truly, do we get it? Jesus is the resurrection and the life. He is right now. In the future too, to be sure but also most abundantly right now. And this fact, it was true even with Lazarus in the grave. It was true even then. But then to help us see the facts even better, Jesus called out to his friend. And he raised the dead man back to life for all to see. And we find this same sort of thing not just in Revelation, not just in John's Gospel account, but also in the epistles of John. For instance, in 1 John chapter 3, verse 14 says, we know that we have passed. have passed out of death into life because we love our the love the brothers. The one who does not love abides in death. And by the way, this isn't merely a John thing in the Bible. In Ephesians in chapter 2, the Apostle Paul opens the second chapter with this reminder, you were dead in your transgressions and sins, in which you formerly walked But God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive. Together with Christ, by grace you have been saved. And he raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus So that in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And Paul begins chapter three of his letters of the church in Colossae with similar reminders. Therefore, if you have been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on these things above, not on the things that are on the earth. For you died, and your life has been hidden with Christ in God And how about Romans? It's a favorite book for very many people. Chapter 6 of Romans. Paul writes these words in verses 6 and 11. Our old man was. crucified with him, in order that our body of sin might be done away with, so that we would no longer be slaves to sin. So consider yourself to be dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus. So with all of that water now passed under the bridge, how do we boil it all down? Well, I suggest to you that John has in mind two different kinds of resurrection. The first one is the present spiritual resurrection that's now enjoyed by all believers. And the second one is the future physical resurrection of all the dead on the very last day. We need to understand that all mankind stands condemned by original sin. Not to mention the multitude of individual sins that we all adore too much to totally forsake the side of glory, sadly. Each of us is guilty. Outside of Christ, we're all spiritually dead. But in Christ, we're made spiritually alive Physically, we we know we all still grow old. Over time we become increasingly feeble. You know, there's that old saying, the only thing that's assured of us in this life is death and taxes. Well I gotta tell you, whether you pay your taxes or not, we all die. Every single one of us is going to die unless Christ should happen to return before that day arrives for one or all of us. So Christians and non-Christians alike all suffer the first death, the spiritual death. But the reprobate, those rebellious, they remain spiritually dead. They remain so. And they too will be physically resurrected after their bodies cease functioning, but only to then die a permanent death, the second death. Now the rescued, the saints, have been made spiritually alive and they of course also will be physically resurrected after their bodies cease functioning, given renewed, glorified bodies. that will never again face death because for them there is no second death. See, those who are born again, who are born twice, they die but once. Those who are not born again, who are born but once, They die twice. You want to be sure that you're among the ones who rise twice and die once Don't make sure you're in that group. Be sure that you are demonstrating that you belong to the Lord. You don't want to be among those who rise but once and die twice. You do not. Well now with an eye on the clock, we're gonna wrap up here That's pretty much all I have to say today on this topic anyway. But let me say this, if you're not persuaded that you agree with me on some of the finer points that were brought up today, or even on some of the more broad points Sincerely, no worries. Right? Getting people to agree with me, that is not the purpose of the revelation. Let me remind you what the purpose of the revelation is. Its purpose is to strengthen your faith That's why it was written. It was written to encourage your walk in Christ's grace So I hope you are thusly encouraged and strengthened, knowing that there is joyful bliss for all who persevere to the end. Joyful bliss awaits those who belong to Christ. Again, what a wonderful reason to give thanksgiving today. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you've preserved this word all these years to be an encouragement to your people. We find ourselves being a people in need of so much encouragement. It seems the world has fallen down all around us. This is just evidence that trying to do things that are not in accord with your way do not work. So we thank you that you have pointed us to the way that is The truth and the path to life. We thank you you've called your bride into communion with yourself. And we ask you to help your people, empowered by your spirit, to live lives that are increasingly obedient. That bring more and more glory to your name and are useful to the advance of your kingdom. Until the return of our glorious King, Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. I'm going to shut down the stream. Again, you can find us online at householdefaithinchrist. com. Until next time, God bless.