Welcome to the live stream portion of what we do here each week at Household of Faith in Christ. That's right, don't check your calendar two weeks in a row. It's a Thursday. We'll see if Thursdays become a habit or not, but it's our habit of the moment. So we uh we shall see I indicated a few weeks ago that we're in a bit of a transitional phase uh as a church and we're trying to figure a few things out. So we'll see how wearing Thursdays fits for now. We're going to be in Revelation chapter 20 today. So you want to get your Bibles ready and turn there, I would encourage you to do so. We're looking specifically at verses 7 through 10 in Revelation 20 for a message that I've titled Morning Has Broken or more specifically Broken Morning of Retribution Has Broken We're also going to be taking a look at Ezekiel chapter 38, particularly verse 2. So if you want to maybe open your Bibles there and stick a bookmark in it so when we get to that part of the sermon, you can get there quickly. Again, the majority of our time is going to be in Revelation chapter 20, verses 7 through 10, but an important aspect of the message is in Ezekiel chapter 38, verse 2. Where do I leave out? Oh, for the uh streaming folks. Um you can access the recordings of this later on various platforms. The easiest way to get there is to go to our website, Household of FaithInChrist. com. That's Household of Faith in Christ. Today's sermon is going to be one of the most oddly structured messages I've ever shared. It's going to be in three parts, so that's not all that strange. But the nature of the three parts has them being almost standalone sections. They're thematically connected with Revelation chapter 20, verses 7 through 10, of course. But they are somewhat disconnected from one another. So I'm just trusting the Lord. We'll use this quirky outline today for his glory and for the edification of his bride. We're going to start with a basic teaching about the the four verses that we're tackling today, and then we're going to spend a pretty significant chunk of time on uh on addressing the gog and magog misunderstandings. And we're going to conclude with an extended illustration that aims to prick your heart onto conviction and confession and even encouragement to follow the way. So we begin by reading today's passage, Revelation 20, verses 7 through 10. And when a thousand years are finished, Satan will be released from his prison and will come out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog. to gather them together for the war. The number of them is like the sand of the seashore. And they came up on the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints in the beloved city, and Fire came down from heaven and devoured them. And the devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire in brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are also. And they will be tormented day and night, forever and ever. This is the very word of God. God breathe. It's part of a holy canon of 66 books, which is the authoritative rule, the standard that guides us and what we're to believe, what we're to do. It is inerrant, it is infallible because it is inspired of God. So I encourage you as always to receive it as such. I pray that those with ears will hear. When I read this passage that I just read today, I picture one of those thriller movies that many of us have seen at some point or another in our lives. You know, the kind of talk usually it's the setting is out in the woods somewhere and the prisoner is set loose, only to then be hunted down. By the one who released him. Well here we have Satan, he's loose as a prisoner, and he has got to be thinking, oh yeah. And so he assembles his motley crew for war. And in the process He unwittingly steps directly into the trap. This is a trap that had been set for him since before the beginning of time. The battle that's set forth here, if it can even rightly be called a battle, rather than simply a sound thrashing Is the final view, the third view, in which John sees the battle. To refresh your memory, we John showed it to us first in chapters 9 and 16, and now for the third time here in chapter 20. How is it that John Is sharing these several scenes of the same battle, the same battle multiple times. Well, let's recall the prophetic parallelism that forms the structure of the revelation. There are cycles. These sevenfold visions revealing various aspects of the same thing. Different facets of the same diamond. Different camera angles of the same action. One might think of it as being like that old Bill Murray movie from years ago that we've all probably seen multiple times as though we were living in Groundhog Day. Right? The character, Bill Murray's character, he's Leaving the exact same day, but has a different perspective on it each and every day. Well, it's kind of like that here in the Revelation. The enemies would The events for God's enemies aren't depicted, but they are depicted from a variety of perspectives. Or here's another um example by way of analogy that occurred to me. If you're you know of an earlier generation like I am, then the cyclical repetition that we find in the Revelation might remind you of that classic Herman Hermits song. I'm Henry the Eighth, I Am. Do you remember it? I'm Henry the Eighth I Am. Henry the Eighth I Am I I got married to the widow next door. She'd been married seven times before, and everyone was an Henry Hennery Never had a Willie or a Sam, no Sam. I'm a wraith old man, I'm Ennery Henry the eighth I am. And then the song says, second verse, same as the first. In other words, they cycle back to that catchy hook set on repeat several times throughout the song. That's the whole song. All the way to the end. Now if the Apostle John had written that song, I'm not so sure that he would have said uh second verse the same as the first. I think he might have said seventh verse. same as the first given his love affair with the number seven. And an example of this love affair actually is right here in today's passage. We see the number seven pop up again if you know what you're looking for. It's the seventh spot in the Revelation. where the idea of making war is found in the book. The first six spots, if you like to look this sort of stuff up, are found in chapter 9, verses 7 to 9, chapter 11, verse 7. Chapter 12, verses 7 to 17, chapter 13, verse 7, chapter 16, verse 14, and chapter 19, verse 19. And almost always, the context is talking about war that's waged against God's people. A war against which God protects his people. And thank goodness. The bridegroom protects his bride. Thank goodness. Because he has reason to be angry with the bride. I mean he is none too pleased with the sins of his own people, that's for sure. And so he allows his saints of his beloved city to come under attack. But out of his abundant mercy, he shows his saving grace in forgiving his elect, ridding them of all guilt and shame. As we have highlighted so many times during our study of the revelation, God's provision and protection of his people, it should be understood in primarily spiritual terms. And due to sin, life, the side of heaven, it's hard. After all, the Greek word for judgment, do you know what it is? The Greek word for judgment is crisis. Have you noticed a crisis or two in the world? In your life, even We are all in the wilderness We're all facing test after test, and God uses the testing of his church to prove her fidelity to him as the trusted king. This might draw to your mind the story of Job, where the Lord he also demonstrated the power of the gospel in a test. And in doing so, he judged Satan. Speaking of judging Satan, can't help but think of 1 Corinthians, where it says the saints will judge angels. Satan is an angel. We stand in judgment of him, unabashedly identifying him as the evil one. And surely he is powerful, there's no doubt. He uses his strength to bring terror and suffering to the whole world, particularly to the faithful But these battles, these can remind us that there is a final battle coming. And at the last battle, the great tribulation comes to a close With the devil and the evil beasts thrown into everlasting torment. Forever and ever. To the ages of the ages would be the more exacting Greek translation there. How long are they in torment? To the ages of the ages. From chapter 17 through chapter 19, we saw the beast and the prostitute and the false prophet eliminated. In chapter 12, we saw Satan cast down to earth, and then at the start of chapter 20, into the abyss, and now here in verse 10 of today's passage into the lake of fire. You see, where there's rebellion, where there's final impenitence, there will be defeat. And so the pastor in me forces me to have to ask this question, where are you still in rebellion? Where in your life are you stubbornly impenitent? Waste no more time. Repent today. Well, you still can. Before your heart is forever hardened and then burned up with the rest of you I'm dead serious. I'm right now as serious as a sudden onset myocarditis heart attack. That's pretty serious. Well, that's actually the thrust of what needs to be said about this paragraph of Scripture. Except For the years of speculation, both inside and outside the church, about a couple of strange words that appear here. So we're going to spend more than a few moments here on Gog and Magog. Who is this or what is this? Lots of people have varying opinions and there has been just everlasting debates and lots of fodder, really, ample fodder for these sorts of disagreements among the opinion holders because the grammar of the Greek text here, it's it really doesn't nail things down the way that we might like Are Gog and Magog names of geographical regions? Perhaps the names of people groups? Perhaps they're the names of individual leaders. Well the word gog, it could be the name of a prince. And the prefix ma, that can be loosely translated as land or district. And so Magog, it becomes Land of Gog or District of Gog. It's kind of like how Maryland became Maryland. Well the grammar of today's text it leaves this open to some ambiguity. The Greek it doesn't even make it absolutely clear if the two Names should be taken separately or taken together as one central idea, something that is called a Hindiadus Hindiadus might be a figure of speech that you're not familiar with what it's called, but you use it all the time. So we take two words, we use them in combination to express a single idea, a single thing. You use this sort of expression all the time, whether you know it or not. I'll give you a couple of examples. For instance, well your sweater is it looks so nice and soft By that I don't mean it looks nice, period, full stop, soft period full stop. It means it looks nice and soft. It looks very comfortable. Use two words for one idea. We might say that the water in this pool is good and warm. What do we mean by that? We mean it's great, the temperature is great, so jump on in. That's what a hindiadus is, and that might be what's going on here with dog and Magadh might be two different words used together to embody one idea. Now there is so much debate, much, much debate here. And you might be wondering, what is it we're to think that's going on here? What are the facts of the matter? Well, let's start working through it and let's see where we end up. The name Magog at first appears very early in the Bible, actually in Genesis. In chapter 10th, the grandson of Noah. And this son of Japheth is also named in 1 Chronicles. If you want to look it up, we can look it up later, chapter 1, verse 5. And the ancient historian Josephus, he's one of the most famous historians to ever live, he claimed that this magog of the Old Testament uh founded the Magogites, who would go on to be called the Scythians The Scythians are the people who are said to have invaded what is now sometimes called Palestine about seven centuries prior to the birth of Jesus. There's also mention of Gog and Magog in what are called the Sibylline oracles. However, I don't want to try to make too much hay from that source because that source isn't the Bible So let's be a little bit careful how far we would push any claims that come from there. Because Bible readers, we have places we can look within the pages of Scripture. We don't have to look elsewhere. I've already mentioned Genesis and Chronicles Well, additionally, Gog and Magog, they are mentioned in Ezekiel chapter 38 and 39, where they become names that are somewhat representative of evil forces who are opposed to God. to God's people. It's a godliness. It's th they show up and their names are used similar to how the names Egypt and Babylon sometimes are used within God's word. You know, in history the ruling powers of Egypt and Babylon and Magog, they all hated the Lord. And so what they do? They they aligned against the Lord, against his people. And so evil were these empires that the names, the very names, Egypt, Babylon, Magog, they became stand-ins for the dark side. The evil empire. And you know what? Here again, we have examples in our own contemporary language usage. We have a form of language like this that we use today in different contexts. For instance, you might know about this. There was once an evil power. They existed in Central Europe. They like to call themselves the Nazis. Maybe you've heard of them. Well, bad actors to this day. They're often called Nazis. Whether they're Nazis or not, if you're a bad person, you're a Nazi. So we still have this kind of language. A Chinese Communist Party, for instance, that's another example It's ruthless, right? The CPP is ruthless in how it runs things in the People's Republic of China. And so when governments in the United States behave like dictatorial tyrants Sometimes they get called the People's Republic of California, the People's Republic of Maryland. So we use this kind of language even today. Now this linguistic reality hasn't kept people throughout history from trying really hard to nail down a specific nation, a specific regional people group as the Gog and Magog. Eusebius, he thought it was the Roman Empire. Ambrose, he thought it was the German Goths. Andreas, he thought it was the Huns. Augustine, he told them all to get out of here with your bad self. He thought they were all wrong, trying to limit the designation to any certain nation or group of people. In more recent decades, there has been a rather interesting phenomenon with people saying that it must be Russia, or possibly Iran mixed in with Russia. This claim is made largely because of a misreading of Ezekiel. They think the phrase about Gog and Magog in chapters 38 and 39. is about Russia or the region we now know as Russia today. But there's no mention of Russia in the text. There's no mention of Iran either, by the way. So what is it that they think they see? Well, it has to do with the Hebrew word rash. This is a three-letter word in Hebrew that in English uses four letters, R-O-S-H. Rosh, unlike Russia, has no S-I-A in it. at the end. And Russia, unlike Rosh, it has no H or O, and it has a single S not two. And this alphabet situation If we're comparing the two words, it gets even worse for the Russia is Rosh advocates when we pause to examine the Hebrew words And their spellings, the Hebrew word for Russia, there is a Hebrew word for Russia. It's not spelled with three letters, it's spelled with five. And just one of the letters overlaps at all. There's only one letter in the Hebrew word for Russia and the Hebrew word rush. And that one letter is the very first letter. What in English we would call the R. That's an awful lot of weight to hang on just one letter of similarity. to make an equivalency based on just that. Now honestly, I gotta tell you though, the spelling exercise I just put us through It has very little to do with anything. That's just a fact. I only mention it because there are so many people in the Rosh must be Russia camp because they sound kind of similar, right? So they they must be the same And they so often try to make such a big deal, a great deal out of the spelling or pronunciation gymnastics. And their gymnastics are very similar to the kinds of things I just did over the last few minutes. But that's not the best way to do this. Well, what is? Well, how about we come to grips with the actual words in the Bible and what they mean? The definition of the Hebrew word rash, it's not a secret. It's not some sort of hidden weird word or something. It's not ambiguous. It means head or first as a head of state. You know, when a student is leading the way with the in the rankings, the class rankings with a grade point average, he is said to be at the head of his class, the first in his class. In other words, he is the Rosh of his class. This is where the Jews get the words Rosh Hashanah, the start of the Jewish New Year, the first of the year, the head of the year, the headwaters of the new year. Benjamin Netanyahu, famous guy, right? He is the Rosh, the head, the prime minister of the current Israeli government. You can actually see the Hebrew word Rosh if you know how to read Hebrew and you're watching TV sometimes. BB's standing behind a podium and on the podium it bears his title in Hebrew and right there, Rosh. It's right there. He's the Rosh minister. The prime minister. It's in context just like this that the word is regularly used and understood in the Old Testament, in our Bibles themselves. So it seems straightforward enough, doesn't it? So it kind of begs the question, how did the confusion become so deeply entrenched in different parts of the church over the years? Well, could have something to do with the fears that that took root over the past hundred plus years, with the three big world wars, right? World War One, World War II, and then the Cold War And this pushed people, I think, to crave an understanding, to try to come to grips with the rise of the former Soviet Union. It also certainly has something to do with another big geopolitical happening of the past century, and you can guess what that is. That would be the return of Israel to nation-state status in the 1940s. And in some circles, to to read prophecy out of the uh newspaper headlines is is part of what has led to this sort of theological bent. All the rumors of war and earthquakes and famine and pestilence, this sort of thing, it has people looking for the second coming of Christ, but at the very least, a uh a rapture of some sort within our lifetime. With all this going on, someone then read Ezekiel chapter 38, verse 2. And when they opened any one of a handful of English Bibles, they ran into Something that would lead them astray. And this is where I've mentioned earlier. If you bookmarked Ezekiel 38, I would encourage you to turn there now so you can follow along and see what I'm talking about as it relates to Ezekiel 38, verse 2. Again, there's a handful of English Bibles that makes things a little bit tough for the English reader. And these Bibles, this handful of Bibles, would include the American Standard Version, the classic version of the Amplified. The Darby translation, a number of others, including the New King James, and the NASB 95. I mean, these are good Bibles generally So this just provides another really good example of why we don't want to make an idol out of any one English translation, because even the very best ones on occasion will introduce a challenge or two for us. Now these translations I just mentioned, they say in Ezekiel 38, verse 2, and also in Ezekiel 39, verse 1, by the way. That Gog from the land of Magog is the Prince of Rosh, Meshach, and Tabal. They say this as if Rosh is the name of a country. But if we translate the Hebrew words ourselves, if you go learn how to read and understand Hebrew and you do the translation yourself, then you could create for yourself a translation. And so I did that. So here's a rather wooden translation of Ezekiel 38, verse 2. Something like this Son of man, set your face against Gog of the land of Magog. the Prince, the head one of Meshech and Tabal, prophesy against him. Now the Legacy Standard Bible, which is what I happen to be reading from today, it very nicely joins the majority of our English translations. in smoothing out what I just did very woodenly into a more regular readable kind of English translation. So the legacy says, Son of man, set your face toward Mag uh toward Gog of the land of Magog The chief prince of Meshech and Subbal and prophesy against him. Right? The chief prince, the prince, the head one. As theologian Gary Damar has strenuously and rather famously been saying now for many years, Rosh is not a proper name And so the Prince of Rosh, that's a weak translation. The better translation is the chief prince of And that right there is really almost enough to say case closed. I wouldn't venture to say. But as it turns out, we've saved one of the best points for last. Turn back to Revelation chapter 20 if you went to Ezekiel 38. Go back to Revelation 20 and look at verse 8. And notice Satan he goes out to deceive the nations named Gog and Magog, right? You see that? And notice that these represent a people of almost uncountable number, right? The sands of the seashore. Alright? And now note from whence they hail. Where do they come from? They come from the four corners of the earth. They don't come merely from Eastern Europe. They don't come only from areas around Persia or other parts nearby. They come from everywhere. They come from all around the earth, four corners of the earth So now that we're kind of done walking through the basic options, I I kind of hope you'll agree with, or at least respect, my understanding that Gog and Magog here Is a symbolic phrase that represents the entirety of unbelieving humanity Now if you still should take issue with my conclusion, you know, we can talk about it more later. I'm always open to having those kinds of discussions. You know, do that later if you like. But for now Ready to head into part three of today's message. As some of you know, I attended a Roman Catholic funeral earlier this year for a co-worker who had become a friend over the years. And after beating back bone cancer for something like a decade, he went to uh be with his bus driver in the sky, as he used to put it. And as I sat in the pews in his church, I was enveloped by, I don't know, almost this indescribable melancholy and sadness. And not merely for the sense of loss that was shared by the friends and the family who were gathered there, but far more profoundly, the funeral i it it grieved me because it entered my mind that There could be no sense of assurance for these Catholics who were gathered there in that church. Was the once kind man, now dead in his casket, in heaven Purgatory? Hell? Placing these questions in words that are modeled after those of Martin Luther Was my deceased friends now a pile of gold or a pile of dung? And man I once knew he was brave in facing his disease. He was self-effacing and he was a devoted family man. Therefore, the mundane hope is that he is in heaven. But the dogma of the church in Rome, it doesn't rightly understand the gospel. It conflates justification with sanctification. So did my friend trust in his works. Trusting in having done his best to earn his salvation. Or was he resting in the finished work of his great bus driver in the sky And he lived a hard life. So he deserved heaven. Right? Well, no. Not any one of us deserves heaven. If a hard life is all it took. Well, I know some people. A could present a rather strong case. How about you? You know any people who have been battered by hard knocks? I most definitely do For instance, there was once a young boy, he was regularly demeaned by words coming from the mouths of adults who were supposed to love him. They should have encouraged and coached and protected and positively built up this boy. That's what they should have done. Instead, they were rude and selfishly immature. unwilling or unable to positively express their emotions. And they are physically pretty rough, always in the name of discipline of course And they negatively tore down this boy. What was I to do for this boy? Were his needs met in terms of food and clothing and shelter and things like that? Well yeah, generally speaking. The word has needs met in terms of knowing what it is to be loved as an image bearer of God. Not really. How about in terms of having confidence that the Lord had wonderful plans for this boy's life? Once more, no. Well, what about in terms of quality time, quality instruction, quality correction? Again No, he lived with adults who domineered to get their way, made themselves mostly emotionally unavailable, except to demonstrate anger, impatience. Just plain simple meanness. And this boy, he had to watch as other youngsters in the house, they had their spirits crushed on a regular basis. Yelled at, manhandled, for the silliest things. And so they all learned to cope as they grew. They all learned to walk on eggshells. They learned to question their worth They learn not to value trusting relationships because Trusted relationships didn't exist in their world. And this boy watched, and he was so sad for the other kids. Knowing instinctively that he was in the same boat. But he knew no way out of that boat. He was but a little boy, after all. The boy's mother. She wished the best for her son, but she was in over her head. How does a mother help their vulnerable little child st to understand what even the mother doesn't understand? This mom struggled to know how to be a good parent. She was inconsistent and how she handled things and Just far too easily overwhelmed by some of the challenges in life. But she loved her son. So eventually she arranged to have her son attend the boarding school To shield him from the mental and emotional and some physical abuse. It was the best she knew how to do. And it devastated the boy being sent away like that. I know this boy's larger story too. He grew up to be a young man with tremendous gifts and talents, but with deep scarring that damaged his life choices and therefore his life path for quite a stretch of time. Because of unhealed wounds from the years of toxic relational damage, she grew to be an adult with lots of baggage, as they say. This caused damage and unhealed wounds in others Now thankfully we can all praise God that this boy eventually grew into a man who knows the Lord. But even as a Christian, as His deep sadness was stubborn, too often expressing itself in fits of rage and various unbecoming behaviors. And it took decades for the emotional bleeding to be stemmed. Decades. And even after all that time, still the bleeding trickles sometimes. It's like there was once a series of deep gashes. Spurting unhealthy emotional responses nearly every single day. But then fortunately, Christ, he applied a tourniquet to stem the flow, and at first there were still open stores, oozing constantly tender But eventually scabs formed, keeping things stable, at least until one of the scabs is brushed up against and knocked from its place. Resulting in that old unhealthy bloodletting, the emotional spurting. And as his life progressed, the scabs they develop into scars. And so the ugly emotional gushes, they generally became a thing of the past. And yet, the scars They're still there. There's scars that wouldn't exist in the first place. If gentle, peaceful words of love and joy had been spoken to him as a youth Instead of the impatient and unkind words that told him he was no good If the so-called adults in the room had actually been faithful to what they as caregivers were supposed to do, if they had any desire to improve their level of self-control. In this boy's world, all the way into his adulthood, it would have been so much better. And that would have made the lives of his children better. It would have made the community better, the church better. It would have made the world better. You know, the way to a better world is less smacks and more snuggles, less humiliation and more hugs Less because I said so, and more because I love you. All of these things are a constant reminder to this man who used to be a boy, reminders to not be like the horrible adults of his childhood. Reminders to warn others of these same dangers, especially those who remind him of the adults who treated him with such hatred of the heart as a little boy. What does this story have to do with Revelation chapter twenty? Well, indirectly quite a lot. When reading verses 7 through 10, we were reminded, Satan is real. And he has negatively influenced so many people through his deception That's a true fact. And we see the word prison in this text, and some of us we flash the feelings of being imprisoned. imprisoned by overbearing brutes during our childhood or even during our adulthood. And we read about the vast multitude of bad actors in the world and we discover that We can be comforted by today's texts in at least two ways. First, comforted by the fact that there are so many sinful people who behave so rottenly, so frequently Is not something we've imagined. We have not lost our minds. There's comfort knowing that we are rational on this point. We're not crazy. There really truly are bad guys. And then this leads to a second way that today's passage can deliver comfort The bad guys lose. The spirit world bad guys and the earthbound bad guys. They all get devoured by fire from heaven. So take comfort Or heed the warning, whichever applies to you. Ultimately, there is justice in the world. Ultimately, there is. Let's pray. Father, you're such a good, trustworthy God. We thank you that you are the perfect embodiment of what a parent is to be. You love us so much. You care for and provide for us so much. You're so patient and gentle with us. So merciful. We praise you and thank you for your many gifts that you've given us. For with holding your hand of judgment for as long as you have in so many ways. And yet we praise you and thank you that you are ultimately a righteous judge, a good God who deals with evil. And we rest our hope on that. Help us to do a better job of leaning on you, trusting in you. Not getting bogged down by the stresses of this world that lead us to want to try to take things in our own hands. And to do things that we shouldn't do, or to do things in a way that we shouldn't do. Help us to model Christ to those around us, particularly those who are most vulnerable. The children in our homes. The downtrodden in our midst. Help us to be the light of Christ To a needy, broken hurting world. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen Well I'm going to shut down the stream. Appreciate you uh watching if you are. Until next time, our website again is household the faith in Christ dot com, household the faith in Christ. com. Until next time. God bless.