Welcome to the live stream portion of what we do here at Households of Faith in Christ pretty much weekly. Although you never can tell what part of the week. It's going to end up being sometimes anyway. Or even what time of the day it will end up being. If you'd like to learn more about us or catch up on our sermon series in Revelation, You can go to household of faith in Christ dot com. There's links to all the places that we put stuff. Primarily I would point you to, if not our website, sermonaudio. com or odyssey. com as well. But our website is Household of Faith in Christ. We're in Revelation chapter 21 today, looking at the first handful of verses there, now that the Bible's most controversial chapter is behind us and I've actually playfully titled today's message, the Bible's most controversial chapter, now behind us. So before we read today's text, though, let's begin with a quick review of the previous passage as a contextual reminder. We've recently come out of four sermons Addressing the vision of chapter 20, where John again describes the final battle as he had also in chapters 16, 17, and 19, with parallel accounts of judgment befalling Babylon, th the beast, the false prophet, and all the other enemies, including Satan himself In sharing the details of what he was shown, John makes use of language that is similar to what we read in Ezekiel in chapters 38 and 39. And the details about Christ's second coming, they also provide echoes of features that are not just in Ezekiel, but also in the Revelation itself, particularly chapters 6 and 11. And as John's readers, we've now been brought through the seventh cycle. There's a number seven again. The seventh cycle leading up to the return of Jesus. While the enemies are utterly destroyed, the living souls in union with their Savior live with him in everlasting triumph, and this is all possible because of the Messiah's shed blood. Now so often when discussions are had about the end times, people are filled with dread. Right? The end of time as we know it, and we're fretful and we're fearful, even Christian people. But those who are saved should not fear the one who loves the saints so much that he saves them. Instead, the bride is to enjoy the victory. And this is true even when part of the bride's preparation involves suffering. And it does indeed involve suffering, doesn't it? Sometimes even intense persecution on this side of glory. That's just a fact is true. But do you trust in Jesus Christ's perfectly completed work? Do you? Do you trust in this work performed by Him who is the one and only fully perfect person who has ever walked this planet as a human? And as a person who is also a perfect person of the Godhead? If so, then Celebrate what has been won for you. You have been given a newness of life spiritually. And the guarantee of newness of life physically as well. So we should celebrate God has accomplished this for his elect, all while at the same time executing a sort of a sting operation that draws together all the evil actors before he then nails them all with his justice in one fell swoop. And now we're about to enter a transitional set of verses here. Gives us a bridge from the final verses of chapter 20. to those verses that provide another aspect of the New Jerusalem that's brought into our field of vision, beginning with chapter 21, verse 9. So these eight verses we're looking at today are a bridge of sorts. And all of this, what we saw in chapter 20 in the earlier chapters, what we're going to see today, what we're going to see in the verses that come, it's not only a beautiful story, it's not only a beautiful tapestry That John carried along by the Holy Spirit has knit together for us. But it's just absolutely beautiful artistry. I mean, the quality of the literature here is astoundingly extraordinary. It truly is. with God's word forming what some have called two symmetric tableau depicting judgments in both negative and positive sides It's a rather poetic way of putting it. Two symmetrical tableaux. And where we are right now in the Revelation is kind of a bridge between those tableaux, if you will. And across this bridge is a total renovation. The vision of this renovation, it should be an encouragement to the faithful. An encouragement from the Alpha Creator. An encouragement from the Omega consummator. An encouragement. So hear these words which open Revelation chapter 21 and I pray you'll be encouraged. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man, and he will dwell with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and there will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the former things have passed away. And the one seated on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And then he said, write this down. For these words are faithful and true. And he told me, it is done I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give freely from the spring of the water of life. The one who overcomes will inherit all things. And I will be his God. And he will be my son. But to the cowardly and unbelieving and abominable and murderers and sexually immoral and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars. Their place will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur. This is the second death. And this is the Word of God. It's God breathe. And so it is inerrant, it is infallible. It is absolutely fully sufficient as the rule, as the standard, the guide. For what we believe and how we're to live our lives, I pray that you will always receive it as such, and that those with ears would hear The wondrous words we just read together, they they don't merely stand alone. They represent the culmination of many beautiful themes found on every page of the Bible. Did you pick up on the themes of creation in verse 1? The Holy City Jerusalem in verse 2. Communion with God, dwelling with God in verse 3. The end of suffering for God's people in verse 4. The saving acts and trustworthiness of God's word in verse 5, living water in verse 6, becoming a child of God in verse 7. And also the warnings of judgment for the faithless in verse 8. This is all part of the arc of redemptive history. It's taking us from the formation of the world to the formation of Israel, a period of maybe 2,000 years. And then from Israel to the cross, another approximately 2,000 years, and then from the first coming to the second coming. And we wonder maybe will this be again about 2,000 years? I guess we'll find out And these many millennia, they take us up into entry of what is called the millennium into Christ's forevermore kingdom. A whole new world opens up here in verse 1. It's a world that feels almost magical. Mystical. It's like the Robin Williams 1990s movie, What Dreams May Come It's just like that movie, except nothing at all like that movie. Because the film it was supposed to present a picture of heaven. I don't know if you saw it or not, or if you didn't even remember it. It wasn't all that memorable of a movie, but it stuck with me because It's supposed to be picturing a kind of heaven, and yet it's filled with angst throughout. The storyline is Robin Williams' character, his wife had died. He's going to find her in heaven. And it's spectacularly beautiful the way they did the cinematography, but the story, it's got all this angst, and it makes the viewer, at least it did me, feel rather depressed, unsatisfied. And sadly, this isn't particularly surprising given what we now know about that gifted comic Robin Williams, how he struggled apparently almost his whole life with angst and depression and dissatisfaction. All the while while he was playing the clown for others, ironically. But in God's heaven There are none of the negative things that we have experienced or that we've even conjured up in our own imaginations here on earth. With God These negatives, they pass away, replaced by a new heavens, a new earth. And it's a place where the sea, it says, Is no more. What a special illustrative metaphor this is. No more see. Within the ancient Jewish mind, the sea it represented trouble. Its turbulent swells violently crashing and too often claiming the lies of those who braved its elements. The sea was big and bad and scary. In Revelation in chapter 17, in verse 15 specifically, there is what could be counted as a cameo by the sea. A cameo appearance, showing up as waters upon which the harlots sat. Do you remember that? It seems that the many waters are indicating the many evil people and their many institutions, their evil societies. And these evil people, these societies, well, they're not participants in heaven. There's no more sea. The chaos of the sea is replaced. And this should, when we're talking about the sea, it should race our minds back to the creation narrative in the very first book of the Bible, in Genesis, where it opens with the creation over chaos. And now here we are in the final book of the Bible, and it's about to close, and it shares with us recreation over chaos. There's bookends here in the Bible. In chapter 21, it isn't the first time that John references a great sea in the Revelation. For instance, there was the dark imagery that we uh ran into in chapters 13 and 15 that were talking about the sea. Of course, the Revelation is not even the only part of the Bible that describes the nastiness of a great sea. For instance, there's Daniel chapter 7. Which we here as a church read part of today. Daniel chapter 7, the Old Testament prophet has a vision of rebellion and restlessness there. And do you remember the seed that was like glass earlier in our study of the book of Revelation? It was early on. It was back in chapter four. Remember it was brilliant and It was calm, it wasn't turbulent. And yet it still picture for us some distance from God. Remember, we pointed that out. Well now, however, here the distance disappears in chapter 21. Not only is the turbulence gone, but the distance is gone. God is directly with his people. And so instead of seas of tumult, the followers of Jesus have a sea of heavenly rest. Because he calmed the storm to a whisper, and the waves of the sea were hushed. That's what's written in Psalm 107. In verse 29 specifically, the song goes on to sing. They rejoiced in the silence, and he guided them to the harbor they desired. Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loving devotion. And his wonders to the sons of men. Let them exalt him in the assembly of the people, and praise him in the council of the elders. As beautiful. For now, of course, the fretful sea, it's still part of our experience. But God, He uses even this to bring good to His people. His Word tells us so. And so the sea, yeah, it might bring you occasional heart palpitations. Might have some anxiety, some ajnah, some sleepless nights, some tossing and turning. But realize that God's judgments, they are like the deepest sea As it says in one of the Psalms, Psalm 36. And remember, Jesus, he was able to walk calmly upon the sea. And as you're facing the seas, the storms of life, remember also that Jesus was able to authoritively hush. The stormy sea. And as it says in Psalm 77, your path led through the sea. Your way, meaning God, your way through the mighty waters, but your footprints were not to be found Even when it might appear as though God's not there, his footprints nowhere to be found beside you. He's most definitely there. Even though he can't see those footprints. So let's Behave like we're one of those old explorers of ages past, you know, the ones who braved the scary sea before we knew much as much about it as we do today. Right? They braved that big vast see, or even be like the the explorers of today, the newer explorers, braving the vastness of space. No matter how vast, how scary, how alone it can all make you feel, no matter, God will get you through it. If you're one of his children, he most assuredly will. As he gets you through it on the other side of it. You will arrive in a new heaven, and a new earth, a place where the big bad sea is no more. You'll arrive in this Spectacular place with all of your brothers and sisters in the Lord, as the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. The bride is adorned for her husband. By her husband. As the prophet Ezekiel shares with us in chapter 16 of the book that bears his name, God makes us ready for himself It's the work of God. Even though we have, sadly, we have to admit, right, we have prostituted ourselves Serving false gods far more than we care to admit. Heck, far more than we're even able to fully understand But the Lord. He makes atonement and he brings the body of Christ into right relationship with Christ, in union with Christ In a dramatic compare and contrast, we we saw earlier the reprobate city, Babylon. We saw it come up from the sea, the powers of the abyss. Well, now here we see a vision of the redeemed city, New Jerusalem, and it's coming down from heaven. The worldly city is lost. The heavenly city is won. And then in verse three John, he begins to share heavenly words that he heard. They came in a loud voice, from God's very throne room. Saying that God now dwells with believers, and believers now dwell with Him. Do you hear it? This is the language of intimacy They are his people. He is their God. And so they they move in together. But unlike the world of today, this is not shacking up. No, this is a covenant marriage And I wonder if this is possibly why those who are considered worthy to share in the age to come and in the resurrection from the dead will neither marry nor be given in marriage. I wonder, is it because the bride of Christ will already be married to the Lord? And in this marriage there will be an absence of tears. So unlike many of the marriages in our world. My God, people were not fully there yet. And so this passage reminds us by comparison with our existence in this Turbulent society. But there are sorrows in the here and now. We're not there yet. There are sorrows. Here and now. But not in the there and then. Not when the morning veil is removed from God's people And by the way, the best manuscript evidence does seem to indicate that verse 3 here should say they will be his people. However, there is some evidence that maybe what it originally said, as John penned it, is they will be his peoples Doesn't really make a whole lot of difference, except that perhaps this would help us as we think about these things reaffirm for us that we won't be there alone. God's elect, they come from every tribe and tongue and nation and people. And these people, or these peoples, if you were to prefer, they experience all that it means to have Emmanuel God with us. And that is something that gets talked about this time of the year, and sadly, almost only this time of the year We'd be thinking about this all of the time because God's people have God with them, in them. He indwells us. The Spirit of Christ is in the believer. Well, I guess we can be thankful that at least during Advent season, during the Christmas season, the holiday season, that there's uh a reminder of Emmanuel, God with us. Incidentally, I mentioned this manuscript evidence debate. There's a similar debate in verse 3 over whether the voice here is coming from heaven or if it's coming from the throne. It's crazy the things theologians will argue about. But there's disagreement also, by the way, about whether the phrase as their God is original or not, if John penned those words. Some wonder if maybe this has somehow been added to what John wrote at the end of verse 3. Again, it doesn't really matter, not in the least, actually, because the throne is in heaven. So the voice that came from the throne came from heaven. It's kind of come from the same place. And whether John wrote the words as their God or not, God is of course with his people as their God So why even mention this? Almost seems silly. Well I mentioned this because these kinds of things are the kinds of things people will sometimes try to bring up to attack your faith. Because they try to attack your faith by attacking the scriptures. And they'll make claims about various manuscript differences and variations and and and they'll count every inconsequential copyist error that's ever been made down through church history by any and every scribe that's ever made a copy of the text. And they will add them all up to what seems to be this grotesque number of quote-unquote mistakes in the Bible. And it's a total straw man. First of all, what's inerrant, we must remind ourselves, is the original autograph, the words that were written by John in the Revelation, or written by the other men who were carried along by the Holy Spirit. That's what's inerrant. This wouldn't be true for each and every scribe throughout history who copied down what these men of God wrote. So as fallible humans, these scribes, they would make an occasional mistake, right? That famous phrase, the error is human, they made some errors of spelling Maybe skipping a word, accidentally adding a word or something, some other transcription, oddity. But hear me on this, almost every single one of these things, of these copyist problems. They're like the ones we've just noted for verse 3 in today's passage, in that none of them affects a single doctrine of the faith. Not one. So I want you to know this, you can trust your Bible that you hold in your hands. It is trustworthy. And this Bible, did you hold in your hands? It tells you that in heaven, God will wipe away every tear from the eyes of the faithful. And this is because the things that cause your eyes to well with tears will have passed away. Death, mourning, crying, pain, they are no more, forevermore. In fact, what will be had in heaven forevermore is the opposite of the things that too often make life a misery today. Instead of death, there will be life. Instead of mourning, there will be joy. Instead of crying, there will be emotional stability and peace. Instead of pain, there will be pleasure and comfort. Instead of the world's unsatisfying things, there will be shalom. Absolutely perfect and full shalom. And that's what we will have for eternity. If we're people truly trusting in Jesus for our salvation, we will have the actual blessed presence of God as He dwells with us. I don't want us to lose the importance of this point. Are you understanding? The absence of grief. That's not what makes heaven paradise. The favorable presence of God. That's what makes heaven paradise. And he is a God who makes all things new. This is what the Father says in verse 5. See only the second time in the Revelation, by my estimation, that God the Father has spoken in the first person here in the Revelation. Unless you count voices, as some people do, voices that were heard in chapters 11, 16, 17, and 18. Some people think that's the Father speaking there. There's debate about that. Now the first time, everybody agrees, the first time the Father speaks without using an intermediary was right at the very start in chapter 1. And since that time, for the most part, anyway, up until now, John has heard from intermediaries. But now, here. He is addressed directly by the Creator. This is Yahweh. Yahweh who spoke the entire universe into existence. And now he speaks the new universe into existence. Wow Behold, I make all things new. Boom Just like that. Everything is new. Because God said so As Matthew Henry wrote, his power and will were the first cause of all things, his pleasure and glory are the last end. And to be 100% clear here, the newness here doesn't mean recent, as in newly added, like having a new kid in class or new kid in town, like the Eagles used to sing once upon a time. There's a different Greek word for that when there's something new added. There's a Greek word for that. The word that's used here in the Revelation is the word kina, and what it means is changed From the old. It's new because it's been changed. There's a transformation that makes all things new. When God speaks to make things new, it is done. There was the same kind of pronouncement as this maid. You might remember when the last of the bowls was poured out back in chapter 16. It is done. In case you're wondering, because we talk about this a lot in the Revelation, because of all the controversy and confusion over this book, we've dived deep into the Greek a little more regularly than even I'm comfortable with. So if you're wondering what the Greek means here. It means done. Done means done. Now if you really like getting the weeds, and some people enjoy that, so for you. In the Greek, there are three words actually that in the English gets translated. The three-word English phrase is one word in Greek. The gonen is the Greek word In Gagonin, what it means in English is it is done or it's its occurrence has occurred. We need multiple words in English to translate this one Greek word. But take comfort. That's the point here, right? There is nothing that needs to be added. It is finished. It has come into being. Now, of course, from where we stand, we look around and say, what do you mean it is done? So from we stand, there's an aspect of it, at least, that's something future. And yet we can have confidence. It is accomplished. It has, at least in a sense, come to pass. Why? Because it's been pronounced by the one who is the beginning and the end. The one who gives freely, as it says in verse 6. In my translation, it translates as freely. The Greek word that's translated in my Bible is freely. What it means is he gives gratuitously. Gratuitously. That's a great word. It's the exact same word, by the way, that John used in the 15th chapter of his gospel account where he quotes the Psalms actually saying that the Lord was hated gratuitously. He was hated freely. In other words, he was hated without cause, without reason. That's how most of our English translations will translate that in John's Gospel account. There's no reason to hate God. None whatsoever. Yet so many do But there's no reason, for he has given us no cause for any such hate. And likewise, there is no reason, no cause within ourselves that we receive the amazing heavenly gifts. In fact, we have given plenty of cause for condemnation. We've given gratuitous cause for condemnation So when we drink from the spring of living water, it is water that is given by God gratuitously. It's given freely. It's not because we're owed it, or that we've earned it. Just as God finished the work of creation and the work of redemption. He finishes the new creation. The entire plan of salvation is the work of God. All of it. The work of God. Father, Son, Holy Spirit. This is who is meant by the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and end, by the way, the entire Doddhead. Now it is the Father that's speaking here in chapter 21. But the Lord Christ, he will say it is of himself in the next chapter in chapter 22. And we recognize, as believers, in what the Bible teaches from Scripture, we recognize that there is one God in essence, and this one God exists in three persons eternally. And those three persons they are distinct from one another, but yet they represent one God. And so the fullness of who God is bears these titles, Alpha and Omega, beginning and end He is the maker and the finisher. And therefore he is the owner of all things. And if you trust in him and what he's done, instead of trusting in yourself, Or trusting maybe in other mere immortals and what they have done. Well then God shares with you all that He has This would include eating from the tree of life, escaping the second death, and being called by a new name. His name. And having authority. Because you are listed in the book of life. God makes you a pillar in his spiritual temple. Do you understand? You even sit with Christ on his throne. Do you understand? We were taught this early in the Revelation, you might remember, back way back early on in chapter 3. If you endure and you overcome, following the example of Christ who endured and overcome, Christ the Conqueror, well then you inherit all things as his co-heir Now, if we fail to overcome, fail to endure, well then we were never truly God's possession to begin with, as John teaches in the second chapter of his first epistle. If we're fearful cowards, we're afraid to keep our eyes fixed upon Jesus. Well, then the storms of life they threaten to overpower us. They threaten to overpower our professed faith. And in this circumstance, well If our professed faith is shown to have been nothing really at all, then we have no option then but to stand upon our own record. We can't stand upon Christ's record Can't stand upon the Messiah's record if we're not trusting and looking at the Messiah. And his record, to remind you, it's a perfect record. Our record, well, it's significantly less than perfect, let's just say that. It's an unbelieving record. It's an un an abominable record. And written there are for those that aren't trusting in Christ, they've got their record written down for them, and written there are the offenses of their murderous hearts. Lusting after sexual immorality, listening to the liars and following after them into idolatry and sorcery, all sorts of evil. Rather than having one's thirst quenched, those suffering the second death are forever parched in the lake of fire and sulfur. And this is an important point, so if you haven't been paying close attention, I would ask you to perk up here. You need to understand this. These people in the lake of fire. Aren't only the people who have never had a good word to say about Jesus. That's not the only ones. There are also, sadly, so-called good people. Who live moralistic lives and even attend a church somewhere. But in their hearts they're apostate. Their lives betray their lips. With their lips they profess Christ, but their lives they prove that they're lying. They've chosen self over choosing to lose oneself in Christ. And in some cases We have to see, we'll look around as we can see that finishing well, it's harder to do for one person than it is for another. So I'm not I'm not giving short shrift to the challenges that people face. It's hard to finish well. Think about the stories from church history where Christians are burned at the stake. Talk about the difficulty in finishing well. That's horrific. But even more horrifying will be the reprobate, so-called Christians, who will be burned in torment and eternal agony forevermore because they live lives that show that they reject the good news. Make sure this isn't you. Make sure that you are working out your faith on the path of sanctification, the path to increasingly holy life. Knowing that the psalmist speaks the truth in Psalm 126, those who sow in tears will reap with shouts of joy. He who goes out weeping, bearing a trail of seed, will surely return with shouts of joy, carrying sheaves of grain. So the redeemed of the Lord will return and enter Zion with singing, crowned with everlasting joy. Gladness and joy will overtake them, and sorrow and sighing will flee. That last verse wasn't from the Psalms. That last verse was from Isaiah, chapter 35, verse 10 specifically. All because God says, I will rejoice in Jerusalem and take delight in my people. The sounds of weeping and crying will no longer be heard in her, is what it says in Isaiah. Chapter 65. As you read these Old Testament passages, it's it's really helpful to realize that God isn't on plan B. There is no plan B. He's still on plan A. He will always be on plan A. Right from the start, he has promised that he will swallow up death forever. The Lord God will wipe away the tears from every face and remove the disgrace of his people from the whole earth. That's not a verse from the Revelation. That's not even a verse from the New Testament. That's written in the Old Testament, in Isaiah 25, verse 8 specifically. See, God has always had one plan for his people. From start to finish, from beginning to end, he is sovereign. He is in control. He knows what he's doing. I mentioned start to finish and beginning and end. Well speaking of end and finish, let's uh let's finish with a couple of verses from elsewhere in the Revelation that address This beautiful ending. For the lamb in the center of the throne will be their shepherd. He will lead them to springs of living water. And God wipe away every tear from their eyes. That's Revelation 7. Now Revelation 22. Behold, I am coming soon. And my reward is with me to give to each one according to what he has done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last. The beginning and the end. Father, it's times like this when we might be tempted to cry out to you and say, I don't understand what we've done to deserve this. And then we're reminded of the truth of the situation, the truth of your word. There's nothing we've done to deserve any of this. All that we deserve is condemnation. And yet you being a good God, a father who loves his children, you have called to yourself a people to provide salvation. Not because we're owed it, but because you love us. It's almost unfathomable how much you love us. And we try to love you back. Oftentimes anyway. We ask that you help us to do so more regularly and to do so more perfectly. Help us to love you because you first loved us. And help us to share this good news with the people all around us. Particularly at a time of year when people are thinking about and talking about things that have to do with the church and the Bible and the life of Christ. Help us to share the truth that in Christ there's unfathomable blessing forever. And outside of Christ, it's the precise opposite. Out of a love that wells up within us. Give us the words, give us the courage, give us the confidence to share the truth with those around us, even as we endeavor to live lives that better exemplify. That we truly know and have internalized this truth. The truth that Jesus Christ is Lord, Savior, and King. It's in his name we pray. Amen. So I'm going to shut down the stream. Again, if you'd like to check us out online, go to household of faith in Christ dot com. That's household of faith in Christ. com. Until next time. God bless.