Well hello streaming uh folks. We are going to be recording uh at least four, maybe five fake debate shows tonight and you get a pre sneak preview of these. These shows aren't going to begin airing until November. uh November into December, but you're gonna get a uh an early shot at them here on the video portion of what we're doing. This is our radio broadcast that airs on Sunday mornings on WFMD, so you can check that out if you want uh every Sunday morning on WFMD in Frederick, Maryland, uh at nine o'clock, nine to nine thirty, the Fate Debate Airs. So here we go. Made that mistake before the following program does not necessarily necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMP, on the AM at 930 a. m. , on the FM at 99. 9 HD2, and on the internet And I just lost that's weird. Is that not playing anymore? That's odd. I mean I hear me, so everything's fine. But l I did not fade out that music. The music just stopped for no apparent reason. Why did that happen? I'm curious. There it is again, magically reappeared. I don't know, that that's that's really odd. We're under satanic attack. They're trying to stop the faith debate. They've thrown their best at us and they can't stop this show. We've been doing it for eighteen years. Actually, uh as we hear the show now, we just passed our eighteenth year and I realized I was thinking about this The faith debate has never really recognized or celebrated in any way any of the benchmark shows. So even though we've done way more than this, today we're celebrating our 100th show. We've got way more than a hundred shows, but we're celebrating our one hundredth show today. I'm Troy Skinner, uh longtime host of the Faith Debate, also the pastor of the household of faith in Christ. You can uh Find my church and all of my social media and connections to everything that I do. It's kind of a one-stop shop at household of faith in Christ. com. Joining the studio this week, as is per usual, Emron Razvi founder of Concord by Love Ministries online at concordbylove. org. He's also a house church pastor in the Thermont area. And back for another go-round not too long ago, we had Steve Steve Jurger on the show. He's with the Shabbat Gathering in southern uh Pennsylvania and kind not too far away from Gettysburg. And I can't remember exactly we're talking about Family Matters, I think, and things like that last time you were on And coming out of that show, Steve said, you know, uh I would love to talk about a few things, and he suggested some topics, and we're going to be tackling some of those over the the next couple of weeks beginning this week. And chief among them, as you can imagine, he's got a congregation that it's called the Shabbat Gathering. So they're all about the Sabbath you know, meeting and worshiping on Saturday. As it turns out, the Rasby Church also uh gathers on Saturday. And as it turns out, Household of Faith in Christ worship on Saturday. David Forcy, who's normally a part of this panel, uh his church meets on Sunday. Uh and I pastor churches that uh uh meet on Sunday. In fact um right now the last couple of years is the first time I've ever uh than pastoring a shepherding a flock where we met on Saturday. So I'm gonna throw it to you guys first because I'm not sure exactly where I I I think I know what the conviction is, but I'm not sure what the source of the conviction or the strength of the conviction is so I'd be curious to see. You guys meet on Saturday because, in your view, it is the Sabbath and that's what you should meet. Is that is that well the Sabbath is a day of rest. So it it doesn't say that you should should worship on the Sabbath, you worship every day. But I d for me it's clear that that the Sabbath is been given b by God to us as a day of rest that we should observe it. It was there from the very beginning and it's also there in Revelation, so it hasn't gone away. And when I became a Christian uh long time ago, I was maybe a little bit naive. I decided to believe the entire Bible. I didn't just decide to be believe the New Testament. I decided to believe the whole Bible. And as I grew closer to God I s I started you know questioning traditions, qu questioning what uh the cultural churches do and and again trying to find what God wants for us. And so there's there's many different things that brought me to move um my belief that Sunday is a Sabbath to Saturday is a Sabbath. You know, we've often heard that hey so one person holds one day holy another person another another day holy and things like that. But I couldn't really find anything in the Bible in scripture that stated that the Sabbath, the day of rest, was now going to be Sunday instead of Saturday. So that's where I come from. So that's uh tough what Steve Well, I was brought up uh for many, many years and taught that the Sabbath was on Sunday uh from as little as I remember from different church congregations, different places that we lived in different parts of the country. And the local church we would go to, that was the conviction. That was the the the day of rest. It was Sunday. And as my wife and I started looking at as Rasley said the whole word of God I started looking at the uh seven days of creation. You know, day one, day two, day three, consequently all the way to day seven. And God says that on the seventh day he rested. And it's not like God needs to rest, but God was giving us a prophetic shadow picture of him ceasing from his works. So when Jesus was on the earth he said, Follow me. You know, do as I do. I do nothing except what my father tells me or what is made known by my father. So consequently, if you follow Jesus' life, he celebrated the Shabbat on the seventh day. day. That's the seventh day of creation, the seventh day, the day of rest. Jesus also said he was the Lord of the Sabbath. So basically Jesus being Lord of the Sabbath means that he's the one who interprets it. If we're going to look to any interpretation of man, any interpretation of the commentators or the theologians, go look at Jesus' life He's the Lord of the Sabbath. He kept the Sabbath. Jesus said, follow me. Okay, so the early church followed him. The twelve disciples followed him. They kept the Shabbat On Saturday. After Jesus died and rose again, the early church kept the Sabbath. So we have a very strong historical footprint So Steve, when did it change? When did it go from uh Friday night to Saturday night as a Sabbath to Sunday daytime? Okay, there's that's a good question. The Catholic Church, in their writings, basically said that they are officially changing the Sabbath from Saturday to Sunday. And the reason they did that was because if you keep Sunday, their Sabbath, you are actually under the covering and the authority of the Catholic Church. you go to church on Sunday, according to the Catholic writings. But also there was a gentleman uh in born around 1880 AD and his name was Marcion. And Marcion was a gentleman that uh uh really promoted teachings that the Sabbath was done away with Yeah. In a couple of weeks we're gonna actually talk more specifically about Marcionism and uh so I mean alluding to him now in this context is totally fine, but it's what uh obviously the the heresy of Marcionism It goes way beyond the confines of uh what they should be worshipped. Uh in fairness, I mean the the the idea of the faith of age over the years is to try to provide a you know a a robust dialogue where different perspectives have a fair hearing We're not able to do that super well today, because there's at least four, maybe five significant views on the Sabbath that are out there And there's only three of us, and we're not going to represent all of them anyway, even if we each had a different view. But in fairness, I want to try to at least touch on some of those. So one of the views would be You know, we have complete freedom from any and all sort of legalistic requirement uh in Christ. And so the Sabbath is Sabbath Mabbath. Doesn't matter when we meet, if we meet I don't need to gather and have a day of rest. I don't need to gather and worship. I don't need to do anything because I can get what I want on my own, on my own schedule, my own time. Nobody in this room advocates for that, and I'd be willing to bet that everybody in this room would speak sharply against that. It's not biblical, and you are in disobedience to your Lord and Savior. He's not only your Savior, He's your Lord. And so there are some things we are expected to do to honor, not to earn our salvation. But to honor his name and to be good examples for uh other believers and for the world that has has a watching eye on us to be a good witness around us. So that's not gonna get a lot of attention other than the last sixty seconds that I gave to it Another one would be, well, we have great flexibility. So and a lot of church a lot there are some noteworthy examples of churches that they might have uh some sort of a gathering on Sunday, um and they m might even call that uh a Sabbath in some regards. But a lot of them they would call uh that just an evangelistic day, it's a work day for the church. They have a gathering and all the people are there to witness to the lost who are coming to hear what Christianity is all about is the idea. And then they would have some other day in the week like a Wednesday or whatever day where they gather and they treat that as kind of of their holy day during the week. I'm not a big advocate of that necessarily either, but I will say that functionally there are some pastors that will treat Monday as their personal uh day of rest because they're the Sunday's a really, really hard work day for them. And so Monday they're kind of catching their breath before they get back into the sermon prep and and and all those sorts of things. So All of those aside, uh, let's go back to the uh what most people, uh you listener, hearing this show right now, you might be heading to church right now and you're thinking in terms of you're going to church because today is the Sabbath day. And that's what Christians do. It's now on the first day of the week. And so if David Forcey were here, trying to think of the kinds of things David would say to advocate his position, because I think that he would hold the view that Sunday is a special day. and that his family, I believe, treats Sunday as their day of rest as a family. And I think that he would say that uh in response, so now we're having some dialogue here again And in response to what you said, Steve, about well, follow the example of Jesus, I think that those that advocate for a change to the first day of the week from the last day of the week would say that, well, of course Jesus uh went to synagogue and had his Sabbath on the last day of the week. He hadn't died and resurrected yet And so and that's the point when things from a first day of the week, sabbatarian, they would say that's the point when it changed, and then they would use some some writings from the uh from the uh some of the the patristic fathers, from the some of the examples they would point to the opening of the book of Revelation, and John says that he uh on the on the Lord's day he was taken up in the spirit and they they refer to that in their way of thinking as, well the Lord's day was Sunday, and so that's an example from scripture that it changed. By the way, I I'm I'm uh fan of using that part of revelation that way. But that's part of your argument. So what do we say? And I'm not even I'm not even on your page by the way, so I'll give you what my view is in a second But you know, what would you guys say to to that sort of a retort? I would like to read uh two scriptures. This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus And he took it down and wrapped it in linen cloth and laid him in the tomb and cut into the rock where no one had lain. And it was the preparation day, and the Sabbath was about to begin. Now the women who had come to him out of Galilee followed, and they saw the tomb and how his body was laid. So here we have a direct time shot of history and context of the Sabbath day mentioned. Right after they were at the tomb. And this is after Jesus. We're not sure if he's risen yet, or if it's still in between those three days. But here we have an understanding of believers that follow Jesus keeping the commandment. Okay. What about the people that will point to what uh Paul uh writes in Romans chapter fourteen about no day. I think you might have even alluded to this earlier, Emron, about you know, no day is different than another day and that kind of thing. So that was you know, we talk about holy days and that's fine. The the thing is In the very beginning, in Genesis, you begin with the Sabbath, and in Revelation you end with Sabbath. So Sabbath is there throughout. You can have holy days, you can have special days, you can have th this or that, but that doesn't change what God d decreed. Because one God doesn't change. If he wanted it to be the first day, he would have made it the first day And because that's when Jesus was going to rise. He he knew that, right? He knew exactly when Jesus was going to die and rise. So he could have easily made the Sabbath the first day And said, hey, I first rested and then I created. No, he didn't do that. He made a plan and he says set it in place because he knew exactly what his plan was So w as far as I understand, God does not change. And those that say God changes is directly contradictory to the Bible where the Bible is very clear that God does not change the same today. And so people that say, well, once Jesus rose, that now became the Sabbath. No, it became the day that Jesus rose. It didn't become the Sabbath. Sabbath is still the Sabbath Sabbath. And but yeah, you call the Lord's Day, the day that uh Jesus rose, that's another day, special day, but it's not the Sabbath. Right. But well God doesn't change. But again, I I'm I'm trying to absolutely play the role of David Forcey if you were here a little bit, and I hope I'm doing an okay job because There's part of me that's very uh agreeable to what David would say, even though it's not my view. Uh I pastored in that context for a long time, and so I you know you learn what the arguments are because people ask you, why do we meet on Sunday and not on Saturday? Why do we treat Sunday as our day breast and not Saturday? Well, this is what the tradition teaches and this is how we understand scripture and that sort of thing. Um I think it's possible that somebody who's uh pro The first day of the week is now the day as opposed to the seventh day of the week is the day, which might say in response of what you said, well God doesn't change. but he reveals things differently over time. God's outside of time, and so therefore he doesn't change. He doesn't changed by time. But he works inside of time For example, the people, his chosen people, those that were his covenant people, were marked physically by the circumcision once upon a time. Now we're told in the New Testament very explicitly that that's no longer a requirement. Well God didn't change, but the requirement in time upon his people changed. So couldn't the same thing be said for the day of the week upon which we would worship, particularly if the seventh day was was leading to the promise of the first day, which would probably be a broader application of what the first day advocates would Well appreciating uh how we've been taught for many, many years, myself included, um as I started testing the teaching of the first day of the week being the Sabbath day I came across a scripture in Deuteronomy four that says, You shall not add to the word which I am commanding you or take away from it, that you keep the commandments of the Lord your God which I command you. Now, again, God says he changes not, so we have to follow an example. Jesus himself even said, I have come to do what was written of me. If he deviated from that, he would be stepping outside what he was called to do. He was to be the spotless Lamb of God. sinless. At any point in time, if he would have deviated from that what was written of him in the scriptures He would be missing the mark, then he would no longer be a spotless lamb, then he would not be able to qualify to be our Savior to take away the sins of the whole world. See he had to walk this walk that was Uh and it was known of exactly, he says, I know what I'm supposed to do. I've heard from my father. My father's told me, you know. And so there's really uh we have to look at the consistency of Jesus' walk and compare our view with what how what he said, how he walked, what was important to him then you can start comparing when tradition of man or tradition of uh religion or different things that have been added or taken away over the over the millennia Uh sometimes we have to get back to the simplicity of the thing. In fairness to those that would disagree with the the the position you're advocating, I, on their behalf, haven't quoted a tradition of man I've pointed to Romans chapter 14. I've pointed to uh Revelation chapter 1, I've pointed to the example of circumcision in the Old Testament, not in the New Testament. I've been using, on purpose, scriptural arguments because those are the arguments. we should be making. What do we do, for example, with the Jerusalem Council in Acts chapter 15, where they have a chance to hold people to particular rules and regulations that would have been part of the uh uh Judaic law and they pair it down to basically um going off on the top of my head here but they pair it down to avoid uh eating food sacrificed to idols, avoid blood uh and uh basically try to live a good life. But there's some other path. But there's no mention of the Sabbath there at all. There's no mention of of a whole bunch of the of the the Jewish law there. It's almost as if it's abrogated in in some sense. So what do we what how do we handle that in this context? With regard to the Sabbath Again, Romans 14, one person regards the day above another. Another regards the day every day alike. Each person must fully convince in his own mind whether he observes the day it for the Lord and who he eats. This is something that's called of observance. This is not looking at the command which the Lord has made. This is talking in context about if you decide you're going to fast on a particular day, if you're going to worship or honor God and and do a special offering. You know, you have that ability to do that, but at the same time, in the Greek that word day is hemorrhag, it's it's not Sabbath It's just as day. So people infer that and say it's the Sabbath day. So you might want to have to look at context and culture and see how that's actually Um it's tangential, but this might be related a little bit to this. I don't want to go off on a huge rabbit trail. And uh I don't know. Emron and I have known each other for a while. I don't know his view on this and I only met you this year, Steve, so I don't know your view at all on this. How do you guys uh view the festival days? Feast of tabernacles and feast of weeks, things like th things like that. Do you guys feel like Christians should be observing those days or that that's not something that's for the church? That was something for specific to the Old Testament times. So that's that's actually probably topic for another whole another show because that's goes off topic of Sabbath. So I think we should definitely address that. My thing is first of all, um And I I we will answer I think we should discuss it on on another topic, but another a week. Uh w what I'm concerned is many of the people that I grew up with or in the church after I became a Christian. Um they they said Sunday is a day of worship. But not almost nobody really kept it as a Sabbath. So first we had to find what is Sabbath Sabbath to me from my studies and my learning is a day of rest. So on let's say it's Sunday. Let's say the church says it's Sunday. Sunday is a Sabbath now. So do people actually rest on Sunday? No. They they uh go to their own pleasures, they watch the football game, they uh do lots of different things activities. They they're not resting. Nobody's resting. In fact that was when when I first started um God started moving in my heart towards keeping the Sabbath. I was trying to keep Sunday as the Sabbath and we started resting on the Sunday Sunday and say hey this is a Sabbath, we're gonna rest. Yes, the church says Sunday's a Sabbath, we do that. So that's the first step. And so on Sundays we would not do anything We would not do sports, we would not go watch sports, we would be at home and fellowship and worship God and and talk about uh His Word. And we did that for a while and then God moved in me and said, Okay, so when did uh he say that the day of rest that he gave us, the one of the ten commandments It is no longer there. It's it's a Sunday now. He never said that. So I looked throughout it was the last study that uh you know went through you know, my favorite Google Google search, uh everything and and study that and I couldn't find anywhere that was definitive that God said the day changed Sunday. I s saw people said that. I but I never saw the biblical uh thing. And when you compare different things like circumcision. We're not talking about circumcision. Circumcision also is not a one of the Ten Commandments. So one of my friends said, Hey, are you a ninth commandment person or a tenth commandment person? What do you mean by that? I said they said, Well do you keep all the Ten Commandments? I said, Yeah. He said, No, you don't. You're not keeping the Sabbath. The Sabbath is But last day of the week, after a full day, a full week, you rest on the Sabbath. That's what God teaches. He never changed that. So why your nine commandment Christian. So that's really where I came from, you know, all the way over to being a new Christian, not really knowing what I'm doing, to following what the church says and and meeting on Sundays and try and then from there trying to keep the Sunday as a holy and separate and special and sinless life and he recognized the seventh day, not the first day as the day of rest. Um so is it your view that the Christians and the churches that are uh having their wors not only their worship on Sunday, but are are calling their people to recognize Sunday as the day of rest, as functionally as a Sabbath, are they in sin? I would say yes. Um and that you will get a lot of hate mail and a lot of people angry with me and but I think we have to stand up for what the Bible says. And that's what God has brought to my heart that I believe that it is It is a sin not to keep the Sabbath and the Sabbath is on Saturday. Now if you say, hey, Sabbath is on Sunday or it's on Tuesday or some Wednesday I challenge you to say, where does God say it is that day? And if it is, convince me. I'm happy to change because if you can convince me th through the Bible, through God's Word, I'm very open. I want to Follow God's commands. Because w what God says is that following his commands is not going to save you, because obviously he didn't save anybody. Jesus saves. But if you love him, if he saved you and you love him in return, And his commands are very clear. It's not just follow one command or follow the New Testament commands or it's just follow my commandments. My commandments means the whole Bible. So I am desperately, honestly, every day trying to find what I'm not following, what I should be following, and trying to change. And the the church has done a abysmal job in teaching me what are God's commands All they've taught me in church really is, hey, God forgives all your sins and you're okay. You can do whatever you want, you're forgiven, you go to heaven That doesn't have any meat. It doesn't have any any any structure. It's just, hey, you're all forgiven. Just so long as you're you say the repent uh r uh repenting prayer and you're okay Well I'm gonna have to uh start to draw this episode to a close. We uh th obviously I didn't even have a chance to share, oh uh with any specificity, my view. And I know you guys are chomping at the bit to hear my view. Of course you are. Everybody wants to know what I think. Yeah. Oh my microphone doesn't want to know what I think right now. It's not cooperating. There we go. So we'll do that next week and then maybe we'll transition into some broader uh Marcionism uh stuff because it is it came up this week. Maybe we'll talk about that next week. And if you have other thoughts that uh you didn't get to share this week, we can carry them over and talk about them next week. So it'll be kind of a a two-part bridge here. So a little teaser. Next week you'll hear my view for what it's worth. and then we'll go from there. So this is the faith of it. Imran Razby, uh founder of Conquered by Love Ministries, online at conquered by love. org Uh the Shabbat gathering uh is uh is blessed uh by uh leadership among others uh from uh Stephen Jurger. He's he's part of uh a team of leaders there. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, and you can find us on online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless. Good job, brother. Oh, sorry. I'm choking on that the entire time I what we what what is that? It's uh oil that they put sm sent in the air. I didn't even smell it. I was smelling the high Yeah. Way force you too. does it but uh I was thinking why not do that. Good wrap up here. Well the thing is I thought you you you brought it condensed because really that's the heart of what we're trying to communicate. And And Troy cornered me into not either being a politician or not being a politician. I chose not to be a politician. And I said, yes, it is a sin. As a politician would have Not been cornered into a No, well I mean to be honest, I mean i it was all but said. I was like, okay, you might as well just put a final point on that Because you were hinting at it by saying, Well, Jesus was sinless and he did this and so basically the implication there is well if you don't do that then you're sinning, but you didn't say it. And then when you and I was gonna kinda not push it and then when you said basically the same thing in different words I was like all right now we gotta say it. Right? Now the listeners like Troy are you gonna ask him? Are you gonna ask 'em? Yeah. I wonder if we're gonna be going What did they say? What I mean, yeah I I I got into a debate with this with uh my son in law's mother. Uh you do you know the proposal acts at all? I don't think so. Yeah, he's he was a pastor of a church for a while and and now he's going to another church, but um yeah, he he he knew that my belief on uh keeping the Sabbath and he said, So, you know, if you believe this the the Sabbath is if you're not keeping the Sabbath you're sinning, then uh why aren't you rebuking me as a brother in Christ And I said, Wow, you know, you have a point. But at the same time, I think God leads his people in different times and places and I I can tell you what I believe and why I believe it. And if you love the Lord, you're gonna find out for yourself. I was gonna just go to First John, because first John does he say it says, You are in sin. He says, I have not written a new commandment to you I mean first John just he he nails it. And if you go through First John, I mean i he s he says, What is sin? It's Lawlessness. What's lawlessness? Breaking the commandments of God. So I would direct people to 1 John and say, see what he has to say Yeah. Well you can bring that up at the start if you want. And I have heard, you know, people well some people over the years have learned that with this show we record on a similar theme or a similar panel. It used to be the same panel and w one topic, and now it's uh you know, the same recurring panel with similar topics in one like recording sessions, people realize, oh, they seem to do like the same three, four, five shows in a row on something the same. And so a lot of people that will listen to the show you know, in succession on podcast. So for them it's gonna feel like oh when shall we have to do that. So you can do this on a podcast so I can send people to And then the uh obviously the the the video stream is is all encompassed I'll start with you wanted to say what you wanted to say and then I'll share my view and then we'll we'll go from there. Start this way and then go there. Start this way saying in the last show we ended. With Imran Razbi saying that not keeping the Sabbath on Saturday is a sin. So what do we mean by that? And then go to speech. Well everybody know how crazy I am The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management. And it might not even reflect the views of you, the listener. Because I gotta tell you, it was shocking. Earth shattering. Walls were shaking, earth was quaking. Imran Razi called you a sinner, my friend, if you're on your way to church and celebrating today as recognizing today as the Sabbath Because towards the end of last week's show, Imran Rev I asked him a point blank, I said, so people that don't have the Sabbath be the seventh day of the week, sundown Friday to sundown Saturday, but instead they say that Sunday is the Sabbath day. Are they sinning? And he said Yes. So and then we'll just go ahead and end. So uh we're picking up on that uh note this week and uh children had the bit to share a a bit of scripture at the time with Steven Jurger, so we're gonna let him do that in just a second. Let me share with you what's going on. You are listening to Faith of Eight on News Radio 930 WFMD. I am Troy Skinner, longtime host of this show, and also the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ Imran Razi, you just heard his voice a second ago. He's the founder of Concord by Love Ministries. They have a website, conquered by Love. org And we're joined this week, as we were last week, by Stephen Jurger. He's part of a congregation, part of the leadership of the congregation that meets and calls themselves the Shabbat. gathering and they meet in southern Pennsylvania. Imran's Church is in the Thermont area and I'm uh I'm in the Frederick City area. And I did my best to try to represent uh the the views of those that aren't represented in this room last week. You know, i i if you don't like the way I represented you or you don't like the way I'm going to represent you this week, send your hate mail to Imran. And if you don't like what he said about you being a sinner, definitely send your hate mail to Imran. So uh Stephen, what did you ha uh what were you chomping at a bit last week to share about uh people not meeting uh or worshiping uh what's the word I'm looking for? Recognizing the Sabbath day being the seventh day, but instead the first day, they're in sin, and you agree with him, Ron, because of why? Well, in 1 John uh two verse seven says beloved i am not writing you a new commandment to you but i'm writing an old commandment which you have heard from the beginning the old commandment is the word which you have heard from the beginning So I again first John is pretty clear on the definition of sin. Uh the definition of sin is lawlessness, and lawlessness is breaking the law, breaking the commandment. So I think we have something that we have to kind of look at here and say, hmm, uh this is the Word of God's definition. And that might be a little difficult to swallow because traditionally, culturally, historically, we've been told Shabbat's on Sunday. So I at the very end of last week's show I teased back I was going to share my view because we talked for twenty-five minutes last week on the various views of the Sabbath. We condensed it I think reasonably well, but uh we covered all the views except mine. And so I'm going to share my view now, which uh as as strong a view you guys hold And as strong a view as David Forcey might hold for if he were here to defend himself. I think you guys don't have a view that's strong enough. And the reason I say that is in the spirit of what Jesus says regarding all the other commandments in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew. Matthew chapters five through seven. And in light of how I understand how to read Hebrews chapter 4, and based upon the connection between what happens in Genesis and what happens in Revelation. Uh I think that so let me set it up this way. Everybody's gonna agree that if I go sleep around with somebody I'm not married to, that I've I'm guilty of adultery and uh that's a sin. Unless you do it on Sundays. Okay. And Jesus says, if you've had, you know, if you've had uh fantasy thoughts along those lines in your personal thought life You've committed adultery in your heart. So he doesn't get rid of the law. He expounds upon the fullness of what the law really means And he does that with every example he gives. You've heard it written this, but I'm here to tell you it's way more than you even thought possible. If we apply that to the Sabbath, which is also one of the commandments. And we look at what God does on the seventh day. He rested for the seventh day. And we are to enter into that Sabbath, and we will enter into that perfect Sabbath in glory, in revelation. And my view of how uh the scripture outlines the timing of things, there's already an inbreaking of that future glory now. There's an overlap of the age. So we are a new creation, yet we still wrestle against sin. Right, we are now saved and yet we await our full salvation. So there's this overlap of the ages, and with that in view I think to pick any one day as the day that should bear a day of rest is, I think, missing the point. I think the Christians should be treating every single day as a Sabbath day And that doesn't mean you don't work because you can do good work. You should do good work on the Sabbath. So the Christian should be doing nothing but good work, God honoring work, worshipful work, praying without ceasing seven days a week. So I think that that's a a broader application of what the Sabbath should be. Now practically speaking, Does that mean that people shouldn't take a day a week and say, you know what, I've got to recharge the batteries? It's good, smart, and right to take a break, to rest, to cool my heels for a stretch. I think that's totally fine, but to get dogmatic about a particular day, I think, is missing the point. So that would be I would take you the point on this uh issue. There is a prophetic shadow picture consistently through the scriptures. The seventh day That we keep every week shows the seventh millennium. It shows the thousand-year reign of Christ. It shows where Jesus says the government's on his shoulders and he's ruling and reigning. If you take the Sabbath day and meld it within the everyday, then you destroy the picture that I believe the Father is trying to show us with the consistency of the scripture. I disagree completely. I appreciate your heart, but I think Jesus is Lord now. He is Lord now. He's King of Kings now. But he's not there's a lot of people that are not following here on the earth There's coming a time when he will have, that's why he has the rod of iron, because there's the the nations are going to follow him, and there's not going to be a lot of rebellion in the thousand years. But right now we have rebellion, we have sin, we have murder, we have war, we have disease, we have sickness, we have all kinds of things, and that shows that the prince of this world has still been given authority, limited authority, to do what he is doing. But there's coming a time when God himself is going to put an end to all that. It's just a point that why the Sabbath needs to be honored above all other days so that you don't distract. I think we're in the millennium right now. So with with that view that would then remove the thrust of your argument to to me anyway, because I'm a millennial in my in my house. Yeah, so so anyway, so that's why uh uh you know It's not that that's uh why uh I I hold the Sabbath view that I do, but that's why that sort of an argument doesn't bear any weight. I'm like, it's all the more reason to support my view. But my view is I'm I'm trying to argue and grapple with scripture. And if I apply the same standard to the commandments that Jesus does throughout the Sermon on the Mount to the Sabbath, what's the implication? And I feel like it's not smaller, it's not the same as it always was in the ultimate. It's bigger than that. It's more expansive than that. And so, and then again, Hebrews chapter 4 is admittedly a difficult passage. It's a difficult chapter to to navigate. It it's it it it it it's tough sledding. Uh and so I'm not saying I've got it nailed down completely, but my understanding of Hebrews chapter four uh reinforces the idea that we are to treat every day as the Sabbath because we've entered into a Sabbath rest even now, because our high priest is reigning even now. Um so anyway, so he's in heaven, but he's not ruling on earth. He's ruling in heaven, making intercession for us always for us that we're, you know, as his sheep. and his people. But there's coming a time when the new heav Jerusalem is going to come down on the Earth says, you know, thy kingdom come and thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Well he is the ruler even now. It's just that everybody now is is abiding by his rule. Yes, that well there's there's there's a lot of difficulty uh to see where that is. Right now it seems like his rulership's within the heart of the believer. In other words, you know not even perfectly there though. Right. Well, that's why you get to the point when you I can't speak for you two, but I sinned today. Oh my gosh. You know? Seriously. Of course. That's why we have him ever see ever making intercession for us. Thank God for Jesus, right? So Jesus is Lord over my life and yet I'm not fully obedient to him. Jesus is Lord over every government on this planet, but they're not obedient to him. I mean they should be. That's what Romans chapter 13 says. They should be. They should do what he says, that they don't. And when they don't, we as the people of God need to hold them account and call them to God's standard because he is Lord of Lord, King of Kings. I would argue even now. So anyway, that's the the Sabbath thing. We can get into the and we've done in the years of doing this show, trust me, we've done countless shows on end times views and that sort of thing. Uh in fact if you weren't not that long ago, you just weren't part of it. Uh I don't think you were part of it either, Imran. Yeah, so maybe we'll do it again with with uh a different uh Because if people are interested in it, I've uh uh I'm now uh posting the faith debate shows in a on a platform sermon audio. Uh so you can check that out. You can link to it through our website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com and go to sermon audio that way or you can just go straight to sermonaudio. com and search for household of faith in Christ. Now all the faith debate shows are being loaded there. I put one new one up every day until I get all 18 years worth up there. So it's going to be a little while. But anyway, there's you know two, three hundred of them up there right now, and I've noticed something that's interesting because I get really good metrics, you know, data analysis of the stuff. Things that focus on evangelism get a lot of downloads And things that focus on end time stuff get a lot of downloads. More than anything else, those two are leading the way. So that said, uh let me reset. We're almost halfway through the sessions, not quite, but I'll reset So I'm Freud Skinner, I'm Ron Rasby, and uh the last guy you I think you heard interacting with me was Stephen Jurger, and we're here talking about the Sabbath broadly, but now we're shifting into something that came up last week And that's Marcionism, a gross heresy, from like 100 years after Jesus. It didn't take long for this gross heresy to emerge. And last time when we had uh Stephen uh on for a series of of shows a couple months ago, I think you were on, and uh afterwards you suggested, hey, there's this thing and this other thing. You mentioned three, four, five different things might be good show topics and one of them was Martianism. And it might have been because of the Sabbath connection. Yes. But he also said some things about uh you know And anti-Hebraic uh Hebraic roots move in the church. I think that was a phrase that you used, because I I made notes. And and therefore based on sort of antagonism. uh an uh antagonism between uh law and grace. So maybe we can talk about it in that context. What were you meaning for us to cover? What what do you think the great threat of Martianism is today in the church? Good question. Marcionism is basically a second second century heretic named Marcion, and he had a real Antagonistic view towards one, the Jews, two, the Sabbath, three, the law, four, the Old Testament He felt that most of the New Testament too, by the way. Correct. He actually wrote a Bible that started out with pretty much Paul's letters and the first book to lead the way was Galatians So Again, not even all False Letters. It was like ten of them. Correct. And not all the gospels. Isn't that amazing? I think I think I I'm going off my memory here, but I think he only accepted one gospel, the gospel of Luke, because of Luke's connection to Paul. And even that I don't think I think he excised huge portions of the Gospel of Luke. So the guy is a rank heretic. But anyway Well Jerome, other early church fathers called him out, said he was the wolf, a heretic And uh he really influenced a large part of the church world. uh then and unfortunately his writing survived and Augustine, Luther Calvin, a lot of these reformers, they picked up his writings and real quick as a point because the Gotcha police, I've had to deal with them for years. Uh I I think I could be wrong, you might be right, but I'm I'm pretty sure that the the way we should say that is that none of his writings survived, but there are citations of his writings among other church fathers that have survived. And so that's how we can piece together what he thought and what he wrote. But I don't think there's any actual work of Marcion that is that has made it has has survived till today. If I stand corrected, then you can send your gotcha police mail to me. I can do that. I can do that. No problem. But the point is the damage is done. The damage is done and um so he you know the god of the Old Testament, the demagogue, the God that, you know, killed people Demiurge, I think he called it right. Demiurge. And then the God of the New Testament is the God of love. And Uh you can see how this has rippled down through the ages and even in in our modern theological thinking. I mean We have Schofield and we have uh early church um not early church, I'm just thinking about the uh uh theologians that really had an influence on early seminaries. Uh Schofield, you know, really talked a lot about dispensationalism And if you look at these teachings and you understand what Marcionism and what he's about, you can see how Marcionism traveled all the way through the centuries And I think that's why today we have such an antagonism between law and grace. There's so much grace in the Old Testament if you know where to find it. How many times did God said, Moses, Moses, get out of the way, I'm gonna blast these people And yet Moses falls on his face and intercedes for the people, being like a type of Christ. And you know, the wrath to not destroy the people. I mean it's just It's an amazing thing to see how um mercy and grace and you know what's what's the law say Jesus said the two greatest commandments love the Lord God with all your heart, mind, body, soul, and strength, and love your neighbor as yourself. In this you fulfill all the law and the prophets. No, we've already dropped some some names and phrases that uh the the casual observer might be a little bit lost in the weeds. on. So just in fairness, I'm going to do what I can to very neat as quickly and neatly as I can try to knit some things together. So the the demiurge idea it it ties back to Greek philosophical uh categories. Uh Plato was a big uh advocate of the demiurge idea. And if I I'm not a hundred percent it's been a long time since I've been in seminary classes, but my recollection is that demiurge the the uh a a near approximation anyway on a translation into English of what that word means is architect. So it's the idea that there's the God is the God of love, which is what Steve is just talking about. And this God of love has a lesser God, a a created being, a created God, the demiurge, who is commissioned to be the architect, according to one line of thought. Another line of thought is he wasn't commissioned at all and he created everything without permission. But regardless, there's this architect who who created everything, but that creator God isn't the ultimate God And so Marcian, tying into all these Platonic and Greek philosophical categories and stuff, it led him to then want to reject all of these things because while the Old Testament is talking about what this architect, this lesser God did, and he was a bad God. He's not even the true God. Jesus shows up on the scene and he introduces us to through the Paul the writings of the Apostle Paul who the true God really is. And so that's where we should send our so he he jettison's we have six well Protestants hold sixty-six uh books of the Bible and Marcion had maybe a I mean, I mean, like he got rid of almost everything. And so so anyway, that's the demiurge and trying to flesh out some of the Martian ideas. uh as best as we can. You mentioned the the uh Schofield, S. I. Schofield. He's famous for his Schofield Reference Bible back in the eighteen hundreds. Uh he was a student of uh of Darby was a Francis Darby Francis Darby, one of the early proponents of uh, I'm not sure it was called dispensationalism then, but it certainly came to be called dispensationalism. And uh Schofield's Reference Bible became a very preferred Bible among uh evangelicals, conservative Bible believers, and so it's had a huge impact on the American church over the last, you know. Hundred and plus years. Are you familiar with that um one of the things that Schofield did was they donated uh a lot of his Bible, Schofield Bible Bible notes to a lot of the seminaries of the day. And that's part of the planting of the dispensational thought and putting it into uh Okay, so those are the so now you can tell the players with the scorecard a little bit, but I wanna to clarify, so are you making a connection between Martianism and Schofield and dispensationalism? Are you saying dispensationalism has been negatively affected by Martians thinking? Yes, I think dispensationalism is Marcionism in modern day language. It's it's a theological uh explosion. Okay, not that it's going to matter, but it might help me to lead the discussion uh more efficiently. Would you are you do you consider yourself historic pre-mill, post-mill? Like what would be your your your view on that? Well, I'm not a pre-mill. So you're not like a a pre-trib pre-mill, like because that's kind of more the dispensational systems of eschatology. Okay. I believe we're gonna go through the tribulation. If that answers. Right. Okay. Okay. We I think we both believe that we're going to go through the tribulation th that we are protected from God's wrath. We will see the destruction around us just like uh uh the Goshen was protected from God's wrath. They still had some of the plagues, but uh then God's wrath w uh was uh uh averted from them. I think the same thing's gonna happen And then after that, when Jesus comes back, then he'll rule for a millennium here on earth, uh, as the as the rightful judge of the earth. So that's where Okay. Yeah that it's my I gotta sidetrack a little bit so I want to stay focused on the the but that is that is helpful uh and hopefully it's helpful to the listener as well. So I I already used this phrase about being anti-Hebraic roots in the church. So what are examples that you're seeing in the church today where they're anti roots? If you obviously we talked about the Sabbath, so you would say that's one. Right. But what are some other ones To give clarity, Marcion wanted to divide from anything that was Jewish. Okay? Marcion wanted to divide from the Sh it from the Sabbath and of course the the Hebraic scriptures. So when I use the term in context Hebraic scriptures, I'm just talking about the whole Word of God, the whole Old Testament. Okay. The whole uh the Old Testament from Genesis I to Malachi four. Entire Tanakh, I think is Exactly. So You know, there's a saying that the Old Testament is a shadow of the new. It's basically revelation. If you want to understand what's going to happen at the end of the book, you need to read the front of the book And it's really our history, our heritage, of a people of God. Paul spends three good chapters in Romans, Romans 9, Romans 10, and 11. about how we as believers, Gentile and Jewish, were all grafted into the nation of Israel. So if you take the time and go through Romans 11, it will give you a good, accurate, uh theological position of just who we are in Christ and who we are in the uh kingdom of God, as it is defined in the scriptures Let me ask you this. A while back and I was only reminded of because uh I've been uploading all of these uh shows on discernment audio and so I've been able to listen to some segments of old shows and refresh my memory things took a trip down memory lane. And I gotta say, if I do say so, some of the shows we've done over the years have been pretty darn good and compelling. Sadly, some of the shows we've done have been pretty Anyway, on one of the shows we're uh it wasn't the main topic, but it came up in conversation talking about the uh the uh you know, the tradition of America and we talk about our Judeo-Christian heritage. And it kind of struck me, and it still does bug me a little bit, What do we mean by the Hebraic, or the the the Judeo rather, the Judeo-Christian heritage? The true Judeo heritage. Is the Christian heritage. So why can't we just say Christian heritage. Is that an example of what you're talking about? Like, for somebody who says that's like, look, the Old Testament, that's not really Christian, but we're going to include the Judeo part as part of our culture here. Is that part of what you're saying? Like trying to get distance ourselves from the the Judaism of the past? Well, we're not Judaism. And it's if you look clearly how Jesus, how the apostles, I mean, Jesus talked about keeping his commandments, following him. And we have a whole history of the Old Testament of a people, a nation, a language. And there's promises to Abraham. And I think I will bless those who bless you and I will curse those who curse you, as God's referring to his conversation with with Abraham. So there's a lot of things that You know, we inherit our blessings in our Judeo-Christian faith. I'm not sure if I'm answering your question, but um you know there's a there's an aspect That is um there's a lot of heritage there. I I don't have a little bit of a loss for words, but there's Th the Old Testament is something that is got a lot of history. Well I think one of the the main thing is Judeo Christian. You can't have Christian without Judeo Without the old Christmas there is no Christ. So it's redundant in a sense. Right. It is. But that's the foundation. So to me Well Christian is the foundation. Because the j the parts of the Judeo that are uh applicable are part of the Christian heritage as well. It just feels redundant. By the way, we're going to have to finish up and carry this thought over because we've uh we've only got like less than 60 seconds left. So I just rudely cut off Imran Rasvi. He's with uh Conquered by Love Ministries. Concordby Love dot org is the website uh Stephen Jurgers with the uh Shabbat Gathering up in Southern PA. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Of course you can follow the show and everything we do with the radio station at WFMD. com as well. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless. You do that so well. But that you do it so well. Intro and exit. Yeah, I don't even do it anywhere near as well as I would like. I used to be very proficient at it. kinda okay. But I used to be on the radio six days a week. Once upon a time. And uh yeah though, right? So No. I was I I I actually was uh I I did sports radio well back in the day. And I was actually on a uh on a small, relatively small sports network. I was heard on eighteen radio stations across the southeast. Cool. And you have and a network you have to hit the post you have hard network breaks and so you get a lot of practice at talking up to the post. Not a second short, not a second long, like you gotta hit it and you gotta hit it multiple times a day coming in to have a phone calls and and all that sort of stuff and you got callers that sometimes get a long-winded you gotta try to control it and hedge it in you can hit your mark and all that sort of stuff. And so I got to be really, really good at that part of the job. And I still can Fall back on that, but I'm not anywhere near as good at it as I used to be. Don't need to be. That's right. That's true. So are you hinting towards anti-Semitism or Hinting towards the lack uh you know, what with the uh Judeo Christian Christian? I don't uh none of the uh ideologies, philosophies, theologies that were driving the uh the uh the founders of this country the framers of the constitution were merely Jewish No, I don't think a lot of them were not Jewish. Right? Yeah, it was it was Christian. It was Christian. So why do we say Judeo? Why do we not just say the Christian heritage from England and we pull from the Magna Carta and And we pulled from the Torah though. The reasons of Judea question. Yeah, but the Torah is our scripture too. That's that's the thing I'm getting at. Yeah. And that's why I was wondering if you were going there because I'm actually agreeing with you. I was like, yeah, like where oh Judeo's something different. No, Judeo's our heritage too. Right. I thought you were going towards Judaism. as the Jewish religion and including most modern Christians discount anything Jewish. In fact my s son in law's father, who's a pastor, he's if it even him And Marcy. Because somebody might think that he's keeping the Sabbath. See, okay, is that something you were about to say? Or if as an example you can just say, you know about generically. So let me uh what day of what which what do you know what the date of Thanksgiving is this year? So this next show is going to air Thanksgiving weekend. So it actually ties in with the theme a little bit about our heritage and all that sort of stuff. So you brought your when you were talking about the uh uh some really good shows listening to and some really bad shows. And I was kinda like, is this a really good show or is this a really bad show? Sometimes it's hard to tell in the moment If the show is I mean sometimes you can tell. Some dog some shows are just dogs. Yeah. The show's over and you're like, oh my gosh, that was just a waste of air time. Yeah. Uh I think time pretty fast here. It's just you know we'll see what the What the people think and so many comments. And yeah, yeah, again, I think it's a it's a real stab at the the stomach at some people when they say, Hey, you guys are saying I'm sick 'cause I'm not keeping the Sabbath on Saturday. What does that mean? Yeah, I mean he believed we're in the in the millennium now, which I can't say cannot understand because Take the line and the code. I addressed that kind of yeah. So but on most things we're in agreement because he again he loves the Lord and he's there's just the where he believes and you know what I think and uh try it's different. There's lots of things that I believe are probably wrong. I'm waiting for God to reveal Well I I'm glad how you centered it back to the Sabbath, that the feast of the Lord, they're not the feast of the Jews. A lot of people believe they're the feast of the Jews, but they're really the feast of the Lord. So we as Christians can keep the feast. too. Yeah. Alright, so let's just die. Thanks giving one of the feasts? It's my feast. I love it. I sleep well after it. Oh my god. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. The longer I do this show, the more convinced I am how true that is. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. We're on the FM also at 99. 9 HD two. If you go to the just the regular ninety nine point nine you'll hear a bunch of country music. And if you want to really aggravate a country music fan, tell them that they're listening to country and western music. No no no no Western country music. Roots music, Americana music. We're talking about roots a little bit here on the show today. Um what's all this nonsense I'm talking about? I'm Troy Skinner, the uh the host of the Faith Debate and the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. We have a website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. You can learn all about the church. You can actually connect to the show through that website as well. And you can connect to all of my social media and pastor blogs and sermons and I mean anything and everything that I have to do that has anything at all to do with the church, religion, or social media It's a one-stop shop. There it is. I don't think it's a one-stop shop, but there's also a really good website you can check out that Imran Razby is a part of. He founded with his wife an organization about, I don't know, 20 plus years ago. I think called Conquered by Love, and their website is conqueredbylove. org. They have a lot of resources there for uh for family and child rearing and marriage and um and things like that and they've been on the speakers tour over the years and so maybe you can book them for a for a for some speechifying. And Steven Jurger is also on the show for uh round three of this uh set of shows. You did four or five shows with us a couple months back as well. And he's with a a congregation that meets in southern Pennsylvania, not too far away from Gettysburg called the Shabbat Gathering. And we've been talking, well we two weeks ago we talked about the Sabbath, and then we kind of bridged from the Sabbath. We finished up our talk about the Sabbath last week. And if you're uh treating today, Sunday as the Sabbath, and Imran Razi wants you to know that you are in sin and you need to repent He's on record. He can't take it back now from two weeks ago. Not that he would want to, probably. I think he's he's a man of conviction. He believes what he says. Doesn't mean he's right. You're free to disagree with Imran. As he would might say, you're free to be wrong. That's okay. Uh and then we start talking about uh Marcionism, uh a heresy from uh a long, long, long, long time ago, like right after the start of the church, like within a couple of generations of the church being founded, boom, there's this huge heresy with this this crazy guy who's trying to get rid of the Old Testament and and is anti-anything Jewish and that sort of thing. And we even talk about how that maybe is even still evident. Maybe they're not walking around saying, hey, I'm a devotee devotee of Marcia, and that's not what's going on, but maybe some of the ideas and leanings have infected us in ways that we're not aware And Imran, you were sharing in between shows, I don't know if you want to share it now about how it in a personal way can have actually have an impact. Well one of the things to go back to, you know, when And yes, if I believe it's a sin, just like the Bible says, you know, some uh some can eat the the meat of the So what I mean by that, God has convicted me that the Sabbath is a holy day that we're supposed to keep. It's one of the Ten Commandments. It is in the beginning, it's in the end. And once you recognize that's what it is and you don't keep it, you're a sinning. Now if you don't recognize that that's Sabbath, God is walk you're walking with God and God's gonna walk with you and and hopefully convict you of what He wants you to So I'm not here to sit there and judge and say, hey, you're going to hell because you're sinning on this. I'm sinning on lots of things, as we've discussed many times. We are sinners. We're kind of in conflict with our um saved status that we're still in this earth and still subject to sin. So that aside, um when uh yeah I my son in law's uh f family believes that really anything Jewish is uh taking away from Christ because Christ is uh our Savior and if you go back to anything Jewish you're actually taking away from that. And I disagree with that, but one of the things I get along with him very well. Uh And what I've t told people is look, if we're all the same, then iron can't sharpen iron. Iron only sharpens iron because it has friction. You have to have friction in order to be able to uh um defend your views and search the Bible out and say, hey, this is why I believe something and maybe you'll change. Maybe God'll convict you of something. So he he firmly believes that anything that either uh belief in and life in and life. So he would not even you know just come to visit our house on Saturday because somebody might think that he is celebrating the Sabbath with us on Saturday. So but his conviction is that that would be wrong and it would undermine what Christ did for us. And I understand where he's coming from. Um I disagree with him, but that's okay. We should be able to disagree and still love each other and say, Hey, let's investigate and you prove your point, I'll prove my point, and let's go to the Bible. I wonder what something like that does with all of the quotations and the allusions to the Old Testament and the Hebrew scriptures if you will, in the New Testament. You can't properly understand the book of Revelation without having a deep understanding of what the Old Testament has to say. And it doesn't make a look of sense, which is maybe a part of why there's so much controversy and confusion about the book of Revelation. So it looks like uh Stephen is itching to say something. He's got I think a scripture open or something. Well I just want to sum over in first John. First chapter verse 7, it says, you know, walking in the light as he walked in the light, we have fellowship with one another. I'm paraphrasing. And the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. So th you know, the statement was made, you know, if we're not keeping the Sabbath are we in sin? Well, how many other things that could we possibly be doing that could be sinful It's missing the mark, it's lawlessness. But at the same time, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous, so that we can be forgiven of our sin. But like Jesus said to the woman that was caught in adultery. Where are thine accusers? And she said, No man, Lord. He says, Neither do I accuse you. Go and sin no more. So we we we have the ability and the grace of God through the blood of Christ to cleanse. and to be made right. But it's just, you know, part of what the law or the Torah does for us is it's like the school teacher that leads us to Christ. It shows us where we're out of the way and what the remedies are. So this can be a very complicated discussion because we have been taught so many things over the centuries And we're just wanting to go, as Imrod says to me a lot, let's just take the whole Bible, let's look at it in context, let's look at it culturally, and let it speak to us. And try to do the best you can with God's help. And walking with a group of men and women and families that have that same heart and to be able to just hold one another accountable and in a in a very godly, uh kind way, uh that's welcome, mutually uh brought on to where you can uh w wor you know work out community. Yeah the thing is if I say something that uh uh irritates you, that uh makes you angry or bad or mad, maybe that's God's word convicting you and And you should do your research. Prove your point. Okay, if I say something that you think is totally off V, totally wrong, then go to the Bible and prove your point to yourself. Uh you don't have to prove my point, you don't have to fight with me. But You know, fight with the idea. But use the Bible to fight the idea. Don't use man to well so-and-so said this and so no no, go back to the Bible, find it in the Bible, use the Bible to prove your point. And then you will feel much better about it and you may you may not come to the same conclusion that I did. That's okay. But my the purpose of of us doing this is really to help sharpen you to go back to scripture. Use the scripture to solidify your point and be sure what you're standing on. Because I know I'm doing things wrong today that I I will hopefully God will teach me and I'll learn and I'm changing I'll move in the in the right direction and I'm hoping to learn something new every day. I'm hoping to go get closer to God every day. Something that might be uh good Looks like Steve wants to say something. So you can you can s say what you want to say and then maybe if you also want to re- re uh add a remark about this or not, because I think I want to clarify in between shows from last week's show to this week's show that we were trying to clarify things among ourselves to make sure What are you saying? Are we are we concerned about anti-Semitism? We're not saying uh at least I don't think. I just want to clarify though. You know Imran, you tell a story about somebody who says, well if anything smacks of Judaism, well that's somehow diminishing Christ and I want nothing to do with it. That's not the same as saying they're anti-Semitic. Right. It's it has to do with the theology and the understanding of how things work together in God's uh economy uh over time. And It's not the same as hating a Jewish person. It's just saying that the the the the Jewish practices or the Jewish teachings or requirements or whatever are now no longer required for the Christian. So I want to, in case anybody was confused after last week's show, are he's talking somehow about anti-s the thought never entered my mind last week actually, and it wouldn't have entered my mind this week either, except now it's in my head from last show And when Imran said what he says, I'll make sure people understand that you're not saying that somebody in your extended family is anti-Semitic. That's not the point you're making at all. No, that's not the point I'm making, but because of the contamination of Niacism in in in the modern church and things, it can lead to anti Semitism and that's what many people that are anti Semitic have used to really proclaim anti semitism. So I'm not s I'm not speaking to those that are are anti Semitic. That's wrong I I think if you judge anybody by, you know, any that's th that was out of their control, whether the skin of the the color of the skin or the color of their eyes or the shape of their nose or the or their Jewish heritage, I think that's wrong. People are people individually judge and and and so forth. But I think that teaching of uh uh uh has contaminated the the church and people have used that to become anti-Semitic and use those uh uh reasons to do so. Yes. Uh that is the problem, is that Marcionism, I believe, leads to anti-Semitism, but it leads kind of like through the back door And nobody would ever think of wanting to participate in sending any of the Jews to the Holocaust, to the camps, to the to the ovens. Nobody knowingly would do that on the front end But on the back end, Marcionism actually embeds that spirit and actually uh Hitler used the writings of early church fathers, taken out of context, and used it to persuade the German church to, hey, you gotta submit, this is why we're doing it, here's the scriptures to say why. And they also used Romans 13. uh that you gotta follow your government. Um out of context. Right. Out of context. Um thank you for the clarification. So I I wanted to dive back to, you know, uh here in Matthew five Here's a very interesting set of scripture that, you know, Jesus says, do not think I've come to abolish the law of the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. Fully preach, fully have an example, my paraphrase And, you know, if Jesus is the Lord of the Sabbath, then he's the one who interprets. He did by his life and his walk. For truly I say unto you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. When whoever and then annuls one of these least commandments and teaches others to do the same For I say unto you, unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and the Pharisees you shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Now there's a lot there and there's a lot to unpack, but basically, you know, here is Jesus himself saying but Steve, what would you say to those that say, well, everything was accomplished in in Christ's death and resurrection? Okay. I would go, let's say if everything has been accomplished, have we seen the millennium yet? Have we seen the return of Christ? Well, okay, go to Deuteronomy 30 Deuteronomy 30 says that God will circumcise their hearts, bring them from the four corners of the earth, and bring them back into their land. That is before they go into the land, before Joshua takes over. Moses is giving the rendition at the last on, telling them the history. So here is a foreshadow, a prophetic shadow picture of what's going to happen in the latter days here in the Torah. That hasn't happened yet from the four corners of the earth all the way back to their land and circumcising their heart. Because Jesus said in Matthew 24, You will not see me again until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. So that hasn't happened yet. So there's things that have not been fulfilled. It happened in seventy AD when uh I Israel was destroyed, Jerusalem was destroyed, that all those things in tribulation happened then Well that was in a very localized area. When you see the context of Matthew 24, you have you know, the sun not shining, every eye will see him. You're gonna see all kinds of cataclysmic earth shaking events that are m targeted more than just around Jerusalem. And I would also argue that uh Revelation was written kind of after seventy AD, about five or seven years after that. So they couldn't be fulfilled before the re before Revelation was done. Oh there's there's debate on that though. Yeah. Okay. RC Fro, I think, held to that view actually. That's another show. So yeah, so and then the eighty seventy question also, you know, the that Mm Imran w raised that up and it does uh help to answer i if you hold to A D seventy of the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple as a fulfillment, like uh Imran was probably maybe playfully asking, but uh seriously it can be asked. uh that helps to answer the question when Jesus says a generation will not pass before you know he would come in judgment. And so before you see me again. So what what what does that mean? And some say, well he came in AD seventy was which was, you know almost exactly the end of a a generation kind of a thing. So uh we're getting a little bit off. I I think the point that you might have been trying to make with the the the the quote from Matthew five and the and the law and the need for still having uh a high regard for the law is maybe practically speaking talking about what's going on in the world today with easy believism, right? There's this uh there's this this false dichotomy between law and grace. And so I'm in I'm in Jesus, I can do what I want. I mean Paul speaks directly against that. Uh that you can't just do whatever you want. Uh go on and sin all all the more? No, God forbid, right? If the law is done away with, then does that mean I can murder, I can practice uh uh all kinds of sexual uh deviant sins. Does that mean I can steal? Does that mean that uh Well those who disagree with your view, uh might many of them might say yes And that's I think your point is like that leads to all sorts of problems. But they're going to say, yes, I have freedom in Christ. But then Paul said, do we s do will Gary sit down by sinning? He says, God forbid. I'm not arguing I'm not agreeing with them, correct. But you hear these arguments. Yeah, and I think those people are going to be very, very disappointed when God says, Get away from me, I did not know you. understand what God's got to do. And this might be a good point to interject really what a a a gospel focused understanding of the law is. So There is a law, and we've all broken it. And so we all stand guilty, and that's why there's the necessity of Christ to pay the penalty for the sins that we've committed. They are on his back And so we're set free from the shackles of the law in order that we can then obey the law not as slaves to the law, but as slaves to Christ, who out of humble obedience wanted to elevate his name, magnify his glory, treat him as Lord, do what he says, do what he commands. We're not eternally condemned by uh um by the by the the scriptures of the law as a christian anymore because all those condemnations fall on Christ But out of gratitude for that fact, we want to obey the law, not as a way of working our way to heaven. You can't work your way to heaven. Christ worked our way to heaven, if you will, right? We are saved by works, Christ's works. You know? And so That's I think what's what sometimes gets lost. The Christian says, Oh well Christ fulfilled the law. I'm no longer a slave to the law. That's true, but that's only half of the equation. The other part has to be there too, which is now out of humble obedience. We want to go and sin no more. As Razi said, we want to do what the book says. Paul said this the law of sin and death, that's what Jesus did away. But we still have the law of righteousness. We have the law of love. And if you test, like Rasby said, go to the scriptures and test and see if what we're saying is So and if not, then call us out or you know, but the main thing is is not to just go by what other people say, other preachers say, other theologians say, or even what we say. Go to the Word of God and find out for yourself because in the day of judgment when we all stand before that great White throne. There's not going to be anyone between us and we will have, you know, we're either in Christ or we're going to be without Christ. And that's a place you do not want to be at. And that's where on this side of the grave, if you're searching, if you're hungry, if you're really sitting here listening to this podcast think about what how God's been dealing and His love and His care and uh you know today is the day of salvation. Part of the discussion that I hear on occasion from people that ties into what we're talking about here today, uh I I don't hear it as much, and this is actually the point I want to make. is this idea, well, you know, the Old Testament, that's not really relevant anymore because Christ came and says, I'm a New Testament Christian. You know, it's all about the New Testament. I don't really hear that discussion about, oh, do I have the Old Testament, I embrace the New Testament. I think the challenge we're facing now is we have people that would profess to be followers of Christ. They claim to be Christians Christians and they don't abide by either testament. So you only got a couple of minutes, but if you wanted to give uh You know, a full f uh uh a full-throated pitch, elevator speech for the value of the scriptures, the entirety of the scriptures, you would say, what? Uh I would say that the it's a false gospel of that being saved is free. It's not free. It costs Christ his life. and pain and suffering and death. And because of that, if you accept it, then you're obligated to love him. And if you don't, then there is no fruit in you, then you are not saved. And you know what? You may need to really go back in the Bible and find out are you really saved? Because if you d are not showing any fruit, if you're not and the fruit is really somebody looks at you and says, Oh, this person's different, he's a Christian. If they can't say that, if they can't prove that you're a Christian, there's something wrong. Find out what it is. Go back to the Bible. Yeah. Stephen. In the last days Jesus said lawlessness will abound, and I think we can all agree that that is happening across all spectrums. And uh he said, this is going to happen before I come back. So you might want to make that assessment and maybe see time might be shorter. Yeah, lawlessness is definitely abounding these days. Uh I don't think anybody who's paying any attention at all could could disagree with that. with that. Uh it used to be not that long ago when I started doing this show, a lot of the times the focus would be on, you know, pastors who um Yeah, they would focus all their preaching, all their Sunday school teaching, all their Bible study groups and stuff were focused on books of the the New Testament and they and they weren't weren't paying giving enough credence to the Old Testament. Part of it is because of things we've talked about, not having a high regard for it. Part of it was, I think, in ignorance. Uh people didn't the the pastors even didn't know enough about the Old Testament to teach it well, so that's part of it. But now what we're having going on is we have uh some of the biggest churches in the country don't preach either testament. What are they preaching? You know. Well the prosperity gospel. Self-help, you know, pull yourself up by your bootstrap ism. You can do this. You don't need God and God's there, but you can do it because God allows you to do it But no, it's you it's not you, it's God doing it. And then people become a law unto themselves, and if you're a law merely unto yourself, well then that basically is lawlessness because we're in no position to create these laws, and so that's part of the the challenge and the the troubles that we have. So I think what we're going to do one of the notes I had, I'm not sure how it's connected, but it must be connected because in this the thread of uh text that Stephen and I sent back and forth a while ago In the mix of all this talk about Marcionism and the Sabbath and the the Hebrew roots of the church and the law and grace antagonism, the Old Testament and New Testament, part of what came up was something to do with replacement theology I'm not exactly sure what you might want to say, but I've got lots of thoughts about replacement theology, so I think next week we'll talk about that at least generally speaking Also, we missed an opportunity this week to to make a huge point about how our roots and uh as a Judeo-Christian roots and all that sort of stuff connect to this weekend. Thanksgiving weekend is when this show is airing. And as a kid, not having any theological reason for it, but as a kid, my favorite holiday of the year was Thanksgiving. And it was, I think, because it was about most of the right things. It was about We're gonna try to do one more. Oh, says Steve Ted Meeves is watching. I'm not sure if he's still watching. If you are, hello Ted! Ted's a very well-informed Christian who's not a Not afraid to uh to share his opinion on stuff. Yeah. And he's he's right most of the time. In other words, he agrees with me most of the time. So who pays who to see that? Follow the money. Yeah. So hopefully we have enough battery to squeeze one more of these on. If not, I have learned from the past. I was always afraid that if you didn't play save it when the battery died that you lost everything but that's not oh that's is not the case apparently it will just it'll just pause and uh yeah wherever it is so at the end okay so I'm gonna Actually it's cool how you welcome the differences of opinion. That's what the faith debate was really started with. Definitive way to con communicate with each other without getting upset. Right. They've had some that people did get upset. Yeah. Only a handful of time it's only happened like literally like three times that I can remember in eighteen years, which is not bad. Um one of them was a completely repaired breach. The person left, I mean beat red in the face, but we've been friends since, you know, so it wasn't a permanent break. One person had a very embarrassing moment where they they thought we were in a moment like this in between shows, but we weren't. We were actually in the middle of a show. And she decided to let uh one of the other panelists really have it And then she realized he was on the air. So oh we're still recording? Can you change it? And then afterwards she asked me if we could edit it out. And so I said, you know, I'm not here to make anybody look like an idiot. Or feel embarrassed with what they did. So if you really feel that strongly, I will edit it. But I want to let you know for the record. But at that point we've been doing the show for ten, twelve years, probably. So in the long standing tradition of the show, we have never one time ever edited a show. So I'd be glad to do it for you, but it'd be precedent setting and do you feel that strongly about it You know, you you let me know. We we got a couple more shows we're gonna be doing. So you know before the before the night is over, if you don't feel good about how you represented yourself, I'll figure it out, I'll edit it somehow, and then I have to figure out how to fix the show because it has to f fill a time spot. I'd take her three minute tirade out now three minutes short. But I'll figure it out. And so and I meant it. I I mean I kinda noted her a little bit to really think about it, but I I meant it. And she afterwards said, no that's okay. You know, if I can't stand behind what I said, you know, off the air, on the air, I I shouldn't have said it, so that's fine. And so she did, but she left her kind of embarrassed. And there's a guy who was an author of a book c called uh Thank God for evolution, and he got rather testy. And there was one time when uh John Sweitzer actually got a little bit testy with uh the flat earth guy. But that show never aired because uh uh we were on his part. I actually l I actually listened to that. Oh when we were doing the uh yeah, I just I was like, what's we hear? And I'm drooling through and I go, Flat Earth. I'm like, what? Yeah, that was kind of What did you say? Hey that 'cause it wasn't on this podcast. No, no. You guys are being interviewed by somebody else. Yeah, so what you heard was the after show basically. So we did the show with the guy. Oh we're gonna be on his podcast. And so he was recording his podcast. I was just going to take his podcast and edit it for our purposes on the show, because his podcast was like two hours long. And so I'll just take his audio and and convert it into the faith debate kind of thing somehow. I was concerned that the topic wasn't going to lend itself to theology questions anyway. So I was curious I was like, yeah, that's fine, we'll record it and I'll take the theological elements and put them into the faith debate Anyway, the discussion did not go all that well. John Sweitzer got very frustrated, lost his temper a little bit. And so afterwards John asked me, he said, do we really have to use that? Do we have to air And I said, Well, you know, I'm gonna have to edit it anyway. So I'll be judicious about handling it so that I don't make you look like an idiot or any more of an idiot than you usually do, John. And uh he laughed and said, Okay, well as it turns out the podcast guy never pressed record. So we did two hours and it never recorded. Or yeah, maybe he was embarrassed by how he got You couldn't answer any of our questions. Not one. So we then did a show talking about that experience as it's probably a few of them. Yes. Yeah, that was uh Talk to any artillery man and you can you'll be convinced that uh the earth is not flat. Let's see. And yet my son in law's family Well I think that's a big hook of meat on a hook that is that the same guy that's anti Really? Well maybe it's all Combined, right? If you don't have a full biblical worldview, you're gonna go all over the place. Well, but see the thing, it's all about conspiracy. In other words, how you were deceived about this And deceived about that. And believe it or not, some people when they come to the whole word of God and how they were lied to because of, you know, all the different things that are going on, then somebody will tag this one in and say, Well you were lied to And in today's environment it's probably going like wildfire, right? Because we're being lied about everything by everybody all the time. And you know, from perspective, from anybody's perspective the world is flat. You can't see the ones that perspectively yes it is flat. All right. So we'll do replacement theology next. Alright, I think this is our fourth show. And then we if we have a fifth show in us, we'll do another one. And if we don't if we feel like we don't have left to talk about, we can just hand on. on four. It'll be harder for us maybe to get all the way through the holidays if we don't do a fifth shift today, but that doesn't mean we have to force something that we don't really want to talk about. So we'll figure it out. Let's do replacement theology. That kind of dovetails into Marcionism as well. They take that as a foundation and then move in and pre-trib rapture definitely If we're going to do a fifth show and we don't have another topic that strikes us and you guys are up to doing one, we the next show after this one will air on the second Sunday in December. So we'll be in Ad Advent season, so we did do a Christmas themed kind of a show. Maybe not not necessarily debate oriented, but you know we could do some. Actually I've I've I've uh I've got a move with a map on my views about how to celebrate Christmas over the years, to be honest with you. So I got a lot of a lot of uh foddering. I've been Christmas and then Jesus' birthday is not on the twenty fifth, October and you know, he fulfills one of the feasts of tabernacles and you know I I could uh I could talk for hours about it but I would I wouldn't really engage in much of a debate on it anymore because yeah uh I don't have well formulated view. I once had very well formulated views and I was very argumentative about it. But now I've kind of jettisoned some of those views and sort of attenuated myself and now I'm not really sure what I think. Well a lot of people I mean some of the people that I've listened to they they talk about the paganism of it and Yeah. Anyway, we'll s we'll see if we go there. Let me uh let's see replacement theology The following program does not necessarily report the views of Let me ask you something. You listening to us on AM 930? Or are you listening to us on FM 99. 9 HC2? Or are you listening to us on podcasts later on? Or are you listening to us on the livestream at www. wfmd. com? So many options. It's so confusing. So many places you can hear the truth. Used to say something, our introduction to the faith today used to say something like uh You know, more truth you'll hear uh in a half hour than you'll hear the whole rest of the week. Or something like that. You know, we were we were trying to be modest 'Cause the truth is you're going to hear twice as much truth in a half hour than you're going to hear the whole rest of the week. Are you kidding me? Particularly today when I were just saying before we started uh today's show, oh everybody's lying to everybody all the time about everything So this is the one place where you can actually get some truth, an oasis of truth. Anyway, Imran Razvi is on the panel again this week. He's uh you can find some stuff about him online at um Oh, I just flip my head now. Concord by love. org. I don't know why I have a mental block. Every once in a while I forget the name of his ministry. Conquered uh Conquered by Love Ministries. Conquered by Love dot org is his website. The Shabbat gathering is represented here again today. Stephen Jurger is an elder there. And Imran, of course, is one of the pastors at the Church of Meets at Imran's house in Thurmont, Maryland. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ We meet uh in Frederick. You can find me online at householdfaith in Christ dot com. So we've kind of twisted and turned in a general sense around the connection of the Old Testament with the New and how the heresy of Marcionism has maybe still had an impact on the church even today, like 1900 years after uh the Marcion was born. Uh things like that. We talked about the Sabbath a few weeks ago, which is all connected all into this too And there is a another topic within that milieu that uh fits that theme, but it could be a show or a string of shows all by itself, and that is the question of replacement theology. Now this is one of the most dogged fights that you can enter into in an intramural sense in the church today. There are there are a handful of topics that you can say that about, and this is one of them. And in my experience, one of the reasons for that is that replacement theology is so often mischaracterized So maybe if nothing else, this show will be an education for you to come to a true and proper understanding of what it is what is meant by we play replacement theology and what is meant by those who reject replacement theology but support something that people call replacement theology and get all that clarified. So I'm going to take a stab, you guys can correct me if I'm wrong. Generally speaking, in layman's terms, replacement theology would