Welcome to the streaming portion of what we do here at Household of Faith in Christ. We stream our sermon messages for you, and we are deep into Revelation now. If you want to get your Bibles ready, you can follow along. We're in Revelation 21 today. So that means if we're in Revelation 21, there are dozens of sermons leading up to this moment. If you'd like to catch up on those, you're certainly welcome to do so. You can access those in a variety of places. The easiest thing to do is go to our website, household of faith in Christ. com. It's the name of the church, Household of Faith in Christ. And there's our website. And it links to sermon audio and odyssey and other places where we have our sermons and other things stored for you. Again, we're in Revelation chapter 21, verses 21 through 27 will be our focus today, but we'll be reading more broadly than that for a message that is titled The Reality of Peace Resulting from Victory. Today's plan is to complete our examination of Revelation chapter 21. And this is going to really nicely set us up to enter the final chapter of the book, the final chapter of our Bible. However, as nice as it is, it's a slightly awkward spot for us to be in today. The first eight verses of chapter 21 are typically grouped together with the next 24 verses as two passages which present two aspects of the vision of the New Jerusalem. Now if you just did some quick math, what you figured out that would take us all the way through to verse 5 of chapter 22. So we're gonna have our workout cut out for us today, even just getting through the final verses of chapter twenty-one without worrying too much about what's that in chapter twenty-two. Plus, the final five verses in chapter 20, these are strongly related to the opening sentences of chapter 21. The end of chapter 20 and the start of chapter 21, they form a symmetrical bridge depicting the negative and positive sides of judgment. So why do I say all this? Well When reading the Revelation, we do well, I've said this before to read the whole thing all the way through if you can in one sitting, but at the very least read it in chunks, and this would be a good chunk. We would do well to read chapter 21 along with its tales. at the head and at the end. So the end of chapter 20 and the start of chapter 22, including then all of chapter 21, on top of that, we should seek to digest them all as one large unit. So Even though today we are going to be aiming our attention at Revelation chapter 21, verses 21 to 27, let's now read this entire section together. Revelation chapter 20, starting in verse 11. through Revelation 22, ending with verse five. Then I saw a great white throne and the one seated on it. Earth and heaven fled from his presence, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne And there were open books, and one of them was the book of life. And the dead were judged according to their deeds as recorded in the books The sea gave up its dead, and death and Hades gave up their dead, and each one was judged according to his deeds. Then Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire And if any one was found whose name was not written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and earth had passed away, and the sea was no more I saw the Holy City, the new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man, and he will dwell with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and there will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the former things have passed away. And the one seated on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. Then he said, Write this down, for these words are faithful and true. And he told me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give freely from the spring of the water of life The one who overcomes will inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. But to the cowardly and unbelieving and abominable and murderers and sexually immoral And sorcerers and idolaters and all liars, their place will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur. This is the second death. Then one of the seven angels with the seven bowls full of these seven final plagues came and said to me, Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb. And he carried me away in the spirit to a mountain great and high, and showed me the holy city of Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, shining with the glory of God. Its radiance was like a most precious jewel, like a jasper as clear as crystal. The city had a great and high wall with twelve gates inscribed with the names of the twelve tribes of Israel and the twelve angels at the gates. And there were three gates on the east, three on the north, three on the south, and three on the west. The wall of the city had twelve foundations, bearing the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. The angel who spoke with me had a golden measuring rod to measure the city, and its gates and walls The city lies four square, with its width the same as its length. And he measured the city with the rod, and all its dimensions were equal. twelve thousand stadia in length and width and height, and he measured its wall to be one hundred forty-four cubits by the human measure the angel was using The wall was made of jasper, and the city itself of pure gold, as pure as glass. The foundations of the city walls were adorned with every kind of precious stone The first foundation was Jasper, the second sapphire, the third Chalcedoni, the fourth emerald, the fifth Sardonyx, the sixth Carnelian, the seventh Chrysalite, the eighth barrel, the ninth Topaz The tenth chrysapraised, the eleventh, Jacinth, and the twelfth amethyst. And the twelve gates were twelve pearls, with each gate consisting of a single pearl. The main street of the city was pure gold, as clear as glass. But I saw no temple in the city, because of the Lord God Almighty in the Lamar's temple. And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it because the glory of God illuminates the city, and the lamb is its lamp. By its light the nations will walk, and into it the kings of the earth will bring their glory. Its gates will never be shut at the end of the day, because there will be no night there And into this city will be brought the glory and honor of the nations. But nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor any one who practices an abomination or a lie. but only those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. Then the angel showed me a river of the water of life, as clear as clear as crystal. flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb, down the middle of the main street of the city. On either side of the river stood a tree of life bearing twelve kinds of fruit and yielding a fresh crop for each month And the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations. No longer will there be any curse. The throne of God and of the Lamb will be within the city, and his servants will worship him. And they will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. There will be no more night in the city, and they will have no need for the light of a lamp or of the sun. For the Lord God will shine on them, and they will reign forever and ever. That rather extensive reading today is a part of our holy canon, God's Word. Written by men if they are carried along by the Holy Spirit. It's what we call the inspiration process. This word is God breathes. That means that it is Without error, it is infallible, and it is fully sufficient as the standard for how we live our lives and what we believe, and I encourage all who hear my voice to always receive it as such. And I pray that those with ears today would hear. In the closing portions of the revelation, we are shown a renewed universe from the Alpha and Omega. It's a total renovation with no budgetary restraints whatsoever. No restraints that force any sort of trade-offs or compromise. You know, when we have some sort of a refurbishing project. We have constraints. Right? We can't always do what we imagine because our means are limited, but not so with God. The new heaven and the earth actually are going to be better than we can even imagine So much better. And so I hope that you will be encouraged. Are you encouraged? Be encouraged. This is a transfiguration resulting in redemption. And it's not a mere abolition of old evils, although it is that. But it's more than just that. All is washed clean. And is symbolically left without any more sea, as the passage tells us. The Bible frequently associates huge movements of water and giant bodies of water with chaos and evil. I mean, think of Noah's flood, for instance. Think of the giant sea monsters like Leviathan. Think of the swirling darkness of Babylon reaching skyward in an attempt to assault heaven. Chaos evil. But in the end, a new creation comes down from heaven. A place where humans are redeemed and they dwell with and in the climactic temple and tabernacle, which is Christ Himself. This is the end game. The full consummation of God's plan right here, bringing full satisfaction, that horrible, chaotic sea, it's gone. Leaving only placid living water within a brand new kind of Garden of Eden. And this time there'll be no fall into sin. It'll disrupt the eternal shalom. So it's a new kind of Garden of Eden, but it's Better than the original Garden of Eden. Now, with these reminders, we endeavor now to exposit today's passage, which continues to describe what John saw in the Spirit, as we're told. having been brought to a high mountaintop to see the new Jerusalem. This immeasurable city is measured This indescribably beautiful city is described. The unimaginable hope, it is more than merely imagined. It is brought to bear. The Old Testament shadows, they come into full relief by their New Testament fulfillment. This is what John's vision showed him, and it's what he now shows us. This idea is full of the people of God. And they possess exorbitant riches. Exorbitant. What a contrast this is to the beast of Babylon. Do you recall the lament of the world earlier in the Revelation? Over Babylon's fall, you remember that? They were lamenting because there was no one left to buy their precious stones. Well the bride of Christ doesn't even have to worry about purchasing any precious stones because the pearl of great price is given to her. That's what I think is represented in verse 21 of today's passage. Each of the twelve gates in the heavenly Jerusalem, it consists of a single pearl, it says. And the saints, they enter through this pearl. The saints, they enter through Jesus He is the Pearl of Great Price. And it is worth selling all that you own to have him And note something else that's rather important here. Perhaps it skips your notice when you read through the Revelation. You know, there's a whole bunch of measuring that's happening here. There's measuring of the city and of the walls and of the gates. And there's measurements, specific numbers are applied to these measurements, but there's no specific measurement, no number given for the measurement of the pearl. I think it's because this is something that's beyond measurement. It's something that those old MasterCard commercials would describe as priceless. There's no way really of measuring the pearl of great price. In verse 21, we also see a repeated allusion to the value and the beauty and the purity of the heavenly experience, with language that's reminiscent of what we see in Exodus in chapter 24, particularly verse 10. When more than six dozen Israelites back in the Old Testament, they accompanied Moses to a vision of God in heaven. is at Mount Sinai. And along with God, what they saw were paver stones that were rather unique in nature. Well in Revelation chapter 21, verse 21, the streets of gold are like this. They're kind of unique paver stones, if you will. And these streets of gold, they infer something that's kinda neat. All of us I think at some point in our life we've we've been exposed to some of those popular portrayals of heaven, you know, dead people they're They're transformed into angels or something. They're they're holding harps and they're they're floating up on clouds and they're basically doing nothing, so it seems, anyway, unless maybe they're trying to earn their wings like Clarence and it's a wonderful life. Well, in the glory that awaits, God's people do not float on wispy clouds. We will be active We'll have things to do. We'll be leading amazing lives, and we'll be walking to and fro, figuratively speaking, on crystal clear streets of gold. And you know, I can't tell you precisely what it is you'll be doing in heaven, but I can tell you this, you'll be busy. You'll have people to see you and places to go, man. You'll have purpose, and you'll love every second of it. There'll be no frustration of your work in glory. Now one thing you won't have to do as you're going to and fro on these streets of gold is you is you won't have to walk to the temple because There is no temple building. See, the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are its temple, it says. When the temple is God Himself, well then there is no single place for worship. Every single thought is holy ground. And where there is God's holiness, there is a glow of glory. And so there is no further need for the sun or the moon, because as someone very poetically has phrased it, joy shall have no shade. All of what's said in these verses, it's is the reverse of what we see in the weighty warning verses of so many other parts. of the Bible, like Psalm 2, comes to mind. And it's the fulfillment of Isaiah chapter 60. In fact, let's read a couple of verses from there. Isaiah 60 verses 19 to 20 say, No longer will the sun be your light by day. Nor the brightness of the moon shine on your night. For the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your splendor. Your sun will no longer set, and your moon will not wane. For the Lord, Yahweh. will be your everlasting light, and the days of your sorrow will cease. You know, if you're my age, or even younger, I guess You probably had an experience like me. You probably remember all the fear that was induced during our grade school science classes. I vividly recall myself and my friends talking about it, talking about how we felt a little bit of stress because, well, the sun's gonna burn out one day. You know, I mean maybe it's gonna Being billions of years from now, but still the sun's gonna burn out one day. That's what they taught And I'm guessing they taught other things that day in class too, but I mean after you hear that the sun's gonna burn out one day, I don't think really very many of us heard anything else that day in class. Well, even these sorts of fears will not exist in the reborn world. No one worries about the sun burning out one day if there's no need for the sun. And time is going to be thought of differently in glory, I think. The sun and the moon, that's what we use to measure the passage of time, to measure the seasons. So what is all this going to mean for us? What's the experience going to be like? It's really hard to say, right? No one can only try to imagine Although I have to say I think it's possible that there could in some fashion still be a a sun and a moon in some way. Because the verses in Revelation here, what they say is that they're not needed The fact that they're not needed, does that mean necessarily that they'll be gone completely? I wonder. I you know, I'm not sure. After all You think about it, there's blessings in the nighttime in today's world. Right? It's a blessed necessity nighttime. It's when the roots of the plants do a lot of their feeding. Plants need the night. Nighttime is eating time for a number of animal species, too. Of course, most of the animals, nighttime is when they're resting and rejuvenating. There's blessing in that. In the nighttime sky, if you think about it, not so much where there's all the light pollution, but if you go out away from the light pollution, the nighttime sky is when we can take in God's glory, when that umbrella of stars is cast over. over us, set against that black, dark backdrop. There's blessing in that. So I wonder, what is that going to mean for all eternity? I'm not sure, honestly. I think it's fun and interesting and sometimes even a little helpful to ask these kinds of questions and speculate a little bit. But you know, really, asking these kinds of questions is almost assuredly pushing the metaphor of the revelation a bit too far. Because no more night in the context of the revelation, what that means is no more sorrow, no more sin, no more death. No more darkness, what that means is no more ignorance, no more power of Satan. That's what that means. And rather profoundly, the word Hades or Hades, depending on who you're talking to and how they like to pronounce that word, it literally means The place of the unseen. In other words, it's a place of darkness. It's so dark you can't see anything. It's a place of the unseen. But in New Jerusalem, there's constant light where all is seen perfectly. It is the opposite of Hades. And you know, John, I don't think he's expecting us to figure out all the scientific ramifications here of what he's described with apocalyptic language. I think what John would want from us is to try to comprehend the spiritual ramifications. Because that is the point of the light and the dark contrasts. It's actually not merely his point only in the revelation. The Apostle John loves using the light light versus dark motif. I mean he uses a lot. It's all over his gospel account. It's um Through and through. It's in his gospel account. And he uses it very emphatically in the Revelation, particularly as he's heading now down the home stretch toward the conclusion of the letter. Because in chapter 21, we read it earlier, in verse 25, he writes that there will be no night. And then in Revelation chapter 22, in verse 5, he writes it again, there will be no night He repeats himself because Johnny wants you to know this. Why does he want you to know this? Well, if John were here right now at this moment, standing in this room, I think a question that might be on his mind that he might want to ask you is, is there any night? In your heart. Think you might also ask, where is there any lingering shadowy darkness in your mind? Clouding your thinking, your judgment. These are no small questions. I think we should take time to answer questions like this every day. Lord, reveal to me where the darkness still exists in my heart, where mine is still clouded by the evils of night. Because we're not there yet in our sanctification process. But it is a process of fully holiness, it is achieved for us at the end. In the meantime, we're going to be taking footsteps, pressing toward holy lies, which demonstrate that the Lamb is our Lamp. See, God, He illuminates the city. He illuminates the church. So if you are truly the church, then the Lord illuminates you. And by the light of the Holy Spirit that you give off, then the nations, even kings, will respond. The nations of verse 24, what we read today, it most literally means peoples. By the glory of God's light, the peoples will walk. All sorts of different kinds of peoples. Jew and Gentile, man and woman, black and white, old and young. Yes, even Baptists and Presbyterians. King and commoner. And the mention of the kings of the earth, that's really interesting. Earlier in the revelation we we saw kings as they glorified themselves, remember? But now they bring glory to God. We have sort of a preview of this sort of thing in Matthew in chapter two, scene that I think many of us were reminded of during this most recent Advent season, right? The Magi from the East. They take a journey. So they can worship the Christ child. Well, in the end, the kings, the magi will journey to worshiping the Christ as an all-grown-up king. John telling the reader that the kings of the earth will bring their glory to the New Jerusalem as tribute indicates the supreme royalty of Christ The kings pay him tribute because he is the king of kings. And going a level deeper even, the Bible teaches the true believers in God are a holy nation, a royal priesthood. Yes, Christ is king and he shares an aspect of his rule with his co-heirs. So this means Christian. You are royalty. You're a king. All the people of God are made rulers in the royal reign of Jesus If we had a bigger church, we'd probably hear some amens and hallelujahs at that point. So you're king. This means that you too are to bring your royal tribute to the Lamb. As a citizen of the New Jerusalem. So let's make sure that we do this. Let's not try to find excuses not to do it. There's no excuse. There are no real barriers. To us walking the walk. Verse 25 and Revelation 21, it tells us that the holy city, it has gates that never shut. They're always open to God's people. There are no barriers. Really, at least none that excuse us. They're open to all people, and this includes the kings, as we have discussed, and this includes you, because as we have discussed, you are kings too, no matter your walk of life. In an eternal spiritual sense, the saints are all royalty. This includes the persecuted saints in Asia and the The emaciated saints in parts of Africa, and the unemployed saints in Europe, and the Spanish-speaking saints of South America, and the Southern Hemisphere saints of Australia, and those well-fed saints of North America, it includes them all. The holy city having gates on every side, it shows the people they get into heaven from all over the world. And all are made powerful rulers. Nevertheless, do not rejoice that the Spirit submit to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven. So don't get all fool of yourself. But I just said a second ago, that's Jesus talking. That's Luke chapter 10, verse 20. See, reading with Christ, that is true, that's a fun idea. But what's so much more important is having your name written in the Lamb's book of life. That is so much more important. Having your name written there so that you can be in heaven. And remember, not everyone's name is written there. We emphasized this quite a bit last time. But for those who do have their names written there, oh sweet paradise awaits. So be encouraged. Again, are you encouraged? I hope you're encouraged. Let me head toward the conclusion for today by reading a paragraph that I found in a dusty old book. So dusty and old that I can't be certain who the author is. I can tell you this, given the age of the book, uh I know for certain it's a now long dead theologian who wrote this. Well we might not know his name. But God knows. He surely does. And here's what this author, unknown to us, what he wrote long ago about the heavenly Jerusalem. No night there. No pause in the activities of life. Because no weariness will ever be felt. There will be constant work and constant worship. No temple. Not only will hindrances which existed here be banished there, but helps which were precious here will not be needed there. If, as one has said, the most exquisitely tender text in the Bible is, God shall wipe away all the tears from their eyes, surely the most far-reaching text given through an inspired pen is I saw no temple therein No forms will be wanted when the ideal worship is perfect and permanent. No place for worship when every spot is holy ground. No day for worship when every moment is sanctified. No external acts for worship when every act is holiness to the Lord Many a thinker is yearning for the pure thing itself, without form. Here it is. Here it is indeed. With gates that are open, not closed. I entreat you to walk in. Walk in. Especially if life is bearing down on you. Walk in. You know the cities of the world they need to close their gates, particularly at night, because these cities of the world they live under constant threat of attack. Do you feel it? Are you under attack? But in contrast, there's no possibility of attack in glory. Not in the New Jerusalem. Only perfect security. Perfect shalom. I invite you to experience it for yourself. I invite you to be still and know that Yahweh is God This is what the Lord God says. Behold, I will lift up my hand to the nations and raise my banner to the peoples. They will bring your sons in their arms and carry your daughters on their shoulders. Kings will be your foster fathers, and their queens, your nursing mothers. They will bow to you face down and lick the dust at your feet Then you will know that I am Yahweh. Those who hope in me will never be put to shame That's from Isaiah 49. Let's pray. Father, what an astonishingly astonishingly good God you are. You'd give your people such great reason for hope. I ask that you would help us to cling more fervently to this hope. To not be tossed to and fro by the waves of chaos that come at us from this world and from demonic attack or from even the frailties and sinfulness of our own flesh. That we cling to Christ, the pearl of great price, was promised us an everlasting peace in a new Jerusalem In a mansion with many rooms, a place that you, Lord, have prepared for us. Help us to stay focused. On things eternal, to be heavenly-minded, so that with our eye firmly fixed to our Lord and Savior and King That we would be able to more joyfully be an earthly good to those around us Help us have a boldness and the courage to consistently share the good news of Jesus Christ with those who so desperately need to hear it around us. And it's in his name our Lord, Savior, and King, Jesus Christ. We pray. Amen. Going to shut down the stream. Again, if you'd like to learn more about us or catch up on some of our messages and that sort of thing, you can go to our website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Tummy's trying double us