Alright, and the countdown's going, so it looks like we're here. Hello Facebook, and if you're watching us on delay later on on YouTube, hello YouTube. Thank you for uh joining in with us. I don't know if See if they have a joke for us or not, but uh hopefully we'll have a joke at some point this evening. If not right away, we'll have it we'll have it later on. Maybe we'll save the joke for later. And uh at some point Andrew Angela I think might have to duck out before our time together on Facebook is over. She's not being rude. Not like you smell funny or anything. She still loves you and she thinks you smell great. So uh changing things up a little bit because Angela has to leave and because we're going to have some uh some people potentially joining our group here in our home next week. Um I'm gonna change up a little bit what was planned for this week. So So our series on first John is going to continue next week. We're going to take a break this week. And part of the reason I'm taking the break, well I'll explain all of that in a second. Maybe we'll open with prayer. Angela, you mind opening up in prayer? Do you have a joke? I'll get one. Okay. Gracious Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for your constant goodness. Lord, your constant kindness and mercies toward us, Lord God. We thank you for sustaining us during difficult times and seeing us through them. And we thank you for this time of fellowship. Lord God, we thank you that we still have the freedom in this country to come together and worship you and partake of your word and appreciate you. We invite your Holy Spirit to come and to to speak through Pastor Troy and to um say exactly what our hearts need to hear. And we entrust this time to you. It is to your glory and our benefit in the precious name of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Yeah, we can say this up for that if you want to. Yeah. Okay. Right off the cuff here. Um Hmm. Okay. Why is this why can't I see it? Sure, just do it later? Alright, we'll we'll we'll do it at the end. We'll do the joke regardless, but we'll do it at the end. We're not gonna have a uh a sermon preached today. We're gonna go back to a habit we had for a couple of months where you're tackling hot topics, things that are going on in the world and in the news that affect Christ. church and the gathering of his people. And the reason I want to do this is John MacArthur uh made the news a couple of weeks ago when he announced that his church in California was going to meet Um which was not what the governor of California wanted to be hearing from any churches. But it's kind of a cool story. Uh MacArthur and his the elders at his church were thinking they needed to probably start gathering again that it was going on far too long and John MacArthur was preaching his sermons virtually, kind of like what we're doing right now. He's doing it on social media and that sort of thing. Well sudden people from his church started showing up. And so one week, you know, I don't know, he they've got a sanctuary that holds several thousand people and it's a big church. And um I don't know, maybe fifty or hundred people People showed up and the next week it was a couple hundred people and the next week it was several hundred people and he was like, you know what, now's the time, let's go. So they announced their and they their first Sunday when they said they were gonna meet together. Officially uh in conflict with the orders of the governor of California, packed house. So the people were hungry for gathering, for coming together as as the people to hear the word preach to worship God together. And so he wrote something to explain himself to the governor, to his congregation, and to the world at large that's gotten some notice. notice even of Tucker Carlson. John MacArthur was a guest on Tucker Carlson's show. And as impressive as that sounds, about 99-98% of America never watches Tucker Carlson. As popular as this show is, he's got like three or four million people that watch watch him every night, that's a lot of people, but that's only, you know, that's less than two percent of America. So not everybody has heard what John MacArthur had to say and it's a real strong biblical case. And I feel like I'm going to do what I can to get the word out to encourage churches and churchgoers to go to church. So this is from Grace to You, which is the ministry arm of their church. And it's under the heading of Christ Now Caesar is head of the church. And then the title they've given this work that John MacArthur, and I'm assuming maybe he might have gotten some input from the other elders in his church, but his name is the one signed for bottom so this is technically a letter, a contemporary biblical letter, not scripture, but pretty important nonetheless, to God's people today. It's titled A Biblical Case For the church's duty to remain open. Christ is Lord of all He is the one true head of the church. See Ephesians 1 and 5. See Colossians 1. He is also King of kings, sovereign over every earthly authority. See 1 Timothy 6, Revelation 17 and 19. Grace Community Church, that's John MacArthur's church. Has always stood immovably on those biblical principles. As his people, we are subject to his will and commands as revealed. Therefore, we cannot and will not acquiesce to the government imposed moratorium on our weekly congregational worship or other Some will think such a firm statement is inexorably in conflict with the command to be able to do that. Subjects to governing authorities laid out in Romans 13 and 1 Peter 2. Scripture does mandate careful, conscientious obedience to all governing authority, including kings, governors, employers. and their agents. In Peter's words, not only to those who are good and gentle, but also to those who are unreasonable. That's 1 Peter chapter 2. Insofar as government authorities do not attempt to assert ecclesiastical authority or issue orders that forbid our obedience to God's law Their authority is to be obeyed, whether we agree with their rulings or not. In other words, Romans 13 and 1 Peter 2 still bind the consciences of individual Christians. We are to obey Are civil authorities as powers that God Himself has ordained? However, while civil government is invested with divine authority to rule the state. Neither of those texts, or any other, grants civic rulers jurisdiction over the church. God has established three institutions within human society. The family, the state, and the church. Each institution has a sphere of authority with jurisdictional limits that must be respected. A father's authority is limited to his own family. Church leader's authority, which is delegated to them by Christ is limited to church matters. And government is specifically tasked with the oversight and protection of civic peace and well-being within the boundaries of a nation or community God has not granted civic rulers authority over the doctrine, practice, or policy of the church. The biblical framework limits the authority. The Church does not have the right to meddle in the affairs of individual families and ignore parental authority. Parents do not have the authority to manage civil matters while circumventing government officials, and similarly, government officials have no right to interfere in ecclesiastical matters in a way that undermines or disregards the God-given authority of pastors and elders. When any one of the three institutions exceeds the bounds of its jurisdiction, it is the duty of Of the other institutions to curtail that overreach. Therefore, when any government official issues orders regulating worship, such as bans on singing, Caps on attendance or prohibitions against gatherings and services, he steps outside the legitimate bounds of his God ordained authority as a civic official and arrogates. To himself authority that God expressly grants only to the Lord Jesus Christ as sovereign over his kingdom, which is the church. Through those pastors and elders who teach his word. See Matthew sixteen and second Timothy three, for example. Therefore, in response to the recent state order requiring churches in California to limit the We, the pastors and elders of Grace Community Church, respectfully inform our civic leaders that they have ex Their legitimate jurisdiction. And faithfulness to Christ prohibits us from observing the restrictions they want to impose on our corporate worship services. Said another way, it has never been the prerogative of civil government to order, modify, forbid, or mandate worship. When, how, and how often the church worships is never Not subject to Caesar. Caesar himself is subject to God. Jesus affirmed that principle when he told Pilate, You would have no authority over me unless it had been given you from authority. And because Christ is head of the church, ecclesiastical matters pertain to his kingdom, not Caesar's. Between those two kingdoms when he said, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's and to God the things that are God's. Ever offer to Caesar what belongs solely to God. As pastors and elders, we cannot hand over to earthly authorities any privilege or power that belongs solely to Christ as heaven. Pastors and elders are the ones to whom Christ has given the duty and the right to exercise his spiritual authority in the church. See 1 Peter 5. Hebrews 13 and 17. And Scripture alone defines how and whom they are to serve. See 1 Corinthians chapter 4 They have no duty to follow orders from a civil government attempting to regulate the worship or governance of the church. In fact, pastors who cedar Christ delegated authority authority in the church to a civil ruler have abdicated their responsibility before their Lord and violated the God ordained spheres of authority as much as a secular official who illegitimately imposes his authority upon the Our church's doctrinal statement has included this paragraph for more than forty years. Quote: We teach the autonomy of the local church, free from any external authority or control Control with the right of self-government and freedom from the interference of any hierarchy of individuals or organizations. And they cite Titus I. We teach that it is scriptural for true churches to cooperate with each other For the present presentation and propagation of the faith. Each local church, however, through its elders and their interpretation and application of Scripture, should be the sole judge of the measure and method of it. The elders should determine all matters of membership, policy, discipline, benevolence, and government as well. Acts 20, 1 Corinthians 5, and chapter 13, also 1 Peter 5. In short, as the church, we do not need the state permission to serve and worship our Lord as he has commanded us. The church is Christ's precious bride. See 2 Corinthians 11, Ephesians chapter 5. She belongs to him alone. She exists by his will and serves under his authority. He will tolerate no assault on her purity and no infringement of his headship over her. All of that was established when Jesus said, I will I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it. That's Matthew sixteen. Christ's own authority is far above all rule and authority and power and dominion and And every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And God the Father has put all things in subjection under Christ's feet and gave him as head over all things to the church Which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. That's Ephesians chapter 1. Accordingly, the honor that we rightly owe our earthly governors and Magistrates again Romans thirteen does not include compliance when such officials attempt to subvert sound doctrine, corrupt biblical morality, exercise ecclesiastical authority, or supplant Christmas. Christ as head of the church in any other way. The biblical order is clear. Christ is Lord over Caesar. Not vice versa. Christ, not Caesar, is head of the church. Conversely, the church does not in any sense rule the state. Again, these are distinct kingdoms And Christ is sovereign over both. Neither church nor state has any higher authority than that of Christ Himself, who declared, All authority has been given to me in heaven. And on earth. That's Matthew 28. Notice that we are not making a constitutional argument, even though the First Amendment of the United States Constitution explains Expressly affirms this principle in its opening words. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof The right we are appealing to was not created by the Constitution. It is one of those unalienable rights granted solely by God who ordained Human government and establishes both the extent and the limitations of the state's authority. Again, see Romans 13. Our argument, therefore, is purposely not grounded in the First Amendment. It is based on the same basis of the Biblical principles that the amendment itself is founded upon. The exercise of true religion is a divine duty given to men and women created in God's image. Acts 5, Matthew 22, and so forth. In other words, freedom of worship is a command of God, not a privilege granted by God. the state. An additional point needs to be made in this context. Christ is always faithful and true. See Revelation 19. Human governments are not so trustworthy. Scripture says the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. 1 John chapter 5. That refers, of course, to Satan. John 12 and 16 call him the ruler of this world, meaning he wields power and influence through the world's political systems. See Luke 4, Ephesians 2, Ephesians 6 Jesus said of him, he is a liar and the father of lies. See John 8 for that. History is full of painful reminders that government power is easily and freely frequently abused for evil evil purposes. Politicians may manipulate statistics and the media can cover up or camouflage inconvenient truths. So a discerning church Church cannot passively or at automatically comply if the government orders a shutdown of congregational meetings, even if the reason given is a concern for public health and safety. The church is, by definition, an assembly. That is the literal meaning of the Greek word for church, ecclesia, the assembly of the called outclesia. A non-assembling assembly is a contradiction in terms. Christians are therefore commanded not to forsake the practice of meeting together. Hebrews chapter ten. And no earthly state has a right to restrict, delimit, or forbid the assembling of believers. We have always supported the underground church in nations where Christian congregations When officials restrict church attendance to a certain number, they attempt to impose a restriction that in principle makes it impossible for the saints to gather as the church. When officials prohibit singing in worship services, they attempt to impose a restriction that in principle Makes it impossible for the people of God to obey the commands of Ephesians chapter five and Colossians chapter three. When officials mandate distancing, they attempt to impose a restriction to that in principle makes it impossible to experience the close communion between believers that is commanded in Romans sixteen, first Corinthians sixteen, second Corinthians thirteen, first First Thessalonians five, in all those fears we must submit to our Lord. Although we in America may be accustomed to government and may be unaccustomed to government and truth Into the Church of our Lord Jesus Christ, this is by no means the first time in church history that Christians have had to deal with government overreach or hostile rulers. As a matter of fact, persecution of the church by government authorities has been the norm, not the exception, throughout church history. Indeed, Scripture says all who desire To live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. 2 Timothy chapter 3. Historically, the two main persecutors have always been secular government. And false religion. Most of Christianity's martyrs have died because they refused to obey such authorities. This is, after all, what Christ promised. Persecute you, he said in John chapter 15. In the last of the Beatitudes, he said, Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. That's Matthew chapter five. As government policy moves further away from biblical principles, and as legal and political pressures against the church intensify. We must recognize that the Lord may be using these pressures as a means of purging to reveal the true church. Succumbing to governmental overreach may cause churches to remain closed indefinitely. How can the true church of Jesus Christ distinguish herself in such a high hostile climate. There is only one way. Bold allegiance to the Lord Jesus Christ. Even where governments seem sympathetic to the church. Christian leaders have often needed to push back against aggressive state officials. In Calvin's Geneva, for example, church officials at times needed to fend off attempts by the city council to govern aspects of work Church polity and church discipline. The Church of England has never fully reformed, precisely because the British Crown and Parliament have always meddled in church affairs In sixteen sixty-two, the Puritans were ejected from their pulpits because they refused to bow to government mandates regarding use of the Book of Common Prayer, the wearing of the And other ceremonial aspects of state-regulated worship. The British monarch still claims to be the supreme governor and titular head of The Anglican Church. But again, Christ is the one true head of His Church, and we intend to honor that vital Truth in all our gatherings. For that preeminent reason, we cannot accept and will not bow to the intrusive restrictions government officials now want to impose on our congregation. We offer this response without rancor and not out of hearts that are combative or rebellious. And then he cites 1 Timothy chapter 2 and 1 Peter chapter 2 as well. But we do so with a sobering awareness that we must answer to the Lord Jesus for the stewardship he has given us as shepherds of his precious flock. To government officials, we respectfully say with the apostles, whether it is right in the sight of God to give heed to you rather than to God, you be the judge. That's Acts chapter 4. And our unhesitating reply to that question is the same as the Apostles. We must obey God rather than men. That's Acts chapter 5. Our prayer is that every faithful congregation will stand with us in obedience to our Lord, as Christians have done through the centuries. And then he added an addendum where he says, below we want to answer the primary question we have received in response to this statement. Statement, why did uh which is what I just read. And the question is, why did you submit to the original government order and cite Romans 13 and 1 Peter 2? And their answer The elders of Grace Church considered and independently consented to the original government order, not because we believe the state has a right to tell churches To be clear, we believe that the original orders were just as much an illegitimate intrusion of state authority into ecclesiastical management However, because we could not possibly have known the true severity of the virus and because we care about people as our Lord did, we believe gathering public guarding public health against serious contagions is a rightful function of Christians as well as civil government. Therefore we voluntarily Follow the initial recommendations of our government. It is, of course, legitimate for Christians to abstain from the assembly of saints temporarily in the face of illness or an imminent threat. to public health. When the devastating lockdown began, it was supposed to be a short-term stopgap measure with the goal to flatten the curve, meaning they wanted to slow the rate of infection. To ensure that hospitals weren't overwhelmed. And there were horrific projections of death. In light of those factors, our pastors supported the measures by observing the guidance. That were issued for churches. But we did not yield our spiritual authority to the secular government. We said from the very start that our voluntary compliance was subject to change. Change if the restrictions dragged on beyond the stated goal, or politicians unduly intruded into church affairs, or if health officials added restrictions that would be would be uh to Attempt to undermine the church's mission. We made every decision with our own burden of responsibility in mind. We simply took the early opportunity to support the concerns of health officials and a common The same concerns among our church members out of a desire to act in an abundance of care and reasonableness, and then he cites Philippians chapter 4. But we are now more than 20 weeks into the unrelieved restrictions. It is apparent that those original re projections of death were wrong, and the virus is nowhere near as dangerous as it originally And still, roughly forty percent of the year has passed with our church essentially unable to gather in a normal way. Pastors' ability to show Shepherd their flocks has been severely curtailed. The unity and influence of the church has been threatened. Opportunities for believers to serve and minister to one another have been missed. And the suffering of Christians who are troubled, fearful, distressed, infirm, or otherwise in urgent need of fellowship and encouragement has been magnified beyond any Anything that could reasonably be considered just or necessary. Major public events that were planned for 2021 are already being That forces churches to choose between the clear command of our Lord and the And the government officials. Therefore, following the authority of our Lord Jesus Christ, we gladly choose to obey Him. That's what John MacArthur and his church have to say. And I know you believe me if you're but we can start a discussion maybe if you if you have time for part of it. Sure, absolutely. So I will say you might have noticed uh that last addensity that I read didn't have the same thrust and power that the first part did. Did you feel like the tone was a little bit different and it wasn't quite as solid? One, they didn't put as much thought into preparing it. I think that's part of They they put out a quick response to some of the pushback and feedback they were getting from people. So that's part of it. But also uh John MacArthur and his church were not, in my opinion, On the right side of this issue at the beginning, which is what we were talking about on these Facebook videos going back several months. And I saw several interviews with John MacArthur where he didn't exactly seem to be saying what he said in that uh last portion that was a response to the question. I'm not saying he's being duplicitous or he's lying or deceptive. Uh I'm sure he was saying lots of things in different contexts to different people and trying to meet people where they were and all that sort of stuff. But he was very the word I was using at the time, and I'll use it again now, he was very wobbly. I don't think that he was horrible on the issue unless you consider being wobbly horrible. And You can make an argument that that uh hovering between two decisions is not necessarily the godly position to take, so in that sense it can be horrible. However, the statement that multi-page statement that I read that took probably 20 minutes to read. That's my reading, that's exceptional. It is biblical, it is clear, it's unambiguous, it is bold, it is a witness. to the world, as a witness to the rest of the churches. And, you know, it's interesting. As biblical as I think it is, and as bold and right as I think it is John MacArthur, he showed up to a gang fight, he got on his switchblade, he was ready to go to battle, and then he said, You guys with me? And he's like, Where'd everybody go? He's kind of out there on an island. He's not completely alone. But if you don't know John MacArthur is, John MacArthur is uh if there were a contemporary uh Mount Russell more built for uh high profile Christian leaders in America over the last forty years of people who are alive today that are well known and highly regarded as biblically scholarly kind of guys. John MacArthur's one of those guys. He's one of the big names. He's got a lot of big name friends. Where are they? They're not rallying to MacArthur's defense. At least not most of them, not the ones that not that I'm familiar with. And at the local level, here where we are, most churches still not meeting, still saying, well the governor says, the governor says And John MacArthur's question to them, and I would argue Christ's question to them will be, who's head of the church, the governor or Christ? And so if you happen to be a churchgoer somewhere else, you know, and you're just watching this for extra fun, if you happen to be a pastor who sees this, I implore you, please. Please prayerfully dive into this issue anew, and I would ask you to find the boldness to do what MacArthur's calling the church to do. And to put Precisely these kinds of issues. If people want to neglect the leadership of Christ and Christ's under shepherds, um and as a result I think the word I used the very first time I talked about this on one of these face the uh uh Facebook videos was I was concerned that the church has grown flabby. And boy oh boy, if it hasn't proven now We're like how many months in? Five months? Almost half a year. Yeah, almost six months. March sixteenth. So March, April. May, June, July, all yeah, so it's over it's like five months. Almost a half a year. When is enough enough? I asked you. Well I I have a I have a little I don't I don't but I just I I just want to offer just for anyone's consideration who is still on the side of those who would think that John MacArthur is out of line. I just want to offer this for your for everyone's consideration on that side of the fence. We you know Context the con if we compare um the deaths the deaths from COVID to the deaths from flu Influenza is a far more deadly disease. So let's just use a little bit of logic. Just and just see where that takes us. Logically, if we're going to shut down our country and our economy, not just the church, but our literally our country for half a year for COVID. We should to just to not be inconsistent, we should do that every single flu season. Because the flu is more deadly. COVID has killed in the hundreds of thousands. Blue has healed in the millions. So logically, does it it does do these governors policies even make any sense. That's one thing we need to consider. Another thing we need to consider is why is it okay for certain groups to come together In mass and commit lawlessness even to exercise their First Amendment rights. There's no first amendment right to to to be lawless. But they come together and they're lawless in what they do. They come together and they burn buildings and they and they they commit acts of violence exercising their right to protest which is totally illegitimate an illegitimate way to do that. That's less dangerous and more acceptable than people coming together in a church house To worship and do no violence, but just to just to love on the Lord and have fellowship with each other. That that that's more acceptable than that. Look at that logically. Look at another thing logically. Why is it o how is it that and I'm not against the restaurant being open, please don't misunderstand me, but why can't we go to certain restaurants and sit down As long as we social distance or whatever. We can take our masks off to eat because after all we have no choice, right? And you're not contagious Apparently COVID nineteen says oh you you're eating so I'm not gonna bother you right now. So that's not dangerous, but it's dangerous to see an a church. So when you look at all of the inconsistencies, the the hip the hypocrisy at these governors' positions you know, in addition to their non-God given right to um um um legislate church activities, when you look at just their own inconsistent hypocrisy critical behavior that should tell you that even if they have the best of intentions, let's give them a ton of grace And say they have the best of intentions. Yes, but you're still hypocritical and two-faced on this topic. You're being unfair And so that needs to be corrected. That needs to be corrected. We as a church need to take a stand on a So happy John MacArthur has done this. I wish more people would rally behind him, but going back to that earlier point that we made, uh I think a lot of a lot of being revealed. in this season about what people are either are doing or not doing. A lot is being revealed. Um so um sometimes the revelation is unclear But at least now we have the truth. We know where people stand. We know who's willing to stand behind their faith and who's just giving their faith lift service. So that I'm not trying to be hard Are anybody I'm just saying, you know, what do you make of people who are consistently defending the churches who have chosen to continue to only do online and them saying, well, the church is not the building and I am together with people spiritually because we are all of one spirit. How do you you um speak truth to that? What does that look like from your perspective? I think that uh I I want to go back to a point that Troy was making earlier with John MacArthur's words. After a certain point, you that that argument begins to lose things. Because but you're always you're still worshiping I'm I'm playing devil's advocate. Right, right. We're still worshiping in spirit. Right. So how how is that lesser? Well it's lesser because the biblical command is for us to come together. So if if if if the virtually together. Right. But there's no command to come together virtually Exactly. So I I I know what you're saying. That's what somebody has said, number three. There's no command to do that. So if if it's important enough, technology back then. They just have technology this is what I'm getting it. I'm hearing you. Not a fighter. And they didn't and they didn't have that they didn't have t the technology to come together virtually back then But um the Holy Spirit knows the end from the beginning, so if if his intent was for us to just only do it in the Spirit, then he would have killed counts you in those terms, speaking through Paul and speaking through he never counts it in those terms. He said insightful. You know, come together and fellowship because he knows we need human contact. He we we need to you know and so um there comes a time when you know you you you like John McCarthy said, I gave you the benefit of the doubt at first because this was probably a public health crisis and should we the church, you know, come down, should we be s should we be pharisiacal about meeting No. If if people might you know really w wind up dying because somebody's definitely ill, of course not. I wouldn't encourage anybody to go to to go to church who's who's who's got pneumonia and and you cough, I wouldn't encourage that. That that doesn't make sense. But after enough time has expired that we now see COVID for what it is, we can see it in context. We have something to consider Which is a flu, and we see uh how much damage it does in comparison to something that we're we're all much more familiar with. Well now we we we we we can see it for what it is now. So let's react a accordingly. You know, we we we s so I it's the same thing. Now that we understand why why should how can we keep making the excuse for not coming together in the spirit that the word of God tells us to come together in. We, you know, that we we're we're moving now from being understanding to rationalizing. disobedience, you know, at at the end of the day, it's rationalizing disobedience. And I you know, I have sympathy for pastors who are really trying to weigh this thing, but I I think that John MacArthur has laid a a a you know he's a trailblazer of sorts. He's one of several. He's he's blazing a trail for other pastors to look at And you know and and in in fairness, uh it is tough. You know, I've been a pastor a couple of different places, but never have I been a pastor where my income and my livelihood was dependent on any sort of money the church would pay. To be honest, the churches were so small, we were tithing the church more than we were paying. It's like I was paying to be the pastor But the point it was never about the money for me, but an awful lot of pastors, if something bad happens and their congregation turns on them and they get ousted as the pastor, they're out of work. And I'm not saying that they get out of jail free card, but that's an additional amount of pressure that they don't have. And MacArthur doesn't really have that kind of pressure. He's been the pastor at that church in California for fifty one He's an older man now. If they were to fire him, he would just retire. And he's he's fine. He's written so many best selling books in Christian circles that I'm not even sure if he takes a salary from the church anymore at this point. I don't know. So he's not physically tied to it. That gives him a flexibility other pastors might not feel. And the other thing I mentioned that story, people from his church were beginning to show up on their own. And so that's my charge to you, Facebook viewer. If you want your church to start gathering again, support your pastor. Let your pastor pastor no hey we want to meet actually and put your put your boots on the ground and show up and say I know you're not officially meeting but do you mind if I sit in the pew while you do the virtual service for everybody else? And if enough people start to do that you'll give courage And one of the things about the question that Dina asked, uh before our Facebook thing, we're talking about the importance of semantics. And this is actually a good example of the importance of semantics. How many friends do I have? Well according to Facebook I have close to a thousand I don't have a thousand friends. Who are we kidding? Right? Seriously. Nobody has that many friends. You might have that many acquaintances. I have more than a thousand acquaintances. No, whoa. What's to me, Bubba? Oh want to wave and say hello to grandma? Hey grandma. So that whole you know getting together virtually To say we're gathering when we're not, but to say we're doing it virtually, that semantic difference matters. You're either gathering or not. And there's so much physical, one of the problems that the church has faced is historically has been a hyper spiritualism. One of the labels and one of the versions of that would be Gnosticism, you know, and this is some sort of Platonic idea where it's all about, you know, the spiritual is good and the thing Physical is is, if not bad, at least lesser. And so we minimize the physical and make everything high So it doesn't matter if we physically congregate together. It doesn't matter if we come together and greet one another with a holy kiss. That doesn't matter. What matters is that we Spiritually come together. Well that's fine, we do spiritually come together, but it's the the biblical message is not merely about a spiritual reality It's a spiritual and the physical reality. They're both real. They're both important. You can't sacrifice one any more than the churches that sacrifice the spiritual and they turn their churches into secular Civic clubs. Where you know, we're a food pantry. Were you a church or a food pantry? So you know it you can the church has been guilty on both sides of that it's both. So I would encourage you to get your church to get some mustard to meet, and this is going to sound really controversial If you can't if you belong to a church and you can't see the light of the uneturnable of your church coming to its senses and eating sometime soon I think it's time for you to find a new church. I don't think I would want to belong to a church where the secular state is the head of my church. I want to belong to a church Church where Christ is the head of my church. Because if Christ is not the head of the church, guess what? It's not a true church. It's the church of Caesar. What yeah. Who wants to belong to the Church of Caesar? What would we call that? Caesar enemy? Who wants to belong to that? We want to belong to a God-fearing, Christ-exulting, Holy Spirit-filled Biblically obedient, biblically informed church. That's what we want. So it's it's time for us. It's well past time. You know, and I'll give uh a pass also to MacArthur and others who were a little wobbly beginning. Because of my personal experience, I was a little bit quite a bit. I I was probably a month and a half to two months ahead of the curve on understanding the risks of the coronavirus. I was way out in front of it. And I'm not always way out in front of something. This is just one of those rare times in life when I was way out in front and everybody's like pant We don't panic and shut everything down when there's a bad flu. Why are we freaking out? And nobody was sapp was was Nobody. A very large swath of the Christian community was not there. Very few were where I was. Uh and but now it's five months in, it's clear The death rate originally was projected to be five percent. Now it's gonna be less than twenty five percent. That's a huge difference. There are uh that where John MacArthur is the the pastor in California What we just heard this about today, was it three hundred and fifty, I think, on average, three hundred and fifty, three hundred and sixty abortions a day on average in California And they're worried about the I don't know the the couple of COVID deaths they might have a day, I don't know exactly what they're saying. But it's so out of balance. And people who um are Christians and they're afraid to go to church. That's funny. But I would ask you, this is the pastoral part of me coming out, I would ask you to check your heart And make sure you're at least being consistent. If you're that afraid to go to church, are you also not going to restaurants? Are you not are you Are you also not going to work? Are you also not attending protests? Are you also not going to the grocery store? Are you also not going to Lowe's and Home Depot to buy something to do a project in your yard If you're going to pe places where people are gathering and congregating and milling about and there are germs everywhere, and you're doing that in all these other spheres of your life, but you won't do it for church Man, I I wonder where where would where is that person's priority? And you can only answer that between you and God maybe and and the and the biblically informed leadership of and show Separating of your pastor, assuming you have a biblically informed uh pastor helping you uh in that matter to figure out where you are on that. But the uh the protesters they're more committed to their cause and the church is it is the its cause the Christ's cause wow and we're not trying to I don't think the spirit of this discussion is to sort of sort of us to stand on our soapbox and point to any particular pastor or church and sit in it and wag our fingers at them. It's just that, like John MacArthur, when you when you begin to see these contradictions and and you begin to see the hypocrisy I think it's irresponsible to not respond to it and to and and to not point it out. Jesus always pointed out hypocrisy. Always. I mean every time he he encountered the Pharisees you know, there was a run in and he called them hypocrites to their faith. So he pointed out hypocrisy. Wherever there's hypocrisy there's there's um uh uh there's disobedience to God's law And just like um or the principle of God's law or a principle of the word of God, there's disobedience to that. And that's what MacArthur was speaking to in in in in in his you know response his treaties or whatever you want to call it. That's what he was speaking to. And and we have the right to to take that argument to our government And say, listen, you know, this has gone too far. Explain to me why this is not too this is not wrong. And overreach. And overreach when, you know, there's always this hypocrisy. Explain to me why this isn't hypocrisy. I it and it it's it's it's fine for us to do that, to take it to our government, and it's fine for us to pose this question to the church n understanding that pastors do have a lot uh on their in terms of responsibility, they have a lot on their plate. And we're not trying to be um heavy handed with them. I have a lot of sympathy for I pray all the time for the church. You know, I have a lot of sympathy here. But um you know we We y it it's fair for us to at least ask the question and say, can you please consider this? And like you said, take this to the Lord and check your own heart. Make sure you're not just using this as an excuse to cave into the to the state to the masses. To the masses. Um yes you might lose a few you congregates. Yes, you might get a drop in income. Well, um I'll I'll I'll I'll the only thing that we can say to that is, you know, it it's kind of almost I don't know, flip as a sound. You gotta trust God for that. I mean what else can you do? And I know the namesayers will point out some of the anecdotal stories about this person went And there's been some high profile version of a very outspoken pastor who got coronavirus COVID nineteen and ended up dying from it, supposedly. That's true. And there are others. But I think the numbers, the latest number I heard, and it's relatively a fresh number, I believe, of all the you know supposed hundred some odd thousand deaths in America of tied in uh tied to uh COVID nineteen. I think the latest stat is six hundred and fifty of those are connected to people who uh were exposed and and got infected while attending church. Well I And how do we even know what the number would be if they were able to, you know, go back to how many people were protesting that also were How could they possibly even but you know that there's numbers there, how could there not be? That's the other thing. You the the numbers this is another piece that makes this argument or or makes this this this discussion, this this area of discussion um um I can't think of the word, but the numbers because they're attributing everything to COVID as a cause of death. You could come in with a gunshot wound and they'll say they'll they'll on the on on the death certificate if you die from they say it was caused by COVID. So how many people really to die from COVID as the cause. It's one thing to die from something as a cause. It's another thing to have that thing when you die Right. So they're but they're they're attributing everything to COVID no matter what causes the person to seek medical attention So even the numbers themselves are not totally trustworthy. So in in terms of you know the actual COVID diagnosis, they're not totally trustworthy. That's another reason why we have the the reason uh the uh the right, the responsibility even to take this to our governors and and to pastors say look at all this evidence that some you know this there's just too much contradiction, there's too much hypocr you know, uneven handedness and this to to justify the continual shutting down of our churches. Yeah, you you have to go? Yeah, I well she's at a point, I think Are you late? One thing I just want to say about this exercise that we did, it's it's interesting, you know, back two thousand years ago or thereabouts, you know, when when Paul or John or somebody would write a letter and it would circulate and then it would be read to the congregation. You know, so here we've got a leader in Christ's church and America who has written this letter that's now circulating and we read it. This is like going back in time, you know, nineteen hundred and fifty years or something like that. I'm gonna throw this out as a uh in the future discussion but I'd be curious to to have the discussion about vaccines and how they're using fetal tissue tissue and how that's an ethical question of that yeah and just you know how do you how do you how do you even receive that and you know it wasn't curious to it wasn't too long ago the semi mentioned how you know the government's gonna mandate vaccines and all that blah blah blah people conspiracy theorists. And now there are high profile um lawyers and professors at law schools that are putting physician out saying how the state has the legal right and should actually exercise that legal right for the public good to mandate vaccinations of people. So So the people that were conspiracy theorists a year ago they don't sound so crazy anymore. Mm-hmm. So because that's something that we're going to as the church have to wrestle with Yeah, we'll have to figure that out. Right. Um that's what I'm saying. We should definitely Put that and we could primarily consider. But next week we're going to get back to first job. Anyway, it's just something that we'll need to I think. Yes. Yeah I do. I don't want to force it out, but I don't want to do that. Actually the the the discussion is so interesting I hate to tear myself away from it. We can we can we can wrap up if you want. That's up to you. I don't want to force you out. No, it's okay. So this was a question but one of our faithful uh viewers of this session we do, why do we pray if God already knows So first of all, there are mo there are many reasons why we pray, even though God is sovereign. He's in control of everything, He knows everything, He knows the desires of our hearts before we utter them. So why we pray. Well first of all, and it's not the only answer, so don't roll your eyes. Nor should you roll your eyes with this answer anyway Obedience. God tells us to pray. First Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 17. says that we should pray without ceasing. Luke chapter 18 verse 1 Jesus says speaks, he says, and he told them a parable to the effect that they ought always Always to pray and not lose heart. Colossians chapter four, verse two says, continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving Philippians 4 verse 6, Paul writes, Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be no be made known to God. So even if we had no other reason, this would be reason enough To pray. Oh, oh. But a good follow-up question might be, well, okay, God commands us to pray, that's why we pray, but why Why does God command us to pray? And there are a multitude of points we made on this. One, God chooses to work through secondary Means. He can do everything by divine fiat if he wants, but he chooses to use means more often than not. That's his normal way of doing things. God is the primary cause But he he works through us and our prayers. I mean similarly God he he could have dropped his written word, right? Straight out of the sky. I mean that's kinda what the Mormon uh view on their scriptures is, right? Just kind of boom, here it is. Uh it's actually not too dissimilar from what the Muslim view is as well. Instead, God has worked through human authors to write the Christian scriptures. Now God he could have trounced Israel's enemies all by himself without any sort of intermediary. And yet he had his people fight and win those battles. The people participated in the move of God. Anyone who is a parent actually can relate to this because parents do the same thing with their kids. I think. Good parents do. We can do everything ourselves for them. However, we help them to grow by having them work at doing it themselves along with us. We help them. Participate with it and they have a sense of participation, a sense of of of of being in connection with you as the parent, and we have that sense of being in connection in in God as is as our heavenly parents. Father. A second point to be made, being involved with God in these secondary causes that I was just talking about, well, let's ask this question: what's in it for us? It encourages our faith. Right? When God calls you to prayer and you pray for something and then you know and And then we witness the answer to some of those prayers, that encourages our faith. It strengthens our relationship with Him. So that's another good reason to pray. Just as talking with your best friend would strengthen And your relationship with your best friend, talking with God, and and part of prayer is listening too, by the way. It's not endless peaceful talking, it's listening and and hearing the spirit speak to you. It's uh that were four building the strength of relationship. And the time of prayer provides us the space, quote unquote, to contemplate what God is saying to us to really hear him as we understand what it is uh that uh we under him as we know and understand that he hears us Psalm seventy-seven verse one says, I cry aloud to God, aloud to God, and he will hear me. And so one of the reasons we go in prayer is we know that when we do that God's hearing us. Don't you like to be heard? No one ever listens to me. Well, in prayer, God listens to you. A third point. If none of these other points existed, even if it wasn't a command, consider the importance of this particular point. When we pray, it brings God great pleasure. Hmm? So if he loves it when we talk with him, then that should help us to want to lean into him, to to rest upon him, to trust him. Him. Like when a loved one comes to you to share their innermost heart. And so they come to you and they really open up to you. How does that make you feel? That friend valued you enough, trusted you enough to really be vulnerable with you. And so we're doing that to God, not that as though He needs it, and yet we're we're offering that up almost as a sacrifice and a gift to God in praise. So even if God didn't ask you to pray, even if it wasn't a command from Scripture to pray, even if there were all these other benefits, wouldn't you still want to, for this reason alone, to make God feel good Right. And remember the the the command to pray, this will be the last point, it comes with a promise. Matthew chapter seven, verses seven through eleven, during the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus tells his disciples, Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. And it will be opened to you for everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. Or which one of you, if his son asks him for bread If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father who So there's a a promise attached to prayer. And so we've got, I don't know, three, four, five, six combinations of reasons there. So pick your favorite one and let that motivate you today and tomorrow. And Angela's a prayer warrior. Angela spends a a high percentage of her day in prayer every day. I don't know, I don't want to put you on the spot, but I don't know the one that You pray all that all combined, you might spend two hours a day praying. And then get up in the in the middle of the night and pray for hours on end. And I you know, you did like such a thorough job answering that question. There's almost really nothing to to add to it. I was Um maybe I could maybe kind of just round it out this way. I I think center um well God's central reason for wanting us to pray to him is because he's he's relational to the core. He wants a relationship with us. And prayer is how we talk to him. You know, he doesn't just you know, the the the D is the view. What's that view that God starts the world up like a top spin, spun it, and knocking off somewhere ignoring us? This alone tells you that's not true. Right. Because if he didn't if if if he felt that way then he wouldn't want us to pray to him. Um he wants the relationship with us and I think I know I would say that I know both biblically and from experience, the reason God wants a relationship with us is because it's so distant us. Absolutely. You know, and and we never talk to him. You you can't have a relationship So if he wants a relationship with us, which he does, then and and talking is so important. Communication education is so important in a relationship. He needs us to talk to him about it. Yeah, so I agree. And do you know attitude that it is like you said definitely for our benefit because God doesn't need us. He has fully um sustainable through the Trinity. He has relationship between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. So he doesn't need us to pray to him at all. He commands it because he knows it's for our good. There are times And I know that you've had this experience, I don't know if I can't speak for you, where I've been in prayer where the Holy Spirit now yes, I the Holy Spirit is indwell within me, but there's such a Welling up of that I feel like an overwhelming presence. I feel I'm always in the presence of God because He's everywhere, but I feel the presence of God Well that's not for him. That's for me. Mm-hmm. To encourage me, to give me the additional faith I need, to let me know that, yeah, I'm here, I get it, I hear you, you know Uh yes, yes, I hear you, I hear you. The answer's still no, but I hear you, or whatever, you know. Sometimes it is that. Sometimes it's I love you, dear daughter, but no. Or You know, I love you dear d dear daughter, yes, but hold on to your hat. You know, that you know, there's sometimes there's an overwhelming presence of oh boy you know, you know that you're and sometimes there There's a disciplining presence that you feel because he disciplines those that he loves. So all of that for our good. And it makes you feel so much more com Confidence. Absolutely. But when when we sense his presence, there's just such a confidence that he gives you and a fearlessness and a courage. Yes. That the presence of God gives you a and a a peace, right, that the presence of God gives you because you don't feel so many people get depressed enough to kill themselves 'cause they feel alone. But when you have that relations relationship that you've built over time because you converse with him by a prayer, you never really feel alone. You know, you just and it it's hard to describe But you can just feel the presence of God with you. Like I I can feel this presence right now, even as I say this. It's just a confidence. It's just a uh in in this particular moment, it's and approval that I'm sensing from him. And it's just so incredibly encouraging. It's just it's it's precious of what I'm saying. One of the one of the great uh uh Christian confessions uh asks the question of you know, what is the chief end of man, you know, in today's language so human. Why did God make us and place us on planet Earth? And the answer to the question is to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever And those two are interrelated. So we glorify God. We come to God in prayer, we're glorifying, we're acknowledging that He's God, we're not. So we're going to Him as God and getting Him glory It makes him sound oh God's so egotistical. But why why does God want to have us glorify him? Because he knows that as we're obedient to him. This is true for all the commands, not just the command to pray, but all the commands from God God, uh when we're obedient, we're bringing glory to God in our obedience, and in doing so we are then able to enjoy him forever. So for our benefit. And so everything is because he loves us. Um and people there's obstacles to pre Sometimes people feel inadequate, uh inadequate because they're sinful and they're guilty and they feel like they're ashamed and they can't pray because of that reason. Uh I will remind you that you know Christ tells us we're to pray in his name. And if you're praying in his name, it's because you're bearing his name, that you oh you belong to him. And if you belong to him, you bear no shame or guilt there. And so if you're not praying as you feel guilty and unworthy, uh remind yourself that God sees you as worthy because when When God sees you, he chooses to assign Christ's perfect record to you. So he doesn't see your guilt and shame. He sees Christ's obedience and and a ca and places the Those benefits into your account. And so remind yourself of that and you can go before the the throne of God with with uh with humility and yet boldness at the same time. Because you don't have To worry about your sinful past or your sinful present. Sometimes people feel inadequate, they don't know how to pray. And if that's where you are, and you you've never been good at it But uh a really good way is to pray God's word back to him. Open up the Psalms and just because those are prayers. Um uh I mean there are other things too but they're at they're at they're at the le at the least to their prayers. And so read the Psalms to God, pray his word back to him. And as you get more comfortable Doing that, you can start to add your own words. And you do that over time, you start to get used to using biblical language in prayer, and later on you'll be able to pray God's word back to them without even having the word in front of you you it must become part of your vocabulary if you will, and that can be a good habit. And if you're one who's never prayed aloud in front of somebody, there's no guilt trip I get it. People have different hang ups and stuff But I would strongly encourage you to find an opportunity and start small. Pray aloud in front of your children or grandchildren. Pray aloud in a small group setting People you really trust and you know they're not gonna judge you for the way you pray and expand your circle somehow. Because if you won't pray in front of people How are you ever going to witness to people and then pray with the person when they respond to your witness and say, Wow, I'm so broken, I'm so lost? How are you going to turn to them and say say in that moment of brokenness where the Holy Spirit's moving and say, you know what? Would you mind if I prayed with you right now? How are you ever gonna do that if you don't get to a place where you'll pray aloud and front of somebody. So you've got to work at getting better at that. Do it at your own pace, I guess, but I would cajole you and urge you to try to you know quicken your pace as much as you you're able. in that regard. And it's a challenge. Life is busy and you get distracted, you have a zillion responsibilities and prayer speech that I can do it later. Um or For for whatever reason it's it doesn't come natural to you like it does to somebody else. Some people have I think like the gift of being a prayer warrior almost. It's like it's like a superhero spiritual strength that they have it to you. It's amazing what some people uh seem like they're able to do. But I wonder if that's a gift or if or if it's an acquired uh ability through habit. I think it's more that they've emphasized that prior muscles. So you get better at it if you continue to do it. I thought I think I I think I thought of one more reason why you should do we should all pray though. And that's because Jesus prayed Right, we should follow his example. And he's a son of God but while he was walking the earth as a man He felt it was never. Oh. Just come there. Well Mommy Tiggy. Alright, we keep the introduction. right now okay well we're gonna be done in like two minutes okay okay so if if he felt it was necessary to commune with Father and he's the perfect son of God, how much more necessary is it for us? So you know sometimes we I mean what one of the consequences of sin is that we get embassy backwards. Some some people might feel um oh my oh my imperfection disqualif you know it makes it i disqualified. No No, that's you should all the more pray because of our imperfection because the perfect Son of God prays, even he prays. So how much more do we need to pray if he felt that he needed to pray. We need that communion. And there's a spiritual war taking place and Christians cannot be indwelt by the evil spirits because we have the Holy Spirit spirit dwelling within us. However, we can be under spiritual attack. And those spiritual attacks can distract or discourage or or or make you so busy that you don't pray. And we all maybe at some points in our life struggle with this. There's certainly been seasons in my life where I've struggled uh with that, and so you know we can have some empathy for one another and we can encourage each other. So we're gonna wrap up now and I'm gonna make a thing You can close this one first? Sure. Oh, before you want to do a joke? No, we want to do that. Okay. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time together. Thank you for being involved in this conference. conversation we ask that you would be glorified in everything that we say and do from this point forward to the next time we meet. It's in your name that we pray. Amen Amen. Any any questions or shout-outs we have to do? No. All right. Well, we're good until next time. Thanks for watching. We'll be back in the next week, 6 o'clock.