Welcome to the streaming portion of what we do here at Household of Faith in Christ. We bring to you the sermon message, the teachings that we we have here as a church. I mean Revelation chapter 22. today, heading down the home stretch. So if you want to get your Bibles ready and so you can read along, we'll be in other parts of the Bible as well. But our focus is going to be in Revelation chapter 22, verses 1 through 5. A message that I have titled The Fountainhead. And as you can tell, Revelation 22, we are deep into our series now And so if you would like to uh catch up on this series and binge a whole bunch of Revelation sermons, they are there waiting for you, a bunch of other sermons too. By the way, a little note for those who are gathered here. I only kind of happen to know this because of the way I keep track of the audio files and video files and all that sort of stuff. But this marks the 200th message here at Household of Faith in Christ. Message number 200 if you can believe it. Again, Revelation chapter 22 22 verse 5 is the passage and the title for today's message is The Fountainhead. Now today I'm going to be doing something that I have never done before. I'm going to be preaching from the Amplified Bible translation Uh I think it's a good English Bible. I think it's often very helpful for reading, even for study, but I've in the past always tended to find the extra verbiage that's included in the Amplify just a tad clunky for use inside of sermons, so I've steered away from doing that Now I know a lot of other preachers, they make use of the amplified version all the time, or with some regularity anyway, and I'm totally fine with them doing that. It just hasn't been me until now. But now, in honor of one of our church members who has a great appreciation for the Amplified Bible, that's the one I'm going to be using today, and actually for the remainder of our look at this final chapter of the Revelation, which is the final book of the Bible. As it turns out, by God's providence, this is about as good a time as any for a sermon or a short series of sermons to be using the Amplified as the primary version that we use, because this final chapter of the Apocalypse, it has a significant number of textual variations among the various English Bibles that we have in print today, more than we tend to find in most other places in our Bibles. And why would this be? Well, I think there's a handful of reasons. First As you know, the language over the revelation, it is uh vivid, it uh sparks the imagination, it's it's apocalyptic genre, and this This apocalyptic style of literature, it it makes the translation a little more challenging, honestly. And it also makes it more difficult, even for the scribes who are making copies of uh the revelation text all those years ago, it was harder for them to to make sure, because it was so striking what they were copying down. Second If a book or a scroll should over the years become damaged in some way, can you guess which part of the book or scroll will be most likely to have that damage, to be torn or frayed or faded? Well it typically would be the beginning or the ending. I mean picture in your mind if you can those scrolls of yesteryear, right? You have to unfurl the scroll to read it. You know, it's kind of like unrolling a tube of wrapping paper And then when you're done, you you you roll it back together in its tube-like shape, and this would leave either the start or the finish exposed, most exposed. to the elements, you know, depending on how you you wrote, it would be either the beginning or the end that would be uh exposed at the external edge. And more often than not, it would be the end. And so over time it was the tail ends of the ancient manuscripts that suffered the most degradation because they were the most exposed. And so these were the parts that were most frequently harmed to the point of sometimes even losing that portion of the book, the ending portion for that particular manuscript. So now this leads to the third point. The church does not have as many old copies for the book of Revelation as it does for so many of the other books of the Bible We've got a bunch of copies, but not as many. And with the tail end of the manuscript evidence being what's most often damaged, the church has admittedly faced some challenges in making sure that we get John's words. Exactly correct in chapter 22. Because after all, one fragment in one part of the world it might seem to perhaps be a little fuzzy and say one thing and another fragment, another part of the world, it could seem to fuzzily say something else. And so What do you do? Well, in today's day and age we have an embarrassment of riches and we're able to pull all these various fragments from all over the world together and we can compare them with one another. And so where one might seem to be a little bit fuzzy or might even be missing. We can look to the ones that are complete and not fuzzy. And different translators, they've gone about this process of comparing and contrasting all the various fragments. They've done this a little bit differently. over the years, sometimes because the evidence that they could work with where they were was a little bit different and and maybe more limited in different ways for them where they were compared to their translating buddies who were doing the same thing they were but across the desert or across the sea somewhere. And this actually is precisely what happened in a major way that has affected the trajectory of some of these things in church history, the situation that led to the creation of the King James Version of the Bible. The KJV translators, they did make use of the very best manuscripts that were available to them at the time where they were. They did a great job. At that moment, in the place where they lived, this meant that they had to rely greatly on the work of just a handful of men, including a Dutch Catholic priest named Erasmus. He's one of the more famous names in church history. He lived during the time of the Reformation. In fact, one of his most noteworthy accomplishments was completed almost immediately before Martin Luther became that famous lightning rod for reform. What I'm talking about here is the bilingual Latin-Greek New Testament that Erasmus published which was a great scholarly work, had loads of annotations and careful examination of the ancient manuscripts, all that he could access. And his his work was rather historic because it likely represents the very first attempt at what is called the critical text. Critical text, that means what I'm talking about. You take all these various manuscripts, you compare them, you determine What did the original say based on all this evidence? That's a critical text. And it looks like Erasmus, as best as we can tell, might have been the first one to really do that in a major way. And so this work of his, it lives on today in important ways, including as part of what is sometimes called the received text or the textus receptus. Perhaps you've heard those phrases Now this is all very well and good, but in some places within the church, some people within the church, they have rather firmly married themselves to certain traditions. And they have ended up maintaining what is really too firm of a commitment to this textus receptus. They even go so far as to call it the sacred text. which they say is then somehow inspired by God Himself, even in each and every little particular of the translation into English. I personally see this view to be a kind of unfortunate virus that has infected the body of Christ. It's a contagion that has greatly affected what is called the King James Only movement. Now this is not to say that the people in these movements are not Christians, so don't misunderstand, I'm not saying that. No reason to doubt that many of them, well heck, maybe all of them, are part of the body of Christ. That's not the point here. But it's a part of the body that has been affected by the uh ecclesiological equivalent of an mRNA injury. As great a work as Erasmus accomplished, even he, maybe perhaps especially he, would have shrunk back in horror. If anyone had ever suggested to him that he had written in the same way as the original authors, who were carried along by the Holy Spirit, to write precisely and only God's inerrant word He would have been horrified at that suggestion. He even left us a footnote in his work that proves this is the case, actually. His footnote explains what it is he did. Because you see, Erasmus He couldn't find in his small little corner of Europe, he couldn't find a Greek text for the final five or six verses of the Revelation. And so what he did was he grabbed a copy of Jerome's Vulgate translation, the official Latin Bible, and he mostly used it to create a new Greek text for these verses. In other words, for the end of Revelation, Erasmus used a human Latin translation to make a human Greek translation, which was then years later the basis for making a human English translation. This is what we today call the King James Bible. 400 years ago, this King James Bible was marketed very well by very gifted advertisers. And they didn't lie when they advertised it as the authorized version because it was authorized. That sounds very official, doesn't it? The authorized version of the Bible Yeah, it was authorized by the deeply flawed King of Scotland and England. That's who authorized it. That is not the same thing as being authorized by the deeply holy King of Kings. Again, this is controversial water, so I don't want to be misunderstood. Please do not assume things I am not saying. I am not. saying that the KJV or any other English Bible that is based upon the work of men such as Erasmus are bad Bibles. I'm not saying that. In fact, they're generally good Bibles. Very good Bibles. But they are not Perfect. No translation is. What the Apostle John wrote in the Revelation, that's perfect. We want to know the words that he wrote. And we can do this with extraordinarily great confidence. We truly can By examining all the evidence, all the ancient parchments, all those fragments, all the codices, all the stuff that God by his providence has preserved, all the things that have been unearthed now by the archaeologist over the years And taking all this stuff into account, and this is what the very best Bible translating teams do do. They do exactly this. They take into account all the evidence that's at their disposal And they use it to give us an English Bible that is faithful to the original manuscripts, the original autographs as they're called. I mean Erastus himself He's quoted as saying, you must distinguish between Scripture, the translation of Scripture, and the transmission of both. What will you do with the errors of the copyists? End quote. Indeed, what will you do with them? Well you must account for them by looking at all the thousands of ancient copies that we now have of the scriptures. We can then see where these significantly rare, copious errors were made. And so this quote it helps us to see Erasmus, not only was a man of giant intellect, and tireless work ethic and uh prolific productions. It's absolutely astounding how much this man wrote during his life. He's apparently also a man of great humility. And we benefit from his work, and through it, despite some technical errors here and there in Erasmus' translations, Christ's Church can today study the Word of God. In our common languages, and this is a tremendous blessing to the church. And we can do so with confidence. When we pause long enough to take in the full picture, when grappling with reality, rather than wished-for traditions. We can determine what the God-breathed scriptures say to us. And so now let's press forward into that portion of the scripture that we're focusing on today, beginning with Revelation chapter 22, verse 1. Then the angel showed me a river of the water of life, clear as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and the Lamb, Christ, in the middle of its street. On either side of the river was a tree of life, bearing twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit every month, and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. There will no longer exist anything that is cursed because sin and illness and death are gone. And the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it. And his bondservants will serve and worship him with great awe and joy and loving devotion. They will be privileged to see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads, and there will no longer be night They have no need for lamplight or sunlight because the Lord God will illumine them and they will reign as kings forever and ever. That is an English translation of God's inspired word written by John in Greek way back when, as he is carried along by the Holy Spirit. God's word, because it's His Word, it is inerrant, it is infallible, it is fully sufficient. As the guide for how we should live and the rule for our faith, what we believe. So I always encourage you to receive it as such, whatever passage of scripture you're reading. And I pray that today those with ears would hear. In this opening to the final chapter of the Revelation that I just read, we find symbols of eternal life and symbols of continual blessing. We find allusions here to Ezekiel 47 and also from John chapter 4, which, by the way, we intend to read together as a congregation next week. And we see here a visual that is similar to the visuals presented to us in the Garden of Eden and way back in Genesis in chapter 2, the river of water, the tree of life. Let me read a portion of that. This is Genesis 2, picking up with verse 8. from the amplified. And the Lord God planted a garden, an oasis, in the east, in Eden, which means delight, land of happiness, and he put the man whom he had formed or created there. And in that garden the Lord caused to grow from the ground every tree that is desirable and pleasing to the sight, and good or suitable, pleasant for food. The tree of life was also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the experiential knowledge, the recognition of the difference between good and evil. Now a river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and from there it divided and became four branching rivers. So at the start, basically, of the Bible, and now at the end of our Bible, we see descriptions of rivers and trees. And in the book of Revelation here we see the amplified, it places God's throne in the middle of the street, and then what it says is on either side of the river. was the tree of life. Now that is one very plausible and actually one very good translation of the Greek. But there are other plausible and good translations for this. as well based on the manuscript evidence that we have. So one such option in English would translate the phrase phrase is here this way. In the midst of the street and of the river, on one side and on the other, were the trees of life. So this would have more than one tree. And they are placed in the median between the street and the river. Now this idea it borrows from Ezekiel 47, which again we'll be reading together as a congregation next week. In Ezekiel 47, there are multiple trees which are on each side of the river. Now some they think that street here should be taken to mean plain, as in the The great plains of Central North America, that great expanse of flat farmland that is the breadbasket for the world kind of thing, that kind of a plane. In this understanding, The people who think this way, the river then washes the plane and it waters the tree on both sides. On both riverbanks. And so these translators, they would prefer a translation something like, In the midst of the plain itself, and of the river with more than one branch, there was the tree of life. And so this idea, it places the tree in the plain or in the street, if you prefer, sort of surrounded by the river. Now others, they see the tree or trees in the river And some, they say in our mind's eye, what we should try to visualize here is everything I've said so far. Try to visualize it all at once. Take it all into view and try to see all of it. Because that's when you'll really get to what John is trying to say, at least that's what they would think. So what they were are suggesting here is that you that you see that there's a great plane that serves as a street and it's saturated by The water of the river and the midst of it all is the tree or the trees of life that are rooted in and through both the river and its shores. Now, examining all the details of this, it can always be mind-bending, right? And uh if you pause and slow down to try to do it, it can be very helpful. But you know what? It's not all that helpful if you end up getting stuck there And you end up therefore missing the fuller picture. And so it's times like these that the expertly brief commentary of the great Matthew Henry really can come in handy because Henry was always so good. at highlighting primarily what are the most important things in the text. And for this portion of the revelation, Henry reminds us that The heavenly state is here described as a paradise in a city, or a whole city in a paradise. The river of paradise has as its fountainhead the throne of God and the Lamb. And the tree of life in this paradise is fed by the pure waters of the river so that it brings forth fruit at all times, which is not only pleasant, but wholesome The presence of God in heaven is the health and happiness of the saints. They shall reign with him forever. All this Shall be with perfect knowledge and joy, walking in the light of the Lord. And this not for a time, but forever. So that's the big picture. So let's try to keep these foundational truths that Matthew Henry is reminded of in the forefront of our minds as we work through the rest of the verses in today's text. Now what I read today from the Amplified in verse 1 of Revelation 22, what it says there is, and if you have the Amplified, you can read along, the river of the water of life is clear. Now the Greek word that John uses here for clear, it has what is called a rather broad semantic domain, meaning there are lots of translational options for that particular word. So there are other translations, maybe you have one of those in your lap instead of an amplified. If you're reading one of those, you might not see the word clear. Instead you might see the word bright or sparkling or shining. Now, I don't know of any English Bibles that do this, but we could also translate this particular Greek word as gorgeous or splendid. And so we can see something we should take away from this word then is that we are looking at something that is rather exotic. An exotic spectacle. This unusual river, it figuratively illustrates that from the presence of God there is the flow of life-giving water. Which cleanses us of our filth, and it imparts life to those of us who were dead. Here, dwelling in the presence of God. This is where we find the quenching of our heart's thirst. As it says in Psalm 46, there is a river whose streams make glad the city of God. The holy dwelling places of the Most High. God is in the midst of her, his city. She will not be moved. God will help her when the morning dawns Now as we read passages like this from the Psalms or today's Revelation passage, I want you to make note that there's this kind of pervasive running through these passages a particular theme, a desire and take theme. It's present in many places in the Bible. There was a theme like this in the story about the Garden of Eden, desiring and taking. In other places too within our Bibles, like King David, he desired and took Bathsheba, right? But in instances like these, the sinners they wrongly desired, they wrongly took That's the problem with the human condition today. Adam and Eve, they they wrongly desired and took and ate that forbidden fruit But here at the end, we see that the saints they do it right. By God's permission, there's still a desire and take, but in this case we desire and take what is good by God's permission. He wants us to take. You might have noticed when I read from Genesis chapter two just a moment ago how the amplified it goes out of its way in its extra verbiage to help us understand the word Eden. It means pleasure or delight. That's what Eden means. So it is a land of happiness. It is a place where life and the things that sustain life are absolutely abundant. Twelve kinds of fruit. With a crop that's in harvest season every single month. This appears to be showcasing that there is a wondrous variety. There's twelve different fruits. And it's available at all times, all twelve months. And there is abundant as in full healing, which is pictured by the leaves in the passage. So you see in heaven, there's true health care, as opposed to the sick care that we have on this side of glory. There's no illness in heaven Because the nations have been made well. Now some they're going to try to argue here at this point that the presence of the leaves for healing in the passage that we see within this vision, this proves that there will be disease after Christ returns. Even if it's only among the nations that will still surround the holy city, so they say. This is a totally misguided interpretation. Now, to be sure, the need for healing, it is the situation for us in the world right now Who can deny that? But when the Lamb of God comes again, these sinfully diseased, they are consigned to the lake of fire, and there will no longer be death, anguish, or pain For the former order of things will have passed away. That's what we learned in Revelation chapter 21. And this lesson is repeated now here in verse 3 of chapter 22. There will no longer exist anything that is cursed because sin and illness and death are gone. And so I think that these leaves here In verse 2, they might be best understood as an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. It's not healing those who are sick, it's keeping those who are already healthy well. Some have suggested that the leaves here, they could possibly be symbols that represent individual members of the church, with you know each one of us being a leaf on the tree. That's kind of a fun idea. Uh others they uh they think the trees maybe represent the leaves in a book, the pages of a book, like in the Bible, for instance. Now I'm not sure I would go so far as either one of those uh allegories or analogies But the message of these analogies or allegories, they would be true nonetheless, actually, right? I don't think that's what John's intending to communicate, but now that we've gone there, let me ask. Is your Christian walk one of being a leaflet in the sense that you're sharing the good news, like a well-written gospel tract? Is that the nature of your life Is your life being lived in such a way that you are like the leaves of herbal medicinal remedies? Like so many leaves in our world today provide for us. Is that what your life is characterized by? Is your your life helping others to live lives that are fruitful? If we pause for a moment to think about it, I think we'll realize that you walk around, you see the trees around you, and you notice not all the trees with leaves have fruit. But you know what? I actually thought about this for a minute, just to make sure, and I gotta tell you, I racked my brain. I cannot recall ever in my whole life seeing a leafless tree that was loaded down with fruit. I don't know about you, but I've never seen that. So realizing the importance, the necessity of leaves. It's actually one of the reasons why I uh ended up choosing to ignore some advice from a so-called tree expert a number of years ago. He had paid a visit to our property in order to take a look at a problem with one of the trees in our yard. And while he was at our house, he told me that I should cut off all the small wild shoots, so you know the branches on the lowest portion of one of the other trees that was in our yard. It wasn't the one he came to look at, but he noticed it while he was in the yard. He said, you know, you see those right there? You should you should cut all those off. He was talking about our peach tree. And I almost did, but I thought about some more and I decided I was going to ignore this advice Because this tree had right before this, just like weeks or maybe a month or two before this, it experienced some damage. About half of its canopy had been lost in a tremendous windstorm. And so it had very few leaves compared to what it had just, you know, a number of weeks earlier. And I'm thinking, I mean these little branches he told me to cut off are not all that impressive. But at least these little, you know, twigs sticking out, they bore some leaves. And I figured given how many leaves it had just lost in that windstorm that well every leaf probably matters in this case. So I'm not going to cut those branches off. I'm going to spare those leaves. And I think time has proven out that I was correct. This is years ago I ignored that advice. And today those skinny little shoots, they're not skinny little shoots anymore. They've grown into full-size branches In fact another windstorm came along and it knocked down another third of the tree at least. And so if it wasn't for those little shoots having now been nurtured all these years into growing into full size branches, if it wasn't for that I don't think there'd be any tree remaining. It'd be gone. And here's another interesting fact. I'm told that the average peach tree Lives to be about twelve years old, that's it. And peach trees that are in ideal conditions, they're said to be able to live like twice that long. Now I can't tell you that our peach tree has been in ideal condition. I don't even know what an ideal condition for a peach tree would be. I don't know anything about that. But I can tell you this, a tree in our backyard is now about 30 years old. And this past year actually was its most productive harvest yet, I think. Astounding how many peaches we got. Now eventually, this tree will fade. It will then die. Just like all of us. Because we're not in glory right now. But that little trooper of a peach tree, apparently it is not done yet. And neither are you. So keep tending to the leaves. Even if the shoots appear to the eye to be rather unimpressive. Because the uh the presence of leaves that allows for the growth of the fruit. And you want to have fruit in your life. So keep providing for the means of healing and the means of nourishing by tending to the leaves. As a very quick aside for the next party you attend, here's a fun little tidbit you can share to impress all your friends, like at the next cocktail party or something that you go to. You know that the Greek word, which is translated as healing in verse 2 of Revelation chapter 22, it's the same word from which we get the English word therapeutic. Well, are you in need of any therapy? Any healing? As my wife likes to say, we all could use some therapy. And she's not wrong. Now, in the renewed Eden, who's to say there's any need for therapy there? But whatever therapy we might want to imagine, try to imagine, conjure up in our imaginations that we could possibly need. Whatever need for therapy we could maybe had, it will ever be ever present. It will f forever be there. Year round. Now this situation is very different from the the fruit tree that I've talked about from our backyard. Right? As bountiful as our little peach tree is then over the years. It yields its bushel baskets of uh of of of red and orange juiciness. Just once a year. Just one month out of the year. That's it. One month, the month of August. The other eleven months, nothing. No fruit. But in eternity. It'll always be harvest time. Always. As we're taught by the preacher in Ecclesiastes in this present world, you know, the one that's under heaven. There is a season for planting and a time for uprooting and a time for dying and a time for healing. But in heaven itself, it's always the season for healing. It's always the season for living. It's always the time for loving and serving and worshiping. And it's never the time for dying. So be encouraged. There is a great hope ahead of us. So we now move on from our little aside. Let's pay attention to the tense shift that we see in Revelation chapter 22, verse 3. You'll note there that it says that there will be no more curse. So this is pointing us ahead to that glorious hope for the future I just now was talking about. See, right now, for now, we still experience the effects of the curse. Can anybody deny that? But the day comes. There is no more curse. It's gone forever. Because there is no more sin. It is gone forever. And thus sickness and death are gone. Forever. Boy, boy, how you like them apples? Or should I say peaches? Seriously, when the turbulence of life in this world threatens to shake your tree down to its very root. Remember to set your gaze away from the storm and to stare instead straight at Jesus. The gardener who's tending to those branches, tending to those leaves, cultivating the harvest. He is good to his promise. And he has promised in verse 4 of today's passage that the day is coming when you will be privileged to see his face. And you will forever be clearly marked by his name. This is a happily ever after. When as it says in verse 5, it reveals there will no longer be night, no need for lamplight or sunlight, because the Lord God is the source of illumination. This idea draws our minds back to what was written back in chapter 21, verses 22 to 25, where it says, The Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple, and so the city has no need of the sun or moon to give light, for the glory of God and the Lamb are the lamp and light. The nations will walk by its light by day, for there will be no night there Its gates will never be closed in fear of evil. And this promised future reality Where the Lord's people will reign as kings forever and ever, this idea, this draws our minds back, or at least mine anyway, to something from much earlier in the Revelation about the Lamb of God. What I have in mind here is Revelation chapter 5, verses 9 and 10, which say, And they sang a new song of glorious redemption, saying, Worthy and deserving are you. For you were slain, and with your blood you purchased people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. You have made them to be a kingdom of royal subjects and priests to our God. And they will reign on the earth. These words should thrill you if you're a follower of the Messiah. You see the the saints are priests serving the Lord but not priests only. The saints also have royal authority to be used in serving others as ambassadors of the Lord. You understand light. Light is a symbol of ethical purity, and so in a world of pervasive light with no darkness at all Evil is gone. And we're to be useful to God in bringing this bright splendor Of Yahweh's presence to the entire world. That's our job. We should desire to show everyone around us The face of God. So they will see what we get to see And our heart's desire will necessarily be to do precisely this when we truly seek to see his face. That'll be all the motivation we need to share the good news with others. Can you even imagine? The joy and the wonder that awaits the faithful when they get to see what even Moses didn't get to see when he spoke to God. Face to face. That's how almost every English Bible translation has the Hebrew there, face to face. Except for those instances when they translate a very similar phrase as mouth to mouth. If you study ancient Hebrew, and I encourage everybody to study ancient Hebrew, you'll find it to be a very interesting language, and it's a beautiful language. The vocabulary, it's not as expansive as some other languages, like Greek, for instance. And so one word in Biblical Hebrew, it could stand for several concepts in determining Which one is correct, it depends on the context. And so the word face, in that face-to-face phrase that we read about like in Exodus 33, It's meant in terms of countenance or presence or persons. And what this means is that Moses stood before the countenance of the Lord. Person to person. There was an intimacy of personal presence between them as they spoke to one another, as friends speak to one another. And I bring this up because I want you to really hear this next thing. What Moses had, that intimate, personal presence with God That's what we have now. As the bride of Christ. Even now. As followers of the way We have an intimate connection with our Lord. Do you really appreciate that the way that you should? I can admit, I don't always. We need to be reminded of what we have, what has been won for us in the the person and work. of Jesus Christ. And then after the return of the Savior, the one who is the King of Kings, it's going to be even better. And even more pervasively intimate. Therefore, if you have been raised with Christ to a new life, sharing in his resurrection from the dead, keep seeking the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind to keep focused habitually on the things above, the heavenly things, not on things that are on the earth, which have only temporal value. For you died to this world, and your new real life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears then you also will appear with him in glory. That is the opening paragraph to the third chapter of Paul's letter to the Church in Colossians. And uh I think it's a great word to serve as the closing for today's sermon. Keep seeking the things that are above. Keep focused habitually. On the things above, for you died to this world, it says. And when Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him. In glory. Let's pray. Father, you are so very good to us Forgive us for not fully appreciating what a gift we have. Help us to better relish these truths. To be zealous for these truths. But not to be so jealous for them that we refuse to share this good news with others. Help us to understand that we strengthen our faith and make even more intimate our connection with you as our Lord and Savior when we share the gospel. with those who need to hear it every bit as much as we ever did. And help us to remind ourselves of these truths, to seek your face to seek to commune with you in in your presence by the power of your spirit. As we study your word, as we pray, and even as we fellowship together Help us to keep our minds focused on heavenly things. And to not fall prey to the temptation and distraction of paying too much heed to. Earthly things. We ask these things in the name of our Lord, our Savior, our precious King, Jesus Christ. Amen. So that's the end of the stream. Again, I encourage you to visit us online if you care to at household of faith in Christ. com. That's Household of Faith in Christ. Dot com until next time. God bless