Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WF MD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Fred of Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local religious leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. In the spirit of Thomas Jefferson, who said the clash of ideas and the sound of freedom, we will seriously wrestle with Important ideas even at the risk of disagreeing with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling we will come to a greater understanding and appreciation of each other, and more importantly, we hope that you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. In weeks past you've heard us talk about the purpose and role of this show and what we hope that to have, which talked about the importance of morality and uh as an issue in the uh in the election. We've talked about the role pastors should play in politics. We've talked about the death of Yasser Arafat. talked about Muslim Jewish relations and we've talked about tolerance. That's what we talked about last week, in fact, and that's what we're going to pick up again this week, the issue of tolerance. Are we intolerant? Should we be more tolerant? And are there certain things about which we should never be tolerant? And here joining us again on our panel this week, back from last week. Jonathan Sweitzer, the pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel, and Khalil L. Shazli, the president of the Islamic Society of Frederick. Thank you for being with us again. Last time on the show we talked an awful lot about uh the the intolerance issue as it relates to homosexuality because that has been at the forefront of the news for for I don't know, particularly recently, but certainly over the last year it's been a huge issue. But it's not just homosexuality. And we were talking a little bit before the show, you know, I I would even say that uh in a half hour show, even last week, I I don't know that we necessarily did did homos the the homosexual issue uh justice. We certainly certainly spoke forthrightly about it, but um, you know, all these issues are uh are are complex and anyways in the in the And the intent of being forthright about things, uh I think it requires greater discussion and in um you know, clarification and um we may not get the chance to go back to some of those issues. So uh maybe we will in the future, I guess is what I'm saying. I know f from personal experience I've been part of study and discussion groups where this issue has been talked about and for two or three hours an evening, two or three weeks in a row. Right, right. You know, so after like Still it's not enough to be able to do that. After eight hours of wrestling with it, we decided, okay, well we're gonna have to put that aside and move on to something else. You mean you could talk about it ad nauseum. But the question we were talking about before the show started and that I wanted to bring up in in in the show on the air now is uh When did the tolerance issue begin to morph? You know, when the argument was about accepting uh people of a different race or a different ethnicity And being intolerant of those uh in the in that way is wrong. I think everybody would agree it's wrong to be intolerant of somebody because of their skin color. Absolutely. Uh and th and uh and women uh being intolerant in uh uh their role of uh in society And be more tolerant and be more inclusive along than to be a part of it or whatever. And yeah, and I personally would say that that's proper, although maybe there's a line to to define the roles there. Um, but then it it went from things that you're you're born black, or you're born white, or you're born Asian, right? But you're not necessarily born homosexual, which is the argument that the three of us I think would all make. Those who disagree would say otherwise. But that it seems to me is clearly a moral issue. Yeah Whereas I don't think that the Bible says anywhere that it's a sin to be black. And I don't think you could even begin to try to make a case that the Bible says that it's a sin to be black. But The Bible does seem to me to say clearly to me clearly, and certainly you could at least try to make the argument from scripture that the Bible says that homosexuality is homosexuality is wrong, and it is a moral issue, a moral choice. So where did W is homosexuality where it began? Or d where do we lose our way on everything becomes okay and everything is relative? Where did that come from? Well, I th I think it happened clearly wow, I'm gonna go way back. I think it happened back in France. All right. Funny thing. Blame the French for everything. Blame the French for everything. Uh around the time of the French Revolution, France threw out the idea that that there was any absolute when it came to morality uh in the French Revolution. And they embraced for for the last two hundred years, for the first time as a society, a uh uh Well, they would even say it proudly, a godless approach to life. There is no God. God doesn't decide what's right and wrong. We we decide for ourselves what's right and wrong. And humanism has Uh atheism has has marched across to Europe and and and Great Britain and here into the United States And as a worldview, as a system, and I I I love, I would love rather to again have um somebody here on the on the show that would be an atheist, that would you know, go head to head with us on this. But I think this is a major uh worldview difference that applies to everyday life. A humanist and an atheist cannot believe that there's absolute right and wrong They have no basis for deciding that. We we came, we evolved from uh from apes, and uh there is no right and wrong except he, you know, the golden rules, he who has the gold makes the rules And I don't agree with that. I think that it doesn't matter who's got the gold. God made the rules and we need to submit to his rules. Anyways, my point is that if you If you introduce that kind of a worldview into the discussion, then in order for the atheist to encourage a godly a god-fearing person to embrace and be open to immoral worldviews, they've got to include in their definition of tolerance a tolerance for uh drunk people, a tolerance for uh for drug addicts, a a tolerance for uh adultery and homosexuality and and all these things. In fact, this is part of the reason why they're so opposed to uh putting somebody like Scott Peterson to death because that would have a a a world view that there's an absolute right and wrong and you know maybe Scott Peterson just needs Somebody to be a little bit nicer to him in life and you know he wouldn't be so bad. And so anyways, I think that that's where where the discussion went changed from accepting one another. Because if God created all of us, black red and yellow, black and white, you know the great uh Christian hymn, um, Jesus loves me, this I know, red and yellow, black and white They're all precious in his sight. Well, that's clearly a biblical idea. But as soon as you say, you know, homosexual, adulterer, you know, they're all precious in the sight. Well, yes, I agree they're precious in the sight But a religious perspective, a God-fearing perspective, is going to draw the line and say, well look, we don't have to accept those things. And we should um we should uh I don't want to use the word fight, but we should uh give all of our efforts to helping people to not be those ways. So anyways, I think that that's where the tolerance issue turned from just being from a different uh racial background to being a moral uh ambivalence that is out there. Yeah, something to add Pleil. Yeah, uh being a Muslim, you are colorblind. Uh your color, race, uh, ethnic Uh you're you're all as you're blind. Yes, as we all should be. Yes. Uh there is no difference uh between you and me uh if I'm black, if you're white, if you're white, I'm black, if you Chinese, if you uh native Indian whatever. It doesn't matter if you tall, short, uh skinny or not skinny, uh there is no difference. Uh we're all equal in uh in the eyes of God. Yes. Uh what differentiates uh us is how pious you are, how how much you're serving God, how good you are to your neighbor. Uh we're different, yes we're different. And uh how do you tolerate people? Uh our biggest teacher is the story of Prophet Abraham. Uh Some of us know, or we all should know, that Prophet Abraham never liked to eat alone. And he would walk for miles to find somebody to eat with. And there's a story that Prophet Abraham one time walked for about a mile, found someone, asked him to eat with him and start cooking, blah blah blah, and then uh hi as he was talking to that person, he found out that this person is a pagan. He doesn't who does not believe in God, who takes partners with God. And Prophet Abraham says like, Oh no, no no, you can't eat with me Okay. Then God send uh the angel Gabriel telling Prophet Abraham Who created this person? Yeah. Not you. I'm the Lord. I'm the one who created this person. This person, even though I created For forty years never worshipped me, but for forty years I always fed him. So Prophet Abraham ran after that individual and told him, Please come back and eat with me. He said, wait a minute. You just told me I can't eat with you because I don't believe in God. So no no no no no. God just sent me a you know, the messenger said So, you know, even though there's a person who doesn't believe in God, well it's it's not my problem. It's his problem between him and and God. And based on that, even though there's a person that uh Fundamentally, you disagree with that's the fundamental of your religion is believing in one God. Here's a person who does not believe in God at all. Yeah And and and yet God telling Prophet Abraham, Okay, sit down and eat with him. See this is the problem, Troy. Well there's very similar though to that in the New Testament with Jesus. eating with the sinners and stuff. And that's uh the kind of argument and kind of scripture reference that people would use against your argument, John. Good, good. And this is where I was going to go with it, because this is the point. Nowhere in scripture are we taught Uh to hate people. We're taught to hate sin. We're told to love people every step of the way. I'm to give them food and something to drink. And according to Scripture, that that that's that's the the the worst thing I could do to them because uh because I I take the steam out of their engine and out of their hatred. You know, King David, when he was king, uh God said that he would make all his enemies to live at peace with him on every side. The point is is that um a true Tolerance does not ignore differences about morality, but provides an environment where we can hash out what we think is moral and not moral. And the the way that that tolerance has turned in our society now is to say let's just accept any and everybody. And this this is a fact. The Church of Jesus Christ in Germany at the time of Hitler had embraced a tolerance mentality that it was no longer willing to accept absolute right and wrong. And so when Hitler came along, almost not not all of 'em, there were a bunch that did not, thank God, but almost all of them signed on all the Christians to say, you know what, we support Hitler. And this is my concern. If tolerance turns into an inability to identify what is right and wrong, then we end up allowing tyrants Into power in our nation. How could how could they do that in in in Germany? We ask ourselves. And yet my sense is that here in our nation If we are unwilling to debate morality, you know that it's wrong to kill all the Jews just outright. It's wrong to to to outlaw all Islam. It's wrong to to to um to uh to treat a certain group of people uh uh heinously just by because of their race. As soon as we we buy into a tolerance mentality that cannot differentiate between good and evil, then we have walked down the road of what I would call spiritual um what's the disease where you can't feel the end of your fingers anymore? What disease is that? Uh I'm feel the end of your feeling. Yeah, yeah, you lose you lose feeling. It's a leprosy. Spiritual leprosy. A spiritual leper is a person that can no longer feel or discern right and wrong. And and I believe that's what Hitler's uh what what Germany was like, uh and it was a it was a tolerance mentality that had gone out of control And I d I think that we need to be careful to not let that happen here in the United States. I wasn't as quick on the uptake because I didn't realize that that was one of the symptoms or of leprosy was that you your fingers went no, I didn't know that. So I learned something today. is because you can't feel your fingers hitting the wall and you keep hitting your f Sorry, this is kinda gross. Sorry for everybody out there. You keep hitting your toe or your nose and different things and you don't feel it. That's why I hope you literally end up knocking. You never know. They lost their spiritual sensitivity. Yeah, there it is. Ryan, you're listening to the Frederick Face debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. My name is Troy Skinner. The voice you just heard explaining leprosy in great detail was uh John Schweitzer, Pastor. Never had Crossford Valley Chapel And uh Khalil El Shazlini, president of uh the Islamic Society of Frederick, about five minutes ago, uh John, you were saying something about uh, you know, where it all began and it began maybe with humanism and all that stuff. But then even back further to atheism, which predates humanism. It does. And and that talks about the divide in society, the divide in culture. There's there are theists Those who believe in God, some sort of higher power, right? And there are those who don't believe in that, and they are the modern day evolutionists or or secularists or whatever, humanists, right? Okay. But th that's a extra religious Divide. Now what we have is divide within the religious arena where there are those who would say they are theists. They believe in God. In fact, they would claim to believe in the same God that you and I believe in and yet they disagree on these issues of tolerance towards moral questions. Yeah. So where did that begin? Um okay. Uh clear i i in the same exact place. See, there is a whole group of people with the rise of the scientific worldview in the eighteen hundreds There's a whole group of theologians in the Christian church that embraced a naturalistic worldview Alright? Basically what that means is that is that it's not true unless unless I can use my five senses to sense it. If I can't see it, hear it, smell it, taste it, feel it, then it's not true. And so they turned their religion from being a transcendent religion that claims that God who can't be seen, heard, felt. uh has spoken to mankind through divine revelation, and that we've written it down, they turned from a religion that embraced the transcendent God to a religion that that's all about just good works and just caring for people. And as a result, what happened is there's whole seminaries that that took the miracles out of Scripture. They denied that Jesus was really the Son of God. There's whole seminaries that rejected the idea that God has spoken anything through any prophet And that instead what we merely have is a bunch of humans that tried to make God in their own image. And and the reason why we have so many who claim to be Christians today that would also claim that we need to allow homosexuals or uh in in positions of leadership or or allow adulterers in positions of leadership and this kind of thing is because they turned their back on the revelation of Scripture, and they chose to embrace instead a naturalistic, humanistic worldview. And so basically they've em they they've gutted Christianity and put instead in its place their humanism, their atheism, and cloaked it on the outside with their Christianity. And that's the reason why we have so many that are in the Christian church that embrace uh um a a worldview that doesn't believe in absolute right and wrong. And we haven't, I mean, there there's uh countless seminaries in our uh Harvard. Uh man, I I I better not get myself in too much trouble by naming 'em. I hear but there's plenty of of seminaries out there that started out believing the Bible to be the inspired word of God that now no longer believe that to be the case. And as a result, they've gutted it and they've they've uh put in its place a uh an atheism or a humanism that uh That doesn't believe in absolutes? Yeah, the lessons we have in in the stories that we that was revealed in the Quran is that Once you give up on your morality, once you give up on the values that uh God commanded you to follow and uh the way of life that God wants you to uh to live and the rules that he wants you to abide by. Once you give up on those, uh this is usually the beginning of the end of that particular society. In fact that's what Christianity would teach as well. Very much so. I'm sorry to agree to agree with you on that, Khalil, but Christianity repeats the same thing. It really does. Yeah, no, actually I'm not. But we'll get to that later. I do believe that there are differences that are important. Um there there's quite a few in the Islamic world that have claimed that uh that the West is the great Satan. And the reason that they claim that is because we've we uh we have lost our moral foundation and we export to the world through movies And through music and through uh our culture, the way that we dress, uh, you know, which is increasingly sexualized, uh, and the way that we interact, we've exported to the world an immoral worldview. And as a result of that, people that are living in Islamic nations are looking at us and they're saying, you know what? They're going to destroy our culture. Because everybody wants a television. Everybody wants to go see the movies. And you know what? The bottom line is is I do believe that the West is guilty of uh of exporting immorality to the to the world. And in fact, most people that are involved doing it would say, yes, so what's the problem? We love it. It's good. The world needs more of that because it's militant it's uh it's what I would call militant atheism, militant humanism. And then some of them would also go on to s to say that they believe that they would p describe themselves as Christians. Right. Right? Right. And then that's where this intolerance tolerance thing is because those who would have a more scripture based view of what a Christian is would say, no, no, no, no You're not one of us. Right. You don't speak for us. And it causes the line to get blurred, I think. That's the thing. And that's the thing. I agree with That's the leprosy. John, I'm no longer telling you glad you mentioned this. You hit the nail right on the head And uh pass the ball to me Friday night when we play soccer. You need to pass it to me because you like me. And uh I think the biggest problem is you mentioned it, you explained it. uh as it's happening and as the people there view it, unfortunately the way the media portrays here is that they you know, they say Muslims hate our way of life, they hate uh they hate our freedom, they hate us because of who we are. Uh to the contrary, what they hate is exactly what John was just mentioning. Exactly. This is exactly the opposition to the Western I uh westernization of of the region. Which is interesting because Most in the media, uh mainstream media, would claim that Christians are the intolerant ones and the ones that are cr that that are fomenting all the anger towards the Muslim world. When in fact it's exactly the opposite. Christians are the ones that that are most likely to encourage a way of living that a Muslim would totally embrace. You know, no sex outside of marriage. Don't lie. Uh be good, take care of the poor, uh, take care of your family, work hard. You know, all these things that are the the guts you of of uh the Christian religion, the the moral element of the Christian religion. Every Muslim would embrace that. Absolutely. Isn't that amazing? We had a parallel uh a few years ago on on on the uh Frederick's website. Yes. Unfortunately, it's not on the website anymore. We have a parallel between what the Quran teaches just alongside with the Ten Commandments. Yeah And you could take the same commands right out of the Quran, one by one, word by word. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah, no, I I knew that that was the case. Um Yeah. It's just people just hate the politics of of of Th there's so much love in the room right now. That's not the religious aspect of it. It's just The if people they're opposing some some of our uh administration's policies, it's it's it's policy that they're opposing. Let's talk about Abu Ghraib in this context The reason why Abu Ghraib was such a horror to the Islamic world is because we exported a pornographic mentality in a a a um attacking the dignity of the individual in ways that are immoral. You know, you would never uh cause people to walk around naked and to to to mock you know, a woman, you know, making fun of them a as they're naked and that kind of stuff. It's just immoral to do. And the reason why the Islamic world was so upset about it was because they know that that is absolutely inappropriate. And most Christians do as well. And any Christian that was over there was equally horrified at what happened to Abu Gray. But the But the secular media just can't understand it. And they blame it, you know, they they turn it into all these other things. And uh and and this this is part of the reason why I think that George Bush and John Ashcroft and some of these guys that that tend to be strong Christians are in fact the Islamic world's uh best friends. If the Islamic world could somehow separate out these solid Christians that are against immorality uh from the rest of the of the Western world, which is hard to do and I don't blame 'em for for having a hard time doing that. I don't know about John Ashcroft. John Ashcroft went out on a record saying that uh Christianity is the religion where the God sends his Son, uh, for his blood to be shed for our sins and Islam is the religion where The father sent the son uh to blow himself up for the sake of the own God. So I don't know about John Ashcroft being uh Which is which again is another whole discussion which we we'll have to come back to. Before we get off onto that track, which is a show, we have a tendency to in a talking about politics is the long if we talk long enough politics will come up. By the way reminder, you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate. Um our panel this week is Frederick Fate. That's right. With uh our panel today. Consists of Khalil El Shazli, President of the Islamic Society of Frederick, and Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. I'm acting uh as kind of the moderator and and host, I guess, but One of my roles on this show is to kind of be the wild hair dress cast, by the way. In the last few minutes we have uh in this show, we have like uh about Two or three minutes left. Okay. Uh to chat. Alright. I'm gonna play a word association game. Uh-oh. I'm gonna throw at you like a half dozen words and you tell me what comes to mind. Okay. Great. Jingle bells. Uh Christmas. Frosty. Christmas. Rudolph. Christmas. Santa. Christmas. Heat miser and cold miser. Uh Christmas. Sorry. The point is I didn't say anything at all about Jesus Christ. Okay. The w the waters have gotten muddied and I'm wondering if that's part of why we're having some tolerance intolerance dilemmas here is again it's a wild hair idea, I know. Okay. But Christmas is a Christian holiday about the birth and incarnation of Jesus Christ. Okay. And yet That is not what the focus of society is, is on all these other things. Yeah. As things have been co-opted in. Yeah. And so now there's been a muddying of the waters, there's been a blurring of the line as to what's reality, what's not, what's secular, what's religion. Yeah. And so all of a sudden if everything's fair game. Is that a totally wild hair idea or have we allowed ourselves to lose our way by drifting uh into secularism as a religious community. Do you want to hit that first? I'll hit that first. And we've got like two minutes, or like ninety seconds actually, so but we'll be able to very briefly I wish the focus should be on who Jesus Christ is. what his teachings are follow his way of life more than uh commercializing uh the holiday so to speak. Huh. I wish people focus more on how to live their lives like Jesus Christ lived his life. Fascinating. Very interesting. simply I would say this, that to the extent that we're unwilling to let Christ uh Christmas be what it originally was in our attempt to try to turn it co-opt Christian's Christianity's uh kind of their their s strongest, biggest holiday and turn it into, you know, this this moral morass. I think it I think it's a symptom of what's going on. It's not the cause of uh immorality in the culture and a cause of of uh spiritual leprosy, but I think it's a symptom of that and it's It's very dangerous, I do agree with that. All right. Thank you very much, John Sweitzer, from Crossroad Valley Chapo Khalil, El Shazli, for uh the president of the Islamic Society of Frederick. If you're a local religious leader or no one who would like to participate in a future roundtable discussion, please contact me, Troy Skinner, at the offices of WFMD. My email address is Troy Skinner at Clearchannel dot com. Thanks again and God bless.