Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFM. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Fred and Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson once said that the clash of ideas is a sound of freedom, and in that spirit, we seriously wrestle with important ideas and might even disagree with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world And a reminder that the views expressed by the participants in this show are the views of the participants only and not the organizations that they might represent. This week, our guests are John Sweitzer, pastor of Crossbows Valley Chapel, back again this week. Also Tony Fish, who is the spiritual leader at Unity Church And uh joining us for the first time, uh John Morehouse, Senior Minister at Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Frederick. There I said it and it didn't even stemble that bad. That is a mouthful And what we're gonna be talking about uh this morning on the show is the idea of justice and what role the uh the church and religious organizations should be playing in that And we might even look at it from a global standpoint from a uh geopolitical uh nationalism kind of kind of approach. Uh to kind of frame this a little bit But uh in the old days, you know, in the Old Testament days there's lots of talk about an eye for an eye, and a lot of people have this idea of the of an angry God and all those sorts of things. And then in the New Testament there seems to be this this change that takes place, this turn the other cheek and Um let bygones be got bygones and uh uh what is the proper response? What is the role that the church and uh and the spiritual community leaders should be playing? Uh, what does the Bible say about it? What do uh the people who are gathered here today say about it? And we'll start with John and uh I'm gonna let you I know it's kind of a open ended thing. But I'm but I'm gonna throw you an op this is the only time for the record. Okay. You're gonna put me on a time frame, why don't you? Yeah, I'm gonna give you an open ended question, but you know you can talk as long as you like until I tell you to stop. So what do you think the role is that uh you as a pastor for a Christian congregation. What is your role to play with ideas of uh of justice uh as they play out in the community around us? And then broadening it out, what is the role that our nation should play in the world? And then what is maybe a broadening out even more? What are the eternal big picture cosmic uh implications of justice. Those are three things and when you're done, you're gonna be done talking for the rest of the day. Right, right. I probably won't be able to answer all those uh one time. But I would say, starting out that I think that um that that the issue of justice at the most basic level, the the role that a pastor plays um from what I consider to be a biblical perspective is uh is a prophetic role of calling attention to um areas in society or government where there is a lack of justice and that his role is to despite the consequences and despite how people might uh disagree or ostracize him that that his his responsibility and for that matter I would say the responsibility of of all those that are in the church is to to be bold to speak up for those that can't speak for themselves and to um to be quick to uh call the powerful on their um tendency to arrogance and to selfishness in the use of their power, um which inevitably result in those that don't have power um not being treated with righteousness, with justice, where where they don't get their fair share Um and I think that's probably gonna be some of the places where we'll tend to disagree today, uh, but I don't want to speak for these guys, but I think where we're gonna tend to disagree is is is what what is a fair share and what is not a fair share. and uh what should people expect, what what what do people have a right to versus what do um uh do people have um the responsibility to give and that's a very deep statement, but I'm gonna end on that I think, just in terms of opening things up. Okay. Uh John Morehouse? Well I justice is a huge issue. I'm thinking about uh all the different kinds of justice that are out there. There's uh there's economic justice, which I think perhaps is what John was referring to in terms of a biblical basis and the prophetic basis, there is a lot to be said for that. There's uh from the Hebrew Bible what what I what I call the Old Testament in deference to my Jewish friends. Uh from the Hebrew Bible, uh there's lots of uh instances in which the prophetic voices call out from the wilderness to uh uh not only amend uh evil ways but to try to uh take care of the downfall and the downtrodden. Uh the the the devil, so to speak, is in the is in the application And in American society today, uh there's uh uh there's very little distributed what we call distributive justice. There's very little justice that's being distributed across the board. Uh we used to try to do it with the tax code, but that's sort of fallen apart. We we have something of a social safety net, but I have to tell you that from my perspective that safety net is got huge holes in it and they're getting bigger every day and I think the church has a a huge role to play. Any church, whether it's Christian, uh Orthodox or otherwise. has a huge role to play in in doing something about uh bringing attention to the to the plight of those who have less. And uh that can mean uh political standpoints and I think churches generally uh tend to stay away from politics because for a lot of reasons some people uh you know they don't want to talk about religion, you certainly don't want to talk about politics But they also seem to want to say, well, you know, uh the IRS says I can't you know, can't talk about politics in church. Well that's not true. But it says that you can't endorse a candidate from church. Uh but you can and you should, in my opinion, it's the role of the congregation. any congregation to speak out uh when its government is failing, and as I think our government is, quite frankly. Um I think our government is failing miserably at taking care of the poor and it's getting a lot worse And there is a difference between taking care of the poor and taking away the right of someone to earn as much money as they think they need to earn. Now even having said that, I think we need to look at the situation with the very, very rich. I mean, how much money do you need to live on? Uh you know, Michael Esner from Disney makes, you know, I don't know, something like, you know, twelve million dollars a week or something like that. Uh, what do you need twelve million dollars a week to live for? And should we be considering the possibility of changing our tax code to distribute that wealth? I happen to think we should. Now, is that the church's role? I think the church's role is to stand up and speak out against the kinds of abuses that I think are beginning to happen, particularly at our government's level. Uh and I think the church needs to be a lot more active uh in that regard and not be afraid. And they have been afraid in my opinion. Tony? I don't um it's interesting. I would have said many of the same things, John, that you've said, and I also have to look back at um the source. We can change we can tell the government to fix things. You know, we can say, we can point out, and I think the role of the church is to step out and point out where we see um injustice where we see holes, where we see things that are not equ uh equitable or fair. And we also have to work within ourselves to say what is it that we honor? In addition to the government's role, where do I who do I respect? Do I respect the teachers and then equivoc and then give them the their their fair share. I have a tea m a sister who's a teacher. She's been teaching twenty five years. She makes thirty thousand dollars a year. I wouldn't put up with what she puts up with. And teachers, you have my ongoing respect and and and love for you do things we don't respect teachers monetarily. We do re pay athletes obscene amount of money every year. Where is our where is our where is our integrity in this? We spend um billions to develop bioterrorist weapons Star Wars defenses and we cut Head Start. We cut food programs. Now, I can recognize that there are There are problems with our social security system. There are issues with some of these systems where people who are not so well intentioned do in fact manipulate them. However We have the pr the priorities are in the wrong place as far as I'm concerned, and that's the role of the church, is to point out that in fact it was Jesus who said Honor love your neighbor as yourself. First love God, then love your neighbor and love yourself. Show respect for the individual. I think it was also Jesus that said, Give to anybody that asks you and don't expect them to pay you in return. Tay pay you back. It's not about it's not about the money, it's about respect for the individual. It's about respect for human life. It's about respect for the integrity of the person who's trying. Let's teach people to fish and you can't teach them to fish while they're starving to death. You have to help them not be starving anymore. Okay? Bring them to a level where they are above subsistence. Then they can learn to fish. We tr we typically don't do either well. And yet we are more than willing to spend billions in frivolous and dangerous Enterprises. And for me the church is responsible, the the group, the community that follows is responsible for standing up and saying This is not my belief. This is not what I paid you guys, I voted you to do, and here are my the reasons why, and here's what I'm willing to do. to help you get there. Part of what the church has not done, I think, and and m and part of I I have to believe that maybe some of his faith faith initiative the intention was good. It is our responsibility to take care of our communities. And and if some of the money that's flowing into some of these other operations could come to a legitimate faith based group to do work, I'm not saying I wouldn't support that. I I'd love to open a soup kitchen. I don't know if that's the most effective way. However, w I don't know that it ever got serious attention. And I'm not sure that we're s that but what the problem is so large that individual gro excuse me, individual groups need a larger support base in order to make it happen. Let me let me ask this. There's there's a uh uh uh a core issue at at the center of all this, I think. You know, we're talking about a lot of social ills and and and evils in the world and and I think anybody who's listening uh would agree that, you know, uh the poor should be helped, the hungry should be fed, um there should be, you know a a fairness about way things are done. But I'm wondering, is it uh is it something we want the government to be doing? Or 'cause there's two different things that kind of get melded in in the three answers that I heard. There's kind of this this talk about the idea of the the government has a responsibility and the church has a responsibility. Where does the ultimate responsibility lie? Is it do we want the government to be putting a band-aid over the problem or do we want to address the true core issue, which is um, in my opinion, we live in a fallen world with people who are prone to do the wrong thing, and if the church uh were to address that core issue, it wouldn't matter if the Michael Eisner's of the world made twelve million dollars a week because if he were impacted properly by the church, he would be giving that money away voluntarily and the government wouldn't have to take it away from him. So I don't think that's a question so much as a statement, but do you have a response to to that line of thinking? Uh I do. Um this question of distributive justice um is From a from a Christian viewpoint, um there's immediate perspective uh I'm sorry, from a from a Uh I'm trying to distinguish myself from a from a um evangelical, uh conservative Christian perspective. Uh there there's a there's an immediate tendency to to believe that that none of us deserves anything. Um and that that uh that before God that we've all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And uh as a result There's a tendency, I think, among those that are conservative in their their uh perspective of scripture to to think that we that government should be very strong in stopping what is wrong. but should be super hands off enforcing what is right. Uh i the the New Testament perspective on this or idea behind this would be uh grace versus works. And and and the the idea says that if I force somebody to do something, then I have lost just about all of the moral training that is that that could happen in their heart if I win their heart and win their commitment to give to the poor and to help the poor out just out of the goodness of the heart and that as soon as I take money from them by taxation, I force it out of them, then what I do is I I lose the opportunity to to uh to win them at the heart level so that They go through their everyday life with a feeling of connectedness, like, wow, this is something that I want to do. I see that poor person on the street. I want to help that person out. As opposed to thinking, you know, there's another poor person, great, you know, my taxes are going to help that person out. That there's a there's a danger in forcing people to do something that that ends up actually leading to a corruption in our sense of caring for one another, in our in and in our ability to uh to be a caring society, that would that would say government should be responsible to to stop the killing, to stop the stealing, you know, to to require those that have contracts with one another to follow through on what what they signed their name to in the contracts. um business law, that sort of thing. But that when it comes to feeding the poor, when it comes to taking care of unwed mothers and and uh those that are impoverished, that that the government as soon as it steps in, it creates a legal environment that is anti um motivational and that ultimately leads to people feeling like they have to do things instead of people feeling like, you know what Out of the goodness of yeah you know, Christ is this way with us, I believe. He doesn't force us to come to him, he invites us to come to him. And and scripture says that God loves the cheerful giver. And I think the implication is that God really doesn't like somebody that doesn't give cheerfully, but gives only 'cause they feel like they have to And the reason God doesn't like that is because he doesn't want to force us to do things. He wants to win us over. It's a it's a free will mentality that that I feel like if the government is responsible to distribute wealth then we lose that potential to win the hearts of people. Well let me tell you something here. That's all well and good, Jonathan, and I certainly appreciate your perspective and I value I value your faith. I think that's very important. But three hundred million Americans Not all of them are Christians in the sense that you are, and not all of them have this strong moral desire to help their neighbor as they would be helped. The reality of our world, the reality of our country, is that there are people who are hungry, who are being abused and being hurt, and no amount of one particular religious message is going to turn around the social ills of this country. What's required is a uh i is is the action of the citizenry which is embodied in this government to make sure that the people within this country are taken care of. And it's i to me it it it to me it is unfair and it is um i i it it it it It's it's uh quite frankly smacks of a certain of a certain m of a certain moral uh uh dimension that most Americans, quite frankly, are not prepared to hear, much less to take on. Now that's not to say that a hundred years from now that might not change, but the world that I see and I work in uh with people who a lot of who are unchurched uh are not that they're waiting for Christ's message to save them and to make them uh great and cheerful givers. They're people who are just trying to struggle to get by from day to day. And I don't see any other solution in the short term until such a time uh as as I s as I suspect you would wish that the world would become uh a he you know, a kingdom on earth uh but whose kingdom would be one of my questions, uh, because not everybody shares the same faith and we need to respect that. Uh but in the meantime we have people who need help and I don't know any other organization that's got the kind of money. One other point I want to make here And that is, you know, you can say government get out, governments keep your hands off, I'll make the decision about who I'm gonna help. And that would be fine if government weren't doing some other things at the other end of the spectrum that were just obscene. Uh and some of the some of the money that we're spending for some of these military systems, uh the overages and the abuses of the system that are going on and the the the money that's lying in the py the pockets of industri industrialists Those kinds of things uh cannot simply be excused and say take them out of the equation. They're part of the equation. They're the other they're the vast majority of our tax dollars. What we're spending on social services is nickels Uh and to you know to say, well, you know, there goes another another person, you know, living off my taxes is short-sighted and I think it's a a co-option by the powers that be, quite frankly. Before I uh give Tony a chance to jump in, I want to uh reset the stage a little bit for anybody who's joined us in the last few minutes. Uh you're listening to the Frederick Face debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, the Voice you heard most recently was uh that of John Morehouse, the uh senior minister at Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Frederick. Uh Tony Fish is also here with us um on the show today. Uh she is the uh spiritual leader for the uh Unity Church in Frederick And uh uh Jonathan Sweitzer, the pastor at Crossroad Valley Chapel, is here and we're talking about uh issues of fairness and justice uh in the world and the role that uh the church and the spiritual community should be playing. And um by the way, I forgot to mention this at the beginning of the show. Uh our show is sponsored by All Shred, Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding Today for Growth Tomorrow, 18772 Shred. Uh Tony. And how do I follow up the all shred? And I'm sure they are a great product and I appreciate that and I appreciate them sponsoring this because it is an excellent dialogue. It I find this fascinating for me because I have in the past been um the person who would almost immediately go to John's argument as well in terms of uh I mean to mo John Morehouse's argument. We have two Johns here. um in terms of the um of the government because I do believe that there is that that the the scope of our problem, our of our challenge is is huge and that um and that it is multi uh cultural and it is there are so many facets to it that any one individual group may not be able to solve it And then I find myself tonight though saying, you know what, i i I'm not even sure that the government by itself is going to be able to fix the this is a there's a there's a a deeper core issue here and that has to do with how do we view ourselves as a community local, church, local and and s and national, are we are we a people who come from a compassion a compassion for humanity? The word that that Jesus used to describe God was God is and it's been translated as merciful, as pure. It can also be translated as compassionate. Compassion is, and that is a universal truth. It's not just found in Christianity. It's found in Islam, it's found in Judaism, it's found in Buddhism, it's found in Hinduism. It's found across the board. Compassion. Compassion for the individual who who's next to you. When we look at the workings of our government, who right now, I don't find a lot of compassion. I d and I don't find a lot of compassion in the messages that come out about how do we deal with people who are starving, how do we deal with people who have abuse, who are excluded And and John I find it interesting we talk about God and Jesus not wanting to force us. He asks us to come. Actually, he didn't ask us to come, he went to them. Jesus went to, he sat down with, he ate with, he he lived, he will lived among, he walked among those who were considered outcast in his time. That's what sinner meant in the time of Jesus was an outcast. He didn't ask them to come to him. He walked to them and among them. And so I would hope that that that we can find the m the largeness to solve these human these these large problems of ours. My concern is that until we can shift the focus to a compassion. It may and and I m I I've never said this this publicly before. Our form of government may be broken the form itself may be broken. Because of the corruption, because of the of the lack of an emphasis, a lack of understanding of what God is and the role that it played in the founding fathers' lives, which is not many times not what we think it was. Most of them were not. Christian, they were deists. They saw a a power greater than us. They saw that as part of the base of our of our country. Um but i our form may be broken by misuse. It may be broken and and it may take something more drastic than than we can imagine right now. to fix it. And that's scary. Yeah. It it really does give me a scary. Uh uh John uh itching to respond, by the way. Uh We never have enough time. Yeah. We have time for a round robin of final thoughts on this. Uh John. Can we go can we go the next show on this? I feel like there's enough material here that we could keep going. Sure. We can do that. Yeah. So for now, to put a a bow tie on what we're talking about right now, we have forty seconds and we'll give everybody forty seconds to kind of have a parting shot. Go. Great. Um couple things. Um From a biblical perspective, um we humans are very limited in what we can accomplish. Um uh that is from a conservative Christian biblical perspective. Um and as a result um we uh we will tend to think that that eradicating poverty is something that we actually can't do. Christ even put it this way that uh that the poor you will always have among you. And part of the reason for that, from a conservative Christian perspective, is because sin always has in our lives a destructive effect. So that if I'm a liar, I'm gonna have fewer and fewer people that want to do business with me. And if I'm an adulterer, I'm gonna tend to not have very many women that want to uh trust me in a long-term relationship. And if I'm at all abusive or unkind Again, I'm going to tend to push people away and the result of those things is poverty. And so from a a a Christian perspective, you know, and I think oftentimes we're accused of being um not conservative when we say this, but from a Christian perspective, God alone is able to bring the change. And so we throw ourselves on his mercy and we don't attempt to do it all ourselves. We we feel like it's overly idealistic and even a bit arrogant for us to assume that we can do that without him d uh accomplishing it. Um uh John Morehouse a final thought. I I would uh I would respectfully disagree with Jonathan. I I Well, I think that uh perhaps w our powers are more limited than we might believe they are. I do believe we need to try as best we can. Uh in in our tradition we have a belief that we human beings, the human race, are the hands of God that we are the actors for the God power that is in the world and that we need to express that compassion is in any way we can and never and never give never give up with that. Uh that would be a defeatism that I would that I would not want. And that uh having all I said about the government, I think that I should also say that while I think we do need to work prophetically to change the way our government is doing business and taking care of its own people, uh we will always be most effective. uh locally and the real work of a church actually is not necessarily in the prophetic voice, but in the actual uh voice uh of doing good work. And that's the good work that needs to be done. Well, the bad news is we're going to cheat Tony out of a final uh parting where we've run out of time. But the good news is we're going to pick up uh kind of where we're leaving off. So if you tune in next week We'll uh give Tony the opening shot and we'll go from there. Thanks for listening. You've been listening to the uh Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, sponsored by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction Um same three will be back next week, so tune in for that. And if you would like to be a part of the show or you have a topic you want to talk about or whatever, please email me at Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Thanks again and God bless.