Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick News Radio nine thirty WF. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. The Further Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson once said that the clash of ideas is the sound of truth. Freedom and in that spirit we will seriously wrestle with important ideas and might even disagree with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. Today's show is brought to us by All Shredd, Mobile Document Destruction, Basel Security. This week we're going to talk about diversity in the church. Ethnic, racial So cultural whatever. It's importance, whether it should be sought after, if so, how, if not, why. And here to discuss that uh this week. Our senior pastor of Maranatha Community Church of God, Jerry Price Good to be here. And uh Yolanda Yolanda I'm not sure what I want to say, make it a uh soft day there, but Yolanda Gamble, the uh pastor of Shure Fellowship uh in Walkersville and John Schweitzer, the uh pastor at Crossroad Valley Chapel, uh in Frederick. Now, what up there's a particular reason why these folks uh have have been chosen. One of the reasons I was particularly excited about having uh uh Pastor Jerry on today is because every time you meet Pastor Jerry, if you spend ten minutes talking to him At some point he'll find an excuse to bring up how proud he is of the diversity that is found at Maranatha. There's a rainbow coalition there. He loves the rainbow of colors and the rainbow of people that he sees and he's and he's really excited about that. And he has accomplished something uh in his congregation that uh uh you don't find at most churches. And then uh when I had a chance to talk with Yolanda for the first time, that same idea came up as a focus for her ministry with her church. And I thought we really need to do a show on that. And uh John kicking and screaming came along for the ride. No, I'm just kidding. Don't make me do it. I want to start with uh with you, Pastor Jerry. About uh Maranatha. Yes. Uh there is a rainbow of people uh that gather every Sunday for we don't have a r any m majority actually Uh when you go in there, um now to me it's normal. Uh when I visit other places and I look out there and everybody's the same color Uh I I'm uncomfortable. Uh I'm much more comfortable with uh the type of church we have and uh i to me it's normal. I I don't know why it would be anything but normal. Uh I I know that's not tr traditional. Uh you've heard that the uh church is the most segregated place in the world. And it probably is true. Uh but God has blessed us uh at Maranatha and it's been that way. When I when I got there twenty six and a half years ago, uh we ha we had a few um black families in the church Uh but and it's not that we uh actually and I've been asked that question, you know, how the how do you do this? But it's not that we actually just set out to do that. We just started loving on people. And when people found out that they could be loved for who they are, and and I mean really who they are from the inside out, uh the word gets around and uh people begin to feel comfortable being there. Now you anticipated my question which is, you know, w what did you do, if anything, to purposely make this happen? And apparently nothing just kind of organically occurred. Well I've I've had uh I had pastors come from Baltimore one time to ask me that question. You know, how how do you do this? How do you make this happen? And my Uh first statement uh to them was actually a question. I said, Well it there's uh one thing you have to do first Uh do you really want all of these people in your church or are you just looking for window dressing? Uh do you do you want the diversity? Do you really love those diversified people? And and that's where it starts. It starts in the heart of the pastor. It starts in the heart whether he truly, and I mean truly, loves all people. And if he truly loves all people, they'll know it. And by the way, if if you don't and you're just looking for window dressing, uh it won't it won't work because people can see through that. Now Yolanda, you have a younger congregation than Maranatha, which has been in Frederick for I don't know, fifty years or whatever. Right. Uh and But you have a similar dynamic taking place in your country? I have a similar dynamic taking place. It started for with our ministry through our educational program that I uh um have spearheaded here in Frederick County for four years. Basically what we did is search out the needs of the community and then uh design workshops and programs that would meet that need. In the community there's diversity as we would know it. And uh needs are just needs. And uh what kind of spearheaded that whole thing once we started a church, we really didn't even start it out of that idea of just the the educational program. Uh, just like Pastor Price was saying is that we have a love and an open mind when it comes to people of all kinds. um and just an interest in all the diverse cultures that are here in Frederick and uh just a mind of acceptance uh love that is very real and heartfelt and when it really is real people have a tendency of gravitating to you. because they know whether or not you like them or dislike them. It's kind of like when you shake a hand, uh depending upon how you shake that hand determines whether or not you're accepting that person or not. So they know right off. Now the programs that you've put in place to meet these needs, was it also an additional motive to try to bring more diversity or that just has happened By accident. That really just happened because uh of the needs. Frederick County alone uh is a very single parented region. Uh there are many needs in the area of single parents and that d the color doesn't uh it really doesn't have anything to do with with that need in this county. Uh it just cross cultures and all of that. And so uh basically while we were out there we found since that's such a strong uh area of interest uh that we could meet that need and it cross cultures. So that's how it worked. Need to ask this question. I think it says volumes that I that I we would still ask this question, but it's the topic what we're talking about. So I'm gonna ask it, what sort of a racial mix would one find if they visited you this you know during your service this Sunday? They will find Caucasian, they are going to find Asian, also Hispanic. Uh there are Jamaicans. They don't like to be called black. I just want you all to know that. And uh, you know, and there's uh y there's prejudice in all forms. That's right. And I have you know, Jamaicans in my church as well. And there's some Jamaicans who don't like uh American blacks and and vice versa. So you you get prejudice all over the place. All over the place. Now John Schweitzer's church is probably uh maybe the youngest church represented on the panel today, and so maybe he hasn't had the chance to develop the kinds of diverse membership that's some the that's going on in these other churches. Um To my knowledge, I think it's pretty much all Caucasian. I think it is, yeah, as a matter of fact. Now does that concern you at all? Are you gonna put some sort of an affirmative action plan John, how about getting your act together then? Or is it something that, you know, doesn't need to be worried about and whatever happens, happens. Or what do you think? Well, again, I think it has to do with the heart of the pastor and uh you minister out of who you are. And I guess my anticipation is that uh any and everybody that comes through the doors is going to be welcomed and loved and cared for. And uh so I guess my hope is that we will we will minister to what would be a representative group of people from uh Frederick County and the city of Frederick and the surrounding area. It's interesting my uh the church that I grew up in down in Montgomery County uh just in the last five years has gone through a dramatic shift whereas it it tended to be previously uh quite a bit more Caucasian just in the last several years they've kind of re uh um in their heart searched well who should who should we be reaching out to and specifically focused in on uh you know just people within a mile or you know three miles of of the church building And as a result, it has become an extremely diverse group with with even some people coming that barely speak the language and and again I think it it always arises just out of your heart and and what's most in your heart. Let me remind you just joining us as you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. That was the voice of John Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel. Before that you heard Yolanda Gamble, pastor at Shure Fellowship in Walkersville. and Jerry Price Senior Pastor at Maranatha Community Church of God in Frederick. Um all three of you uh made mention of the heart of the pastor. Mm-hmm Now, for clarification, if I walk into a church and it's all white, should I assume that that pastor doesn't have a heart for different cultures and Ethnic groups? Or is that not a fair assumption? Well, I don't think it's quite a fair assumption because it uh the change may come, but I I think that might be the reason sometimes, truthfully, uh I but not always. Uh I I have I have seen situations where pastors want But uh you know uh w but I have seen situations, John, and and uh Yolanda, you you you all know. Yes. Where a pastor says, Well let's invite more people of color and so forth and so on. You know, in our church we have uh people from thirty eight different nations. And so it's diversified all over. But I I've seen places where the pastors want people of color, but then there's a limit. There's just so far they can go. And what I mean by that, they're not allowed to take any prominent position. in the church such as a board, such as an elder, uh such as a uh staff person to be on staff and and and and I've seen people do that. I've seen 'em hold 'em back. You know, we want you to come And we want you to sit in our pew, but we're not so sure we want to intermix a whole lot because of uh traditions of the past and problems of the past. and maybe interracial marriage becomes an issue. And uh and you know, I I've been I've dealt with all of that. I think I know the answer to this question, but can a Christian hold to that line of thinking Is that a Christian well they can't be? Is it biblical? No, it's not biblical, but Christians do. We we and and it's not just all one sided either. I I you know, it it's it's prejudice on both sides. On on all sides. I I just mentioned about Jamaicans and uh American blacks and they have prejudice toward each other. Uh there's all kinds of prejudice out there. And and it has to be a change of the heart. Uh I just had a leadership uh I started a leadership class last night and it was so interesting to me that when I went around the table and allowed the men to in you know talk about themselves Several of them mention one of them i uh is a uh a Caucasian gentleman that is married to a black girl. And he he told his story of how he came out of a church where there were uh uh black people there. and different colors. But then one Sunday the pastor got up and made a statement about he didn't believe that the two should marry. So again there's and and then a great problem he and this was a church of five thousand and and great problems began to develop at that point. But he sat there and he said, you know, I came to Marinatha and I felt comfortable I felt like I'm not looked at my color or her color. We're looked at as people. And and and we're loved and appreciated. Uh I I marry people of different colors Uh my uh and uh let's just be transparent here. I have a black son-in-law who uh who's not a very good son-in-law right now But he you know he's uh I hope you're listening. Uh I hope he is too. I hope he is too. And and and uh you know, I w uh he needs to be more responsible. And and I have grandchildren that are mixed. But see, uh that's not my uh the ministry I had here. We were uh a rainbow church long before that happened. But people people know me. They they know know my heart but they also see it. When I put a uh a Pastor Wilson, you know Pastor Wilson. Yes I know a wonderful Lova Wilson, a w a wonderful man, and he became my right arm. And um he's a black American and he loves God. God sent him to me to he had a dream, a vision of working with a white pastor And God brought him to me. He went through my discipleship school. He grew up in our church and became a leader and then he became an elder and then I pulled him on my side. I said I'd like for you to be my staff person and he's my executive pastor right now And then I I have other staff, uh, and I have a mixed staff. Uh but see when you put these boundaries up like that pastor made that announcement, then then it's not i people read through that. It's it's gotta be real or it's not real. I did. My father was a pastor. And was it a Quote unquote black church. It was a black church. Was there anything in in your view looking back now, anything inherently wrong with that or was it a comfortable fit? I never was comfortable with it. Really? Growing up. Never was. Um, my dad didn't really so much I don't think that he was he wasn't very verbal about it. Mm-hmm. Uh we just learned to accept that's the way it It was. Um, because he loved all people. But uh we were in a more prominent black neighborhood, so it was more typical to have a black church. Uh, in Oklahoma where I'm from, we had what we what we called at then a black side of town and a white side of town. And then there were Indians. But uh that's kind of the way it the way it was. Um but should we fellowship we would fellowship with other races. But our church, no. It w it was a black church. And I wanna just interject. If you're if we're going to talk about diversity in the church and and we're going to be a diverse church then we have to be diversed in our thinking, we have to be diverse in our presentations, whether it be by music, by dance. And by the way, it's a big challenge. When you get when you get into diversity Uh it's not church as normal. No it isn't. I I tease our people, Yolanda, I and you you may have heard me say this when you used to come. Uh couple of years ago and uh He just wanted to interject that he likes that. Well you're a good girl. We learn to love you a lot. Yeah, we feel like we're part of your ministry. That's right. But what you know when uh um When where was I at? Now now see you threw me up. That's completely free. I will say that. Oh diversity. I I used to get up. Right. But I I used to get up I'm talking about the challenge of diversity. There is a big challenge. Uh when you get into styles. Even in the styles of music. Yeah. But I don't say anything else. And you hope that somebody is that you know the air there's so many different styles there. You can't do them all in one service. You know so you have to give each other room a little bit. This is what I wanna what I want to speak to, because I think ultimately the diversity issue uh was created by by God himself when he divided the languages. Oh I absolutely and As missionaries. I mean basically God said, look, we're going to divide and conquer. We're going to go after these one at a time. And he started with the nation of Israel. And then as uh in terms of missions, what he did was he sent Paul to the Greeks and he sent Timothy out there towards or uh uh sorry, uh Thomas out there towards um Asia in India and uh the the different apostles went different directions and and it seems to me that we always have this problem in the in the church. We're trying to reach people that are becoming more racist, not less racist. In general, people are going to tend to solidify and say we've got the truth and other people do not. And it seems to me that uh that even denominationally the splits that come between denominations are are more culturally driven than they are theologically driven. Absolutely. And so, you know country people tend to hang out with country music people. Rock and roll people hang out with rock and roll, hip hop with hip hop. You know, in in in the United States we have really for one of the first times in the history of the world, a melting pot where there's the opportunity for there to be a culture, quote unquote that could be you know include all the different uh nationalities. I was just at a retreat last weekend and it was a large retreat center and the largest group that was there, very exciting a beautiful group was a Korean group and man they had it going on but they were pure one hundred percent Korean and I've noticed that here in the United States, specifically in the DC area, there's several huge Chinese or Korean congregations that, you know, they're they've found each other and they're comfortable with each other. And I don't know that that's necessarily wrong. If if God is dividing and conquering Well great, let's reach that, but ultimately we're going to be brought to the place where we can be uh culturally diverse and hang out with one another and like one another and love one another. And I think that's the goal, but I think if if the ideal has not been reached, uh we need to be careful to judge too quickly, I think. Absolutely. You can't do that. Uh But again, uh the diversity also opens up a world of evangelism because you you're not limited to who you can attract and who you can uh witness to. I I love the diversity because you're able to witness to all different types of people. And min people are people. I guess it's just me. I I I've been that way since I was a kid. I love everybody. How do you for a church that is established Uh let's say has one hundred and fifty members, which is you know, a f a pretty good medium to smaller size average congregation probably throughout the county. Well the average is about eighty actually. Okay, well Okay, so you know eighty, a hundred, whatever members. And on average. On average, you're doing good, John. You go. Because they were originally founded by somebody who came off a boat from Ireland. Mhm. Let's say. That's true by the way. Right? A lot of our churches, Church of God came from Ireland. Mm-hmm. But their foundation was, you know, or or Switzerland or you know, a a Dutch chur church or something, they're all gonna be white 'cause Northern Europeans are all Caucasian, they're all white. And they get established. Now they got eighty members, a hundred members, hundred and twenty members, and a person of color walks in and says, Ooh I'm the only one. That person might say, I'm gonna go find a place where I don't feel like an outsider or whatever. First of all, is that a problem? I'm not sure if it is or not. And if it's uh if it is, what can be done about it, how can you make somebody feel comfortable when they're surrounded by somebody who's in all people everybody in the room is different than that. I would just say find a common place when it comes to that person. I went to a particular church here in Frederick that was all white, all white church And I was just visiting, I was here, yeah had just moved here, and um I went in, I had a hat on, I looked good. I sat down. Well thank you very much. I sat down. Yes, you remember some of those. I sat down in the you know, the only black There. No w and the only one wearing a hat. Uh, just feeling a little bit out of place. Well Gordon according to Paul, you were probably more scriptural, isn't you? Right, I probably would script yeah with the head had to be covered. Right, had the covering open. So anyway I was covered. But uh I sat there and went through the entire service which was a beautiful service uh got a lot of looks, you know, quite a few people were staring, looking over their shoulders, all of that. That made me feel a little bit more uncomfortable. But after the service Several people came to me and greeted me and very warmly and asked me if I would come back and that they enjoyed me being there. And they made me feel like it was okay that I was there and and because of that I returned. Sure. And um matter of fact, a few of the ladies said, you know what If you wear a hat the next time, you know, I'm gonna wear my hat. There you go. And so we found a common place. That's what that's how I started this whole thing. Find a common place. Find something that that um just really connects Even if it's a hat. And accept that person even at that level, even though we're a little different here and there, but there's some likeness about all of us. And when we find that place, I think that's what works. Absolutely. That's good stuff. I I I have to totally agree. I read a book one time by a missiologist that broke down seven different uh ways that cultures tend to be different. Like for example, time orientation. Some people want a three hour church service on a Sunday. Right. You know, and I know some people they want that thing done in an hour. Come on, don't waste my time. Let's get let's get to work. And uh or like another example would be um uh how important is it that you plan what you're gonna do as a church as opposed to just be spirit led and do things more spontaneously? And some people are all about sitting down and figuring out your goals and setting your objectives and taking, you know, planning out five years in advance and other people are all about, you know what We just need to minister by the power of the Spirit and go out and talk to people, whoever's out there. And I'm not saying that you can't have both in, but I'm saying that in general these differences between cultures are oftentimes big enough that for now the best thing to do is encourage people to find a find a church where they fit because there is one out there. You know, and it says uh it was interesting, it says in Revelation that on the final day there'll be people from every tribe, every tongue, every language that are there. I thought it was interesting that it doesn't say in Revelation that they'll all speak the same tongue, but they'll be from different tongues. Somehow the cultures and the tongues aren't annihilated but they're all represented once we get there. And somehow it's beautiful that it you know intends it to be that way. So yeah. Matter of fact, that scripture is found Revelation chapter seven, verse nine. I wrote it down in my little thing here. And um it talks about John has the vision of a great multitude. Which no one could number. Yeah, huge. Wow, isn't that something of all nations, tribes, peoples, and tongues? standing before the throne and before the lamb, clothed in white. Now, I like that clothing in white. All of them clothed in white. You know, because I ha this I have a certain style, you have a certain style. When you just all have white on, you just see the same people. You know, and that's what it's all about, huh? It sure is. Uh I you know the diversity, we have it all over the world. Uh and I I agree with John there that uh y uh y sometimes you have to start where you are. Find the place where you're comfortable. But there's other people that are struggling because they haven't found a place they're com comfortable. They don't feel accepted, so they look for a diversified church. So you have you have all of it. Most of it is to find Christ and let him be Lord of your life. That's right. And be strategically placed where God wants you to be. Absolutely. That's what's going on. God has a and and we haven't we don't have time to talk about it, but Vision. I think vision has something to do with it too. Whatever the vision of the church is, that has a lot to do why people go to that church. Right. Well thank you all very much. Uh time is running short. It's interesting. Early in the half hour, uh you'll Pastor Yolanda Gamble brought up that uh diversity sprang from her church serving the needs of the community, and it's ironic that On next week's show, we'll be talking about the ways that churches should be serving the needs of the community. Again, thank you to uh Pastor Jerry, uh Jerry Price from Marinath Community Church of God Uh Yolanda Gamble from uh uh Shure Fellowship, she's a pastor there in Walkersville. Thank you very much. And John Schleitzer from uh Pastor Crossless Valley Chapel in Frederick as well. And of course my name, I'm Frey Skinner. Uh and my my pleasure to sit here and and and moderate this uh very pleasant discourse this time. Thanks for listening to this week's edition of the Frederick Faith Debate. We'll be back again uh next week. Uh if you're a local faith community leader and no one would like to participate, please email me at Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Thanks again and God bless.