Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. The Frederick Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views. of the truth. Thomas Jefferson once said, The clash of ideas is a sound of freedom, and in that spirit we will seriously wrestle with important ideas, possibly even disagreeing with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. Frederick Faith Debate is brought to us by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction. All shred they sell security This week on our panel we have uh back with us Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel in Frederick. We also have uh Timothy Fisher, the pastor of Walkersville. Uh Brethren in Christ Church and uh from Redeemer In Redeemer International Family Church, uh the pastor there, uh Chris Gieslin. Thank you uh all for being with us today. The topic is do you go to church? If s if not, why not? And what should area pastors be uh thinking about you and and trying to convince you uh to come to church. How important is it for a church to be in a growth mode. If a church has had fifty members for the last thirty years, is that a problem? Should they be striving to have a hundred Uh she'd be striving to have a thousand. What about these what are called mega churches where there are thousands and thousands and thousands of people, sometimes ten, fifteen, twenty thousand people um belonging to a particular church? Um and if people aren't going to church, if churches are dying, for example, if the if their numbers are dwindling, uh what's causing that sort of a thing? So we're primarily right now going to focus on Uh what are the things that churches could be doing, should be doing in order to attract people to come and worship on Sundays and join the membership roles? Um Real quickly to go around, I want to get a sense and give the audience an opportunity to get a sense of the size of the churches that are represented here. John Sweitzer, Crossroad Valley Chapel has how many people on a Sunday that worship? Uh we have probably between fifty and sixty right now. Okay. And how many at uh uh Walkersville Brethren Well at our church we have a Saturday night service so um we have a Saturday night service at seven and then two on Sunday morning. Um so we have about a hundred and seventy five among the three services. Okay. And Chris? We have a hundred and seventy five in one service. Okay. Sunday morning. Okay. Now um uh the the last two churches are are kind of the prototypical American church, right? Somewhere between a hundred and two hundred members is kind of like a standard sized church. And uh John's church um uh is is growing and emerging. I know when I first met John I think he had, I don't know, what, four and a half people worshiping And uh it and it's grown and it's been an issue. for John and I'm sure an issue for uh for the all the churches represented here to try to attract more people. So what are some things? We'll start there. What are some things? Well maybe you should start there. Let me ask this. And I'll I'll start with you, Chris. Okay. Are you concerned about this? Do you do you desire for your church to be larger? Well, I desire to fulfill the Great Commission, which Jesus spoke and said, go and make disciples. And so our whole key is to make disciples. And we don't want to pull people from other churches. But two-thirds of t born again Christians don't attend church. So we see those as unchurched believers. So we do go after them and then we go after We you know go after people that don't know Christ as their Lord and Savior. And primarily we try to find a need and then meet that need and pull them in and share Christ. Tim, how about you? Is is adding to the numbers a pr a a a focus, a concern that that you think about on a daily, weekly, monthly basis? I think you were right. The first time I probably think about it on a daily basis. I know that when I'm sensing momentum in the church and seeing new faces and seeing unchurch believers come in and those who are still exploring the Christian faith. Um whenever I see some momentum and some some growth, I'm constantly thinking, okay, how how do we sustain this? So that those that are coming in find something that that's meeting a need in their lives through this church and through its ministries. Uh and uh John Sweitzer, what about you at your church? A focus? Yeah, I Christ said that uh that he came that we would bear fruit and And his his goal and desire in our lives is that we bear fruit. And that word fruit is defined two ways in the Hebrew. It's defined one as fruit as in My life has changed and and I'm more gentle, I'm more kind, I'm more loving, more full of peace and joy. And the same exact word is used for fruit, is used for harvest. as in reaching new people for the sake of Christ. And and if we're not bearing fruit uh in either of those two ways, then we're simply uh according to Christ, uh worthy of being cut off and thrown into the fire. There's a there's a uh requirement uh that that God our Father has that we be growing people, that we be changing and by the power of his spirit inside of us there's every reason for us to anticipate that, not to be anxious about it, but to anticipate that it is gonna be happening. All right, Tim, I'll start with you. What are some initiatives, some things that your church uh has done, is currently doing right now in a, and if this is the wrong way to phrase it, please correct me, to recruit new members, new churchgoers. Okay. Uh I think one of the things that that comes to mind is we initiated a Saturday night service and we weren't really sure how that was going to turn out or what kind of people would uh desire a Saturday night service and We've been pleased to see the folks that have come to that particular service. Some of them were unchurch believers. Um so we've sort of uh seen some fruit in that service. Uh another thing that we've done for all the eight years that I've been there is kindness outreach where We want people to get beyond the four walls of the church and have interaction with those outside in the community. So we've done things like wash windshields, we've handed out Jesus videos. Um we've handed out drinks, we've bought snow cones for our community, anything to where we can um get face to face with people in the community. And I remember going to a picnic this past summer and the first question that was asked me when I walked among this group of men that I didn't know was um you know the beers in the cooler help yourself. Uh typically I don't get uh you know that kind of invitation so it was kind of neat Uh but when the introductions were made, one of the first things that someone said to me was, Oh wait a minute, I think I know you. Uh your church was giving out snow cones uh about a month ago So there was that immediate connection that perhaps I wouldn't have had had we not done um the the kindest outreach. And then the third big initiative that we do um is is that we really encourage the people in the church to be active in evangelism, to to share their faith, to invite them uh to church. So there are at least three times a year what that we call big days. And these are just days that we recognize that there's gonna be more people. Probably our biggest day of the year is our Christmas Eve services. That's not true in all churches. Some churches have bigger days on on other seasons of the year, but for us it's it's Christmas Eve. um Easter and around the fall time of the year. So there's three times a year that we recognize the momentum is just naturally going to be there. What can we do to build upon it so we uh really push for people to invite their unchurched uh friends and neighbors and and relatives and acquaintances. Chris, you have a church that's similar in size to to Tim's church. But and one of the things that Tim's Church has done is they have uh three different meeting times for worship. And you're sticking with just the one. Have you considered having additional service time? Yeah, that's certainly an option. In fact we in our meeting place that we're at we've just about maxed it out. So We're looking at that. And um I believe in multiple services. In fact, I've quizzed Tim a lot about this whole subject about it, you know, making that transition because it is a major transition to go to multiple services. So that's one option. But the our biggest outreach right now is actually a joint venture with another church in the area, uh El Shaddai Congregation, which is a messianic Jewish congregation. Pastor Todd Westfall is there. And we, uh, in the past three months, four months, we've seen over six hundred people come to get free clothes and we're able to share the gospel with them. And most of those people are unchurched people. Most of them are poor. We don't make any Uh, you know, there's no stipulation wealthy, poor, or whatever. We just give away clothes every Saturday between three and six PM and we share Christ with all those that come and get the clothes. But we've had six hundred and many of those return week after week or you know, a month from now or whatever. And um, you know, we believe that we're gonna build a relationship with them and there is an opportunity. to close that net on them evangelically. So what are some of the things Crossroads Valley Chapel is doing, John? Uh we just came off of in January our uh official grand opening service and Uh we were encouraged by um those that we looked to for counsel uh in doing a church plant to to do a large grand opening and we actually had over a hundred people out that day. um kind of doubled the the number that was there and we've had several families that decided to to stick as a result of that. And that was basically just distributing flyers any and everywhere there in Boundry Creek. We had some signs up in different places and Um the response was, you know, people that we had never met before. You know, they just came to uh to see what was there. And I think the idea behind that is to create was was to, you know, because it's a a grand opening, people don't feel like they have to come and make a commitment right away, but they can just come and and you know see what's going on and participate in it. And off of that we've been of the opinion that um that the most important thing is is really what I see you doing there, uh, Chris, and and you're hinting at it is just to be out touching the knees right where people are. I mean, uh if we if we care about uh those who are not churched, then we just need to be out there caring for them, praying for them, interacting with them, giving in whatever way possible. And it seems to me that that's always gonna be uh w the most important thing to do and and that's what we're gearing up. We're we're gearing up our ongoing uh outreach and you know we're thinking in terms of um just going door to door and and talking to people and and interacting with them straightforward about those kinds of things. Now I know that there's at least one denomination that believes that uh that worship should take should take place Christian worship should take place on Saturday. And messianic Jewish congregations I think worship on Saturday for the most part, unless I'm misunderstanding the buttons that's true. But most of the other mainline Christian denominations think that worship should take place on Sunday. So uh m is it selling out at all to have a service available on Saturday? And should we have services available on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday as as well? Uh Tim, your church has a service on Saturday, so I guess I'll let you ask uh that c answer that question. Well it's kinda nice to know we keep both groups happy with that. That's good. I don't know. I guess I've never really really thought of it in those terms of of selling out. For us it was just um a matter that we had grown uh beyond our two services and we realized that even though our early service on Sunday was about half food best that th our our service that's gonna bring growth to the church is the eleven o'clock service. It's the most traditional time. So we really didn't have an opportunity to add a third service on on a Sunday morning and Saturday night was just something that it that intrigued me. Um Okay. Anybody else have a comment on that question? I don't want to make it seem like I'm picking on Tim, it's just but it's you know it's a good thing. Um you know, it's just three available times. Yeah, I was just gonna say that um increasingly in our society there's quite a few people that cannot make it on Sunday mornings just because their job is that way and our society doesn't hold the Sabbath as holy and that being the case I think that we are um just being uh irresponsible if we don't think of ways to facilitate ministering to and reaching out to uh m you know make providing a place for those people to be cared for spiritually. Yeah, in a variety of different ways. Oh we'll go ahead and do it. in Frederick and now they're there and so now we've started an outreach there and that is their service. That's their primary services in that house church. So, you know, I don't think you know we celebrate Sunday because it is the day of the Lord's resurrection, most of us, but every day we celebrate Christ's resurrection every day. Any way we can reach out to touch and minister to people, we need to do it. Now all of you in a variety of different ways touched on the idea of um whether it was going out and meeting people where they are, um preparing and teaching and training uh your members how to evangelize and and go out and and do outreach to the community, those sorts of things. Um I know that a lot of churches, you know, they'll do small group studies and they'll invite the neighbors, they'll encourage them to invite the neighbors, those sorts of things. Um but none of you mentioned that specifically. I don't know if is is that a church growth strategy? Is that just is is that what Or is that just uh I mean what is it? That's a big church growth strategy. I mean I believe that we need to be planting and releasing people to plant Uh Peter Wagner from Fuller Seminary, used to be from Fuller Seminary, Church Growth, he said the greatest way we can reach new people is to plant new churches. And now we need to see and get out of the box about what those churches are. And I believe it can be a house church, it can be a a church that meets in a movie theater, it could be a church that meets in a hotel. uh you know whatever. We and we need to be equipping people, raising them up, and then sending them out to start new churches. You know, we got into this just a little bit uh a couple weeks ago. Um, the question is whether the church grows the fastest when big churches get bigger, whether it grows the fastest when churches multiply. and you know, plant new churches and and again I'm of the opinion in church history seems to bear out that the church grows the fastest in the context of doing new church plants and doing new church plants. Because what happens is is everybody in a small new church plant is is gonna have a uh opportunity both to minister and to serve and What that means then is that the church leadership is that much closer to the neighbors and the people out there instead of being, you know, in an office somewhere. you know, coming up with great strategies to to marshal the masses of their, you know, congregation to. You've got people that are out there interacting with the lost 'cause they have to. You know, they In order to survive a small I'll uh I'll verify, in order to survive you gotta be out there ministering, touching the people. And I think that that's what Christ intended when he send his disciples out that we would interact with the lost that we're going to do. I agree with John a hundred percent. You know, if you go through Frederick County, you'll see all these small little Methodist buildings all over the place. And that was during the greatest revival of this nation. And here were farmers working all week long and then pastoring a church with just the people that could get there every Sunday. And we need to get back to that model I think of seeing some way to equip in the local church and then release believers to plant new churches. It's the voice of Chris Gieslin, Pastor at Redeemer International Family Church. Right before that, you heard Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and uh from Walkersville Brethren in Christ Church, uh Pastor Timothy Fisher I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. And we're talking about why you're not in church. So I'm gonna ask you that question. What do you hear or what do you what one, what do you suspect and two, what are you told uh are the reasons and uh Chris are not going to church. Well I think it just needs to be relevant to what people's needs are. But I don't think you have to wash or uh make the gospel lukewarm. I think people are looking for something to be committed to. And I think when Jesus said, go and make disciples, He was telling us, don't water it down. You know, tell people, you know, deny yourself, pick up your cross, and follow after Jesus. And that is the the main message. I think people are looking for something to give their lives to and I believe it's going to be a committed, passionate message of complete surrender to the purpose, plan, and pursuit of God. I run into a lot of people um who are sometimes churchgoers or they they don't seem to be particularly committed to going to church. They might go more regularly than than I know, but Those sorts of people seem to when they do talk about going to church, what they talk about is, boy, the music was really hopping. That was it was fun. It was gr it was it was entertaining. It was uh all my friends were there and it was great to catch up on old times or whatever. Those are the kinds of things that seem to draw people at least sometimes to church. Uh do we cater to those people or or is that a is that a trap being set? You know what, uh I just want to speak to that just briefly. It occurs to me that that there's a marrying kind and there's a dating kind. And uh, you know, wha when it comes time to to give your life to Christ Uh you do it because because there is something that happens in a spiritual way deep in your heart. It's not phenomenal music. It's not the greatest preaching in the world, but but Whatever was said or whatever was communicated in the music broke through whatever my defenses were, and I realized there was a God in heaven that loved me and wanted to be with me. And it seems to me that those people that are gonna that are gonna really stick and be committed in a church will do so because at the heart level God, Christ Jesus, has come to live inside and they know it and they're they're no longer their own. Their lives have been bought with a price, and that's what makes the difference. And there there's definitely uh people in general, I think uh will most respond to uh somebody that's a good leader, somebody that you know, that that that dots his eyes and crosses his T's, he works hard, he he he's able to you know, interact with people. Leadership is definitely an important part of the process in terms of drawing people and and building an organization. But what makes the difference between those Christians that stick is not going to be the great music. It's not going to be all these other things. It's going to be that that Christ has grabbed a hold of them and they're they're going to church, not because they feel like they have to or because somebody's kind of You know, uh con uh uh made it beautiful enough that they feel like they want to stick around, but because it they're really touched at a heart level Now about ninety plus percent of Americans say they believe in in God or some sort of a God, and somewhere uh near eighty percent uh would identify themselves as Christians. Uh a little over seventy percent of those believe that Jesus actually died and rose from the dead. Not sure how you call yourself a Christian and don't believe that, but the the percentage that believe that is smaller than those that call themselves Christians. So there's There's some wiggle room there apparently. Yeah, so um are we worried about reaching all those people that believe in a God? Are we worried about reaching everybody? And when I say reach, I mean during the worship service, okay? Is the worship service for those who are already believers, possibly believers with screwed up theology? Or you know you know what I mean, is it a party for everybody or is it a or is it a worship service for those that are already part of the family? Well, I there could be some disagreement about this, but I believe that we're there to worship the Lord Jesus Christ, that our worship needs to be directed to Him. And as we direct it to Him, then His presence is manifest. And that attracts people. It might seem weird to them. They might feel like I've never been around something like this before. But it m they know that there's something different. So Um I think that when we come into worship, it is to worship the King of King and the Lord of Lords. We have an audience of one, not an audience of seekers, but the audience is our God, our Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, who we're worshiping, and then, you know, as we lift him up, he draws men to himself. Now Chris suggested there might be disagreement. Tim, do you disagree or agree with that? No, I I do agree with that. Um, one thing that that came to my mind is that when Jesus was on earth he ca he came to do the Father's will and he had a definite agenda and as he would speak that message in that crowd of thousands of people. There were some who believed, some who didn't believe. There were those who came uh to do nothing but criticize, try to trap in him in his words. But yet Jesus was faithful to the message And then, you know, we don't see him ever saying, Oh my goodness, there's more seekers here than believers. I've got to adjust the message. Right, right. And what I liked about what Chris said a few moments ago is that that we need to realize the message is already relevant. We don't need to try to make it relevant. It already is. And I think that what I would say to those who maybe aren't in church is my experience has been that those that have been unchurched who have come to church and have stayed have just simply gave it a shot where they said, Oh my goodness, where has this been all of my life? You're saying things that really do make sense and really are relevant. For the first time in in history perhaps, people's time means more to them than money. Mm-hmm So if they're gonna get out of bed on a Sunday morning or sacrifice something else, whether even if it's just sitting at the the breakfast table with a cup of coffee in a newspaper, um, they're going to do that only if there's something relevant for their lives. So the worship is the worship. That's not where we're trying to accommodate somebody's predisposition or where we think they are. It's the extra worship stuff that we're talking about, where we're trying to reach out to them, meet them where they are. uh evangelize them in small group settings or one-on-one settings, going door to door, knocking on, you know, and talking to them what's your relationship with your Savior Jesus Christ. Those sorts of things. But once the worship service starts You you're not trying to accommodate those and make those who might be uncomfortable, might not be believers feel comfortable. Is that what I'm hearing? I mean my idea of being Seeker sensitive. In fact, uh Tom Raynor wrote a book called Surprising Insights from the Unchurched and one of the things that he found out was that those who were unchurched who came into church didn't want the message watered down They were there to experience what does the Bible say about this era in my life? They were they were there to, as as John said, um They they said, Don't be afraid to preach commitment to us. It's almost like if I'm going to a French restaurant, I don't want it to look like McDonald's. I want it to be a little bit different, a little bit uncomfortable. from what I'm used to. So so people that are coming into church that have been on church, they're not expecting to be totally totally comfortable but what they are saying to us I believe is is make it understandable. Uh I mean if we use huge words Uh and we could certainly do that from our our seminary days. Uh that's not what they're looking for, but at the same time they're not looking for something that's watered down. Uh they want to know what the Bible has to say. Who is this person? Christ. And and they went out and they and they distributed flyers and they got the word out. They quote unquote advertised. Okay, they It was I mean grand opening and distributing flyers and and advertising, those are marketing things that businesses do. So is it appropriate at some level Um I'm guessing that John you would say yes for to function off of some sort of a business model to advertise and get the word out in a in uh in secular ways. Yeah, you know, we live in an interesting society here in the United States in that everything um uh we have a very large private world Whereas uh in many other cultures and uh in biblical times, in olden times as it were, uh you didn't have to pay big money to get a little bit of airtime on W F R E or W F M D. You didn't have to pay big money in order to you know, get a billboard or di to get a sign and and things like that. And uh I think that the the bottom line is this is we have to find a way to engage honest people in the marketplace where they live their lives. We we have to uh uh the What what we as the body of Christ is looking to do is to interact with real people about Jesus Christ because he simply uh is more relevant to our lives than than just about anything else. And if that means passing out flyers, getting on the radio, whatever it means, then you know, that's definitely a a a viable alternative. I agree with John, but I also disagree. My first church plant I did a lot of advertising. This one we've done none. Now, I planted the other church here in Frederick as well, so this will have been a little bit different. But I look at that first that Book of Acts church And that is our model. There was a lot of prayer. There was a lot of friendship evangelism, which both John and Tim talked about. And it was very powerful, just people reaching out to people, but allowing the Lord to move. And um I mean part of that's because of our budget, I have to say. So anyway. But I I'll tell you this, John planting the church and Tim he took his father in law's church. Uh they I you know both of them are I appreciate them because uh uh they've done they've really extended the kingdom of God in great ways here in Frederick. Well Chris won the draw. He got the last word. You've been listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. We're actually going to pick up on this a little bit uh on next week's show and uh talk about once we get the bodies in the pews, how do we keep them there? That's next week on Freder Faith Debate. Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMB. Thanks for listening and God bless.