Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Today's show brought to you by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction. They sell security. Umsred 1-877-2 Shred, 1-877-Number 2, S-H-R-E-D-D. Frederick Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Jefferson once said that the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom and in that spirit we will seriously wrestle with important ideas, possibly even disagree with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling, you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us. in this world. Back again this week from last week are uh Pastor Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel, Pastor Yolanda Gamble from Shure Fellowship in Walkersville and the senior pastor Jerry Price from Marinatha Community Church of God uh in Frederick. It was alluded to in last week's show about the uh need to serve the needs of the community, but we didn't get into that in any sort of depth or detail and we're going to do that uh here on today's show, it seems like a given, right, that the church should be out there serving the needs of the community. And yet it does raise uh uh some issues and wrankle some feathers from time to time. For example Uh when the President of the United States stands up and says we need to have some faith-based initiatives and we need to let the churches uh do some things on behalf of of society as a whole and maybe some federal dollars should go to supporting that Some feathers get ruffled. Uh there are other churches that uh are people that will leave church. I I know of people that that have told me that they've left churches because their church was spending money you know, on missions work or on supporting these uh uh the these poor uh people organizations and they're not taking care of, you know Charity begins at home kind of mentality and those sorts of things. So what is the proper role for uh a a a Christian church, because everybody on the panel today is representing a Christian church, what is the proper role? What does the Bible tell us is the role that a Christian church should play in not just serving the needs of its uh of its members, but serving the needs of the community. And it's a double edge and maybe I'm reading too much into the possibilities on this question, but Does the church have a responsibility to serving the community as a whole, or is the church a gathering of believers in which it's supposed to take care of the the Christian family. Hmm. So I don't know who wanna tackle that first. Go ahead. Yolanda's closest to the microphone. question here. Which where should I start? Well I th I think he's uh asking uh should a church just take care of itself or Yeah that's the first question, right? I would say that the church should take care of itself, certainly. Uh, but the church is for the community. That's the view that I I have when it comes to I mean, we're in the community. We we are there to serve the community. Our church exists because we have become community. So, um The reason why we exist is because of the people who are in our communities that are surrounding us. And so therefore we should search out those needs in the community and meet those needs Um, I certainly think that um charity begins at home. I under understand that as well. And we certainly should take care of our own. And once our own are are taken care of, we still should continue to reach out There's always going to be a need there beyond the walls. Jesus went outside the walls. He was always outside the walls serving the needs of people outside the walls of the temple So we should be a model of the ministry of Jesus Christ. I'd like to uh take that a little, you know, a little bit further in the sense of uh Uh there's a scripture, John chapter 3, verse 16, and uh it says, for God so loved The church? The world. That he gave his only begotten son? Mm-hmm. No, it you heard Yolanda, it says, For God so loved who? The world that he gave his son and raised up the church, by the way, to minister to the world. Right. A healthy church is the only real church that can help the community. So you have you have the balance of that. If a church is inward only, they're gonna die That is so true. But at the same time, unless they are a healthy church, unless we are taking, you know, care of our people and ministering to them, feeding them the Word of God, developing them uh in ministry, uh to be able to touch other lives. They have to be healthy or they're not gonna be able to touch other people. So we're not really gonna be able to but but at the same time If if my vision is simply just for me to have a nice time in my little church on two hours on a Sunday morning, that's that's pitiful I I I I'm just gonna say this. I I I part of me says I shouldn't. Go right ahead. But I I was um I I know of a church and of course I'm not gonna say where But I know of a church that was celebrating uh a hundred and fifty years in the same building. And uh when I heard that I I rode by that church. Uh a actually I visited the church and uh it was filled with uh about half capacity It would seek maybe a hundred and ten, maybe. And uh everybody I'm not against uh uh our Senior citizens. I love senior citizens. I head it that way pretty quickly. That's right. I had a graveyard on the outside. Wow. And some say they're connected. I I I I no kid no, I'm kidding. Uh but uh the church was dying. Uh there was no young adult There were no youth. There were no children. And they were celebrating 150 years. You know what I would have had? A funeral. I I wouldn't be celebrating that. No. Wha w what's the big deal about being in a building? Uh for a hundred and fifty years. Well it's an interesting point you bring up me thinking we're on an airplane, right? And the stewardess is uh or steward is explaining what the emergency procedures are. Mm-hmm. They talk about when the oxygen masks fall. What do they tell you to do? First put one if you want the child, put one on your skin. That's a great point. And then take care of the child. You can't you're no you're of no use to that child if they passed out. That's the proper perspective. That's the proper perspective. See w what I'm saying is is that they became ingrown. and it all came became about us and we forgot about the world. We forgot about outreach. So that was a unhealthy church. Uh only a healthy church reaches out. Only a healthy church looks beyond themselves. I'm in complete agreement with the principles of that. Um I know that uh People like Chuck Colson and some others have argued that um that congregations that move beyond the size of like uh a hundred and twenty to a hundred and fifty will tend to lose um a level of community and be pulling people from a larger direction. Uh and that specifically and he says that not all Larger churches are this way. Uh but but that there's a danger with larger churches that people coming from thirty, forty minutes away can't participate mm naturally in a local community and that it's that it's uh more appropriate for for there to be, you know, a bunch of smaller congregations that are, you know, meeting and serving the needs in their community. And uh so I I personally would would warn against a mentality that says, um, like I don't know that church, that specific church well, uh, but You know, it's very possible that the point is there's just many ways to reach out and to give and to share, and I think it's feasible for a group of people to grow old together that is a loving internal community that yet has given a ton of money and or a ton of uh ministry and resources out in other directions. that might look like they're dying and yet when they get to heaven the Lord will look at 'em and say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant And so I guess my only point is that I would I would be in complete agreement that man I well, let me put it this way. For my congregation, I want us to be reaching out to everybody in the community. I want us to be a congregation that that is serving the needs of the community and growing. Uh I just I I think it's dangerous to assume too much in along those lines. That's all I'm just saying. Though I uh may disagree with some of your points. Uh A church a church uh uh well what I'm saying and what I was saying and I b by the way I grew up in small churches. Uh I know all about that. Uh my dad was a pioneer preacher. Uh he started churches. We start off small. I know what that's about. Well I started off small here myself. I had forty-eight people. Um but it's okay to stay if if people want to have that quote intimacy and the truth is you're only gonna know about eighty people, I don't care what size the church is. You're only going to know about eighty people by first name anyway. And when people say that to me about I don't you know, I don't want to come to a large church, well, you know, that's all perspective Uh you go over to Korea and be in the Pastor Chose Me and Member Church. You know, my little group doesn't look Very big. Uh I I tease people and I say if you don't like big churches, just come sit on the front row and don't look back. I I'm more interested in in people finding Christ. What I what I'm saying, and I agree with John, in that there's people that need that intimacy and there's a lot of m spiritual work that's done that you may not see with a building. But at the same time, uh it has to continue to grow. If a church is not growing spiritually, numerically, it's dying. Now you can put anything else on it you want. But if it if you want to maintain the intimacy of a hundred or a hundred and fifty people or whatever, then divide. Start another church. And let it grow. Another branch of Another branch. And and satellite churches and start reaching out. Uh that's a healthy church, at least in my mind. Uh but again, we have to be reaching out in the community. Uh w we have of course with a diversified church there's all kinds of needs. Uh we have about a hundred Hispanics in our church. I uh one of my leaders of the Hispanic uh congregation shared a story with me. We're talking about meeting needs uh uh of a young lady that's uh a single parent living in a basement with her seven month old baby, without any furniture, not even a bed to lay on. And she makes four hundred dollars a month and does not always get paid. And if she would complain Yeah. Uh uh there's another uh person that has worked an entire year And what is sad about this is it is a lawyer who is Hispanic And this and told this young lady that you come, you take care of our house and our kids, and you cook, you clean, and you work from seven to ten o'clock at night and we'll take care of your paperwork, we'll get your lawyers, we'll do all of that. We're not gonna pay you the first year, 'cause it's gonna cost us all this money to get your green card. When it got to the end of the year, she got absolutely nothing. Chingit Pei. The abuse that I have seen upsets me. Yeah In in our society right now, especially in the Hispanic area. And so w when we saw that, uh and I and I you know I know a lot of our Hispanic people, I love 'em dearly uh we're this summer to to help them to get through some barriers. Uh simply learning the English language. And we're putting classes on this summer, try to teach the adults. Yeah, you don't y you know, the children, most of them know how to speak English Right. Because of school and so forth. But the adults they are taken advantage of so many times simply because they can't read. They they and people take advantage of them time after time. And so this is an area that we felt like we have to reach out and do more for these people and help them to take care of themselves. And give them some of those things. And I know you all probably have uh other specialized needs that you have seen that you're doing to reach out into the community. Yolana, let me ask you something. Uh off the air we we're talking a little bit about some of the different programs that you have and in in last week's show uh it was alluded to that you've set up a number of programs to meet the needs of the community. Do you ever get concerned at all about um Taking your eye off the the the the ball, the real ball, and and the church becomes a social agency, uh serving the social ills, the the needs of the cause of the social ism society. Uh or Or not. Do you understand what I'm asking? I'm not sure, huh? Um the Christ the the commission that Christ gave the church was the Golden Eight disciples, right? So that's that that's the ball. That you know the job is to go out there and and And bring people to the food and and clothing and things like that. Right. Now can sometimes a chur 'cause it seems to me it's po I I I think that I might have seen this. That's why I'm asking. I think there are some churches that have stopped being churches and have become social agencies. They're not really ambassadors for Christ anymore. They're now a food pantry. They're now Social service. Do you think is that a valid concern and if so, is that something that's ever crossed your mind with your own? Well what I do I separate church ministry when I mean church such as worship time of worship and all of that, time for education such as our bot Bible study. And then meeting the needs of a community. um outside of the uh house of worship. Now that's what we call outreach in most circles. Uh I separate that and um I when I'm in the community basically I search out the needs of that community and design programs that will meet that need. In our discovery there are needs of financial basic ways to manage your money. Um being that Frederick is very prominent in the area of single parents. Then designing programs how to better manage your household as a single parent. Programs for uh latchkey kids. Those type of things. Uh our approach is not religious at all. Uh we don't get into talking about God We just meet their needs. Uh one thing that that Jesus alluded to in in one of his parables, I believe, he said, if you If uh your child was hungry, would you give him a stone? Or or would you you see, but you would give him bread. You first of all you would meet his natural need And so that's our approach is to meet the natural need of that person so that they can absorb the spiritual need. I've I've always believed that if a person's natural needs are met, they have no problem accepting those spiritual teachings that that we offer. Uh so that's how we we go about that in reaching the but you don't uh and I think this is what Todd was uh Alluding to you don't sacrifice the gospel. No, we don't sacrifice and just meet the physical need. You know, uh there there's there's a big concern I have in my heart. Uh it's a burden, especially with our tax rates just taking a huge hike in this area and rent and um uh reality is just going through the roof. Especially single parents are j you know, I know families that can't hardly make it here anymore. But the cost of housing has gotten to the place that there's a lot of young families that are having to move away. They can't They can't live here because thirteen hundred a month. Absolutely. And so that's an and w uh we're also in that area of of uh Well, we have other ministries that have come under uh m uh Mary Knightha. I'm sure you know the Dolly Wilson's ministry, which is for single mothers and and p uh uh uh parents that to help them, to uh provide housing, to provide clothing, teaching, training, help them get a job, help them to get back on their feet and so forth. It's a wonderful ministry. Uh we have um Angel food, this is a new one we just started recently. Uh where people anyone can come in and order Uh it's about seventy dollars worth of nice uh good food, good stuff for twenty-five dollars. And they order it monthly Uh it's enough to feed a family of four. Uh supposedly, they tell me, uh for a week, uh uh one person for a month. And uh that for twenty five dollars and anybody can do it. All they have to do is contact Angel Food Ministries through our church and we're we've we've just become a distribution place. uh divisions of the church. You have Sunday we go to worship. We don't go to to hand out food, you see. We we go to worship the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And then on uh then there's there's areas in our church as you described, divisions of our church, where we say, Well at this particular place is where you can go and receive food. This is a particular place where you can go and get your education on how to do certain things. Uh so we have the different divisions so that the church won't look like a mission center. so much or either um what would what do we how do we put it, kinda like a government social social service place. So we don't want the social service. No, it doesn't. It's really the church's responsibility, I think it is. That's right, and we need to put responsibility with helping people. We help people by teaching them responsibility. Riner, you're listening to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. Our guest on the panel this week are Senior Pastor of Maryath Community Uh Church of God uh Jerry Price, uh Pastor Yolanda Gamble from Shore Fellowship in Walkersville, and uh Pastor Uh Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick. We're talking about the ways that churches should be serving the community and I'm Uh you might have some things you want to respond to what's been said, John, but uh uh I also would like you if you could to maybe respond to a question I'm gonna pose. Uh I mentioned at the start of the show the the uh faith-based initiative idea and the criticism for that. And and you know as well as I know that that uh those who aren't Christian Um we'll hold will oftentimes not always, but we'll oftentimes hold it against a Christian or a Christian agency when they when they attach strings to uh serving the community. Here's a ham sandwich, by the way, do you know your Lord and Savior? Right. Right. And and uh Yolanda even a alluded to that saying that you know you have a separation there where you don't talk about God and Jesus, you're just serving the need. Um What is your reaction to that? Is that a healthy mindset? Should we concede that ground as Christians? If so, why? And if not, why? You know it's interesting. Um I think from the biggest picture possible. If a nation, uh and and the people that live in that nation when they think, oh no I might not have enough food to survive. If their first thought is, I need to go see my welfare agent, I think inevitably it leads to a cooling of a nation towards God. And the reason I say that is 'cause when when you look at Europe across the board. They're one of the coldest places to the gospel right now. And anywhere that you live in Europe, if you need something, you don't think to yourself Well, maybe I'll go to the church. You think to yourself, I'm gonna go to the state. And that is exactly the goal of of all humanism, is that the state would become the solution for all problems. And my concern with with the church taking money from the from the government goes along those same lines. You want a compassionate society? Don't force them to give you money for the poor. Don't tax the money and then give it to the poor. If you want a compassionate society, you go win their heart and and and and convince them that by giving to the poor they will be a better person and and and that they'll not just be a better person, but that in fact their society will be a more compassionate society. And uh I think the biggest example that we saw most recently was uh John Kerry and George Bush, where George Bush give gave about a third of his income to charity and John Kerry gives none because John Kerry expects the government to take care of the poor, but George Bush gives out of out of his pocket. And so I'm concerned about taking government funds uh to give it to the poor only in that I think that I think the church should do it out of our own pockets. I think we shouldn't take tax money. I think we should go to our church and we should say, Church There needs to be an orphan in this area. Let's believe that God's going to use us out of the money in our pockets to raise enough money from the businesses uh in this area we'll raise enough money and we'll do it solely under uh not a not a faith-based government initiative but solely out of just a a bunch of churches coming together and saying let's do this thing And uh I guess that's my concern is that I think I think yes we should always attach the gospel to it. Absolutely. I mean, what are we here for? I mean if i if we feed them for a day but but they go to hell for eternity, I'm sorry I use that term, uh, here on public radio. Don't apologize. Then what what good is it? You know what good have we done for them? If we really care about them, we must always be thinking about uh about their their soul eternally, uh and yet at the same time we just need to have a bigger vision as a church and say w we're not interested in letting the state Take that away from us. Let's do it. Let's do it ourselves here in Frederick. Let's raise the money ourselves and not wait for the state to come along and give us the money. We don't need their money. God's given us enough in i in ourselves. And if they give us a little bit in the meantime, we'll use it. But I just I just think that it's dangerous for us as a society to surrender that over to the state because every nation in the world where the state is responsible for that, they don't need God anymore. I think that is so true. And we c so I agree that we cannot put all of our energy on government uh funding. However, uh being head of an educational program, we certainly need funding to uh further educate the community I think when it comes to depending upon government funds to feed the community all those things, I totally agree with that. But however, there are areas that are reaching the community, such as education that the fundings really are very good for. And it empowers us and enable us to do many other things. I don't know if I agree with that I in the community. Okay. So we uh I two minutes. I I um I I I just want to sum it up for me. If I can. But I just wanna I wanna sum it up. That wasn't nearly vague enough for me. We're gonna have to do better. I I believe that you need obvious needs. I understand that But you also need to meet the real needs, which are the spiritual needs. We need to win people to Christ because and then after that w there's another level. We meet obvious, we need real, but there's other real needs that go beyond conversion on winning somebody to Jesus. People need marriage counseling, people people need encouragement, people need to be equipped, people need education. uh Yolanda talked about. Uh people have various needs and we need to raise people up that they're self-efficient and and they become I had a guy say this one time. He said I came to your church as a patient Now I'm leaving as a physician. And that's where we need them. That's where we want them. We take 'em in, we love on 'em, but we equip 'em to be a physician. That's what education's about. Yeah let me John if you can do it in about twenty seconds you can speak. Okay. Um well I was just gonna say I think I think education as well has been surrendered over to the government and I think Uh I hope the government decides to get out of the business because I think it's done a poor job across the board. I think uh I think the church uh I think the church should should be in every area possible along these lines and that that we need to give, give, give until we c until we can't give any more and then keep on giving because somehow God will give to us if we just keep on giving that same way. I think that's what he intends for us to do Sounds like a very good note on which to end the show. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, voice you just heard from Crossroad Valley Chapel in Frederick. You also heard uh Pastor Yolanda Gamble's voice from Shore Fellowship in Walkersville, and Pastor Jerry, Jerry Price the senior pastor at Marinatha Community Church of God here in Frederick. Again a reminder that this show is brought to you by All Shredd. Please support them with your business if you would. Thanks for listening. God bless.