Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator. Troy Skinner. Today's show is brought to you by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction, Pay Cell Security. The Fredder Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson said once the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom and it's in that spirit that we seriously wrestle with important ideas and might even disagree with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth About the most important issues that face us in this world. And a reminder that the views expressed by the participants in the show are the views of the participants in the show only. Last week if you were listening you heard us talk a bit about uh fairness and justice and the role that the church should play and uh how that coincides with the role the government plays and that sort of thing. We we didn't really feel like we finished Not that you would ever finish a topic, I suppose. We didn't feel like we came to any sense of closure, so we're we're going to pick that back up again this week with the uh the same participants we had last week. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, is here. Tony Fish, the uh spiritual leader at Unity Church in Frederick and John Morehouse, the senior minister at Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Frederick. Last time we ended with a round robin everybody had a chance to give a parting shot, and Tony didn't have a chance. We're going to let her start, but first I want to kind of reset up what we're talking about here a little bit. Um, is life fair? And what role should we have um uh in ensuring that life be as fair as possible? We as individuals, we as part of uh the government process and and we uh in our church bodies and organizations. Um there was some disagreement uh last time uh Jonathan Schweitzer uh with the view that uh you know the government should be less involved and it should be up to the individual and the church should be working to to motivate the individual to do the right thing. Um John Moore's institutions maybe is a good way to say. Okay, religious institutions. Yeah, I don't want to I'm I'm trying to synopsize as best as I can. And uh John Morehouse and uh uh and Tony Fish didn't exactly agree with each other, but were more along the lines perhaps of thinking that uh uh that the government should be more involved and the church's role maybe should be t toward prodding the government to do what it should be doing on behalf of society as a whole Uh I hope I've done uh fair justice in in wrapping that up. If I haven't, you'll have ample opportunity to to correct me. Uh anyway, so that being the setup, uh Tony? Um you it's interesting because you have a tendency to agree with both Johns. So we're gonna put you on the spot and give you a chance to think through publicly this issue for yourself. And that's a very good um that's a very good I think summary for me. I'm finding myself agreeing with parts of of both of the positions of John and John. Um because I think we all come from a place of wanting the best for this country and for the wanting for the best for the people. I I would disagree. Let me start by while I agree with some of the things that that John Sweitzer is saying. Let me s start with what I disagree with John on. Uh John says that that biblically and for a his the evangelical Christian we humans are limited and we start out in the whole. We start out um w with sin. Uh it is it is my belief and and and from the faith tradition that I come from that that that we start out good. that that there are no limits for humankind so long as humankind acknowledges that over everything there is this power that is beyond all things and in all things there is God. So then do we do we become bad then? We by our choices. By our choices in this life, we make wrong choices. Um we make as individuals and as collectives, we make wrong choices and when we make wrong choices it moves us away from that connection with God, that oneness in the in the God's in Godhead. So we ha we start out with an amazing amount of power. We don't believe we have it, and therefore we don't. Once we begin to think that we don't, once we begin to think that we in fact start in the hole, we've caught ourselves in that hole. So when we when we look at individually and with we look at it from the place of solving our problems one of the first things that we have to un t that we have to believe in is that there is a possible s that there is a solution that we can all come to work with. That we have to look at both Grace and works. It's not an either-or. Without grace, works don't happen, and without works, grace isn't manifested. It's not an either-or process. And so for me to say that I am only saved by grace takes away the hands and the feet and the mouth and the ears of God that have been manifested in me or in any of us. to do the work. If I do works without that underlying understanding that it is not I, but the Father who does them, which is what Jesus tells me, then my works can be misguided. They they're not going to reach out to to the to the heart of of the individual, to the Christ in the individual. And I think, I believe, that that's something that we as a democracy have lost. I think that our founding fathers had an understanding of that that relationship and I believe that over time we've made bad choices in our government and in our day-to-day lives and in our churches. where we have lost that centeredness. And until we find it back, we're gonna struggle. So there's my response on that particular piece. Okay. Now John, do you want to uh 'cause I'm not entirely sure you would disagree with some of what she said. Uh the idea that uh, you know, grace without works You know, faith without works is a dead faith and all those sorts of things. And um I'm wondering for the context what we're talking about here and fairness and distribution of wealth and all those kinds of justice, equality, egalitarian type issues. Um does it matter if we start in the hole or if we dig ourselves into the hole? I mean the end result in a practical sense is that We're all in a hole right now, right? So I'm not sure any practical outworking as far as what we should be doing. Well I would say that it makes a difference in this sense. Um and again I think it it Um you have to excuse me, I say this in the kindest of ways. Um, that that I think it tends towards an arrogance for us to not acknowledge the uh the reality of of how sinful we are now and that I think then if we that it tends towards a control mentality coupled with that arrogance. If we uh if we start to feel like we've got to make the difference now ourselves and we gotta we we have to finish the job. Because um it it's a little bit like what happened to all of us when we were growing up. And as uh as little kids, elementary school, we tended to need our parents to be on top of us to do everything. But for most of us when we hit the teenage years and the hormones kicked in, we began to realize that we were thinking for ourselves and if anybody tried to control us and force us to do something We reacted against it and we were like, you know what? Get off of me. I'll figure out the right way to do it. And I believe that Well, every society that has chosen to attempt a government solution to poverty has tended to uh as a result um uh undermine the productivity of the society. Uh obviously uh all communist nations uh on the face of the planet are um uh that have proven over the last forty to eighty years that this is the case. Uh the only one that that uh that seems to be otherwise is China and China has um embraced a market mentality with a lot of things that uh that somehow seems to transcend every other communist approach uh to control um uh as a form of taking care and distributing wealth. And my concern is always this that if we take away justice has to do with this. If I work hard And I'm I'm kind to people, there's gonna be a benefit to it. But justice also says this, that if I'm rude to people and if I treat people wrongly, there's gonna be a consequence to this. And any kind of economic justice that doesn't take those things into play is going to end up numbing our senses to reality. that that we gotta be kind, we've gotta care about one another. We have to uh win people's hearts. We're not all children. We don't need the government to treat us all like children. We need the government to treat us like adults and and and allow us to choose what's right. And so that's why why I think Alex Toc Tocoville said it best that um the the the way our government is set up, I in this this in this sense I'd agree with Tony, I think it it doesn't work outside of people being good. But I'd even go s go farther than that. I'd say that there is no government on the face of the planet that works. outside of people being good. And as soon as we try to force them to do what is good, we lose their hearts. I'm not talking about it. I'm not talking about totalitarianism here, John I I'm not talking about a government that takes over the needs of all of its people. I'm assuming that there's a basic morality. And in fact, in my tradition, we have the opposite view. We believe that people are born inherently good and that they are inherently good and then they m and then they are prone to making mistakes uh that you would not call sin, but that's not the condition by which we're born, and that we need to return to the state by which God loves us and creates us. And the government's role is not to uh treat us like children, it is to treat us like adults, but it is to take care of its people. And the the problem that I see happening so often is that we don't seem to have uh any kind of effective system for taking care of the people who can't take care of themselves through no fault of their own, I might add. There are plenty of examples of people who have gotten by in the world by uh abusing the system, sure enough, but there are people who have not worked and who have gotten by and made made a lot of money at the expense of other people. I would only look at seeing things like pornography, for instance, as an example of that and the industry around that. And what is what is the role of a government if it isn't to protect its population, its populace, its citizenry And and you know, I'm not saying that I'm all for big government. I think that I think there's big government and then there's good government. And I'm for good government, which I don't think we have right now Uh and and as long as we don't uh as we don't tackle that uh that reality and begin to look at how government can actually work for its citizens, which I think is what the Founding Fathers had in mind, quite frankly. uh then I don't think uh we'll ever see any kind of solution to the problem. H individual human beings can do a lot in their local communities, they're very powerful But there comes a time when you need real money and real solutions to solve real problems. And we can't just expect the the the goodness and the largesse. of good faith believing people when fifty percent of our country is not if it doesn't have any faith tradition at all. Yeah, I want to respond to that. Um Uh apparently George Bush and John Kerry uh in their giving uh charitably um uh go went went like this. John Kerry gave next to no money uh from his personal income to charity. George Bush gave thirty percent of his personal income to charity. And there was a big media um uh rebuke in v uh in lieu of the tsunami that America wasn't giving enough money uh to help out But what the media kept ignoring was that the individuals in the United States were giving so much just out of the largesse of their heart that it blew away what the government was giving It just totally, totally uh uh overshadowed what what the government uh can do. And and this is my point is that I find that as long as we believe that we can't trust people to do the right thing, they won't and they'll leave the government to do it. But in and in this sense I think potentially I believe Uh people are better than maybe you do. I think if we let the government get out of the picture that we would be surprised at how much the people of the United States will give out of the goodness of their heart to take care of these things. In fact, um I yeah. In fact I think what what you'll find is that the more the government does it again the more people would just feel like it's not their responsibility and so they won't do it. And the tsunami I think is a huge example of that. Well Tony's been itching to talk, so Yes. I I find I find that interesting, John. This idea that the American people did not give. I I what I saw was that the American people in fact did. amazingly roll out in into the tsunami. And so I I I think that that acknowledgement is their education. It's that acknowledgement. They spent their time. We've people gone over um everybody's done that And I believe that there's a difference between American people responding to crisis, which we tend to do beautifully. We respond to the one time big crisis. What we're not responding to are the kids who don't in our neighborhood, in in Frederick, who don't have enough to eat in the morning. who went who relied upon the head start program because both of their parents worked in order to make a minimum wage. They had to stay at home or with somebody. There is no Head Start program for them to go to. So that they can get a meal and start educ education. There is n there money was cut for that and we're not stepping in to do that. But that's a th that's that's something we see every day. We the kids that don't have a place to go after school or until their parents get home, they roam the streets. We cut off funding for the basketball clinic. that was happening in the local gym until midnight so that the kids had a place to go. It's the everyday Everyday poverty, the everyday holds that we don't respond too well. As a c as a as a people. I have I absolutely agree with you. We spot respond to the crisis. It's the it's the things that that happen to us on a day to day that we don't respond well to and when we when the government cuts back on it, we don't pick up and and fill in the holes. Government consistently, this budget that George Bush has got is cutting significantly out of social services Granted, there is waste. My sister worked in Social Security for a long time and she says, there's waste there. You don't throw the baby out with the bathwater. You fix the issues, but you don't keep cutting the social service projects that'll help these young kids, these mothers who have no place to go. and expect the community to be able to do it because it's bigger than the community and we're not doing that. So I'm not arguing our our uh our large S, what I'm arguing is that we don't pick up the Slack when the government consistently cut social services to spend it on things that I don't pay I would prefer my tax dollars not go to. And yet it it always seems to go there. So I I you know, that's my issue with that. Okay. You're listening to the Frederick Face debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD? The voice you just heard, Tony Fish, the spiritual leader at Unity Church in Frederick, also with us. John Morehouse, the Senior Minister at Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Frederick, and Jonathan Sweitzer, with uh who's a pastor at uh Crossroad Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. Um I want to uh take everything we've talked about in the last like ten minutes and and and and uh try to bring it to uh kind of a big picture idea uh again. It's kind of my job I guess to try to get us back into the big picture. the scheme of things. Is the issue that the government isn't doing what the government should be doing, or is the issue that the individuals who make up society aren't doing what they should be doing. Do we want the government to be having that responsibility? 'Cause when the the uh And should the church be somehow synthesized with the government to to make that happen? Because when the when the church and the government merge and become one Uh sometimes horrific things happen, the Inquisition, the Crusades, things like that happen. So they should be separate. So do we really want the government to even be involved in these service elements and these spiritual things that the church really should be driving. Is it a question of the government didn't send enough money or or to uh to And commit enough money for welfare and Head Start programs and those sorts of things. Or is the issue that not enough people who have their fannies in pews aren't reaching in their pockets and giving more than a dollar when the basket comes by? Both. Ooh, yes. I would say exactly. I would say yes to both of those. I I don't think the government is doing enough and I don't think the individuals are doing enough. And there's a respond to that? And so there are different roles for each of them to play. There are different roles for each. The individuals need to be focused on what's happening in their communities and get out and work in those communities and and do that. Without and and here's where I'm I'm absolutely sure that John and I will disagree, John Schweitzer and I will disagree, without strings attached. You don't have to accept my Jesus to take my food. You don't have to accept my faith in order for me to help you. And so many times in the Christian faith we're willing to give, but you gotta come listen to the message, and we'd really prefer you to s to to s to accept our belief. I'm I'm just, you know, I I'm ha that's where I find you have yeah, when you have a John respond to that and then we'll have John Morehouse have a chance to uh jump in as well. He's he's kind of been stuck in the corner here for a minute and we'll we'll we'll rectify that. Um the uh definitely from a Christian perspective, we are of the opinion that that the eternal soul is way more important than what happens here um in our lives and that that our lives here are are are but a but a shadow and pass away and that that uh to to have our relationship with God right so that eternity spent in in h uh uh with him uh far outshadows it. So certainly from a from a conservative Christian perspective, the preaching of the gospel will will always be uh right next to whatever we do to give to the poor and um we celebrate that because Because we really, really care that God uh had the relationship with us that he has always desired for eternity. Uh coupled with that, I think, is this question of um whether or not uh I lost I lost the other thought. There's another thought there having to do with um I forget. Well while that thought comes back, I want you to maybe d directly respond to you th is it is it a fair characterization of the uh mainline uh Christian denominations, the evangelical uh Christian denominations, is is it a fair characterization to say that they'll only give to the poor if they'll sit down and listen to a a an hour and a half presentation on the life of Jesus Christ. No, I say this. But the idea of there being strings attached. You know, you gotta listen to what I have to say about Jesus. Or will they just give the can of food? Do you think that's fair or not? I think that that it is it is most likely that that across the board conservative Christians when they when they give charity are gonna look for that to be an opportunity for them to tell people, you know, God loves you and He's made a way for you to be at one with him through Christ. I think that that it's a fair character characterization to say that our message is going to follow our our act of love and uh be closely connected to it. Whether or not we would require you to accept it um in order to to receive, I think um I don't think the requirement to accept it would be there. Yeah. And I said that I didn't mean that it happens I didn't say that it happens in all cases. So there is a tendency to attach the message to the gift. Okay? And in in some cases from experience It's been a pretty heavy string. And that's not I would not claim that for all of them, but there has there have been in situations that's been a pretty heavy string. that the guilt laid on you not accepting and accepting my gift is is pretty heavy to bear So I would want us to be careful about that, okay? And that's where I was going with that one. Not to say that all of them won't give food if you don't listen. But it's that association and the tendency to get heavy on it and lay a guilt. Well I promised John Morehouse he'd have a chance to speak after John Swipes her but I totally threw that rule out the window. My apologies but Well, in in our tradition we believe that there are there should be no strings attached to to promoting justice and helping people, period. Uh that you do not you that's not required uh for you to accept our beliefs. In fact we are universalists and we believe that there are many. paths to God, not just one. So we wouldn't even begin to prescribe for you what path you're going to take. Uh the point is to help one another and and And uh and unlike John, our faith tradition uh holds that this life is very important. And the here and the now is vital to uh to the uh continuation of what is good about civilization. So we we have a very different way of looking at the world. In fact our denominational magazine is named the world. And I was told once when I was doing my training that that was uh completely antithetical to other to other traditions and I understand that. But the point was for us We don't try to we don't try to figure out what God wants for us. We try to live in a compassionate and kind way towards those other beings that we that we share the planet with. And that for us means that we we uphold and we support the inherent worth and dignity of people. We stand against what is wrong. We do have a morality. And it's pretty obvious when something is wrong, we stand against it and we do everything we can to speak out against injustice, but ultimately retribution for that kind of wrong needs to rest with our government. And I'm not a big government person here. I know I'm coming across that way. That's not really what I mean. It it is not either or, it is an and. We locally, each of us individually, particularly in our communities, have a responsibility to show uh God's love for us be the hands of God. And then we have to have some kind of safety net under the whole thing For when you have those moments, as Tony was putting it so eloquently, when two people are working three jobs and they don't have enough food and they don't have time for their kids because that's the way the system is uh the w the way the system is uh weighted against us and that that requires a larger institutional response than a c than a a local church can possibly do. And it requires a government being responsible for its people. Yeah, I was gonna uh respond earlier to the question of uh government and the institution specifically that is created uh when it comes to welfare. Um it's interesting to me that that Christian orphanages have often been mocked um in society and I think that there is a um a tendency to to think that if it's a Christian organization there's something wrong with it, but if if there's a government organization that that it has greater likelihood to be um a uh you know, a pure organization. I think that's dangerous. I did want to say this in finishing up. I'm of the opinion that God is uh intimately involved with humanity and that because of that intimate involvement with humanity He is literally responding to what we do. And when we choose to not follow him or do what he wants us to do, he will remove his blessing. And that when we choose to respond to him and what he's called us to do, that he will in fact bring his blessing and bless people phenomenally. In fact it used to be in this nation, uh, with churches that if they uh if there was a hurricane or something like that, the pastors would call their people to repentance because God was bringing the famine and those kinds of things. And I I literally believe that that is still the case today that God still interacts with us. and blesses us and removes that blessing based on how we respond to him. Well John Sweitzer gets the last word. Thank you for listening to this week's edition of the Frederick Faith Debate. We'll be back again next week this same time. If you're a local faith community leader or no one who would like to participate in a future round table, please contact me, Troy Skinner, at the offices of WFMD. Also, if you have a topic you'd like to hear discussed, please share that as well. My email address is Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's T-R-O-Y-S-K-I-N-N-E-R at Clearchannel All One Word dot com. Thanks again for listening. We'll be back next week and Douglas.