Welcome to the Frederick Bay Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Froy Skinner. Again, if you're joining us for the first time, I want to explain what the show is all about, kind of the ground rules, really are that there are no ground rules. Product Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson once said the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom, and in that spirit we will seriously wrestle with important ideas that might even disagree with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. And this week we're going to talk about what from a Christian perspective is the central issue that everyone will face. the person of Jesus Christ. And here to talk about uh Jesus and uh who he is, who he was. Our Khalil El Shazli, the uh president of the Islamic Society of Frederick Drew Boswell, pastor of Daybreak Community Church, and John Sweitzer, the pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel in Frederick. Thank you all for uh for being on the show again uh this week. Last week we talked about, you know, whether we can agree that we're all talking about the same God or uh or not. If it when we say God, is it the same God or are we talking about a different God? And I kept trying as best I could to keep the conversation from steering into talking about Jesus Christ and who he was because that is such a major dividing line in in the in the two faiths. Um and there was this this stress and this pressure and and uh we would keep drifting into a conversation about Jesus and I have to pull the rug out from under it and say, No, no, no, that's next week. Well, next week is now this week. We're here So, I'm gonna start this show similar to how we started the show uh last time we were talking about the person of uh uh uh uh uh uh who God is. Uh do that now with the person of Jesus and give everybody a chance at the beginning to state their view of what their faith teaches them about who Jesus is and was. And uh I guess we'll do it in the same order we did last time. We'll start with uh Drew from uh Daybreak and uh in thirty seconds if you can who is Jesus Uh well we have to go by who Jesus was according to the way he's revealed to us in Scripture. And first off, uh believe that he uh is revealed to us as in the beginning of the gospels, as the God who is with us, the the um uh and he's also his when he begins to teach and he begins to do other things he actually is claiming to be God So Jesus Christ, uh I believe we would differ with uh with uh Khalil is that you know he believes he was a prophet, whereas we believe he was actually God in the flesh. Okay, K Khalil? You already said my view, so we've got a lot of move right along. Uh well as the in Islam Jesus Christ is viewed as uh A prophet just like uh Noah Abraham, uh King David, uh Joseph, uh Moses and uh Prophet Muhammad, he's one of the prophets. Uh and that's where it starts, that's where it ends. And uh John Sweitzer? Um I would say that Jesus Christ is the fullness of the Godhead in bodily form, that he is uh the glory of God. Shown to mankind in greater fullness than anywhere else in all of history. That he is the grace And the truth of God boiled down into one human individual and that that God's greatest wisdom is expressed and shown to the world. in the person of Jesus Christ. He's the center point of all history. He is uh the only way to God, uh that God can be reconciled with man. And uh he was born of a virgin, and yet he was with God from before the creation of the world, and he will be the one that returns on the final day. to sweep up his bride the church and to uh sit on the the judgment throne to judge and the reason he can do that is because he suffered in every way that that we did as humans and uh and yet still was without sin. And so I believe that Christ is Everything that God has ever intended to want to show us as human beings, he is the wisdom of God boiled down. Okay, so we have uh the the two Christian pastors saying that Jesus Christ is is God and the uh the Islamic uh viewpoint Muslim Muslim viewpoint whatever I'm sorry. Uh still learning the proper way to identify these things Um that he is not. Let let's, like we did last week's show, let's try to focus for a few minutes if we can about the things we would agree on. All right. Okay, can I s can I start that real quick? Coming off of last week, the question was whether or not uh I thought we had the same God as as as Islam. And I just wanted to address real quick Um and uh where I potentially would think that that Islam's God is not the same God as Christianity, and that is this. The ultimate deception is the one that looks the most like the truth And to the extent that Allah looks like God, but ends up through the Quran leading people to try to approach God in a way that God cannot be approached. Uh I think it's deception and I think could possibly be uh what I would call Satan's greatest tool for keeping people away from God. And so so even though every description that I see of God in the Quran I have to agree with Um, I do feel like that there's enough that's missing when we come to uh when we come to Christ and salvation that it's extremely dangerous. uh as a as a religion. And and anyways, I say all that to say that there's so much else that I do agree with Islam about. I think that's where your question was headed. Um, you know, all these other things that that we're gonna say right now. I agree with all those things but that area of potential deception I believe is is everything. Okay. Well that's uh pretty strong stuff. I don't know if Khalil wants to respond at at all before I get into what I was going to ask about Yes, no, you don't have to. No, I'll I'll respond to that. Uh I wouldn't use the word uh deception to make it seem like it was fabricated or uh manipulated uh the Quran as it is as it was revealed uh in its original text has been the same genuine copy as you have today Uh no man, no human being has altered a single letter or even a pronunciation of any letter of any word or modified any paragraph in it. And it tells it like it is. It's the word of God revealed to Prophet Muhammad through the Holy Spirit, uh, Gabriel. And uh it is what it is. Uh if uh we disagree on something, that's fine, so be it. And uh if there is any uh you view God the way you want to view God, I view God the way I view God. I didn't call uh Christianity deception or I didn't call the Bible deception. or s refer to it as uh Satan Satan's ultimate deception. It's very s uh there are little strong words uh right there but uh that's okay. We're allowed to disagree. We're allowed we're here to uh converse and exchange ideas and uh that's uh I think it's helpful. Okay. Um I yeah, I want to respond to that 'cause I I can't say at all that in any way I think Muhammad intended to deceive. Um and I think that I could even say that um I'm very open to the fact that he was very sincere every step of the way, uh, and that he intended to do very good things for the Arabic people. Um and uh I guess I want to uh Shw those are strong terms and I wanna almost apologize to you for using them because I value your friendship very highly and I don't wanna I don't want to just create this this antagonism between us and yet I I have to because of what scripture says I I I I think if I'm gonna be true to what my scripture says that I that I do have to use words like that and um I'm hoping that that won't in any way shut down the the conversation or the discussion uh so much as just help to clarify Uh maybe the intensity of uh you know what I believe about scripture. Uh you want to respond, yeah. Um I need to correct John when he said Prophet Muhammad was sent to the Arabic people. Uh Prophet Muhammad was sent to uh the whole universe, to human and jinn as equal. Uh Jen where we call uh ghosts. Yeah. Yeah. Angels. Angels. No, no, Jen are different than angels. No angels uh angels genie. Genie is is the classic. Oh you call ghosts, yeah Yeah. Okay. Okay. Except our us don't live in uh lamps. Okay. So that's uh the Prophet Muhammad does not send to Arabs actually if you view The composition of Muslims nowadays, Arabs, represents about twenty one or twenty two percent of the total Muslim popularity or population throughout the world So Prophet Muhammad was not uh it happens to be an Arab. He happened to be that uh he was poor uh born and raised in that part of the world, but he was not sent to Arabs and Islam is not a religion specific uh as some view to Arabs or a as third world religion or uh it has restriction to time and place. Islam has no time, have no boundaries uh no uh specific place. It's it's sent for humankind in general. If you if you want to embrace it, that's fine. If you don't embrace it that's also fine. But Uh regardless of what you say, John, it will not affect our relationship. We we we could discuss and dialogue and and and uh I will take no uh Offense to any of that. I think I think the main difference uh is kind of our point of authority of where we get our concept of who Jesus is, whereas you would get your concept of who Jesus is from the Quran, we would get it from Scripture or the Bible. And uh and I think that they are described in those two uh ref books as being different. That's the bottom line and uh I know today we're not dealing with that, so I'm not gonna dive into that. But I think that we're gonna need to come back and have a discussion about the Quran versus the scriptures because ultimately that's and I and I think what uh and we we we've taken a little bit of a detour from what the the gist of the show is, but however I I think it all it it does help to illustrate. That there is there is a t as much as there is there are a lot of commonalities and a lot of things we'll we will agree on, there there are some major divides and at some point at the end of the day If you know if if the Christian is going to be true to their faith and if the Muslim is going to be true to their faith, they're going to have serious disagreement and if they're not going to be honest enough, and I applaud John Schweitzer for being honest and direct and and not dancing around or or trying to sugarcoat uh what his belief teaches him. That's what this show you know, that was probably the purest and uh um most honest moment that this show has had And it's an incarnation so far, since since its inception back in October, November. We'll work harder to get some better ones in that. So I think that that that uh I think there's a folding chair in here somewhere. But I think that that you know, th that's the truth. A Christian's uh if a Christian's gonna take away the the flowery stuff and say, look, here's the deal. If you don't believe in Jesus Christ as your personal savior, you're going to hell and if you teach something else it's a lie, and if it's a lie it's from Satan because Satan is the author of th those are the kinds of things that would be said if they were to disrobe themselves of political correctness. So I think it's good that those sorts of things are said so we can talk about them and Have an opportunity to interchange and stuff. I was just reading this uh out of this Selections from the Quran. Uh 569 It says, those who believe and those who are Jews, Sabians, and Christians, anyone who believes in God in the last day and acts honorably should have no fear nor will will they be saddened. And I think again that this is this is where Christians and uh Muslims are different. Muslims actually believe that that Christians if they really honor God have the potential of ending up in heaven. Anyways just by following the scriptures as we have it, that we could potentially be good and righteous enough to earn salvation, um uh in heaven. But Christianity on the other hand claims that there really is no other way. And um so so there is at the end of the day disagreement, but I I think it's possible that the Christians are the more disagreeable ones than than the Muslims. Am I right about that? You're right about that, but uh I don't know You have to look at this paragraph, what verse it came from and what preceded that and which Christian Jews it refers to. and what time frame and and and all of that. Okay, so let me ask you th ask you this. Sorry to grab that mic o out of your face there. Would you say that there are some Christians and Jews uh that will get to heaven without necessarily reading the Quran or following the Quran, but but just by following their own scriptures could end up uh being righteous enough to earn s earn uh paradise. Which verse he got this from? See it's very difficult to take one paragraph out of a book and not knowing the history and uh the intention of it. And and especially it's not in Arabic and I Right. I have difficulty. I have to read it in Arabic and then read the explanation and interpretation of it and what the intention, what the time frame it was revealed and which group was re uh revealed to. Uh I can't just take any verse out of the Quran and try to explain it unless I really know the history of it and the context of it. So I'll I'll be I'll be doing Any scripture uh this service. Well let me let me reset the show and then we'll try to get uh back on track with what's left and and try to talk a little bit more about what the original intent of the show was, talk about the person of Jesus Uh you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. My name is Troy Skinner. I'm acting as the show's moderator. Uh John Sweitzer is the pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel. Uh K Khalil L. Shuzley is the Islamic Society of Frederick's president And uh Drew Boswell is the uh pastor at Daybreak Community Church. Um let's try to keep this part of it uh short and then we'll have time to expand on what's remaining in the show longer. But I want to go around real quick and let's talk about some things that we can agree upon with uh in in in the person of Jesus. Jesus was a historical figure who truly existed. We all agree with that, correct? Yes. Yes. Jesus At minimum plays the role of profit. Yes. At minimum. Now we know that there's a difference in the concepts of the role the prophet plays, I believe. But yeah, we agree that he was a prophet. Okay, maybe we'll talk about that in a minute because I'm not sure that I know I that I know that what those differences are. So okay. Um uh Jesus set a good moral example. Absolutely. And um if people were to follow his guidelines and the way he lived his life and the and the way in the way he told people to live his life, that would be a good thing. Yes. Absolutely. So those are things we all agree on. And we also agree that he was born of a virgin. That is correct. Okay. So we agree okay, I did not know that, so we agree on that. Okay. Meaning specifically that God That's right, but it's not a good thing. But whereas you think that Jesus was begotten or his existence began with that birth we believe that he existed has always existed. That's the only difference. Yeah, that'd be a difference. That's the difference in the virgin conception. Yeah. Now let's uh now do does do the Muslims teach that Jesus will come again Absolutely. Jesus will come back, establish the kingdom of peace, and then will be the day of judgment after that. Okay. It would be the end of the world after that. Now let me Khalil and Drew you could flesh out a little bit what uh the different role of of prophets or is that not a cr Christ question? Well I think part of it begins with with the real with the difference that They believe a Messiah doesn't have to be divine. Whereas for us, clearly Christ is considered divine. So for them the Messiah could come, die on the cross, be born of a virgin, and then come again. uh in set up the kingdom of peace but not necessarily have to be um divine in order to do so. Let me correct that. Uh Muslims believe that Jesus Christ did not die uh in a cross. It's referred to in the Quran that God made someone look exactly like him. Jesus Christ is alive right now until he comes back and established a kingdom of peace according to the Quran. Okay, interesting. And now I think you read that in the Quran. Yes. Okay. Yeah, that would be a different thing. Emphatically stated in the Quran that they did not kill him. They did not crucify him. So the point is Jesus Christ. He is alive right now. Establish the Kingdom. Th my understanding is that Muslims believe that the Bible is the Word of God and that the Quran is the Word of God and that they're both holy scriptures. Is that true? The original text, the unmodified They think that we modified the Bible and that's why Muhammad had to come to corrupt our mind. Not truly the the prophets usually the the reason God sent prophets is When God created Adam and Eve, people worshiped God and God alone. And as the time went by, people faded away from that and they started worshiping idols, they started worshiping other things. Then he sent other prophets and started with Noah. Noah was a prophet for he lived for 950 years and only a handful of people believed in him and believed in God And then we all know about uh the great uh what do you call it? Uh Moses Abraham. Yeah. And the great Fod. And then Mo God sent Jacob Joseph all of these people all of this prophets would come in to remind people, put them back on the right track And and Moses came the same way to save the Israelites from from uh Pharaoh and put them on the right track. And when they sidetracked, Jesus Christ came in. to put them back on the right track. Okay, but coming back to the scriptures question, don't you believe that that the the Jewish scriptures at one point were actually correct but then they got modified somehow. Then you believe that the Christian scriptures at one time were correct when they came right from Christ, but then they got modified. When humans start modifying it for political or for uh human gains that's when uh it's very much like if you look at your card title from the MVA says any alteration will void it why That's exactly the reason. You cannot modify scripture because once humans start digging into it, start And so at that point then it becomes untrustworthy and it's it's it's it's akin to garbage. Right. We gotta address why it is that that you felt 'cause you just you just clarified why it is that they feel felt like the scriptures got uh modified because it got political. And many Protestants today would claim the same thing, that that Christianity seemed to go astray when Constantine made it the the religion of the state. And it's interesting that there were many in the body of Christ at the time that Muhammad would have interacted with that would have believed that very thing, that because Christianity became a state religion that it got modified and it's very interesting to me that you gave that is the reason why you why why Uh Muslims. Can we go back to the idea of the of Jesus being the prophet and the and that kind of concept? Okay, the difference I think would be in our understanding is that um is that When the prophets taught, they taught as one who had heard from God and were and were portraying a message. They were saying, This is what God said, this is what he told me, here's what he told me to do. Like build a ark or whatever. Uh when Jesus came the uh the the people said, Well this man speaks as though he has authority, as though he as you know, he's God himself and he's claiming to be God and he's speaking as one who has that authority And they hated him for that and they really came after him for that 'cause he was cla and they they w he when he says, I am, you know, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father and those other type of quotes that he gave. uh they would rin their clothes and they would call it blasphemy and things like that. And so when he spoke, he actually confirmed the Old Testament. He supported all of the teachings at the way that they had the Old Testament at that time So when Christ taught, he actually affirmed the Old Testament and then um and then he went on to then we go on to have the gospels. So which interestingly enough, uh Drew Khalil, I i i it's amazing how this discussion has driven us back to what can be trusted, the Quran or the Bible. And we we have got to have that discussion at some point because That's where we all derive our authority from. I mean, clearly you are very committed to to understanding the Quran and and preaching and teaching it, and same thing true with us about the scriptures, and so everything that we believe stems from a basic disagreement about which one can be trusted. And both can't be true if you say that uh that uh if you hold to the scriptures or the Bible as being uh authoritative and then the Quran as well, there's there there's disagreements I believe within both of those books and so they both can't be true. So one has to be false and one has to be true. So we got off again, Troy. The question if if we're not going to uh be able to agree I mean we I think we would all agree that we know what we know about God. H humans know what we know about God because of what God has revealed. And one of his primary modes of revelation that we have available to us today would be uh the written word in either for the Muslim in the Quran and for the Christian in the Old and New Testament. Yes. And if If those aren't and see if they have faith in the documents as being trustworthy and if they're not, then everything else falls falls apart, absolutely. But it seems to me I'm uh I'm we do have to do a show on this 'cause I'm wrestling with trying to figure out If somebody were to try to change, because I'm a c um, you know, anybody who's listened to the show for a while knows I've come from a Christian perspective. Sure. Uh if somebody were to try to change uh the Bible to to indicate that Jesus uh was and is God when in fact that's not true. There are so many, not just flat statements that would have to be changed, but so many foreshadowing uh ideas and metaphors and things that are hinted at and things that people didn't really make the connections on until hundreds and hundreds of years later to say, you know what? Aha Wh uh and for example, you know, God leading the people, uh the the the Israelites out of Egypt, rescuing them from their slavery, and that being for the Christian being representative of of man being rescued from his sin through faith in Jesus Christ. That's a metaphor that Passover that that is beyond being able to edit through and sh uh it seems to me. So I'm I'm gonna do that. In fact, along those lines, the entire New Testament, practically every verse would have to be would have had to have been rewritten because the entire New Testament in every practically every passage of the of the uh New Testament refers to Christ as God. And so to to somehow change all of that would have been a really monumental transformation. That is true. Well but that it that kind of is a different show. But let me ask you this then. The Christian believes that the only way to salvation, to heaven, uh is through Jesus Christ. Right. Muslims don't believe that obviously. It's it's uh y you earn your way I guess through through good works and God. Uh you God is there Uh he's everywhere. Uh he's nearby. Uh God says in the Quran, if my slaves or my servant ask about me, I am nearby. Uh there's there's no one who would uh mediate between you and God It's it's you and God and there's no barrier in between. Uh to get through God is to practice uh your faith. Uh how do you interact with people, how do you interact with your parents, how do you interact with your family, how you interact with your kids, how you interact with your neighbors how you ac interact with your coworkers, how you practice your religion. Do you lie? Do you cheat? Do you kill? Uh do you commit adultery? All of that, that's what determines uh how much bad deeds and how much good deeds do you have And everything that you do, you are questioned about. Every little and big thing that you do, good or bad deeds, you will be uh responsible for the definitely has to do a show not only on the scriptures that uh uh we're gonna do a thing about you know the man who man has and and all that sort of stuff. I mean it's And in fact, maybe we'll get your uh Imam to come with us too. So when when a Christian makes claims, and I'm just kind of addressing Khalil more specifically here, I guess. When a Christian makes claims like uh Jesus is fully man and fully God. Uh Jesus was from the beginning with the Father and was involved in creation. And that what we have available to us in the scripture, the Word of God, is actually Jesus speaking to us. And what uh what uh biblical scholars would call theophanies, these appearances of God in the Old Testament are are are in all likelihood perhaps Jesus himself revealing himself pre-revealing himself before the incarnation. All those sorts of ideas are completely and totally foreign and and uh to a Muslim as not true. Is that correct? Rejected as those being Christ. Again, uh we refer to Jesus Christ as a prophet, and uh emphatically in the Quran God says He's not uh a God, he's not a son of God, he is only a prophet. Uh that would be the difference between Islam and Christianity Well we we are out of time for this episode of the show. Uh I want to thank you all for being a part of it again. Uh the show never ends up the way I thought it would when it starts. I'll tell you that. This is the uh Frederick Base debate on Frederick. On Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty way Thanks so much for listening and uh we we'll we look forward to joining you again next week.