Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. The Frederick Faith Debate is brought to us by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction. And Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile? Today's an exciting show. If you've listened to this show over the last several months, you've heard us uh Talk with a lot of different Christian perspectives, a lot of New Age type uh uh beliefs and faiths, uh uh Muslims Jews, a lot of the kinds of things that we're more or less familiar with because they're they surround us uh in larger measure in our culture than some other Eastern tradition type our religions do. And so we're we're taking a big leap and going in a in an exciting direction on the show this week and we're gonna talk about Buddhism and how it relates. to uh Christianity. And so we have on the show representing the Christian viewpoint today. Jonathan Sweitzer, the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick. And Mike Campbell, who is the uh is a senior student and member of the board of directors at the Tibetan Meditation Center here in Frederick. Um we were hoping to have um the the abbot or the was it Kempo or w whatever that word was uh um who leads the uh the the teaching at the uh Tibetan Meditation Center. However, um there's a bit of a language barrier. En English is not his strongest language, and so this being a radio show and language being important Uh Mike is here i in his stead and uh I think that Mike well, he rolls his eyes. I don't want you to feel the weight of that, but I think that Mike's gonna do a great job. We've had a chance to chat a little bit before the show and uh I think I think he'll do a good job Now, I don't want this to boil down into a half hour about, you know, here's what you need to know about Buddhism. So I've boiled it down if if this is possible, I've tried to boil the entire tradition down to about two minutes. So here it goes. Here we go. Yes. Tradition says that about five to six hundred years before Christ, a man named Siddhartha Gautama, I might be getting the name mispronounced, uh, was born. A seer prophesied that he would become the greatest ruler in history unless He ever saw sickness, old age, death, or a monk. Now despite his father's efforts to shelter him from these four things, he saw them all anyway. causing him to renounce his Hinduism and proclaim a new teaching on how to achieve enlightenment. He is now known as the first Buddha, or the Enlightened One. His followers are called Buddhists. The key to enlightenment or finding nirvana is following the eightfold path to right living. People must have uh the right viewpoint, aspiration, speech. behavior, occupation, effort, mindfulness, and meditation. There are three major divisions in Buddhism today. There are I guess some some smaller uh divisions as well, but three major divisions in Buddhism today. Uh the oldest of the Buddhist traditions say that Buddha was merely a teacher and the way to reach nirvana is to follow his example and ultimately become a monk. Um a slightly new slightly newer, a two thousand years ago newer uh uh division, which is the division I think that uh Mike Campbell represents here today, says that all people, not just monks, can reach Nirvana and that Buddha has been elevated to a savior God helping people find the Buddha within themselves. And then there's another uh uh division, the tantrism that blends Buddhism with ancient occult practices and it attributes uh attributes conscious life to inanimate objects So that's what I understand based on you know tr uh reading a few different books and trying to get a sense of what is the core of what Buddhist belief is all about. I'm sure It's totally unfair because it's two minutes worth of information on a th you know, thousands year old uh uh tradition. Uh just like if you tried to boil down Christianity in a two minutes, you certainly would be leaving some key parts out. But Is that generally on base, Mike, or like w wa am I way off somewhere? I want to make sure we start on the right foot. It's generally on base, yeah. Uh a couple of details. They didn't think that Buddha was just a teacher. They thought that Buddha was had attained some level of of understanding that no one had ever attained before. And in the early school they think no one will ever attain that again That he was the sole person. And then there's others now that apparently are of the opinion that other people can attain to what Buddha had attained originally. That's correct. And that's the second school which is Mahayana, which which began at the time of Christ. About just about that same time. Okay, okay. Yeah. And then the third one is the is Vajrayana, which is tantric. Um I don't remember exactly what you said about it, but it was Well, this is what I was able to glean. Right. And this is I'm just reading my own writing now and this is paraphrasing from several different sources but d I came up with it blends the the more traditional, if you will, Buddhist uh beliefs with ancient occult practices and uh attributes conscious life to inanimate objects, like it would say that uh that boulder over there has a soul or is somehow has life. I would disagree with that. Well regardless, you don't represent that anyway. You're the Mahayana. Well a but uh the third one is in fact a subset of the second one. And and in fact the Tibetan tradition is in that tantric or what we call Vajrayana or Diamond Way practice. Interesting. Okay. Now one thing I haven't said yet, and it's going to tie into the first question now. Okay. Is the central to Buddhist belief is this idea, and correct me if I'm wrong, the idea that to live is to suffer, that the the two kind of go hand in hand and um and and that and part of the whole idea behind wood is to escape the suffering uh by escaping the worries of life or whatever through meditation or the the eightfold path or that sort of thing. Is that n uh n not really. I think um that uh th that I believe that in uh uh for me I think of it in the same concept as original sin uh uh in Christianity. There there's some something not correct with us when we show up on the planet. And so the Buddhists call that suffering. Actually the word they use is dukkha, which means dukkha, which means unsatisfactory. So they're saying that there's something about life That's unsatisfactory. Okay. And so you go through life and it just never quite gets it. Now you would agree with that, John, right? There's something about life that's not satisfactory. Oh definitely, yeah, I agree with that. I guess but I wanted to ask the question then the second part of your question too, Mike, was whether or not then part of the goal of Buddhism is to be released from that that unsatisfactory state. Uh that's correct. However, the you know, that require the concept of of this suffering or unsatisfactoriness, which is basic to Buddhism um is ki is a r strange word. It's a it's a concept that we don't have in in our standard English. Huh Um so and the answer is so the answer is to become um to b be okay with life the way it is now. So the goal of Buddhism then is to be is is to just be content with the way life is right now? Well uh not I don't yeah. Yeah. Again it's a You know, it's a different uh well maybe as we talk we can we can develop more. Well to answer your question then Troy, yes. I'm of the I I'm of the opinion that the world is not how it should be and that something has gone dramatically wrong somewhere along the way and that there's a need for uh some kind of a resolution of that of that problem, of that that lack of things being right. Yeah, I'd agree with that. And for Buddhism though it's uh it's always just an individual thing. It's done within the context of a community. But it's not like I'm gonna ch fix the world. I'm gonna make the world be any different. My teacher says Um if the world were covered if the earth was covered in thorns, you could either cover the earth with leather or you could put a pair of shoes on. You know. And so Buddhism is about Buddhism really just talks about the nature of the mind and how the mind perceives the world in uh w in an egoistic way that causes suffering. And that you can cure that um by um by dealing with this ego, by changing the nature of the ego. Okay. Now this is th there is a fundamental agreement and then the very next step there's a fundamental disagreement, it seems to me. The fundamental agreement is Something's wrong. Life stocks. You know what I mean? It's hard, you have bills to pay, you got traffic accidents, hurricanes wiping out entire Gulf Coast cities. I mean it's you know, there's a lot of difficulty in the world. Um so there's agreement there. Yeah. Then the Christian view on the solution to that problem is other centered, right? There's a savior that comes from outside the self that brings salvation and brings a solution to the whole world. Yep. And the the the Buddhist view would be that it's it's not about the whole world, it's about the individual, and it's not about some outside thing coming in, but it's about finding it within yourself. to somehow escape the the problem. Is that w is pretty accurate? Yeah, escape's not the right word. And in fact that's what the Buddha did. That's why they thought that he was beyond what they had done the the Therabadin, the first school. You know, so when I said it's n not that he was just a teacher, right, but he was the teacher that first had this experience in which he saw the world in a way he saw himself in relation to the world in a way in which he no longer had suffering, he no longer had um this dissatisfaction. So he was free from all dissatisfaction. He was free from all dissatisfaction. And and ultimately he was free from all satisfaction as well because he moved into a realm in which those words didn't you know didn't m have meaning. Oh, okay. So so the realm that he's in, which is a I think you would probably say is the goal of Buddhism is to is to attain to this realm like the Buddha where where there's no such thing as dissatisfaction, there there's no such thing as satisfaction, there's just what? Well, there's just uh looking out and seeing that everyone around you is suffering and developing compassion And then um in the Mahayana school to work towards what's called wisdom, um, which is again this meditative understanding of of who what the really n true nature of our mind is Right. And um and then to operate in a way that helps other people become free from suffering. Okay. When being free from suffering is also means being free from um Satisfaction. Yeah, it's just to be okay just to be in the world and to operate in a way in which you have great concern for all sentient beings, not just human beings, but all beings that have consciousness. And um and then you operate in a way that will help f for them l uh as in Christianity in which you're wanting to show people a path that will lead them from their suffering. Buddhism is the same It's trying to show people a path that will free them from their personal suffering. Which is interesting because I think there's a pretty key disagreement on that point because I would say to a disciple, uh, I would say that you need to take up your cross and follow me in that, in fact uh their being willing to suffer uh for the cause of Christ is is uh my my goal is not to set them free from that suffering but to invite them to uh to be willing to uh embrace the same suffering that Christ suffered uh for for the sake of um uh uh uh as it were transcending uh the wrong things that are being done to us by other people. And so the transcending those wrong things is not the absence of suffering, but in fact, if you read the Apostle Paul, if you read Peter, the other apostles, all of them ended up being crucified or or killed at w at one level or other, that there seems to be uh uh this sense that when you pursue Christ in fullness that it's going to lead you really into to greater difficulty. And so we're told things like consider it pure joy when you face trials of many kinds, you know, because these these trials will produce perseverance and perseverance hope. And so uh so we're we're encouraged to to hope for heaven where uh where there will be no more suffering, but where there will also be uh tremendous love. Mm-hmm. And so uh yeah, there's a little bit of a I think a distinction there between Buddhism and Christianity. It's interesting that you brought that up and it goes back to this original um statement that Troy made about um the Tantrism um and and the Vajrayana and in fact what the Vajrayana path is is a path that says Um and I'm gonna go into I'll talk about karma in a couple of minutes. Sure. But it says that um that instead of going into Instead of escaping by going into a cave and meditating, that you use all of the experiences that happen to you on a day to day basis as your teacher to begin to understand what again what the nature of your mind is. Okay. So I think it's yeah, so it's not So so one of your paths says that like like I'm saying, consider it pure joy when you face trials of many kind. You're saying one of your paths actually uses the difficulties of life to teach you uh that you don't need satisfaction, you don't need dissatisfaction, that you can transcend those things and and be released. That's correct. Like, I want to pick up on that person, but let me just real quickly set the stage. The the the the person I just cut off was Jonathan Sweitzer, the uh pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And uh representing the uh Tibetan Meditation Center here in Frederick, a member of the board of directors there, and a uh senior student uh there is Mike Campbell Uh Buddhism and Christianity, the topic on the Frederick Faith debate today, brought to us by All Shredd and Putman Plumbing. I am Troy Skinner, the show's moderator. And uh I have a question, but Jonathan had a point that he was in the middle of making, so I'll let you finish the point and then I'll ask a question Um, yeah, I was going to bring it down to a practical, because I think there's a practical application that that that can tend to help um somebody that's listening to the show kind of focus their attention. If if you and I had sitting here next to us a um uh a prostitute who had been used and abused her entire life and had AIDS and and wasn't telling the people that she was um uh uh servicing uh that she had AIDS um and uh whose life had been destroyed on every level, who's financially, you know, um had no money. Um in in that situation you're going to approach helping her to be free from the dissatisfaction and the satisfaction one way in Christianity would approach it from another way in um I guess Uh my hope is that is that you know something like that. Like what how what would be your response to somebody like that when when when you would go to her and say, I want to help you to be free? Uh w what what would what would your response be to her you know, compassion? You see you know, I I hear that over and over again that it's all about compassion. What would the response be to somebody that's in a situation like that so that she could be free at long last from all the suffering that she's facing? Um I don't know off the top of my head. Um Clearly she's had bad karma, as it were. Yeah. And she's facing a lot of people. Think of it historically has not been a proselytizing religion, so we don't go out and knock on doors or we don't go down to the bad section of town and You know, so she would have to come to you and say, Hey, I need help. If she were to come and say, uh, you know, life sucks, I need help. Yeah, okay. You know, then we could say, well, we have a path that can um help you understand the nature of your mind and how you got to where you are and then help you transcend that and get to a place. Can I ask that question? What is the nature of the mind? You keep saying that. That's probably the big uh it's inexplicable. Bad bad subject to bring up on a radio. Um I yeah, in the time in the Tibetan system they You know, they use expressions like uh clear light wisdom and um but a lot I mean it's not let's see. The nature of the mind. 'Cause what you're saying is that our friend, let's call her um Uh well then okay uh wait. Let me go back. Um her if if she comes to the right understanding of the mind Then you're saying that she's gonna be uh she can she could attain Buddhahood in this life in uh in Buddhism. Okay. Right. I mean she could attain full enlightenment. Right. Full understanding. But the way that she would achieve that I guess would be by surrendering her uh her cravings for some satisfaction in her life, right? uh I can let's go back and w la instead of talking about the nature of mind, maybe we could talk about the nature of the ego because maybe that would be Okay. And so the point is you'd say to her that that her that the problem that she's facing is an ego problem And if she thinks the right way, then she'll be able to be free from the suffering. Well, it's but however, it's not just thinking. It's an uh visceral experience, although I'm only quoting books because I have not had this experience. But you know, it's like it's a experien you know, I I'm I was thinking about um Uh William James's book, uh, the variety of religious experiences and talking about Moses and the burning bush, you know. So there are there's that kind of spiritual experience. Okay. And so in Buddhism there's something that's Somewhat similar to that. A mystical experience. Yeah. Would be the best way to say it. And interestingly, one of the great Tibetan teachers said after meditating in a cave for years and years and years and years, he finally had this experience and he went, Golly, it was completely different than anything I imagined. Sure. You know, so I Interesting. Yeah. All right. Well now there are we talked about there's a there's a difference in uh overall view or uh uh the Christian view is a little bit more global and corporate in its focus, Buddhism or individual. Okay. Uh Christianity outside of oneself, Buddhism within oneself. Another thing is the the idea of how How suffering is understood. Yeah. Uh Christians taking up their cross, Buddhists uh not looking at it that way. So those are three differences Okay. Uh I'm just trying to take all this esoteric, you know, heady stuff that you guys know what you're talking about and and and m and make sense of it. Okay. Uh and this understanding of of eliminating this desire for um uh for satisfaction and dissatisfaction, kind of eliminating all of that, which I guess ties into the the the idea that you want to eliminate craving in your life, right? Like craving would be bad. Um or attachment we call it. Um anger, attachment, and ignorance are called the three poisons. And yeah, so it would be coming t through wisdom, which overcomes which is the um Yeah, what is what overcomes the ignorance, um, then you come to understand again, you know, how how your own ego generates the anger and generates the attachment Okay. Well I have two questions. One is I want to have John talk about the idea of craving being bad, because I think in some ways Christianity would agree. Okay Uh I want to give you a chance to talk about that. And then I also want to ask well let me I'll let you answer that first and then I'll ask this question. Okay, craving. Um we're taught in scripture that that the desires of a righteous man will be fulfilled. But then we're taught that things like lust, gluttony, uh are uh wrong desires. And um that that they create in an individual a cycle of sin, uh, that uh that's like sowing weeds out into a field that that you reap back something that uh that is poisonous and something that's not good for you or for your children or for people around you. Which is what we'd call karma. Karma. And uh and yet we would We would claim that that you reap that in this life, not in the next life, even though you can make things difficult for your own children. Um and uh that actually we are to desire intensely God. We're to desire intensely uh love relationships with one another. We're we're to desire intensely uh to do right by one another and that that that we would uh throw our whole heart into that. And so in Christianity it's not that desire is wrong in and of itself, but that there are wrong desires, i. e. lust Uh or or let me put it this way, misdirected I uh uh desires. You know, um uh sex inside of marriage is a great thing and we're we're supposed to desire that food. Uh it's it's appropriate that we would enjoy a good steak. But gluttony would be you know the misdirection of that desire. Uh it's appropriate that we would desire uh to to get things done you know, and and to accomplish things in life. However, murder uh and lying would be misdirected desires that we're gonna get things done and we don't care who we walk on when we do it And so uh in Christianity there's two different kinds of desires. One that is righteous, holy, and good, things that are uh that we should pursue and uh and throw your heart behind, and then other things that are uh unrighteous desires. Now on on the Buddhist side where you know desire uh and looking for satisfaction, all that would be considered part of the problem. Actually the w uh word attachment is probably better than desire. Okay. Yeah. But The thing is I'm trying to uh put together, I'm trying to piece all the puzzles together in my head and and and come to some sort of personal understanding that's coherent. Me too. How how is the how is there not a contradiction in uh there's the there's this desire to reach Nirvana, for example, and there's eight steps or an eightfold path to get there, and yet desire is something that you're supposed to try to do away with. ang desire and anger are attachment and aversion. And i so it and again, so you know, we're talking about this huge l lengthy twenty five hundred years of philosophy. Sure. Um and so to and and the path itself starts with, you know, the desire to attain enlightenment and um the you know, the desire to make your teacher happy and the desire to be a good person and and all of those sorts of things and the literature supports all of those sorts of things. Okay. But ultimately Um, you can't become you can't attain nirvana through desire because because because it's still at it still has to do with your ego. You know, what part of you what part of you desires to please the Lord. Yeah. You know. Yeah. Yeah. And so Buddhism is all about saying that's the quintessential question, you know, what part of you is you know, is doing that. And and wanting to discover that is why we do the meditation practices and that See if I'm if I'm sitting here with our friend who is who's had a rough life, I'm gonna say to her, you have been abused and it's wrong and it's right for you to uh be angry about the way that that's happened, it's right for you to be angry that other people are being treated that way. And that in Christ that there's going to come a judgment day where Christ is going to sit on the throne and he's going to judge those that abused you. that hurt you, that wounded you, and at the same time he's gonna bring to judgment all the things that you've done to do that to other people. Right. And so uh the hope is that it's appointed to a man wants to die and then the judgment And so the question is whether or not we believe that Christ is going to save us and uh and has a new life for us or whether or not uh it's it's been um wrong for us to uh to uh desire, you know, hope or desire to be uh to be loved in that matter. Yeah. Well we're gonna wrap up this edition of the show uh there. Um I have like seventy or eighty questions left. I promised the guys that during this show I'd ask at least one intelligent question. Not sure it was asked this time. Maybe next time. We're gonna have uh Mike Campbell from the Tibetan Meditation Center and uh Jonathan Sweitzer from CrossFit Valley Chapel Awning in next week's show. We'll pick this up. I have so many more questions. There's not nearly enough time ever in this show Uh again, thanks to our uh to our sponsors, All Shred, Mobile Document Destruction Destruction and Shredding Today for Growth Tomorrow, and Putman Plumbing and Heating. Uh how can we make you smile? And I want to again encourage you, if you have a topic you'd like to hear us uh address or you have a guest you'd like to suggest, even if the guest is yourself. Uh if you are a uh some sort of religious or spiritual leader in the community, we'd love to have you on the show. Just email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's T-R-O-Y-S-K-I-N-N-E-R at ClearChannel, all one word. You've been listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks so much and God bless.