Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. The Frederick Faith Debate is brought to you by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction. They sell security. The show is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson once said the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom. And in that spirit we will seriously wrestle with the important uh issues of the day, important ideas, and it's possible that we might even disagree with one another throughout the course of the show. The hope is that through our wrestling we will develop a better understanding of the truth, a better understanding of each other And uh we hope that we won't only uh have a better understanding, but that you will have a better understanding through having listened to the show. And uh our our guests today on the panel John Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel is uh with us uh again this week. Thank you, John. Good to see you. And Conrad Link, the pastor of Brookhill United Methodist uh in Frederick, is with us as well. Thank you so much. Good morning. Thank you. The um Point of the show we were just before we we we uh started the show, uh before the music started playing, we were talking about what this show is gonna be about. And I have so many ideas going through my head right now that I hope I can stay focused. Yeah. The intended plan yeah is for us to talk about ways that the church should be uh reaching out to the community. Um and I read that to be evangelism and how the church should evangelize, whether it should evangelize, is it offensive to evangelize uh those sorts of things. Uh so I'm gonna start with a gin with that in mind. Yeah. And in a generic sense I'm gonna start with John. Yeah. And I'm pretty sure I know you pretty well at this point. You've done a number of shows with us. I think that you uh are a believer in evangelism. Yeah, I'd say that. Yeah. And your church I think is actively trying to do some outreach. Yep. Uh to draw people to uh your church, but maybe more generally to uh a relationship with Jesus Christ. I'd say that's the case, yeah. So what are some things that you think are foundational truths about evangelism, things that you as a pastor of a congregation try to keep in mind. Uh and maybe and maybe uh later on we'll talk about some examples of some things you guys have done. Okay. Uh well that's interesting. I I I guess two things that I would say to start out. I'd say one Um if there's something that I consider to be good news, um that uh people in general could be benefited by. I'd say that um that's the motivation behind um any outreaching that I do. You know, it it says uh in the Bible that it says how lovely on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news. And if if there's good news or good things that um uh that I've come to know and understand about God, then I'd say that that's what motivates man, I wish everybody could know these things. But then I balance that off with with what I call the three uh no, the thirty-three thirty rule, and that is that um you cannot go around cramming stuff down people's throats. And usually you have either 30 seconds or three minutes or sometimes up to 30 minutes where people are interested in your message. And what I found is simply this. If you go beyond what their interest is, you're not likely really to get another chance to share with that person again. And so if if they give you a 30 second window and they ask a question, man, what do you believe, Jonathan And they only give me a thirty second window, but I think it's longer than that, and I go beyond it, then I've broken what I believe is a cardinal rule of sharing any any good news and that is um that ultimately I I end up burning bridges in the meantime. So Uh I I say in everything that I do I always make sure that I'm paying attention to people's interests. What platform have they given me to share anything with them? Is there any relationship? And uh what I find is that that the more relationship there is, the more uh openness there is for people to to hear uh what I believe about things and you know, to want to grapple with me about those things. Whereas Um if, you know, uh I've never met them before, usually I've got very little time and and I should keep it short and uh, you know Leave it at that and move on. Well I'd like to think that that your first point about the good news would be true of all of our churches. I mean the whole idea of the Christian message is good news. Amen. So I think that's a that's a great way to begin. Amen. And as you quote the scripture, I think that's fine. I'd like to think that every church that's active and functioning and having their doors open is a place where the good news of what God has done through Jesus is being offered. I was interested, John you talked about, you know, trying to read the opportunity and if they're gonna give you thirty seconds, make sure you keep it to thirty seconds. I think that's huge. How do you know if they're only gonna give you thirty seconds? Yeah, come up front. Hey, you got twenty-nine seconds? Again, this is part of the problem because oftentimes those that are uh most excited about sharing about good news are people that something has just happened to, and oftentimes that means it's somebody that's uh not as uh had as much time which to mature spiritually and as a result might not have the discernment to know when to uh quiet down. to when to shut their trap. And uh as a result, I think oftentimes those that are doing evangelism, quote unquote, end up uh cramming things down the throats of their neighbors or their friends because God did something really neat in their life and now everybody has to experience it now and ultimately they end up burning bridges and so I think you I think I think it's hard to do. I think you oppose the A major philosophical difference in how evangelism is done. Yeah, yeah. For example, if we were to send missionaries out into the world, we typically send out two types of missionaries. One type of visionary is the guy that goes and preaches. Goes to whatever country and wants to share the good news and full excited and has his Bible in his hand and wants to make sure that he can convert everybody that he meets, sharing the word. missionary or evangelist is a person who has a skill or a task or a ministry or a a function that a community needs. Yeah. And sets up shop as a teacher, as a as a doctor. as a farm worker, agricultural scientist. Yeah. And gets involved in the community and shares that with the people where they are. And then when the people get to know this person, accept that person into the culture, they yeah, they come and say, Why are you here? Yeah. And as soon as that question is asked, then the person shares the good news. And that's that's a big difference I think their goal is to accomplish the same thing, but it's a big difference and how you approach it. people, uh Christians as it were. Um it happens that both of us today I think would identify ourselves by that name. Um most Christians would look to the Bible for their model for, you know, well what is it that we're supposed to be doing? So we look at the apostle Paul, we look at the the the apostles and um I would say that we probably see both of that going on there. And interestingly with Paul Paul would always go into a town and he'd find that place in town where uh people liked to sit around and talk about the ultimate issues of life. That's part of the reason why I'm so excited about this show that we're doing because as we bring on people to this show that have a deep uh passion for ultimate issues, you know, whether they're Buddhist Islamic, uh uh Jewish, you know, Unitarian, Christian, whatever they might be, as they come on this show with with a passion for those things, then you can discuss the kinds of things so that everybody else that's listening can can you know can say, well What do I think or what don't I think? Whereas if you try to discuss deep issues with, you know, the average person you know, when you haven't had the time to build the relationship, ultimately I think um you you can tend to go places they're just not interested in going. Whereas I think most people would rather that those who have a very strong uh understanding of spiritual things and passion to know and to seek things out. Most of the average lay people out there are just dying for a chance just to hear those guys talk a little bit and say, I agree with that guy. I don't know. I agree with that guy And in so doing, in that class of ideas, everybody's given the opportunity to say, hmm, and I think that's what Paul and the Apostles did most often when they preached the good news, it tended to be in an environment where they were interacting with other spiritual leaders in such a way that they were saying, Well this is what I believe in, this is what I believe in, and as a result They would they would have those that said, you know what, that thing that Paul's talking about, man, it just rings true in my heart. I have to agree with him. So you had that, but then you had the church community. You know, y where the people are just out there doing their stuff and sharing the gospel as as it were, meeting in the temple and from house to house, practicing hospitality having friends over for barbecues. I don't know if they had those back then. You know well one of the hanging out with each other. One of the issues though is here we are on the radio. Yeah. Right? And we're talking everything like that. Yeah. But one of the things that I've discovered that a lot of people out there is there's an awful lot of talk. There's an awful lot of conversation. There's a lot of people telling you what they want to do, what they want to believe, what they want you to do, what they want you to believe. And one of the aspects of evangelism, the topic of the day, is okay This is what you talk and borrowing a colloquial, you know, show me your walk. Yeah. You know, and and for my tradition we have the wonderful hymn They'll know we are Christians by our love. And that's not we know we're Christians because they say they're Christian or they wear they're Christian or they drive around in in their Christian car or whatever. I think Troy wants to know. Did you want to sing that for us right now, Troy? Maybe next show. So in some flying the way we live with what we say. Yeah. That becomes evangelism too. In fact, I would say that um that Whenever the gospel is preached, without the integrity of the same people that are preaching, giving to the poor, taking care of the widow and the orphan, w when you don't have that two-handed thing, then you're preaching I think lacks the integrity that says, you know what, there's something different about who we are. And it's not it's not just that we quote unquote live morally. It's not just that we, you know, do business, you know, more ethically than than other people, but it's that there's w we go beyond just what we should do right and go go to you know taking care of the poor, taking care of the widow, visiting, you know, those in prison, visiting those in the hospital. And when you have those two things balanced, it seems to me that Man, a culture, uh uh people that live in that kind of a community have tremendous opportunity to receive of that blessing and to to to be interested and attracted to it. Well and it's stated pretty clearly in in the Bible. James, you know, says, Show me a faith without works and it's it's a dead faith, it's not a it's not a real faith. So I mean there's there's scriptural precedent for that. And you know, it ties in and then with a secular example, they've done studies, you know, people who have turned away from the from the uh Christian church or have resisted ever becoming involved with the Christian church, they ask them why. Is hypocrisy. Yeah. Sure. It's kind of the Billy Graham, Franklin Graham uh thing. You know, Franklin Graham's all about, you know, with what what's the name? Samaritan's Purse. He's all about raising the money, you know, to to send it around the planet, you know, to the to places in Africa, to you know, places in the Middle East, to the tsunami victims and of course Franklin Graham his one hundred percent major focus was these rallies to tell people about the good news of salvation from their sin through Jesus Christ. And you know, I think that that those two kind of represent those two balances That I think is appropriate for the U. recognized by every person, even non-Christian person. Because he was very clear as what his task was. He didn't see himself as a pastor, he didn't see himself as a missionary, didn't see himself as a fundraiser. He only was people a person calling people to faith. Then he turned it over to others. And I guess Franklin has picked out his niche as far as as that. But uh You know, evangelism is an exciting thing, but we all do it differently. Mm-hmm. And one of the the points that I would love to celebrate is the fact that just because we do it differently doesn't mean that one's right and the other's wrong. You know, there are just many different ways to share the gospel and there are many different people out there that are tuned in to different vibes, attitudes, experiences. And they need the variety of people. And I I guess one of the things that I would hope is that when we learn about how other people do evangelism is we encourage them or support them, but not say, hey, you're doing it right or hey you're doing it wrong. 'Cause there grows the hypocrisy and that's why people look at the church and say, Hey, why should I be involved in the church? You guys are arguing with each other and you all call yourselves Christians. It sounds like there's a lot of common ground. We're going to agree that I would hope so. Going to agree that, you know, Christians should be serving. Yeah. And should be living an example that others would hope would be inspired by, emulate, be drawn to, whatever. And we talked a little bit earlier, I mean we'll talk more about it as as the show progresses, uh about the idea of uh of preaching. You talked about the two different ends. There's the serving the need and then there's also the preaching aspect. And maybe we'll talk more about that. Uh but are there some things that are we can feel good about that are right and are there some other things about evangelism that we should say, you know what, that's that's not right, or is everything goes Can I add this caveat as as we head into this? I think that this has been a historic debate in the body of Christ for the last um couple hundred years and probably even longer than that. Um if you go back to um I want to say Saint Francis of Assisi and some of these guys that that seem to grapple with, you know, is it proclamation or is it action? You know, preach the gospel and if you have to use words kind of a kind of a thing. And uh it seems to me that that we've stumbled into an an area of historic debate in, you know, which is more important in um I guess I would argue that they're both important, that that there must be the proclamation of who is Christ and that he is the salvation for sin. It's it's the uh if you will, the eternal perspective, but that the eternal perspective, even though it's it's vital to to sharing the gospel, that it always must be, again, uh properly uh filled with integrity by the practical immediate expectations. I'm not gonna argue with that. I think that's great. Cool. I mean the very fact that uh our moderator quotes uh James about faith and works. Yeah. It's both. And one of my particular personal issues is that so often it we we tend to say it's either one or the other. Yeah we're not going to be able to do that. Quite frankly I think it's often both and why is it that we do that? Because we want to set ourselves apart from each other. We want to look holy. We want to look everybody thinks that I'm spiritual, you know. Look how spiritual I am because I preach the gospel. Look how spiritual I am because I'm always helping the poor instead of recognizing that there's There's the need for all of that in the bottom of Christ. I agree with that, yeah. Reminder you're listening to the Frederick Face debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD I'm Frey Skinner. Our guests this week are John Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel and uh Conrad Link, the pastor of Brookhill United Methodist, and we're talking about Um uh evangelism I guess in a general sense. And yeah, what does it mean and what are the appropriate ways or not appropriate ways. Here's a yeah, a question. Is it appropriate if you walk down New York s uh a a major thoroughfare in New York City You can't do it for very long before you run into a street preacher. Somebody who's handing out a track and they're saying things like, you know, you know, the Yeah, uh hellfire's coming, you've gotta believe. And they're quoting uh the same, you know, four or five verses over and over again 'cause they're trying to hit repetitively different people. Is that an appropriate way to evangelize? Um I I think I would say the same thing as I did before that um that everybody has to start at whatever spiritual level they're at. And uh the the more you grow spiritually in in terms of maturity, the more you realize that some things are effective, some things are not. There does come a time I think where it's appropriate to to preach to those that don't want to hear uh and doing it because you um you sense in God. Man, and and Uh I almost hesitate to say that because I think a less mature person could take that and say and just run with it right now and just go off and but I but I think there does come a time like like with Isaiah, Jeremiah John the Baptist where you sense in God that people need to hear a message that they're unwilling to hear, and so you need to say it even though they're not giving you thirty seconds, three minutes, or thirty minutes. They're giving you nothing. And I think there does come a time to to to preach even then. However, I think for the most part, uh there's a lot of wisdom that in fact it says in Proverbs, it says that he who leads And no, he who wins souls is wise, and there's wisdom to winning souls. You don't win souls just by proclaiming the gospel, you know, and and shouting at people. You win souls. by knowing what it is that it takes to influence people. Troy your question is a complicated question. Sounds simple but it's complicated. Yeah. Because just because Just because someone feels in their heart that they have a message to share doesn't necessarily make them a preacher. I mean if you look in the New Testament in the Corinthians, you're gonna find a list of all the gifts And blessings and th you know, some are called teachers prophets, some are you know, helpers and everything like that. And and to assume just because God has laid on me a particular issue doesn't necessarily mean that they should be the preacher. However some people go out to preach. But and that's that's a tough question. Who is who should be the one proclaiming what integrity? Using that word a lot, Jonathan. So what integrity does the person have? Did they ever have their call by God and from God tested. Yeah. You know, do they have to be first Timothy, test these men. Test. And if there's nothing against them. Are they are they speaking under authority? Who's watching over them? You know, uh let me throw you a real life question when it gets controversial. Oh, here we go. Okay. The Southern Baptist Convention in the news recently announced that they had Uh selected Cleveland as a place to go for special focus for evangelization. Evangelization is that is an interesting it's a loaded word in misleading. They have targeted one of the communities that is predominantly and historically Roman Catholic. Mm. Okay? And that's one of their pushes they typically have throughout the the year set aside something. You know what I'm talking about. So what does that mean? They bring in like mission trips there and that kind of thing? Exactly. So persons who've signed up to be a summertime evangelist or or interns who are filled with the Spirit of God. They want to share their message. Are going to go to a community that historically is already labeled a Christian tradition. i. e. , a Christian Christian tradition, i. e. Catholic. So what does that mean that a group of Christians is going to go evangelize another group of Christians? Does that mean my Christianity is different than your Christianity, better than your Christianity? One would think one would think that there are enough people out there who haven't been part of the church that This is the first time since we started the show that I've wished we were on television so everybody could see John Schweitzer chomping at the bitcher. I love this, man. I because again, 'cause I mean like like you said, that's a very complex question. Uh the Southern Baptist Convention a couple years ago uh encouraged targeting the Jewish community, in fact. And there was major debate about whether uh that was appropriate and the Jews were up in arms. Uh the Jewish community was up in arms that you know, this is anti Semitism and just leave us alone, you know, why uh why would you uh unleash all of the masses of Southern Baptist And if I was Jewish I would agree with them. And upset the question is, is it appropriate to focus the attention of of a large group like the Southern Baptist Church on a specific area? And uh Again, I have to simply ask the question, um, whether or not we have good news and whether or not we are um using I guess that's what what you're asking is whether or not that specific situation is a wise Scenario. Responding to Troy's question is out there about a real life situation. How does one think about that? Like for example, I know a uh Um missionary down in uh Panama, down in the jungles of uh Panama. I g I had a chance to spend a month with him uh with the Chacoy Indians. And uh he went in there as a missionary. I mean, this is the middle of nowhere. The the uh the jungle, the Darien jungle is considered the densest in the world. Um so dense that they tried to build the Pan American highway through it in Manuel or not it wasn't Noriega, uh but whoever it was that uh the US gave the money to didn't spend that on building the highway. Uh he'd spent it on her shoes or something, whatever it was. But um apparently when he went in, all of the chieftains were very upset. Because here he comes, you know, with his Christian religion. But he did something that no other missionary had ever done in the region. He went to the town and he would go to the chieftain's house and he would wait. at that chieftain's house until the chieftain came out and took the time to talk to him. And some of these chieftains would make him wait like all day or like a day or more. And when they come out he would ask him, he'd say, Look I believe I have a message that that your village can benefit from. And I'd like to ask your permission to let me preach And every single one of the chieftains gave him uh gave him authority to do so and he has he has had a major expansion for the sake of uh of Christ in that area because he was respectful to the authorities that be that were there. And the question I have to ask is this, in in area any area. One, it's interesting that it that it was considered a Catholic area. And uh that in itself is a is a very debatable subject. I mean what makes an area Catholic? Certainly Maryland is a Catholic area, but here you are a Methodist minister and and I'm sure you're doing some kind of outreach. So so what at what le uh got too big. You got too big there. Well they can they can uh target neighborhoods. I mean if you understand the structure of urban areas, there are historical places that are certain denominations. I mean you go into certain areas and you find Catholic Church. I mean that makes that traditional area. And in fact, from a Southern Baptist perspective, they would actually argue that um that Catholicism is not preaching the gospel but is preaching a religion of works where people are earning and I all I'm saying is that that to them A Catholic neighborhood is not a neighborhood that is necessarily saved, but it's a neighborhood that is actually just outside of uh I think they would even use terms like pharisaical or Um, you know, uh cleaning the outside of the dish but not the inside. Well, I I think those are those are difficult and sometimes dangerous labels to put. My point in just Bringing up the topic as the illustration of evangelism. Yeah. For example, if our if our United States has Around three hundred million people. Three hundred million people. And let's say you anybody that fills in a form and labels themselves as a denomination, okay, leave them alone, whether they go or not I suspect you'd find a hundred million people that claim no faith at all. No faith at all. That would be the place. that the good news is needed the most. Okay. Are we coming up on the end of the show here? Yeah, we have about you know, sixty seconds and uh I think the shortest answer you've ever given in history was ninety seconds. Yeah so I clearly am done for today. But we've we've just just now touched uh Can we continue discussing this? I'd like to continue it because we're just not getting a lot of things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on uh Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. It's brought to you by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction. They sell security. And actually I've got a little note here. I probably should give them a better a better sell job than that. You know, because they are sponsoring the show. Yes, definitely. All shred mobile document destruction shredding today for growth tomorrow, one eight seven seven to shred. That's 1-877, the number two, and then S-H-R-E-D-D. Shredding like nowhere else. Anyway, thank you for listening to this week's edition of the Frederick Debate. Uh we'll be back next week finishing up our conversation. about the evangelism. If you're a local faith community leader or no one that would like to participate in a future roundtable, please have them contact me, Troy Skinner at the offices of WFMD. Also, if you have a topic that you'd like to hear discussed, please share that as well. You don't need to be a faith community leader to to share that. My email address is Troy Skinner at At Clearchannel. com. That's T R O Y S K I N N E R, all one word, at ClearChannel, all one word dot com. And if you don't have access to the internet, you can't email. You can call the offices at 301. 663-4181. That's 301-663-4181. And just ask for me, Troy Skinner, and be glad to take your call and your comments, and you can help us to improve this show. Thanks again for listening and God bless.