Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WF. MD brought to us by Allstrad Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding Today for Growth Tomorrow, and Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And if you actually call someone swimming and heating, when they answer the phone, they'll say, How can we make you smile? Do you smile? Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't have your mic on yet. Do you smile when they say that? I do, yes. It does. It's a welcoming kind of thing Maybe that should be the theme of this show. How can we make you smile here at the Credit Faith Today? My name is Troy Skinner. I'm the uh host and moderator of the show, uh the voice you just heard. that I didn't turn his mic on early enough, uh Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel. He's the pastor of that uh fine uh Christian church here in Frederick. And last week we were talking about a group called the Star Doves and we really didn't finish our thoughts on it, so I want to talk about it again, again to set the stage of why we're talking about this. There's an organization out there, a group called the Star Doves, and they have a dating service, they have a radio show, they have a website, they have a political party, they have uh science fiction stories in the form of emails as far as I'm concerned. Um they they conduct international prayer vigils. They are a multifaceted spiritual Um force. I think fair to say, and I don't know that they would argue with this, leftist politically Or profoundly so. Yeah, that was the one thing that last week became very clear. Profoundly left. We're talking about this because my first instinct was gotta be kidding, we're not gonna do anything with this. And then I thought, wait a minute. people b there are people who believe this. And so maybe we should talk about it because that's what this show is about. And um we tried to have somebody from Star Dogs on the show. They are mostly based like in California. Uh but but uh they were able to connect us with Carolyn Evers, who we had on the show a couple weeks back. And she was the the the woman who Locutionist. Right, who says that she can remember past lives and says that she speaks to dead people. Right. Uh notably her son. Her her uh son who died when he was sixteen, Julius uh Caesar. Yeah. Uh Pope John Paul the Second. Right. Are some of the people that she says that she regularly converses with. Yes. Um anyway, so the Stardust people put us in touch with her. She's not officially, you know, with the Stardust people, but she's kind of associated with them loosely. They're they're on friendly terms and Uh they share some views but th not the full full views of things. And I don't know how much of what we're talk what talked about last week and how much we're gonna talk about this week that Carolyn was subscribed to. But anyway, that's how this all came to be At least we know that Carolyn would definitely subscribe to the idea that people can believe these things and should be um encourage to think that it's okay to believe those things. And she was very, very, very, very open minded and you as a Christian pastor would say the opposite, right? That this is dangerous to And in fact my sense my sense across the board with these guys is that they are a almost a direct uh duplicate and I I hesitate to use the word counterfeit because it sounds so negative, but that's what I believe. It's a direct counterfeit. It's an attempt to come up with a science-friendly version of the Bible that denies Christ. That's the bottom line, I guess. That's what I feel like they're trying to do. Right, but it seems to me like it denies common sense and reason and even at some levels what we know to be true about science. They talk about people living in the center of the earth, which science would tell us is Highly unlikely. Uh so do they call those those things living in the center of the earth, do they call 'em uh like are they s are they obviously they're not humans, so they're different kinds of beings. Right. They're like these these alien beings. That are the good alien beings. Right, right. So there's this cosmic Which by the way, if that's the case and they live in the earth, then how come we're not blaming the earthquakes on them? Instead we're blaming them on this vast right wing conspiracy. To to set the stage again and we're gonna go into some of the things that they write and let their writing speak for them and then Jonathan will provide some commentary and you know, me to my, you know, measly abilities will will probably share some commentary unwisely as well. Um they believe, as I understand it, if you would look at their cosmic view of things, okay, that there was there's this big good and evil battle going on. All right, and the good folk came down to earth and uh ceded human life. Right, okay. Then the pain spermia. And then the word evil sperm Forces out there forced these good guys underground. Where'd they refuse them? Well they're all part of the same entity, but they're it'd be like you have good humans, bad humans. Right. Okay. So you got the good and the bad, and the good had to take refuge underground. leaving us poor humans. Okay, and this is my point, because that's the direct opposite of what Christianity teaches. Christianity teaches that the good Telosians Telos being the word for heavens, the good heavenly beings, angels, are still up in heaven and the bad ones are in the earth. I mean that's a direct uh opposite that that these guys are claiming. And so they're claiming good is bad and bad is good, at least in terms of what uh a classic Christian perspective would be. But that assumes that I think that there's any correlation between what these guys believe in Christianity at all. You know, because it's so, you know, science fiction-ish you know, it's hard to even tie the two together. Nevertheless the point okay, the point though So these bad guys now have I don't know if they would say it's an indwelling or a strong influence or whatever, but they are somehow controlling the major world leaders. For example, they would believe that President Bush is under the control of these bad solar, these bad aliens Can we call them Telosians? Somebody's gonna call us up and say you guys were wrong. Yeah, okay, whatever. But we're trying. We are doing our best I don't know if that's the point or not, but we are indeed doing our best. So they also believe that these forces, these the the the George Bushes of the world who are controlled by these evil forces are have at their disposal the ability to control the weather and cause Hurricane Katrina to hit New Orleans, for example, caused all these horrible earthquakes that have happened this year, and so on. So now here's what else they say. Yes. And this is their this is a quote from uh one of their uh email blasts that um they sent me. Okay. Quote The earth is fast becoming a new global society. Okay. One world order maybe. Yeah. Based on truth, love, liberty, peace, health, wealth, and wisdom in this age of Aquarius. Wow. All other These guys are simply trying to be a science fiction version of every exact religion that is not Christian out there. They're blending everything together into one story. All outer appearances to the contrary Are but the cleansing and the preparation for the spinal. And people that were into the Age of Aquarius would get together and have their, you know, like cosmic, you know, being in tune and there are certain places on the planet that were more attuned to that, you know, li you know what I'm talking about? Am I describing this well? This is I you describe it better than I could. I just have a song. Har Harmonic Places Yeah, what does the song say? Aquaria. Dude, you are incredible. Wow. Phenomenal. So so Aquaria. Keep going. Keep going. They're loving it out there. So Aquarius is this spiritual idea that we're we're no longer in whatever previous age there was which was like a big anti Christian, anti religious thing. Now we're free in the age of Aquarius and and it kinda had a new age Buddhist you know, harmonic, you know, where i oh and when the stars would line a certain way or certain comet would be there then they'd they'd have this harmonic convergence. That's the word that they use. Alright, and so these guys sound a lot like all that stuff except now they've actually got actual little E. T. guys running around, you know, personalizing the whole thing. So so there you have it. There's a reason John's on this show. Yes. Major we're not sure what it is. No. Yeah, no, we're still trying to figure it out. But maybe the Telosians will let us know. It's the fact that you say the word Aquarius and he knows something about it. That's cool. Major change this is uh back to reading the uh the email blast from from the uh Star Doves people. Okay. Major changes on the earth and immense exposure of the lies of the power of the power elite will occur for the remaining four months of this year two thousand five I guess and all of the next year and The few years thereafter. All the way up until the two eight elections. Until all is in place for the mass landings Allowing everyone to know the truth and nothing but the truth and will thus be given the opportunity to choose light over dark. So they don't quite give a date, but they're they're just giving a date. Oh. Wow. Almost every member of the U. S. Senate and Congress have lied, cheated, and stolen their way into office. Bush administration officials, and especially President Bush himself, have violated their oath of office, and are no better than treasonous war criminals sitting in the Oval Office. When all is said and done, there might only be a dozen or two members of the Senate and Congress with goodly intentions left. Do they name those guys? No. Yeah. Well at least not in this. They might elsewhere. Well as a political party they probably should. So you know they should ask them to run under the the light party banner. That is all. The the twelve or whatever. Uh or a dozen or two, so maybe there's many as twenty or so. Right. Oh. Out of uh I don't know, six hundred or s whatever it would be. You know, a little somewhere around five There's four hundred and thirty five. So out of five hundred and thirty five there's maybe twenty. Right. Okay. All other members are mass murderers. rapists, thieves, and high-tech criminals, and are comparable to Hitler, Mussolini, and others These are these are about to vacate. We have it direct from Saint Germain that lightworker Da Vid will soon sit in the Oval Office. installed by the forces of light themselves. Wow. And the Oval Office. So David's gonna become president. Huh. Stardu's also said that the USA, Canada, Mexico, Scotland, England, India, Australia, and the Philippines are the first places that the mother starships will be landing. You know, I gotta tell you, Joy, it's just super hard for me to take these guys seriously. I mean I'm I'm I'm sensing the mockery in my voice as we're talking about this and I'm just like Wow, these guys are and I really try as I highlighted the parts that were pertinent, I wanted I I really was trying to get focused on okay Be serious about this? Yeah, can we be serious? Treat this seriously. Yeah. Because you know that's one thing that we try to pride ourselves on this show is we'll have people we disagree with on the show and have a serious debate And this is like so out there that I it's difficult. I do need to get some kinda numbers as to how many of these guys are out there. Anyway, the mother starships will be landing because they are ready and it will follow suit across the planet. It is starting even now. Okay. Here we go. This is what you wanted to hear. Many stars uh starships have been coming in for a very long time And the mass landings will take place as planned in twenty twelve. Twenty twelve. Is it any time around the November elections when the it happens to go down? So seven years 'Cause clearly these guys are gonna be rooting for Hillary in two thousand eight. So maybe they think Hillary's gonna be uh creating the mass landing spots for these guys or something. Now there's a play on words on this next uh sentence. Commune ETs. They spell it commune and then a capital E, capital T as an extraterrestrial. Okay. Right. Commune ETs are being built with landing pads for this purpose. So right now apparently there are people out there building little villages with landing pads. Villages with landing pads. Exactly. Um you know, again I I I feel like I need a number in I I d I really don't know how to take these guys seriously. But you know, I want to say something. How can I take these guys seriously? You know what i i something just occurred to me on how we can or why we would need to and how maybe we can frame this in a way that we can take this seriously. You know what this reminds me of? Okay. What? The uh Halley's Comet people. Right, right. What were those the gates uh they all killed themselves? Yeah. I can't remember the oh, I had their name in my head and it just escaped. It just it's now eluding me. Yeah. But you know what I'm talking about? Going back five, ten years. Heavens was that wasn't Heaven's Gates or no, it was a something like that. They were all wearing the Nikes. Yeah. And the and the jogging suits or whatever and they they all drank like the purple lemonade or whatever and uh thought the space ship. We just need to warn the startups people. Stay away from the lemonade. Just don't go anywhere near that stuff. Now, David is a real person. Okay, he's the guy that wrote this. The guy that's going to be president soon apparently. David is now the of the audience can't uh you listening can't uh benefit from this, but he's the uh guy to the uh to the right in this photo. If you want to look at that real quick. Uh you mean Santa Claus? Can I describe him that way? Sure, you can describe him. Okay, so he's David and these other two oh wait He's got a he's got a uh friend that's a lady that's his wife, I believe. That is carrying I mean she she looks like a little Gandalf from the from the movie. And he kind of looks like a Gandalf himself. He's got the robe and he's got everything. Wanna look at that one. Okay, and Oh, and this one they look like they're going to the beach. And they both have staff. They're going to the landing party. Yeah, right, right. Party. Wow. All right. Well now so I guess I guess the only thing about this that that I feel like at some level needs to be taken seriously is this question of what happens when people come along like a Dan Brown uh and they they put together all these different spiritual ideas that have gained the measure of currency. I mean like when somebody says Aquarius There are a lot of people out there that are into this age of Aquarius, a ton of them. Praying for peace, you know, and having some kind of harmonic convergence. There's a lot of people out there that are into that kind of a thing, you know, that really take that seriously. You know, the movie Contact that came out a couple years ago, there's a lot of people that are of the opinion that that we probably can in fact there's scientists that know that there's no way that evolution could have happened, but because they can't accept the idea of God, they're of the opinion that it must have been some kind of um, you know, uh astrological, you know, people from the stars that uh seeded our planet. You know, and you and you have these movies come out every couple of years, you know, that, you know, like um um you know, Stargate type movies, you know, that deal with this idea of UFOs and I mean, certainly that idea is pretty pervasive and there's there's a sense that if that's the case then This if that's the case that our origin is tied to them as a human race, and therefore our future is tied to them. And that's the big idea that I feel like consumes so many people's minds in this in this culture. They're really of the opinion. Why? Because the reality is that everybody out there really does want to know where we come from. Obviously, Christianity clearly says that God created us and that the end goal of all of human existence is this love relationship with a personal God. who sent his son to die on the cross for our sins. And so Christianity claims to answer that big question of origins and where do we come from and purpose. And it seems to me like this is attempting to tap into that cry for some kind of purpose, that some kind of, you know, uh attachment with where do we come from? Where do we go and you know, why do we exist kind of a thing. Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Now, originally the Stargovs uh organization group, whatever, uh came to my attention and uh I tried to get in contact with them. We ended up getting Carolyn Evers on the show uh a couple of weeks back. And she s says that she could speak to and she does regularly converse with her son. Um, Matthew, I believe. Or no or maybe no, this is somebody okay, I'm sorry, this is somebody else. This is somebody else. I'm sorry, I'm confusing these. This is another guy that she's This is another woman that says that she can speak with her son as well. So this is an example of maybe some messages that come from other people. This is uh a woman who has a son named Matthew. Oh, but this is a star dove person? This is a star dove person. Exactly. And this is the kind of thing that Carolyn Evers would be in line with the Stardust people. So there if for those scoring at home, there is a connection over the last four shows. Maybe the last six 'cause even this idea of testimony is going to start grappling with this idea, well I've had this experience. And it just seems to me that we need to recognize that science has created this this mentality out there that if anything is to be true It must have a scientific component to it, a technological component to it, a a um, you know, some kind of a a ver scientifically verifiable and so whatever spirituality is out there must be scientifically verifiable. And then the very people that are doing that, that are, you know, playing with this idea that, you know humans are creating earthquakes and and you know space travelers turn around and they start giving these types of testimonies that are so out there, that are so scientifically unverifiable, you know, that I feel like they're trying to throw all the science stuff out to make us think that it's credible. I mean again I feel like I'm giving these guys too much credit. But they throw all that out, make it sound like it's credible, and then they throw out these testimonies and it's just like Well, I can't deny my experience. And I just think that we need to be a little bit more critical, uh uh uh critically thinking. about these things than we are. Well here's a woman named Suzanne Ward who, like Carolyn Evers, who we've had on the show, says that she can speak with uh somebody who's dead. Okay. And this guy's name is Matthew. Alright, so Matthew says, Mother, thank you on behalf of the host of souls in whose company I am. Once again, I have requested, I have been requested by light beings at this universal viewing station to speak for us all. We are here to inform you of emp of potential events and urge you to stay steadfast in delight. Do not give in to fear. In my last message I spoke of the Illuminati's desperation. That's right out of Dan Brown, too Uh, as they keep seeing their power ebbing and the madness that has permeated them to such extent that despite all logic They are determined to wage war on still another front. Okay, so so sh he's identifying the Illuminati with like people who are in power in the UN and Congress and President and that kind of thing? Interesting. I also said that in the field of potential, energy momentum toward an invasion of Iran had moved from possibility status to probability. So we're apparently he's he's predicting we will invade Iran. That is a political analysis. As devoutly as we wish we could tell you that status has reversed course or even remained steady, we now see that neither is the likely outcome. It is recognized that fear paralyzes, and the Illuminati media controllers, willing puppets of the off-planet dark entities are promulgating fear filled news. The off planet dark ones know that the energy of fear establishes a barrier between souls and light, and even more than before, alienating you from the light is their thrust. The light has dimmed even in you who are praying for and working toward peace, but have become fearful about a new war front and catastrophic terrorism, and accordingly you cannot absorb the light being beamed to you By your space family. Is Scotty on the other end of that beam? Growing this is well one more paragraph or maybe a couple more here. Growing awareness about the deceit underlying that war and the unanticipated strength of Iraqi opposition to occupation, which has produced many more troop deaths and injuries. and much greater loss of fighting equipment and supplies than estimated make war expansion raving lunacy. I don't know if Matthew who Matthew is in Uh I apologize to speak of the dead this way to this lady. Um however, clearly Matthew is just her alter ego, political ego. You know, it's just an attempt on on this lady's part to give some kind of divine credibility to her political You know what it reminds me of? I mean, if everybody complains about the religious right, she's like The religious left, you know. It's like the puppet master with his mannequin. Yeah. And this is her mannequin speaking. The mannequin can say whatever it wants. Right. Because it's the mannequin. I can't say it, but the mannequin can say it. Yeah. And that that's what this reminds me of. Alright, this goes out there a little bit of a ways. But Hitler's personal spiritual mentor was a Buddhist. And this has been documented. He was very into Buddhism. And uh in fact some people trace the whole idea of the the elite airing race to to to uh you know it it comes from the Himalayan mountains, you know, and Buddhism and and and if you trace it back historically it's all connected. The the funny thing here to me is that This lady has jettisoned any kind of uh Western Christian Judeo-Christian belief, and now she's advocating this fear and this this whole political agenda that That is just shocking to me. It's just funny to me how how strange religions can do that. You know? I don't know. I don't even know where I'm going with that. It's just an observation. Although we must be careful because Christianity makes some extreme well hard to be credible. statements too. That's where I wanted to well without a doubt. Oh. Right. Right? I mean story, right? Fall of Adam and Eve, God cast Very yeah. Right. And yet we accept it. Yeah. So so the point is Yeah. So figure if we accept it then they can get people to accept this too. But yeah, I mean I don't anyway. Let me let me push through this. The the difference is that Christianity is grounded in history. Jericho happened. They they w they found the city of Jericho with the walls falling. They found the uh the cities that got burned to the ground, Sodom and Gomorrah They found um uh uh whole inscriptions that that talk about King David and his dynasty. I mean I mean the the the religion that is Christianity, Jesus existed in w A D, you know, we our whole calendar is based on a recognition that his life was there. So anyways my point is is that, you know, it's one thing to believe in something you know, that is just kind of a cool science science fiction idea. It's another thing to to have your beliefs rooted and grounded in facts of history and archaeological reality. Matthew goes on to say that these lunatics, President Bush and Vice President Cheney, are are having great risk and spreading our forces so thin. Right. Yeah. Again, pol this is just political anal analysis. Move on. org loves this stuff. The Bush camp is obsessed with moving into Iran before the indictment documents become public knowledge. So he's gonna be indicted for lying, I guess, or something. Uh they're concerned soon that they will control most of the world's oil, which will assure victory in obtaining all else they desire. And nothing else in the world will matter. Um then the ghost says, let me digress for a moment, says people familiar with my messages in the books do they have books out, by the way? Know that I have stated that there will be no nuclear detonations in space And my last message I explained why Creator made this exception to its law of free will. So the crew? Why creator So whoever creator is has said that you know what, you can you guys have free will, but you're not going to ever detonate a nuclear weapon in space. Right, okay. That's the that's the I draw the line. Yeah, yeah, there it is. We'll have none of that. It is not arb arbitrary uh not an arbitrary decision that this does not apply equally for well, let's see, I'll kinda skim through some of this now because you you've got you've got the point. Okay. Any attempts at detonations beyond the cutoff line will be neutralized by the technology of our space flight warriors. Who in all attempts are the first thing that we have to do with the events? Who are headed by this creator? So the creator has these sp space light tech warriors. Not only have many of us at this station experienced multiple physical lifetimes in fearful circumstances in the universe, but our love energy uh found with you lets us feel exactly what you are feeling. It is true that these higher vibrations, in these higher vibrations, those feelings cannot last as they do on earth, but our love for you does not permit the absence of empathy. Good vibrations. It wraps up with we accept that the call and prayer compels we accept that the call and prayer compels the answer and ask for it to be sealed in our hearts and in the heart of the divine mother of peace and the cosmic Christ of love, they will be done. So be it. So they even sneak in the word Christ. Yeah. Wait, wait, now there at the end they were saying that Christ is a good thing? Yeah, Christ is uh I I guess he somehow did by the way, we've got like Two seconds left. I'm going to have to just kind of end it there. Okay. We get to talk off the air. Right. Thanks so much for listening to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by All Shred, Mobile Document Destruction and Futman Plumbing and Heating. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks again to Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel for being with us and thanks to you for listening. God bless.