Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host. and moderator Troy Skinner. The Pretter Faith Debate is brought to us by All Shred Mobile Documents Destruction and Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Preter Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders. Uh a and those who uh have points of view that represent greater world views to come on and discuss their points of view about what they hold to be reality and truth And we were just talking before uh the show uh here moments ago about what the the point and the attitude of of this show is. And we're hoping to create a safe haven where people who might disagree And uh and and if I'm doing my job, we can know with some certainty that there will be some people in the room who disagree on some level because we can have an open, honest, uh, truthful dialogue. Um Uh i in in a way that is respectful uh and kind, I suppose, uh uh depending on how you def define the word kind. So with with that in mind, today we have uh the the pleasure of having well pleasure. We have the ponderous task of uh of putting up with Jonathan Swipe's pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here in Frederick. Uh uh a relatively new papa. Yes. Yes, my son was born at quarter till midnight Sunday night. My fourth son. Now as this show is. Dark hair goes back a couple of Nine and a half pounds. Yes, yes. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you very much. And Carolyn Evers, who uh is not uh a in a leadership position with a church or any sort of a religious uh organization per se, but uh um We've decided the best ways to describe uh what Carolyn's title for the purpose of the show would be uh Visionary and Locutionist. If that means something to you, good for you. We're gonna have to get a definition of that word locutionist. Can we get a definition before we go any farther? What does that mean? I I don't even know what that's going to be. We'll never get into the show if we get into that. Oh really? Because you'll have a you'll have an answer to it, I'm sure, that will require another answer. Which is the point of the show, right? How do you define what you're doing? Well maybe we'll get to uh I define it however the two of you decide what's wrong. So the point of today's show is uh and we're gonna do uh two shows uh with Carolyn and and Jonathan if he behaves himself. Yes. And the uh the the two things we're gonna tackle in these two shows uh I think are somewhat related One is the idea of uh you know th they're all related to life after death issues and to and in this show today we're gonna talk about um uh reincarnation. And and and having past lives and and remembering those past lives. And uh in a related way we're in in the next show going to talk about uh speaking to those who have uh passed from this life and I guess haven't been reincarnated yet, but maybe we'll touch on that in this show. Um So this will be fascinating. Should be fascinating. So I want to start with with Jonathan because I'm hoping I'll get a quick answer on this. Okay. And then we can move to Carolyn. The answer is no. All right. Carolyn, go ahead. Jonathan from A a Christian pastor's point of view, do you believe in reincarnation? No. Now, Carolyn, you, not from a Christian pastor's perspective, but from a personal uh uh experiential perspective. uh say that your answer to that is yes. Yes, definitely. And why do you say it's yes? Growing up I always was open to the thought, first of all, that it might be a possibility, though I can't say I had proof at any time. Um, I read a lot of stories where people since it was actually an interest where people um had either dreams or questions or strong feelings that something had happened in the past and they went on a historical research to go back to the place and find if their memories and thoughts had a uh indeed had fact in history. And I was always intrigued with that. I wanted to go beyond just the memory, but I had a couple things in mind. First of all, the memory. What does that memory accomplish to us? in this lifetime. You mean when we have memories of past lifetimes lifetime, what is that? Um for me it has been uh uh a great healing um and it has set the stage to help me understand who I am, the things that motivate me. And Uh so in that respect it has been a great healing process. Now this first started um uh talking to the other side and starting to remember lifetimes um when my son died and he was sixteen he was um he died in a i in an accident And so one day he's there healthy, the next day he's gone. I mean it was uh was very sudden and so it was a shock and like most mothers and fathers, they're gonna grieve over this. Um, but I wanted to know if he was in a safe place. And it was a long process, maybe two years, with so many things happening into my life that I realized I was communicating with this person that I believed was my son. I mean, we had extraordinary things happen. Things like uh when he was there, um unknown lights would blink, things would fall off shelves, uh until we got to the point where there was a lady who actually saw him and put my hand on his cheek and when I felt this emotion pass between he and me, this love force. Um, that was the beginning. I knew that it was possible to start remembering these things and starting to have an interface with it. These things went on for about twenty years. And so Now did you believe in evolution before these things happened or no I was open to it. So you're open to the idea that there's there's um ways to communicate with the other side, isn't it? Yeah, I was open to it, but it wasn't one of those things that I It was looking for it. No, I'd had one small experience where my grandfather had died. And about a week after he died, I was lying down on the bed with my children. We w we'd gone to sleep and he called me out of the room. I heard his voice went out into the room out into the hallway and he said he just wanted to stop by and say hello before he left, make sure everybody was okay. And I was so stunned that this had happened I said, Yeah, we're all we're all okay and he said goodbye to me and I thought, My golly, here. I had the horse's mouth, so to speak. I could find out what was it like on the other side? Where was he going? What was his experience And he was gone. I mean, my mouth was like open if you can imagine. And he was gone. And that was the other thing that triggered my desire to know where we come from, where we go, um what is this organizational thing and this life here and who we perceive as a thing. Organizational thing. Organizational thing like you get up, you go to work, um, you know, life uh it it's all organized to a certain extent. Our jobs, our profession. So you're asking the big questions of life why? Yeah. What's it all about? Absolutely. And you're saying in your pursuit of that you um you found this way to communicate with the other side. You realized uh uh o that uh well, I guess I would say we're of the opinion that it had happened to you in the past because of certain experiences and so So what motivated and moved you in that direction was uh desire to try to understand the big why of life. Well, yes, and but it was it was really triggered by um the death of my son Uh I had become that would be pretty hard. How did he die by the way? In an automobile accident. Wow. Like I said, one minute he's there, the next minute the next minute he's not. I know a lady that that claims that she can speak or that that her I was just going to say, Jonathan, you know, Carolyn has this this story, this personal experience that that she can speak with Um her son will talk maybe maybe w we're not gonna be able to maybe easily divide divide the topics into two separate things. They do overlap the idea of speaking to uh somebody who's passed to the other side and remembering past lives and and then she talk and she's not alone. There are others who, like you just said, say they can do the same. And uh Carolyn said that she's gone back and done historical uh research to s to see if she could find anything that would show that what she's remembering from past lives or what those who have passed over to the other side are telling her. can be uh can be seen in the the annals of history and she's saying that she's finding all of that. So to all of that, you know, what say you, to quote Bill O'Reilly. Yeah, yeah. The the bottom line to me is w with all spirituality is how do we determine what is beneficial and what is not. And it seems to me that, you know, even in your own testimony at testimony, that you talk to anybody of any religion, when they go to defend it, they're going to start saying, well, it's beneficial because or because of this or because of that. And my perspective on all of this is that the Bible defines something as being beneficial if it reconnects us with God. In the way that He has uh clarified through His Son Jesus Christ, dying on the cross for our sins uh so that it puts our focus on God and not on other things. And according to the Bible, it is very easy and common for uh humans to be distracted by many things. Come on, we call it ADHD these days. We're, you know, we we just can't get over this distraction. It seems to me the the question is always because I have people tell me all the time, well John, it's so judgmental for you to say that one you know one experience is okay and you know another one's not. And I'm like, well, the problem is that Hitler had a spiritual experience. And his spiritual mentors claimed to be Buddhists, but it was clearly not a beneficial thing for him to be having whatever spiritual experiences he was having. And there's other people uh that are similar. So at some point we have to begin to discern and say, well that's good and that's not. And my concern is that once you throw out your standard for measuring what can be you know, valid and what's not valid, then you have no standard beyond I felt good. And all I know is that there are a lot of humans out there that can say just the right thing and make me feel Really good or do the right thing make me feel really good and they are not good for me. And so my question is how do we define what's good or bad? My standard is scripture. Scripture says that any interaction with the dead is uh is automatically demonic, wrong, inappropriate that you shouldn't do it. In fact in the Old Testament they were told to to kill everyone that was a medium or a spiritist that had this kind of interaction with the dead. So you're not doubting the experience. Not at all, no. Okay. But you're doubting. In fact in the old testament we're told that the goodness of the experience. Yeah, we're told that King Saul interacted with Samuel after he had died. But the spiritist was afraid to help with it because because she knew that the law of God had said that she should be killed if she if she engages in this kind of activity. So I'm not I'm not doubting that it's that there's a valid experience going on. What I'm doubting is whether or not we as humanity have the tools to discern whether it's uh trustworthy or not. So on on the question, Carolyn, of you know uh how you know and the people that you work with and that sh uh have similar experiences to you, uh how how do you all as as uh a a body of people, uh, grapple with that idea of how do I know that this is a good thing? I really don't grapple with that. Um in the very beginning when I started receiving a lot of this information uh from the other side I asked that question, and I judged it by something that Jesus had said, and I don't remember the words exactly on paraphrasing, but basically by their fruits you would know them. And that's how I looked at this whole thing. If I ever received anything or heard something that I didn't feel had the fruits of goodness and wisdom about it, then I would really start questioning it. But that hasn't been my experience. Okay, I was just gonna ask the recent question. How do you determine whether the result is a good and wise result or or not? What's the standard for that? If something is positive in your life, you were you made Yeah, but I know a lot of people that say that it's positive when they meet up with, you know, a girl for a one night stand, but I wouldn't say it's positive. you know, like like define it a little bit. Well, because they're they're looking at it for for a very short term one night period. I'm looking at this over a twenty year period. uh we go back to uh the very beginning of this string of experiences and it's lasted over twenty years. Not only that um I feel like it has brought me very close to God. Um when you start to see and experience and have an interchange with the things that I have seen and experienced Um it makes you feel very close to God and his works on this planet. Um could I ask a question about that? Okay, but let me uh reset the stage real quickly. You're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, the The voice that will be asking a question in a second is that of Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel and uh Carolyn Evers who is uh did we really ever define locution? We did not, no. We did not. We're leaving that out there yes and visionary. It's a it's a it's a Catholic term. Um uh there are people who say they hear from the Blessed Mother or from Jesus. and the church approves of certain incidents of that. For instance, Fatima would uh be one, Lourdes would be another. uh where the church has said that that they have explored this and they consider it a a legitimate situation. And the the the visionary actually hears the voice of either the Blessed Mother or Jesus and it is an inner hearing and that's it's a Catholic term, uh locution. That would be the um uh definition of it Oh so you hear the inner voice, that's what the definition is. Yes, and this is I found this interesting because I I was studying another course And I found out how that works actually. Um, we don't really hear with our ear. The ear is is an organ that collects the sound and sends the sound through through a different series of operations to a place in the brain and it is the brain this place in the brain that differentiates sound and put meaning to it. Mm-hmm. That is where I hear the voice that spot in the brain. And I just found this out not too long ago and I I found wow that was kind of interesting. You know it's interesting because the um uh the introduction of uh praying to the saints and um interacting with the saints, you know, interacting with Mary. Um those are the sorts of things that drove uh in large measure the Protestant movement with Martin Luther, the Reformation movement, to break with the Catholic Church because we were of the opinion Christ came to reconnect us with God so that we don't need to go through intermar intermediaries. We can go straight to God. We don't have to deal with all this other stuff. We can go straight to Him. And uh when the Catholic Church reintroduced that, uh, we are of the opinion that they um what they were doing was embracing pagan uh activity and activities that that we find nowhere uh nowhere in scripture are they encouraged or recommended and and uh and it's only in the Catholic Church a couple hundred years down the road that they begin to ha you know say that this is an okay thing and Um yeah, we're of the opinion that that it i that the timing of that was in conjunction with the church uh becoming corrupted and becoming more power hungry and and uh more uh politically involved in those kinds of things. Now a moment ago you said you had a question. Has that come out in this interview? Um the question uh was in reference to um Yeah, I'm not going to remember it right now. Okay, well what that's good because I have a better question. Yes. You always do. Jonathan has uh has a few times uh referred to, you know, you don't find it in scripture and uh scripture tells us and that sort of a thing. Uh and I'm assuming that you wouldn't uh take the same stand on the authority of Scripture, but you have talked about uh Jesus. You uh I don't know if you talked about it before uh the show or in the show, I can't remember now, it's all blending together. But you were raised uh in a Roman Catholic uh setting in a church going family, uh and you talked a moment ago about you know feeling more connected to God. Yes. Um so do you consider yourself now a Christian? Oh, most definitely. Um I I f feel about the Bible that Um what actually was given in the Bible that all of the books are not there. In other words, when you study history and you study the period of Constantine, for instance, how it was reorganized you study the uh Gnostic period where there were a lot of the the books of what was then considered this wealth of material that would be the Bible. You find that there are many books that was actually cut away and not in the final version. Quite a few, in fact. Yeah. And so there's they're very passionate about that. And so there's there's a big there's a big database that um has not come down to us Matter of fact, uh when the Dead Sea Scrolls were first um discovered, I thought, aha, we're gonna get back to some of these portions of the Bible that have been uh taken out And we never really did, though they're putting them together and and getting some idea of it. Which is interesting because this comes exactly back to the question that I was saying earlier. What was that? Is there a need or is there not a need for us to Ask the question when these experiences happen, is this good or not? Is there a need for us to have some sort of a standard that says this is good? and this is not good. And if so, how would we come to have that standard? Like for example, Christianity, uh in in the Old Testament, the New Testament, they claim to be based in history. They've literally found Jericho. They found Sodom and Gomorrah burned to the ground. They found um uh the all the names, they found the house of David. uh i on on uh ancient architec uh archaeological finds you know inscribed in in in uh the uh exploits of kings And uh and so Christianity claims to be based in history that there are all these prophecies in the Old Testament that prophesied to the coming of Christ. prophecies that all of them came together at the same time and then this body of instruction that that give his teaching and then you know a few books that that uh with those that that were his direct disciples that uh that by the leading of the Holy Spirit then they spoke you know to establish the church. And so it claims to be based in history Uh we even say uh A D, which is in the year of our Lord, you know, the the the reality of of Christianity being grounded in history, and it carries with it this this commitment that whatever happens spiritually, we're not just going to let it happen, even if it makes us feel good, even if it makes us feel closer to God, but instead what we're going to do is we're going to We're going to endeavor to to discover whether it can be trusted or not, because we're just of the opinion that humanity has killed itself and destroyed itself over and over through the years. And we can't just accept whatever comes down the pike. We have to have some kind of a of a way of examining a spiritual experience and saying, you know what? I realize it's making people feel good, but but it's not It's not doing good, uh, in the long run. It's not really helping people come closer to Christ. In fact a lot of Protestants would claim that uh like the Grotto of Lords and in these different Catholic places around around the world where they they see Mary or they see these different apparitions that what has happened, uh, and you see it all over the place, is that there's this this fascination with Mary or this fascination with with you know one of the saints and And God is no longer getting the glory that he's due. You know, he's a he he longs to be in this love relationship with humanity And what happens is we we get distracted by these other gods like the Israelites at the bottom of Mount Sinai. They put up this calf, God had just rescued them out of out of Egypt, they make this calf, you know, and in their their celebration all of a sudden You know, they're being unfaithful to their God. And so the question that I still carry and that you seem to recommend is how is it that we can just accept whatever spirituality that comes along? We have to have some kind of standard. Christianity claims that that God Himself has given us that standard in in the laws and in the clear teaching of the Bible. I suppose we're really talking about two things here. You're talking more about a standard that is acceptable to a culture, to civilization, uh uh a religious standard that people the people should follow a dogma. And I'm not really coming from that perspective. I'm coming from the perspective of what I have experienced in my own life. I'm not uh attempting to um uh to redefine what someone else should follow or feel. Uh I can only I went through that in the sense that I was educated, uh, you know, in my faith, grew up in my faith, uh, went to church every Sunday, did all the things that you were supposed to do. And then I have other things in my life that has happened that has uh pulled me by the arm and and say, What is happening here? As I go through this, when I start talking to other people, it's amazing how things open up. Because people will start telling you they're not maybe they're not telling their pastor, but they're telling you, oh, you see angels. You know, I see angels. They're telling me something's wrong with seeing angels, but I see angels. Well I but I but I have to take uh I have to take issue with that because the Bible clearly um uh has humans and angels interacting and uh and uh so that's not necessarily the wrong thing. Angels according to the Bible is very different from uh s communicating with with those that have died and passed as in your term to the uh over to the other side. And so so I I don't I don't mind people seeing angels communicating with angels, um, but I am of the opinion that the Bible thinks it's very evil to uh to specifically communicate with the dead. And I'm not quite sure exactly why. I told you earlier. I'm I don't I I I've tried to think through the the rationale behind that, the the biblical logic and I don't know that I've figured it out yet. And I don't have I don't have an argument with that at all. I I mean that's fine. But I'll give you an example of Uh one of the first words that make me nervous. So we will uh hold hold on to the example, make a note of yourself if you want, and uh we will talk about that example and more in this conversation in the next episode. of the Frederick Faith debate. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Carolyn Evers, thank you for being on on the show. Great to have you here today. Uh thanks so much for listening and thanks to our sponsors, All Shred, Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding Today for Growth Tomorrow. And Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Uh if you have a topic or a guest suggestion or a question you'd love us to tackle on the show, please email me at Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's T-R-O-Y-S-K-I-N-N-E-R. All one word. At Clear Channel, all one word. Thank you again for listening and God bless.