Welcome to the Frederick Bates debate on Frederick's News Radio 930. I'm Troy Skin. I'll be acting as your host and moderator for the next half hour. Turn to Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local religious leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth in the spirit of Thomas Jefferson, who said the clash of ideas. ideas of the sound of freedom, we will seriously wrestle with important ideas even at the risk of disagreeing with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling we will come to a greater understanding and appreciation of each other. More importantly, we hope that you will develop a better understanding of the truth This week we're gonna talk about the Trinity. What is it exactly? How do you understand it? Our guests talk about that And I appreciate their boldness in helping to explain this to us. Pastor uh John Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel and uh Chaplain Chris Jackson from the uh Good News Well well Troy, you just need to know coming into this whole thing that we all saw Trinity on the Matrix. Right. All three movies. So I mean, what do you need described after that? Now well in in all fairness, you know, it occurs to me as you say that that there might be somebody listening who does not know exactly what we're talking about when we say the Trinity. So for those who are uninitiated. An Orthodox Christian doctrine is that there is one God who exists as three persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, or sometimes referred to as the Holy Ghost. Uh some have misinterpreted the idea of the Trinity as meaning the Father, Son, and the Mother, meaning maybe the Virgin Mary or somebody like that. Uh some would s accuse Christianity of being polytheistic. How's that for a word for you? Meaning having more than one God. Yeah. Meaning that the Christians worship three gods. Mm. So it has been uh a point of some contention and controversy. And what makes it such a an ongoing point of contention and controversy is that when the average cr Christian on the street tries to explain what they believe about the Trinity to somebody who doesn't understand or hasn't heard of it or rejects it, they have a hard time logically explaining how it's possible for there to be one God, three persons. Somehow three equals one, one equals three How is that possible? So over the next uh well we have about twenty-five minutes left now. Um you're gonna make that all clear for us. Unlikely, unlikely. Clear as mud. Now first of all, have I done a a reasonable job in outlining what the Trinity is? Absolutely. Absolutely. Now, correct me if I'm wrong, the word Trinity does not exist anywhere in the Christian Holy Scriptures, the New or Old Testament does not exist. Correct? Correct. Correct. It's a word that uh came up to describe what is in the Bible, what is clearly portrayed in the Bible. Again, one God who exists in three persons at the same time. Uh there's one church that says that God went through phases. He first started off as the Father, then became Jesus. Interesting. Okay, okay. That's not what we're talking about. Right. That would be unorthodox. That would be unorthodox. That was uh uh famous pastor Darwin with the evolution of God theory. Right, right, right. Yeah. Okay. Uh there's a verse in Isaiah 55 Verses eight and nine says, For my thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my ways, says the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. Isaiah chapter fifty five verses eight and nine. So we gotta leave room that God can do things differently than we can understand it. Which kind of sums up our whole uh discussion today. Basically we're talking about things that are very hard to understand and uh that we really see through a glass darkly and you know, in every way when it comes to trying to understand how those how how God is three and one in you know, the three can talk to one another and and potentially hand the spiritual ball off to one another in scripture and yet there's still one. It's definitely a very Now I had somebody once share with me uh a comment that I thought was uh I had never heard it put this way before, but our our yearning uh as as As humans is to want to be able to get our arms all the way around God. We want to be able to embrace Him completely until our fingers touch, was the way He phrased it. But God is so big and his ways are so above our ways, as is the passage you just read, Chris, that we can't ever quite get our arms all the way around God to the extent that our fingers touch. Well I I would say this though, Troy. If that yes, some of us are trying to get our arms around God, but um I think we only do that because we are sinful and we want to Uh we want to be able to control, you know, and put everything in a box so that we can be almost somehow bigger than it. You know, if I can define X then, you know, I can manipulate the idea and feel like I'm bigger than it and but I think ultimately what we're really yearning for as a God that is way bigger than we could ever understand, so that we can finally let go and trust. So I think in sin, you're right, we are always trying to get our our hands around it and put God into a box. But I think ultimately the most spiritual thing, the the the deepest yearning our of our heart is exactly the opposite of that to let go and to realize that God is way bigger and that that's exactly what we've needed our whole life. Somebody that is uh capable of taking responsibility for Things that we can't because we're not it. Okay. Beyond uh understanding how it's true, which maybe we'll come back to in a minute, uh uh Different from understanding that it's true is uh is accepting that it's true. So why is it that the Christian should accept that it's true? I'm um I'm sure that you have you know a laundry list of scripture that you could throughout but are is are there a handful of things that can give us confidence that you know what? There is God the Father, there is God the Son, there is God the Holy Spirit. What are those things that can give the Christian who maybe hasn't read the Bible as much as they should uh confidence that that's true. Are you prepared to kind of answer that question specifically? You're asking what are the scriptures that would that would clearly uh reveal that there's three different people going on there? Correct. Okay. Well I I'd like to start off and just throw my hat on the race and say without understanding that that's true, you will have a difficult a lot of difficulty understanding the scriptures. Uh the claims Jesus made, for example Uh I am the bread of life. I am the true vine. Uh I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. Jesus makes these claims, and God has already made these claims in the Old Testament. The Holy Spirit comes along and uh He empowers us to live the Christian life and supposed to teach us all things and um he inspired the scriptures uh unless you understand the trinity or accept the trinity No one can fully understand it, but unless you accept it and believe it is true, you will have a lot of difficulty with the scriptures. Yeah, you know, I I think that for the average person on the street, there needs to be some kind of a practical value to each of the different persons of the Trinity. And um I'd like to boil that down first. and then identify uh a couple passages that that would deal with, you know, that there are three. Um the the the number one thing that I think that we all as humans need to know is that there is some ultimate authority that has the power and ability and will to judge the world and to to uh judge evil and those things that have destroyed us, sickness and and those kinds of things. That that we need to know for for to be secure in any way at all that there is some God, Father, Creator, ultimate uh uh figure out there that is big enough and powerful enough. Alright? So that's the first practical element of of the Trinity. The second one is is God the Son. We also need to know that that God Will somehow help us despite the fact that we've fallen into sin. That he's not just going to sit up there far away and mock us Ah, you're never going to be able to get up here to me, ha ha ha, because I'm so righteous and you're not. We need a God that's both transcendent and though can come down and live with us. and knows knows what it means to suffer with us, and that's God the Son. That's right. I don't want a God that just lives far off. I need a God that understands what I've gone through, you know, that understands the suffering, the sickness, the pain from relationships, and that's Christ. Clearly and completely he's he's gone through that. But then the last thing is this, I need a God that not only has experienced what I experienced, but can help me to grow and to live my life day in and day out. And that's the role of the Holy Spirit that empowers us, that fills us, and produces fruit in us so that we can be good Christians. And it seems to me that that that the role of the Trinity, the power, the importance of the Trinity, the practicality of the Trinity is those three things. We need God to be transcendent and powerful and just, but we also need him to to have suffered and understand what we've gone through. Um and then thirdly, we we definitely need a God that can help us right now to be what we need to be because we're we just can't do it on our own. Uh of Chris John was just talking about the the three persons of the somet what's sometimes called the Godhead, uh the Trinity, uh in very personal terms. And I think that's something that's very important for people to remember, right? That all three persons, because sometimes you would be tempted to say aspects or parts of, but all three persons of the Trinity are personal. They're persons, right? I mean the the spirit isn't a force. It's it's a it's a person, right? Each you can find examples in scripture where each one has actually spoken. Yeah. Uh The Father has spoken, uh, and Jesus has spoken, the Holy Spirit spoke to Peter, I believe in Acts chapter 10, told him to go down and meet the servants and messengers of Cornelius Uh we have the creation story of Genesis, let us make man in our image. Now that's a key passage, Chris, because um this is the first uh you know God It says, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And the word there for God is the Hebrew word Elohim, which is uh which is the plural form of God. So in the beginning We, God, created the heavens and the earth. And then it says, um uh uh and uh I laugh because uh some people think that it's the royal we uh when it says it but uh but God says let us make man in our image and then male and female he created them in the image of God and the question is then then who's the us in that statement And again, our understanding from Scriptures that that's God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. That's right. That that the unity that is the three of them is uh is the image that we were created in. Now you you broke out the Bible there for a second. You mentioned you had a couple of verses you didn't point us to. Uh John chapter 16 verse 5, 6, and 7 says this. Now I go, this is Jesus talking, and he says this, now I go away to him who sent me, that would be God the Father, and none of you ask me where are you going? But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. All right, Jesus is leaving. And the disciples are uh you know concerned. They're sad because it's been kind of fun to hang out. with Jesus. I mean, can you imagine? Uh verse seven, then it says, Nevertheless I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper, meaning the Holy Spirit, will not come to you, but if I depart I will send him, meaning the Holy Spirit, to you. So in that passage, Jesus is saying that he he was going to leave the disciples, go to the Father And that when he gets to the Father, he's going to send the Holy Spirit. Again, there's the three of them, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. And the second passage that has meant so much to me is 1 Corinthians Let's see if I get it right. Ah, yes, 1 Corinthians 12, verse 4. And it says this. It says, There are many diversities of gifts, but the same spirit There are many differences of ministries but the same Lord referring to Jesus Christ. And there are diversities of activities but the same God who works all in all. All three right there. And uh and again the point is is that um in fact this is what I find. that there's parts of the church that magnify God the Father, and as a result, they magnify predestination, they magnify grace, they magnify God's sovereign action on the face of the planet. They're magnifying God. It's great. I totally agree with what they magnify because God has done all those things and He's working His plan out with power and authority. There are other churches that magnify Christ. And when they do, they tend to magnify evangelism and serving the poor and the outcast. I find this true all uh time and again that that those who magnify Christ, the evangelicals, if you will are all about preaching the gospel and serving the poor. But then there are those that magnify the ministry of the Holy Spirit, and they seem to be all about helping the individual to be healed in their heart and built up and strengthened so that they can be a strong Christian. And it's interesting that all three of those are extremely important, extremely valuable, but even in the body of Christ, one church will emphasize the Holy Spirit, another one emphasize you know, God the Father and his sovereignty and another emphasize uh Christ. And ultimately I think that the church is most unified when we magnify all three of those elements. Absolutely. Which is a powerful thing for the church to be in unity. I'm going to use this as an opportunity to uh reintroduce the show. I'm Troy Skinner acting as the host and moderator of the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. You just heard John Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel, speaking, and you've also heard before that the voice of uh Chaplain Chris Jackson with the Good News Jail and Prison Ministry. Uh John Schweitzer quoted a couple of uh passages from the Bible, including something from the uh Gospel of John. And I'm surprised something else that the uh the Apostle John wrote Uh you didn't quote, which I expected you to, which is in the beginning there was the word and the word was, you know, with God and the word was God. And then the word became flesh uh obviously speaking about Jesus becoming flesh and that he is also known called the Word and that the Word is God. The Word was God Uh and then there's another pa I think it might also be John, although I couldn't give you the verse, you guys might be able to come up with it, where Jesus speaks and s uh says or maybe it no, it's Paul. Paul talking about Jesus coming and being the life-giving spirit. That Jesus is the life-giving spirit. So he equates Jesus and the Spirit as one. Jesus says the Father if you've seen the Father, you've seen if you've seen me, you've seen the Father, indicating a oneness. And then Paul says Um you know, that Jesus is life-giving spirit, indicating that Jesus and the Spirit are also one. So those are additional supports. Yeah, you you could argue that uh just about every single one of Paul's letters uh deals with Jesus and the spirit of of Jesus um together. So um yes, the Bible says that and yes it's in practically all of Paul's letters. Yeah. But I was just surprised you didn't use the you know uh I figured you were for sure gonna use that one because that's the that's the the one that pops into mind. Sure, sure. Which is a bit Great one, yeah. There's another example of the Trinity at the baptism of Jesus. Yes. Uh Jesus is getting baptized. Powerful moment. The Holy Spirit comes down in the form of a dove. And the Father speaks from heaven. This is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. There are all three, all three persons or personalities are there present at the same time, I like to re-emphasize. Um all serving one purpose. Yeah. Glorifying Jesus Christ. Yeah. All about the work of salvation And a lot of what we've talked about so far is then, you know, quoting things from the New Testament, but I think it's important, you know, uh John, you mentioned at the very beginning in Genesis, it talks about you know, a plurality and creating an our image sh demonstrating that from the very beginning of the Old Testament, there's this ident there's this uh idea of Yeah. Yeah, and it and it shows up a couple times there in the first couple chapters of Genesis. It says the spirit was hovering over the waters. And the word for spirit there is the ruach of God, the life giving breath of God, and then it says he breathed into man the breath of life Um which again uh refers to the the ruach, the the the um life-giving spirit of God. Uh and then where when Adam and Eve are uh uh disciplined uh for their sin, uh uh Christ is referred to when it says that that her seed will bruise your will bruise your head and you will bruise the serpent will bruise his heel. It's referring to Christ that one day this man child is gonna come that is going to, you know, counteract the the effects of sin that Adam and Eve have kicked in the gear. So again, the point is you find you find the Trinity all through Scripture. It's it's certainly very pervasive And getting back to the ask uh the question we asked earlier, how can we accept the Trinity, how can we believe in it, uh the best illustration I've ever heard is the example of water. It can exist in three different forms at the same time. As steam, as liquid, and as ice. But all three forms, all three states are water. And in the same way, there's one God who exists in three persons at the same time. And that's what we're talking about. Without understanding that, you will have difficulty understanding the scriptures. I think also that uh A big part of understanding the Trinity is is the is is catching a glimpse of what God intends for mankind. Because Christ says that uh if his words remain in us, we will remain in him and we will bear much fruit. And he says this that that we will share with him the unity that he has with the Father. And so the point is not that like the Trinity is this like exclusive club you know, that they get to be a part of, but that God intends for all of us as mankind to be unified and d to to walk in that unity with them. Not like somehow we'll be gods, that would be a whole other uh di discussion because that's not uh that's not the intention there. But that that just like God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit are together and in unity And they they they can read one another, they know one another, they know what the other one's doing. They're they're working in perfect harmony and concert with one another, you know, like a symphony orchestra, you know, they're they're they're they're just uh accomplishing these things together, that God really intends that for all of mankind. And Christ Christ is his uh answer to that, the great mystery that ties together the disunity on the face of the planet. And it and uh to me, again, that's the that's a a very practical element of what the Trinity is all about, that that it serves as a constant example and reminder to us that God intends for us to not be divided for all of eternity, you know, with wars and hatred and anger, but that we would be unified. Uh For all of eternity. Maybe not as much as that one that I can't recall right now. Are there any other of those sorts of worldly analogies that maybe would help somebody to understand the Trinity that you can recall right now? Some people have said like an egg it has a yolk, it has the uh the white and it has the shell. Uh some people have said like uh the um uh the Irish uh th three leaf clover that it's it's three but it's one. I think St. Patrick was the one that used that to describe the the Trinity. Uh are there any others that come to your mind. Example the sun, uh you got the heat, you got the the ball of the sun itself, and then you have the light. Yeah. Uh Three different obvious but I think all of those examples kind of fail uh pale in comparison. They all fall short, right? Yeah, the any example you give will fall short. Because uh there's nothing like God. He says, who can can who can you compare like me? You know, to whom can you make me equal? He says in Isaiah chapter 40 Um there is a a verse in 1 John chapter 5, verse 7, in the King James version of the Bible. Mm-hmm. Uh, you can basically only find in the King James and other translations, you'll find it as a footnote at the bottom. And it reads, For there are three that bear witness in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit, and these three are one. Now many s argue that that verse should not be in the Bible, uh but in all the ancient manuscripts of the Greek New Testament it's there. Yeah. It's there. Yeah. Um true in a couple Editions of the Greek New Testament is not there. But um You know, it occurs to me that um that Islam in particular is uh very concerned about this idea that you would worship many gods instead of just one. Um partially because uh Muhammad himself uh fought against the idea of polytheism that was pervasive all through the Middle East when he was rising to power and and um uh prophesying the things he prophesied. Uh and so he fought against that to say that, you know, God is one. And even the The Torah, the Old Testament scriptures that uh that the Jewish people magnify in particular says, uh, hear, O Israel, the Lord your God is one. Um uh hallelujah. And uh the question is is whether or not, okay, we're worshiping many gods, and how is it that God could could die on the cross? you know, and yet still be God. You know, how is it that he could bear the sin of the world and still be God? And um you know These are all very philosophical questions, I feel like, you know, that again are attempts on our part to try to figure God out. But but again, to keep it practical, I just have to ask the question Can we really uh worship and serve a God that holds himself at a distance from us? you know, like Allah does in scripture. I mean he's he's far away and there's just he he doesn't help us to be better. He just you know, Allah just gives gives the Quran and you just have to study it and work hard to be better. But in Christianity Christ came and bore our sin, paid the price, you know, that was the wages of sin is death, which that in itself, you know, could could take a whole um half hour to discuss. But then knowing that the Holy Spirit is here to be with us, um, okay, it seems kind of weird. How can God be all those things in one? But I think the more important question is Is there any other God out there that that meets all of our needs spiritually? That that really hits us right where we need to live? And to me, that's that's the question I think the average person that's uh that's walking on the street need excuse me, needs to deal with. And in the very first part of what you said there, you anticipated a question, or not a question, but a a a comment that I was going to make sure we emphasize and we've been talking an awful lot about the different persons. Yeah, and it only speaks it sound like you're talking about three gods. But that is not the that is not Orthodox Christian belief. There is just one God. Yeah. All of the three persons make up one God. And that and you're right, that is what the you know, I have friends who are Muslim and they'll say, You all you believe in three gods. Well, no, I don't Oh, you believe in the Father and the Son, and I've even heard the mother, and I said, No, the Holy Spirit. Uh but that doesn't mean I believe in three gods. Yeah, yeah. Uh so that is uh you know, you I don't want to make the mistake of so emphasizing the three personhood that we forget that there is just one God. We have time maybe for a closing remark um from maybe both of you as long as they're like thirty seconds each. Well again, uh Jesus' last words on earth was to go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. That's a perfect example of the Trinity. And uh and again if you if you take that verse out and first John chapter five verse seven, if you take that out, you still can't take away the concept of one God and three persons. And I would just say simply that uh that we need all those all those roles. We need a transcendent God that's all powerful. We need a God that that paid the sins so that we could uh be reconciled to to God, and we need a God that's there with us each and every day by the Spirit. And my final word is going to be something that somebody uh hadn't thought about before, but you know, God is love. And if God is going to be love, he needs someone to love. So therefore he must have needed to create. And that is not true if you believe in the Trinity because he has himself to love. The Father can love the Son and the Spirit, the Spirit can love the Son and the Father, and the Son can love the Spirit and the Father. So he is self-contained and self-existent and doesn't need anything, which I think is a a a comfort for uh from a Christian view on the Trinity as well. Thank you both for being part of the show again this week. You've been listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Again, if you would like to, uh if you know somebody who is qualified as a you know, as a uh religious leader in the community who would like to be a part of this show, or if you yourself are one Or if you have a question about something you'd like us to talk about in this show, please email me at Troiskinner at Clearchannel. com. Thanks again for listening and God bless.