Welcome to the Frederick Baker. Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by All Shred, Mobile Document Destruction, and Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? My name is Troy Skinner. I'm your host and moderator for the next uh thirty minutes or so, twenty-seven minutes I think to be exact. And uh on our panel this week Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel, he's the pastor there. But he doesn't say too much. And seed yeah, and seeded to Jonathan's left and right would be Nobody. Nobody. It's uh just Jonathan and I this week. And that's by design, by the way. Nobody stood us up. That's right. Uh we've had that happen before, but not this week. Uh what I want to talk about this week, um, we tried to have somebody on. Let me give you a little backstory. Yes. And um And then we'll then we'll dive in. Hopefully this will make some sense. If you listened last week and the week before that, you heard us uh talk with uh Carolyn Evers who was the locutionist and visionary is how she d described what she does. And she spe uh she says that she can speak to people who uh who are who are now dead that are passed over to the other side. And that she can remember past lifetimes of herself and and we we uh talked about those sorts of things. And that was actually the definition of locutionist. Right. By the way, for those that didn't know. And the re and we didn't know. Which we didn't know. The the reason we ended up having Carolyn on the show was because uh a group called Star Doves came to my attention and I tried to get somebody from Star Doves on the show. And the uh Star Doves didn't have anybody in Frederick, but uh Carolyn Evers who does some things with the Star Doves organization and they're familiar with her, they're friendly with her. Uh they said, hey, she might be good for your show. And so we had her on. She I thought she was good to have on the show. So are Star Doves, is that a cross between Star Trek and Lonesome Doves or like, you know, is this like a movie thing? What is Star Doves Well, w you're about to find out actually you're you're not far off with what you just said. Oh no, really? So Wow. Anyway, so Because we couldn't get anybody on from Star Doves itself, we're gonna do the show probably this week and next week's show, uh tackling some of the things that the Star Doves people believe in and stand for and whatever and try to put uh give Jonathan an opportunity as a Christian pastor to put a uh an Orthodox Christian uh spin on uh their view and a take on on their view. and uh and see what we should make of all of this. Um and to kind of set the stage, here here's uh a word from the Bible in the book of Ephesians. We struggle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers and spiritual forces of wickedness in heavenly places. That's something that's found in the Christian scriptures, talking about something that's out bigger than us. There are spiritualities, spiritual forces, and and principalities that are bigger than us. So waging war out there. Right. So Christians would acknowledge that there is this spiritual realm kind of realm, right? Thinking of Woo, tomorrow is uh is Halloween. Yeah, here it comes. So in a sense, the Star Doves people are not very far off. By the way, you asked who Star Doves Is, are, whatever what the group is. Okay. There are a lot of things. Right. Um they have a radio show that they try to syndicate nationally. Huh. They're just like you and I. Except we're not trying to syndicate nationally, but you wonder if they're as good looking as you are. For their sake, I tried to say that in a self-effacing way. Yes. They have a uh a dating service Wow. So that you could get a date with uh like minded individuals. Oh the doves. Exactly. Your dove love. That's exactly right. They organize uh prayer visuals and and things like that internationally. For example, they have uh uh the message and prayer, something that they initiated uh over in Japan after uh w uh after World War Two about, you know, may we have peace prevail on earth and may we never have things like this happen again, so they have this this this International Prayer Day for that. They believe in things like little you know little um slogans like so many words So many creeds, so many paths, that wind and wind when just the art of being kind is all this sad world needs. That rhymes. I noticed. Yes. Hey, about the prayer thing, who are they praying to? Or are we going to get to that in just a minute? Yeah I think we we'll we will get to something. Okay. So they pray but okay, so okay They are involved in politics. They are an officially registered party in the with the federal government, the Light Party. So if you want to you can donate. The Light Party is uh is run by the or is I don't think party? They called the light party. The Star Doves people have a political party branch called the Light Party. And they're into all sorts of conspiracy theory things. For example, the the nine eleven commission report. Yeah. They say the entire report this is a quote by the way. The entire report. The entire report is constructed in support of one big lie. that the official story about nine eleven is true. So they think that everything everything that we've been told about nine eleven is one big cover up for what really happened. And what then they go on and tell us what really happened? Well some of it may be. I mean we could be here forever. This this is a list of one hundred and fifty lies that they want to highlight from the commission report. Wow. Alright. And then it says, why would the minds in charge of this final report engage in such deception? if they were not trying to cover up very high crimes. Huh. So their the the gist of their conspiracy theory is that how is that okay, well now I'm trying to tie their theological stance together with their belief that this is a you know a big conspiracy. They they think that there's a big conspiracy that goes all the way to the top because they're high crimes, okay? We're gonna find out in a minute. Presidents, congressmen, ex international leaders, whatever. UN And we're gonna find out in a minute what they believe about those individuals We've just stepped into the Twilight Zone. Well, that's why it caught my notice. Yeah. Okay. Okay. I mean my fr I'll I'll be honest. And and if you uh it's because we have too many television shows about this that people are even interested about this anymore. If you subscribe to this kind of thinking, this this view of the world and reality and the universe and whatever, you know, please Don't be too offended, but my first reaction in reading this was to laugh and to dismiss it. Hey, should we s should we say this if there's somebody out there in Frederick? that subscribes to this and you'd like to come on the show and talk to us about it, we'd love to talk to you about it. Absolutely. You can email me at Troy Skinner at Clearchannel dot com and yeah absolutely 'cause we tried. Yeah. I I contacted the uh the the the uh the the leader of the doves. Star Doves. But he's in California. He's an eagle. He's in California. So anyway, they they're involved with the International Order of Gnostic Templars. Okay. That's kinda interesting. Yeah. Because that's a part of my conspiracy my my thoughts about conspiracy is the Gnostic Secret societies. Now if anybody read the Dan Brown uh, some of this starts to hey, I think I heard of that. Yeah, well. Here's a quote from one of their uh their pieces that uh they send out some regular email blasts and I get them. Okay. So some of this is email blasts like this, some of this is website stuff that I I pulled. Okay. Uh since we couldn't get them on I wanted to try to represent as much as I could about what they believed. But here's here's a quote. We are spiritual warriors. Right? That's sounds like your The Ephesians quote. Yep. Dedicated to the revival of Gnostic wisdom Doesn't sound like the Bible so much. Very interesting. So so Gnosticism is like at the center of this. And let me f let me do this whole thing over again. We are spiritual warriors dedicated to the revival of Gnostic wisdom and the goddess tradition of the original Templars. Wow, that's Dan Brown. That's Dan exactly. That's the Da Vinci Code. Exactly. Did you know that the Da Vinci Code uh they had to arrest somebody and they're not letting anybody see the script on the Da Vinci Code Hollywood uh uh f uh stage, wherever they're they're gonna be able to do it. See the script. We've all read the script. It was a bestseller at New York Times Yeah, so what are they hiding? What's the secret? Did they change it somehow? Apparently they're afraid that Catholics or somebody are gonna rise up in arms about it. So anyways. All right. These these guys sound like they would like Dan Brown. Now this fact I'd like to ask 'em. Maybe you could email 'em about having what? If they like Dan Brown's approach to uh to Catholicism and I don't know if they would fully agree because I think Dan Brown might be a little bit more orthodox than he you know he's loosely is a stretch. He would be a little more orthodox than they are. Yeah. I think So 'cause I don't know that Dan Brown would associate himself with what I'm about to read because this is what really caught my attention the first time. Oh. When I saw this I was like, Wow. Okay. We need to try to have these people on the Fred of Faith debate. And this is not me speaking. Well it's me speaking, but these are not my words. I'm reading for someone else's words in case we're wondering. We must reveal the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. Therefore, we are bid to sound the clarion call. America, I! Your entire planet is under attack. Negative aliens are now engaged in all-out war for control of your world. Your current governmental institutions in all but a few smaller nations, I can't do this with a straight face, are controlled by negative alien usurpers. He has a crooked face right there. Most especially the USA, China, and Russia. All right. All the read leaders of the world. Right, right, right. Now that is the bad news. Okay. The true good news is that though they will take the planet to the brink of destruction, it will not work. A greater plan is underway and will be, is, victorious. An already not yet thing going on there, by the way. Right, yeah, yeah. Stardubs serves uh serve as ambassadors from the Interplanetary Confederation of Love and Light. Love and light. Wait, there's an interplanetary confederation? Wow. Maybe that's where Buzz Lightyark. Not sure. And light. See now it sounds like these guys are on Sorry. Psychedelic drugs. No, that's right. This is good. We are all very well aware of this uh History. I think there's a play on words there. They're trying to say her story. Right. Of the her story of the goddess. Right, right, right. We are very well aw aware of this her story of this planet. The history of your galaxy is one of galactic wars. So maybe the men are responsible for the wars. I'm not sure why they switched over to history all of a sudden. Well she we gotta make sure whoever we have on then is a woman so she can balance out our male perspective as we're talking about. Okay. The Intergalactic Confederation of Light has inspired the Light Party, which is serving as a form of Global Light Council for all of Mother Earth. Now this sounds like Star Trek. So their political party is serving as a form of global light council for all of Mother Earth. Then there are the children of light, born to human light workers, to usher in the age of peace. Born to children light workers. Wait, are children light workers humans? Well, they're children of light born to human light workers. Okay. Okay, so the children are also human. A Nazi-like martial law and police state takeover is what the Bush administration has intended for the USA. This is why they stole two elections. It is also why they are ramrotting a new Supreme Court with a new Chief Justice whose power will be to appoint special courts that will institute and oversee secret spy surveillance. and spy probes throughout America and the world. However, it is not just Bush or Rummy or Cheney, so replacing them will do little good. You must remove the root, which is the job of the Interplanetary Confederation. So leave the driving to them as they are about your holy mother slash father's business. This rescue plan is in effect and we'll be on time. Our earthly mission is to inform you that this planet is structured for a big change, that the warmongers will devour much, that there will be pockets left called communities of light. Anything with a thousand points on the thing? I just gotta say, Troy, that that that what is striking to me about this is that two hundred years ago, John wrote the book of Revelation and talked about the end times and and you know dramatic change and all these kinds of things. And then here, I mean I don't know how old these guys are, they've come up with this religion that's that looks to me like an imitation of everything that that uh the the Bible clearly teaches You know, it's you know, end time. Well well yeah. I mean uh cheap and false and yet it's like so thoroughgoing. It's amazing to me like how um how much thought has gone into this thing. Oh, absolutely. You know? I mean these guys are are not just playing around, they're like they're really serious. Yeah, I'm not sure. And that's why I couldn't dismiss it. Because they're personally, oh this can't and then I'm reading that say there are people And maybe some listening to the show right now who believe this to be true and I find it to be unbelievable So Well this is why the whole Gnosticism um thing I feel like from the beginning when I when I read the Bible, when I read history, you know, Dan Brown's attempts, you know, to bring Gnosticism in and get people thinking about it Uh National Treasure was a uh the movie was all about Gnosticism and and uh um there's another book uh that I just read recently, another one by a guy like Dan Brown called The Rule of Four that's the same kind of thing Gnosticism is always seems like it's always trying to play catch up with Christianity. And Christianity has kind of stolen the show with this vision of what God's going to do. And then these Gnostics try to come in and say, No, no, no, no, that's not quite the right vision. It's just a little bit different, you know. It's a goddess, not a god, and and all these other things You know, and they're aliens, not angels. And and it my my feeling is like like they're trying to take what what was given and just I don't know, counterfeit it is the word. And you know, I think maybe uh in a in a second here we should define Gnostic and Gnosticism because probably not everybody knows what that means. But um by the way I'm Troy Skinner, host and moderator of the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. On the show this week, again, Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh Gnostic comes from the g uh the Greek word gnosis. Which means knowledge. Yeah. And it's the idea Gnosticism is this idea that some people can rise to higher levels of enlightenment through knowledge. It i it it kind of has this this scientific base and yet this spiritual base that says that if if if you prove that you can handle one level of knowledge, then I'll let you rise to the second level or to the third level. And so These uh these secret societies have like thirty-two levels and so you got a thirty thirty second degree Mason. You know, and it's a it's this uh this levels of knowledge that that you get to rise to because you've proven that you can handle the previous knowledge. And the point is is that some of us can't do it because we're just not smart enough and so we can't be enlightened. But others of us can. It's extremely elitist in its approach. And only the most um intellectual can rise to to that level. In fact, I would bet that we could get some some Gnostics on this show Well I don't know, 'cause that's the point, they're all secret societies. Seriously, I wonder if we could even get a Gnostic to come on this show. Well A genuine Gnostic. I don't know. Yeah, well a genuine Gnostic, I don't know. You know, like a Mason or a Knights Templar? But w because they never want to talk about what they do. Yeah, well I think you might we may or may not be able to get a Mason on, but whether or not they would address the Gnostic aspects of what the Mason Maybe Dan Brown would be a good idea. you know, museum or whatever it's called. Right. And they'll give you a whole tour and tell you about the whole history of the Major and all that stuff. So they're they're willing to Washington and if you get down into what they believe and and why, how you raise through the different levels, it might It might be different. I don't know. Make that a homework assignment. You know, uh Newsweek this week does this big story on Mormonism and Mormonism has internally the same kind of thing that you can rise to certain levels You're not even allowed to go into the big temple down off of uh 495 unless you've risen to a certain level. So there's kind of a uh uh semi quasi gnostic uh orientation uh in that whole thing as well, interestingly enough. Well anyway, we're getting we're getting off on Gnosticism a little bit. Let's get back to the stardoves. I'm gonna pick up where I left off. Uh they're talking about uh all this horrible stuff that's gonna happen because uh these uh these alien beings have taken over the leaders of the world kind of thing, okay? Uh and safe havens there's gonna be these communities of lights uh communities of light which which are safe havens where the true people of the sacred cloth, known as the children of light, will dwell. They will be supported by inner earth beings. Who used to live on the surface before, but were forced underground in eons past. That sounds like Does that sound to you like angels thrown out of heaven, demons that that now live you know, have been thrown down out of heaven. I mean it sounds to me like like a total reorientation of that whole thing. Now they live under earth, they were forced onto earth. I don't know. It's taking some very interesting to me. It's taking some traditional Christian uh imagery and ideas and mixing it and blending it with some modern science fiction ideas and images. Yeah, that's the the Yeah. And coming up with this whole new modern blend. Yeah. Uh where are we here? These uh they'll be th w I I got my straight face back though. Are you proud of it? Yes, yes. They will be supported by inner mirth beings who used to live on the surface before it were forced underground in eons past, when the warmongerers destroyed much of the surface of the world. Warmongerers, those Christians, those religious people. The lighted promise is that this planet will not be destroyed again. This time the godly ETs, UFOs, which they call the United Friends of Space will come from the stars and our true cosmic parents to put shields around the safe zones. The Telosians Shambalians will emerge from within the earth. Together we will create peace on earth. Telosian I bet those words have definitions that if we knew them they would they would even have more meaning in terms of their you know, like tela telos is is the word uh Greek word for heaven. So Telosians, the heavenly beings. Okay, well shham shham shambala. Yeah that one doesn't Ring any bells for the ship. I don't know if it's too much of a stretch. I don't know. Anyway. Uh eventually the alien warlords and their minions will be removed from this planet. I need to go get some popcorn 'cause this is a great movie that we're talking through here. Now. That is the beginning of the story. Then there will be a new heaven and a new earth. And the old were earth will have passed away. So be it. This is wild. The neocons are using HARP to H A A R P which is some sort of a Russian technology or something. Okay. To create earthquakes in Afghanistan. Right. Perhaps Pakistan. Uh against the Muslim terrorists. And they also caused the earthquake in the Philippines, which caused the great tsunami, I guess. Right, right. Yeah, that's the one, right. Yep. Uh Uh let's see earthquake in the front of the I read something the other day that talked about the uh the biggest earthquakes in the last fifty years, and literally sixty percent of them were in Muslim countries. Three of them were in were in uh the Far East, China, Taiwan, Japan. Three of them were in um in Latin America and two were in India. And all the rest were um were in uh Muslim countries. The worst. And this big one that just happened So maybe they are. Maybe the harp maybe this technology is out there, man. Apparently it is, because let me read on. I bet we're gonna have people call in that say that they think there is. The idea behind weather control is simple. Yeah. When you see and experience a strong thunderstorm with a lot of lightning and thunder, what fact about this storm strikes you most? Are you not impressed by the powerful display of energy that you witness? Energy is the primary ingredient behind nature's storms. Yes. Therefore, as energy is the most dominant outward factor in all kinds of storms, then energy might be the key factor in creating such storms in the first place. Then after you create storms Controlling them is the next skill to gain. Finally, once you can create and control devastating storms, learning to use them precisely so you can use them against an enemy is the final skill. Hurricane Katrina. China has been working on trying to seed the clouds uh to get them to rain. Uh they've been they've been working on this for years. And uh, you know, just recently I was reading uh again an article about this that they just simply haven't been effective at it. They they've got all kinds of knowledge about how not to do it. But they haven't been able to do it. Because they need to, because they've got all those people over there to feed. They gotta make sure, you know, that they got the crops going and you know, and uh and handle drought. So anyways, there has been major attempt to come up with those kind of technologies, interestingly enough. Hm. So some well yeah, like anything. Like any good lie, there's gonna be a kernel of truth somewhere in the right. In like any good um uh movie about the future, it's based in what technology we really are kind of dealing with right now. You know, nobody's thought about traveling to the stars until We sent somebody to the stars and then all of a sudden it was a big deal in all kinds of science fiction. Science fiction apparently has only been around like a hundred years or so. So the point is is that until we kind of had space flight we didn't really dream about space flight and Telosians and Shambalians. So Hold on a second, I'm looking at my clock and getting ready. Okay. Multitasking. Yes. Gonna continue now. Hurricane Katrina was manipulated to destroy New Orleans. Yeah. By the same negative forces within our your government. Not I guess not our government, your government is okay, the same forces yeah inside your government that caused nine eleven. Okay, right okay Because the Cindy Sheehan movement awakened so many Americans to protest the war and activate peace, they used HARP to direct the hurricane exactly where they wanted it. Or farther left than move on dot org. Literally. It's like possible, but they are. And magnified his force to cause fear, panic, and dominate the news. They succeeded. Yet look how it is backfired upon them, making them look inept and worse now than before. Um by the way they don't know how to spell then, they spelt it then. Oh. All they seek to do will backfire like this. Yet still they are so backward. They will not stop until they can destroy as much as they can. Backward. Now that's interesting. Backward. Yeah, medium. Because aren't they talking about going back? I take that as a shot at the intelligence of George Bush, is how I'm reading that. Um they always say that that religious people and Christians are backwards. Why? Because there's not enough science. So these guys using science are actually trying to preempt what was backward it's crazy. It's it's kinda twisted, you know, they they've actually got uh more backwardness in terms of trying to restore new heavens and new earth and go back to how things were when the Telosians reigned on the earth. I mean, they want to go back as much or more than Christians or religious people want to. So it's kind of uh ironic that they would use that term backward. Now here are their final thoughts on this page. This is why the light workers and the star seeds must must prepare the safe havens, the communities of light, and erect the landing pads and activate the inner earth portals. Mm. Say law. A word right out of the Old Testament. Yeah, there it is. Anyway, so we've got about a minute left. Yeah. We're obviously not done. I've got more material to go through, and I want to get more of Jonathan's take on this. So next week we will continue with the Star Dogs. Maybe we'll even do uh some additional thoughts on what uh uh Carolyn Evers had to share the last couple of weeks and maybe put some recapping thoughts. on that in the spirit of Halloween, if nothing else, I suppose. Maybe we'll even talk about Halloween, I'm not sure. We'll see how much time we have. Um I think one thing to keep in mind is people who think this way are out there. And people who think this way are out there because there is enough of a shred of possible truth intermixed in all of this to make it somehow plausible in this bizarre, extreme kind of way. And I think it's important for us to be clear on what the truth really is and where it's really to be found. Otherwise you can make up all sorts of fantasy stories And who's to say whether they're right or whether they're wrong? So um and again, if you hold to this view, I apologize if I've had a mocking tone, but I it just it it doesn't uh it doesn't ring true to me Anyway, thanks so much to listen for listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, sponsored by All Shred, Mobile Document Destruction, and Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? God bless