Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator. Troy Skinner. The Fredder Faith Debate is sponsored by All Shred Mobile Documents Destruction. All Shred, they sell security. The Fredder Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local community religious and faith community leaders to share and discuss. Discuss their views of the truth. You've listened to this show before, you've heard me say that Thomas Jefferson once said the clash of ideas is a sound to freedom. In that spirit, we will seriously wrestle with important ideas, might even disagree with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. This week we're not tackling some sort of earth-shattering controversial subject matter. We're talking tackling something that uh I've been waiting for this time of the year to tackle. Let's rewind 12 months. Think about where we were. What was one of the big overarching controversial issues of the day exactly this time in the year one year ago? We were just about to have the release of the movie The Passion for the Christ. The movie hadn't been released yet. Mel Gibson was categorized by many as this uh Jew hating Nazi who wouldn't wouldn't criticize his father for saying negative things about uh uh about Jews apparently. Um people were saying he's putting his career on the line, that nobody's gonna want to go see this movie, its subtitles, it's in Arabic or some other, you know, foreign language that nobody and And nobody really cares about this sort of subject matter anyway. What good's it going to be? That was on the one side. And on the other side, you've got a lot of people in the Christian community saying this is a great opportunity for evangelism. What a great way to show people what Christ did. for the sinners in this world and this is gonna really reach them in a personal, intimate way, touch their heart. If they could only see this movie, it'll give me an opportunity to share the gospel with them and change their life and turn them f and God's gonna use this movie to convert many, many people. That was the other extreme uh view. And a lot of churches, with the hope that that might be the case on some level, bought out entire movie theaters. Bought thousands of tickets sometimes for multiple showings in movie theaters and gave these tickets away for free to people and then sometimes would end the movie with some sort of gospel message and uh kind of a what's called an altar call, asking people to give themselves over to Christ based on what they just saw on the movie screen. Here we are a year later, and I'm wondering, we know that Mel Gibson didn't throw his career away. We know that this movie was watched by a lot of people, some people multiple times. It set a record for the biggest opening weekend in February history. It had the single biggest weekend in March. It had I think it might have had the Siggest sing biggest single weekend in April. I mean this is a record setting movie of Monumental proportions. So we know people were wrong who said this was a horrible mistake by this horrible evil guy Mel Gibson My question is, this is a long way of setting it up, I know. My question is, were those who were so hopeful this that this would be a strong evangelism tool Were they also wrong? And that this maybe was just another movie. I don't know. Here to talk about that, uh John Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel here at Frederick And uh Drew Boswell from Day Bear Community Church in New Market. Thank you both for being on the show again. Thank you. Drew, I know that your church was one of those that bought a bunch of tickets to a movie theater, invited people to come and you gave them the ticket to come and witness it. So, you know, you might be able to talk about and I know that John, your church uh as a body did something like that and did something like that too. So you guys can speak to this from kind of a personal experience viewpoint. So here we are a year later What do you think? Well, I know at the time uh we were very excited about it. We were uh we had a a person within our congregation who said, Hey, you know, I'd like to personally volunteer to buy the whole movie theater. And so if you say if you look at results as far as then, you know, God was moving in the hearts of people to try to to see that that Christ's message was shared with with a lot of people. And so, you know, that did happen. And then I believe that there was a a large outturn of people, whether they were looking for to see what all the controversy was about or whatever, but the gospel was presented to thousands and thousands and thousands of people And then I believe that to a certain degree you probably had a lot of people kinda going back to church kind of for the first time or in a while or whatever, maybe since nine eleven or whatever it is that kinda turns people out to go to church and then And then you kinda have a a turning and away a turning away. So now if you were to look at the results of the passion th a year later you know, personally from our church's viewpoint, I can't really say that someone came to Christ because of them going to or even our church, it came to as a result of going to the movie. How about you, John? Yeah, I um I can't say that I saw any uh any salvations as a result of the movie. Yeah, I'm sure there's churches out there somewhere who you know or you know, who did it. It for us when we presented the movie, it was hard to do a gospel presentation at the end, kind of to wrap it all up and bring it to a close because the theater was ready to flip it over to the next the next showing and uh so it was kind of hard to wrap it up. We encouraged people to go like to the local Starbucks or the local uh McDonald's there and we kinda talked about it a little bit. And there was some discussion, some interesting discussion. So I think it was good in that it stirred up a lot of uh discussion about the passion, about Christ's death and why did he die and Um I would like to have seen uh The Passion Part Two, the Resurrection. You know, that would be an interesting movie I think, but I don't think Bill Gibson's quite ready to go there yet. Can can I ask a question, uh Drew? Um what would you say Do you think you have uh an opinion possibly about like what it would take to genuinely see like a revival, you know, like a like a transformation in our society. Yeah. Um, you know, w well you have, you know, the Great Awakening one, Great Awakening Two with Finney and uh Edwards and so on. Uh it really I believe depends on uh God moving in the hearts of people. And I believe if historically you look back over the age of even America and then uh Europe, there was a revival about every forty years uh that God would move uh across the hearts of people and uh you know it's our d h desire as a church that God would would ha send another great revival, that you know, that he would raise up someone like a finny or someone who would you know, preach the gospel and and you know, thousands would be saved. But y even if you look at great men like that, uh those w they weren't incredibly impressive men who led the revivals. You know, One of them could hope to see. Yeah, exactly. and uh God just choosing to use someone to lead the Okay, so uh like let's take Chuck Colson uh has claimed that the Great Awakening that happened in the mid seventeen hundreds that it happened as a result of Edmund Burke uh Edmund Burke's work in England dr um uh bringing slavery to an end and thereby raising in the hearts of and minds of of the population a sense of right and wrong that like in Romans, uh Paul says the law leads pe the law is a tutor leading people to Christ, that uh that th that revival tends to follow on the heels of, you know, a a reestablishment of law and order. Do you think that there's Anyway, I don't I don't see that as uh as I don't think you could even look to specific events. You could say this is how God kind of laid the groundwork, but I've I would be hesitant to say that God uh m you know, you could kind of plot out when God's gonna move and you know, that type of thing You know, we could pray that God would move and send a revival and different things, but it's really kinda up to him. Like there's a video out there called Transformations um that uh that is being distributed about um these places where like revival has broken out so pervasively that that whole liquor stores and whole bars went out of business And uh where they they've even got uh a place down in Guatemala, a town where the where the um surrounding area, um the even their crops ended up producing like hundredfold more than they ever did previously where where they they went in and they prayed against, you know, some of the evil spirits that that were in the area. They they had some kind of power encounter with witch doctors and and different things like that. And um there's this video transformations purports to kind of document you know, what it was like beforehand, what it what happened in the actual revival and then what happened afterwards. And there's certainly some people here in the United States that believe that were we as the body of Christ to focus, if you will, in a strategic way, our prayer and our outreach, uh in like like say even example that here in Frederick if we wanted to the churches could could strategize uh in such a way that we could see that every every individual in town was prayed for and then we could strategize you know, to to pray specifically against those things that that we would identify as as uh evil and we would uh we would find ways to to get the gospel communicated, you know, uh in an ongoing kind of way and that that that a product of the unity and a product of of identifying, you know, shrewdly as shrewd as serpents, harmless as doves, uh identifying the um the spiritual forces, principalities and and forces of wickedness in the heavenly realms that as a product of doing those kinds of things that we could see Um, we could see, as it were, they say, um, you know, not just one church grow in salvations, but we could see the whole uh the whole uh tide rise, you know, so that all churches ended up, you know, doubling in size and and that sort of thing. And uh so you wouldn't necessarily think that that that kind of a thing is possible or or or let me ask it this way, do you think that it would be wise or profitable for for different churches to strategize in that kind of a way? I think the issue with that is going to be uh like you s you said if all the churches in the community were to grow and so on, um You know, I don't know if if that was true or or or could happen. Um sure it could happen if God desired it to, but uh I think it's more of an issue of uh beliefs and um scriptural teachings and so on like that. Now if you're referencing like all Christian Bible-based churches would go up there. Yeah. Now we we've kind of naturally slid into kind of a general discussion about revival. Uh but I do want and then we'll talk about that a little bit more, but I want to come back to some specific questions that I have about the the impact of Passion of the Christ in the movie that Melbourne. If you care to, sure. Um the reason I went that direction is because the passion uh to me is is one element of a strategy that um a nation or uh a group of churches in a city could use to effectively bring, you know, massive massive transformation. And it's not the golden bullet. It's the one thing. You've got more you're not just Counting on this to save people. You are actually out there sharing the gospel and doing other outreach type things as a church. Yeah, I I agree with you on that. Okay. You're so good. Why am I even here? Yeah. It's all you drew. The uh I'm w if if there was any mistake as far as ha mistake meaning having any sort of false hopes of what this movie could be it would be that that it was gonna be the magic bullets you know and it was gonna solve all of our all of our ills and make up for all of our inadequacies inadequacies elsewhere. And I don't know that's fair because as I've it's been a while since I've seen the movie But I recall my first reaction after seeing the movie was I wasn't sure that it portrayed the gospel. It portrays the passion of the Christ. And for those who can't remember when this was talked about a year ago what that means, it's talking about the suffering. And in fact, Mel Gibson did the movie according to his own testimony. He did the movie because he was personally grew up in a very difficult uh situation, a lot of abuse and a lot of personal internal hurts. And as he was coming back to the Lord, specifically in a very Catholic pre-Vatican II way, but when he was coming back to the Lord, he was encouraged to find healing in meditating on the stripes of Christ, because it says in in Isaiah that by his stripes we are healed. and uh that he took upon himself the iniquity of us all. And so hi Mel's purpose was not even to try to create a tool for evangelism so much as to create a tool for meditating. on what Christ really went through, so that those who are in need of healing or in need of of recovering from abuse and those kinds of things could go and meditate and uh um be caught up with the reality. And in fact I've got a very um uh a close friend of mine. She was in my youth group um back some twenty years ago and um is now married. Her husband had been through some tremendous abuse and Um recently, just like within a month, he saw the movie and it was the kind of thing that it has shaken him to his core and and it's helping him to come to terms with the fact Yeah to come to terms with the question, where is God when it hurts? And I think that that's what what the movie answers. You know, when when there's pain and suffering on the earth Where's God? Is he just sitting up in heaven far from us? No, the point is he sent his son to go through it with us, and that's the answer that uh I think that's the value of the movie. Listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFM Day, I'm uh Troy Skinner. Our guests this week are uh Drew Boswell from Daybreak Community Church in Newmarket and uh Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel uh in Frederick. We're talking about uh the year after uh passion of the Christ, what impact it might have had, good or bad or indifferent. And you've anticipated some things and I'm gonna uh try to formulate these into some questions that I have and then give Drew a chance maybe to to respond to my question and perhaps also respond to what John you just said a second ago. You mentioned in your last uh uh salvo uh of uh uh of response there that uh a whole bunch of things that I wanted to touch on. Bell Gibson comes from a strong old school Roman Catholic view of things. Was you know the you guys both come from more of a Protestant view of things, so are there any issues there that yeah uh that were difficult for your churches to to grapple with. That's one. Uh two, the movie doesn't really in an emphatic way discuss the gospel and I'm not even sure it a hundred percent see I I I'm in the minority from people I've talked to about this. 100% sure that it really demonstrates the suffering and the passion of Christ because it it shru it shows in a brutally graphic way his physical suffering. But the real suffering of Christ, and I'm a Christian, and my my view of this, the the most significant aspect of his suffer suffering was the, you know, uh why have you forsaken me? That moment, the that's that separation from the Father, that he became sin, that spiritual punishment, he became sin. He was without sin. That's the real suffering. And I'm not sure the movie really touched on that very well. Um and uh and then also a a third thing is there was a lot of fear about, you know, that Jews would be hated because of this movie and that the Jews were blamed and Mel Gibson afterwards I saw interviews where he said, Well no, we're all to blame, we're all sinners But does the movie capture that? Those are all I think key pieces uh in conveying the gospel. I'm wondering if the movie did that and I th that's an awful lot to try to digest and work through. But Drew, so welcome to it. uh research and to try to determine what it was the what what did the setting look like, what did the cross look like, what clothes were worn, and th so as far as a historical viewpoint, and I think he did try to stick to the gospels fairly closely. Now uh so I don't want to to knock uh his effort to to try to present the the passion of Christ. I think he did a I think he did a fairly accurate job of from one point where he started to where he ended. Especially with the resurrection, you know. Um, but um but as far as his Catholic background, yes I did see some Catholic influence, like uh there was uh Uh it was very stylistic and a lot of emphasis upon Mary, uh which I d I I I I personally don't agree, uh the way he portrayed her as being real stoic and kind of standoffish and almost you know you know almost like she was giving him strength through the middle of the street. And there's the scene where she kinda lays her head down on the on the on the thing on where he's underneath the floor there. Yeah, so there's some of those type of things. But there was also a lot of artistic thought things that I thought were really cool, like um at the end when he's on the cross and you have this over view and you see this drop uh almost like it's a uh uh God crying a tear from heaven yeah and it falls and then boom you got the earthquake and all that. What I thought he what I thought would have been interesting that he left out was that uh he showed the tearing of the temple veil and he showed uh you know the earthquake, but he didn't show uh the dead rising. He didn't show he so he left out some details and for his uh his accuracy uh to the gospels was good, but he did leave out some things which I thought he should have added. So he added some things and then he didn't include some things. But you know what, you know, that's That's part of it, I guess. You've got to do that in the time constraint of of that you're dealing with. Right, so but th that wasn't uh that wasn't problematic for you No, I mean I I saw it, I knew what it was when I saw it, but I don't think it took away so much from the movie and portraying Christ as the Savior, the one who's come to take away the sins of the world and why he was dying and so on. But now tying in what uh John Sweiser you were saying a minute ago and what w what I was getting to in my question and uh a little bit of what Drew just said, it all kind of comes together, doesn't it? Um It can't begin and end with this movie because it's not a magic bullet. So this movie does some things very well. One, it starts a conversation, right? Gives you an opportunity to talk about something you might not talk about. It historically is accurate in a l in some sense, at least, so you can have a a common grounding And where there are maybe some omissions or inaccuracies you can dialogue through those sorts of things and point people to the Bible and say, Well, here's what I think, whatever. Yeah. And the fact that it maybe in a pretty dramatic way emphasizes the human suffering and beating that uh Jesus took um maybe lead you to having the conversation about, well, you know, as horrible and horrific as that is Believe it or not, there was something even more horrible, and here's why Jesus went through it, and here's why you should respond to it. Are all of those things accurate? And I think that they are. But if that's the case, did the church miss that opportunity, or did the church as a group do a good job in using it as an element for evangelism and for ministry, or did they try to ride that horse alone Uh I in retrospect. The amazing thing about a movie like that, and something that I think we're gonna see for years to come, one is that it exposed to Hollywood the reality that there is a huge market out there, not for uh, you know, like the last temptation of Christ, movies about Christ from a liberal perspective that that, you know, uh doesn't um honor God, but from a perspective that honors the scriptures, that there's a huge market out there for movies like this. that Mel has tapped into and Hollywood for so long has said, well we tried to do these biblical movies, but nobody seems to like them. And the reason nobody liked them previously was because Hollywood would insert their liberal theology and undermine the validity and the the the power of the story because they don't believe the miracles anymore. But if they do it in line with scripture and attempt you know, from whatever religious tradition that uh they're brought from, they attempt to do it with a genuine uh um uh authenti uh genuine uh trueness to the scriptures. I think that there's a huge market for that out there and we're gonna see more movies along those lines. Uh Mel hopefully will continue to help to spearhead that. And that is ultimately going to have, I think, a very positive influence on society in general. But in addition to that, I would also say that um What was your question again? I had one other part of it. Can I can I go ahead can I go back to the question to the issue of the ju did you uh there was the potential for people to kinda be a Jew hate hated kind of thing that would result uh from the movie. And and I don't think that happened. I think that that was a a straw man, something to try to um you know, get people off task of what the movie was all about and I don't s I didn't see that happening at all, you know, as far as um Where's the question again? Well I I was kinda well I was kinda wrapping a whole bunch of things into one bundle and that bundle was, you know, uh we're we see how common agreement now that this movie could play a important role in a much larger strategy scheme. And we try and did we, in retrospect, looking back, did we encompass it is you know make it part of a larger, more encompassing strategy, or do we try to ride that horse alone and and and fail? I'm wondering if maybe we we did What do you mean, ride that horse alone? Yeah. I'm taking off my bi unbiased hat here as a moderator of the show and uh speaking as a member of the of the Christian church community. Did we kind of drop the ball there? No. I I I don't think so at all. I think I think every church that really desires to evangelize um, went out of its way to use that movie as effectively as it could for the size church and for where it was in its own growth. and that they will probably in the future find ways to encourage the people in their congregation to to show that movie or to give a copy of it to their friends or to raise it, you know, in context later on. But Every church that is looking to evangelize with any kinds of s of seriousness has a has a a a strategy for doing so that is broad based, that that, you know, has to do with building relationships, that has to do with um communicating the gospel that has to do with do with providing opportunities for people to respond back. And um, you know, so again, you can't use just one thing and and say, okay, well we didn't ride it far enough. I think the point is is that any church that really is is uh serious about the gospel is is probably milking every last drop they can out of everything that they do. And I think that you could take something too far too. I think the church did do a good job. Uh but I don't know if you're familiar, but I'd like to have couple of years ago there was the prayer jabez that was among the the Christian community. You had the prayer J Bezir. Yeah, so you got the journal, you got the T shirt, you got the key ring, you got all the stuff that kinda comes out. And the passion I don't think uh really you can't do that, you know, with the passion. Uh you know, it it's just so far you could take it. And so to use it as a tool, I think the church did a good job of that. But I'm glad that I didn't see that we didn't see it go out to the whole to the too extreme to to making it light, you know. Now we're getting toward the end, so I you know the answer to this question uh would need to be a little bit on the short side, guys. I know it's hard for pastors to keep their messages short. But We'll let you go first, True. But what is the purpose now for the Passion of the Christ movie? Is there an ongoing role for this movie to play in evangelism? I think John did a uh you know, he kind of explained that a little bit earlier. I think uh he's right that to you use it to as a tool. You you've got the Jesus movie that's out there, you've got the passion movie that's out there now, you've got other tools that you could use to evangelize and it should be just one of several. You could, you know, show it do another showing or whatever. You just gotta be creative. And in fact I think again one of the greatest ways to use the the movie is in the context of people that need some genuine healing, whether it's emotional healing, whether it's physical healing, as a tool for them to meditate on what Christ did in taking up uh the consequences of sin upon himself. So that people can know that God is not far away, but that He did send His Son and that that's how much He loves us and and that in the meditation on that they can realize that God is not distance. In fact, it says in Psalm 22 that you have not, God, despised the suffering of the afflicted one, and you have not turned your face. And that's what we need to know when we're going through suffering. That God does not turn his face ever. He is always watching us and caring for us and we we sh we should be reminded of that. Well, you you had some words of hope uh a few minutes ago Well when you're talking about you know there's going to be more of these kinds of movies coming out, I hope that you're right. We haven't seen a lot of evidence of that. In fact the next big blockbuster Christ-centered movie is likely to be the Da Vinci Code that's coming out uh I think probably sometime later this year. Anyway, thanks for listening to this week's edition of uh the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD, brought to you by All Shred, Mobile Document Destruction. If you're a local faith community leader or no one who would like to participate in a future round table, please have them contact me, Troy Skinner at the The easiest way is email that's Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Thanks again and God bless.