Welcome to the Frederick Bates Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFM. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Frederick Space Debate is brought to you by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding today for growth tomorrow. 1-8772 Shred. All Shred they sell security. The Frederick Space Debate is an open And an honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson said that the clash of ideas is a sound of freedom, and in that spirit we seriously wrestle with important ideas. Our hope is that through our wrestling, you will develop a better Better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this life. On our panel this week to talk about the uh the similarities and perhaps more focus on the differences between uh Christianity and Judaism. are Pastor Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel, um Rabbi David Wiesenberg from Beth Shalom Congregation, and from Good News Presbyterian uh Peter Kemene uh is back. He's been on the show a couple of times before and it's uh It's good to have him back again. And I think this is the rabbi's first uh first time on the show, although we did have uh one of your colleagues, uh uh Rabbi Morris Cosman on the show uh a couple of months back. So it's uh good to have you here. So Yeah. Yeah, apparently he said we're harmless, so uh welcome on. Not sure if that's good or bad. Hello every everyone. All right, I kind of set up what the show's about. I'm gonna put this in as direct and blunt terms as I can. I'll let John have first a stab at this. Um John, you are a Christian. Would that be correct? Uh yes. Why aren't you Jewish? Um yeah. You're not gonna like the way I answer this, Troy. No? But I I I guess I would argue at some level that that my faith is an extension of uh historic Judaism and that um I would I would be considered and most Christians would consider themselves to be uh spiritual Jews, that we have been grafted into the tree that is the Jewish root, that is the uh the lifeblood of who we are, and that, you know, that Christ was the Messiah that was promised in the Jewish scriptures ahead of time. And so I I guess I would say that I'm as Jewish as they come. Except for the fact that I don't, you know, watch whether or not I I'm eating certain kinds of foods or uh necessarily uh participating in uh the festivals each year, but that uh I'm as as Jewish as a Gentile can be. How's that? Interesting. Okay. Rabbi Rabbi Wiesenberg I'll ask you the same thing. You are Jewish? I am Jewish indeed. Why are you not a Christian? If you to tell the truth, there isn't so much difference between Jewish people and Christian people as much as one imagines. Because the central theme of being Jewish and Christian is loving your neighbor as yourself. And the rest, as the great Jewish rabbi said, was commentary. And I'm sure Jesus would have said the same. Love your neighbor. And I believe um I was brought up Jewish, my parents are Jewish, and that's probably why I am Jewish rather than Christian. But I believe very much in the laws and the lessons of the Torah, that they bring us out to be good people. Just as um the New Testament brings up Christians to be good people too. And if the end result is that we love each other and are kind to each other and considerate, then it doesn't matter which religion you belong to. We have all succeeded. Okay. Well not surprisingly so far, uh the first two people that have answered have ge have sought to find a common ground. Um I'm not going to try to put you on the spot, but uh Pastor Kemony, if you could maybe find where there's not some common ground in your answer why you're not a Jew. I'd appreciate that Well, you know, I do have uh some Jewish blood. My grandfather uh was Jewish but uh theologically, um I'm a Christian and I w I would say Uh I'm not Jewish because I I can't love enough to please God. Um, I can't obey God's commandments enough to please God And in fact, and here I am, David, we just met. Um, but I would say my understanding of Judaism, and I know there's a lot of variations within Judaism as there are variations within Christianity And so I don't want to try to in uh define uh a Jewish person, but my understanding of scripture is that the Jews were saved by God's grace. And I have my Bible open to Exodus chapter 20, verse 2. And this is the preface to the Ten Commandments. Uh let's give a little background, and not for your sake, David, but for the listeners on the radio. Sure. Um God called the people out of Egypt. They were in bondage to the Egyptians. And God redeemed them by his grace. He brought them across the Red Sea. He liberated them from their captivity in Egypt. And then, after they were saved, you might say, God gave them the law, uh summarized in the Ten Commandments in Exodus chapter 20. In the preface to that those commandments, Exodus 20 verse 2, God says, I'm the Lord your God who brought you out of Egypt. out of the land of slavery. Then the commandments are given. And so uh my understanding of Judaism and Christianity is that the people in the Old Testament were saved by God's grace, not by their works, not by their ability to love. But they were given the commandments to show them their sin and in need of a savior, and also to frame their lives now that they have been redeemed Now I would say I'm a cr I'm a Christian and I'm just uh I'm just the spiritual fulfillment of the Old Testament. I see as a Christian a a continuity between the Old and New Testaments. Uh in fact, the church in Galatians six sixteen is called the Israel of God. 1 Peter 2 9, the church is called the Holy People, a chosen nation, or something to that effect, a royal priesthood And so I'm a Christian because I see the New Testament scriptures fulfilling all the Old Testament types, the Passover Lamb that's fulfilled by Jesus Christ. whom John the Baptist calls the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Circumcision uh is fulfilled by New Testament baptism, the temple in the Old Testament. uh where God dwelt among his people is now fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Uh John one says God made his dw dwelling among us. And I look at Revelation twenty-one verse three It says, Now the dwelling of God is with men. And so I see y a unity between the testaments. And I know I'm I don't want to labor this too much, but one one theologian back in the early 1900s said that the Old Testament is a richly furnished but dimly lit room. In the New Testament, nothing is added but light And that's what Jesus did. And I know this is a Christian understanding of Judaism, but on the road to Emmaus, I think it's Luke twenty four, twenty seven He explained to his disciples everything that was said in the scriptures and which is the Jewish scriptures and the Christians would call it their Old Testament or the Christian Old Testament And so I see Christ as the one who helps us understand uh the scriptures. And because I'm persuaded that Jesus is the Messiah of which the Old Testament spoke. I'm a Christian. I think that uh John Schweitzer might agree with an awful lot of maybe all of what you just said. I'm gonna let him comment on that in a minute. But assuming that John would agree with all of that, or most of all of that Uh Rabbi when John says, I'm as Jewish as they come, given that he would agree with a lot of the things that Peter just said, can he get away with that? In your view, is it fair for John to say, Yeah, I'm as Jewish as As Rabbi David is and is in spite of being Christian. Yes. Um I I think yes, to some extent. Um to come back as far as let me see. Um what Jewish and Christianity have in common is all the I think all the believe all the ethical ethical commandment ethical rules Like love your neighbours yourself is a central one. But all the laws which flow from it. Now the ritual things right, many of the ritual laws of the Bible, uh as and uh the uh Christianity says are not necessary to observe. And I believe that comes from Paul, but please correct me if I if I'm mistaken. Right. That's right. So what we have in common is the ethical thing. So when you say Jonathan, Pastor Jonathan, that you as Jewish as they come. I'm su think you refer to you believe in being kind and loving your neighbor. Um no, I refer to I would actually say that I'm I'm meaning a lot more than that. Uh specifically going to Christ. being the high priest that is the Lamb of God uh that goes before uh and makes atonement for my sins. So so I would say that that Christ has fulfilled all of the ritual aspects and so so even in the ritual aspects I would say that that I feel like again that I'm as Jewish as they come. Uh the uh as a Gentile could be. Uh clearly uh Jewish people that that continue to live by the fullness of the law and the sacrificial system, which I don't think you necessarily do. I think there's some rituals you follow, but you don't follow the sacrificial system anymore. Um anyways my point. There's no Jewish temple around. So those laws no longer apply. Right. That's a problem, right. So anyway. So So I would agree with the ethical element, but I would also add that that there's a spiritual element as well. Mm-hmm. Well, there's a there's a difference. And let me preface this by the way. To everyone. It doesn't matter what religion what religion you have, you're entitled to your religion. And we're not talking about which religion is best We're just arguing from a point of view as we see them from our own religions. And they boils down to a matter of belief. So the Christian person will believe as you do. that uh Jesus is like the sacrificial lamb and he attorns for your sins. And that's perfectly proper. Oh, Jewish person sees it differently. A Jewish person believes that no person can really atone for the sins of someone else. We're all responsible for our own sins. And we can't. We also don't believe. We believe uh it's very uh believe I personally believe. Uh I wouldn't question that Jesus uh lived, not at all. But I would quote to me, uh he cannot be the Messiah itself Uh, simply because in the Jewish point of view, from the Jewish definition of a Messiah, is that the Messiah is someone who will really bring peace to the world. And as yeah, unfortunately we don't have the peace that we desperately seek Now, I know the Christians would be asked, well, what about that? And they would say, or most would say, ah, but we're waiting for the second coming. He will come again. Well then from a Jewish eye, when the Messiah comes and there really is peace, then we know that is the Messiah. Right. So there's a difference difference in question. Yeah, there's a lot of stuff here. First of all, um Maybe we might get so deep into this I won't have a chance to reset in a few minutes when I normally would, so I'm going to reset now a little bit. You're listening to Frederick's Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. The voice you just heard most recently was Rabbi David Wiesenberg from Beth Shalom Congregation. You've also heard Jonathan Schweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel and Peter Kemity from Good News Presbyterian. I'm Troy Skinner. uh hosting and moderating this discussion on uh you know the differences uh uh between well and some we've talked most about similarities, but I think we're gonna b about to get into some more of the differences between Christianity and Judaism. Similar similarities, moral foundation. Uh, which is the same uh you know, and love is the goal, all of those sorts of things. Um, you know, uh adherence to the principles of the Ten Commandments and and all of those sorts of things, which are really the foundation of of Western civilization, certainly the foundation of of this country. Uh so all those things are common. Uh and s even the ritual aspects, it's interesting to look at it that way, but even the ritual aspects there is a commonality, uh the difference being that the Christian viewpoint is that those rituals have been fulfilled. uh in the person and work of Jesus Christ. Uh and uh the Jews not agreeing on that point and uh and saying that the rituals are either still being fulfilled or those that can't be aren't because there's not a temple. But there's at least some similarity there. But now we get to the point of where there's some differences. Um this show, hopefully if it's doing its job, isn't isn't going to ever be about trying to help people figure out what they think is better or worse, what is best, what is second best. Uh what this show is is uh is about, what I hope that our goal in life is about is what is what is the truth. And if one person says that the rituals have been fulfilled by Jesus Christ and that Jesus Christ is the Messiah, and someone else says, Well, no, that isn't true It's not a question of which one is better or which one is uh i is is worse. The question is which one is right. Um at least that's that's the goal here, to try to figure out which one is right. So now I'm gonna throw it to Peter Uh what is your response uh to well it looks like you're anxious to say something, so what is your response in general to what has been said so far? I'll give you a kind of an open ended question. Um David, my understand or excuse me, what uh we haven't had time to talk before going on the air as far as your uh under your ju Judistic beliefs. Uh but just from one sentence you made you have a lot in common with liberal Protestants. Um because you're you're saying that the the most important things are love and to live an ethically upright life. And as a someone who at least I believe I hold to the historic Christian faith of, you know, the Protestant Reformation of the sixteen hundreds, I would say I I try to understand the scripture and apply it and cer certainly there are areas in which I'm blind to my understanding. But my understanding of scri Christianity, historic Christianity, is that it's not its essence is not love and obedience, I think at the heart of it I see my sin In my need of a Savior. And from the your scriptures, Leviticus 17, verse 11, I believe it says, without the shedding of blood, there's no forgiveness. And so I see that I have a I have a moral problem and human effort cannot bring me to the place where I'm acceptable to a holy God. Someone must pay for my sin. It must be me or it must be a sacrifice. And I'm sure you're understanding I mean you would have a different take on what we call the Old Testament, but my take is that all the sacrifices in the in the temple and um uh and um the the Passover lamb and whatnot, they were types that pointed forward to the final sacrifice for our sin. But I think what it those sacrifices say to me is that as one of the Anselm, one of the early church fathers said, we have not yet thought through how serious a thing sin is. And and even the Ten Commandments, they show me my sin and my need of a Savior. And so Christianity, I think the fundamental difference is that we're we look to Christ as one who saves sinners. We can't save ourselves like many in the you might say the theologically moderate or uh liberal Protestant church would say. It's we believe not just in ethics. We try to live an ethical life, but we know we fall short. We need a savior. I have a couple of real quick questions I want to ask Rabbi because I'm you know not as well versed in some of these things as I should be. Um is it and again I'm you have to can only answer these from your perspective and your understanding of of of uh Jewish Jewish tradition, I understand that. But that said, uh do Jews believe in life after death? Yes. Okay. Do Jews believe that men are sinners? Men and women, you know, men meaning mankind are are sinners. Now, we believe that no person is perfect or we wouldn't be human. But at the same time, we don't believe that we are born into the world automatically with a sin over our shoulders. We don't believe that the sin, the original sin, that is from Adam, hangs over our shoulders. Okay. We don't. We believe we're born like neutral, zero. Okay. Like when you come to the world you don't have any money in the bank, you're at zero And the way you behave it depends if you make the money or you're in the debit and owe the money. Right. Now are are um in the believing in life after death, is there a positive aspect and a h uh negative aspect? Do you believe that uh you know, some people go to heaven, some people go to hell? Well, then we differ from Christian belief because as I understand it, and again I can't again, are there many different Christian beliefs according to denomination? But by and large, as I understand it, and Christian belief, uh if you're wicked you could go to hell and you could be there for uh thousands of years if not forever. Am I right, gentlemen? Yes. That's right. That is that's not Jewish belief. Oddly enough. Now that doesn't mean you don't have to bother, hey, I can sin all I like because I know I'll get to heaven. It's okay. No, not at all. But Jewish belief is, um, how do you put it, relatively optimistic. And it says that no person no person really would go to hell for more than twelve months. One year. Is that optimistic? Hey, that doesn't mean you don't suffer. And by hell it's a kind of area of suffering. We I don't think we believe in quite hell the same sort of way as a Christian does, that that severe. But it's an area where we suffer for all the sins we have in this world But we are confident and optimistic that no one needs suffer so long that one cannot eventually go to heaven, except if unless one has been extremely wicked, but there are very, very few of those around You know, you might mention Hitler in an own age, or you might mention the certain people in the Bible whom the Tal the Talmud, uh Jewish Talmud mentions. But by and large we believe that every person, every man and woman is human. We're not perfect, that we do our best. And some get to heaven quicker, some it takes that little bit longer to get there. But we're confident and every Jewish person, because of that, when one's parents or re uh pass away, one says a special prayer called the kadish in the memory with the hopes that it helps get them to heaven a little quicker But we always stop before twelve months is over. Okay. What is the point of uh from a uh f from a modern Jewish perspective? What what what do you see as the the point and intent of the sacrifi the temple sacrifices when they were when they were taking place. Mm-hmm. Well that's very interesting because A lot of in uh important Jewish rabbis from the Middle Ages were discussing that. And even then many were saying that really um God didn't need the sacrifices. Well after all, God isn't human. God doesn't eat, God doesn't drink, right? God doesn't need these simple a divine b uh a divine being doesn't need these these as material things. Why did God want us to give sacrifices Because in those days when those Jews were going out of Egypt, all the nations around were sacrificing an offering. And it would seem strange to tell the Jews You don't we d I don't need sacrifices. I just want you to be good people, keep my laws and observe, so uh and you may pray to me That's enough. But the people wouldn't have been able to take it because in those days it just wasn't done. They would have felt s foolish or peculiar and maybe it would have been a temptation to go to idolatry. And that's why God says, I see they're human and therefore I want you to build a temple, offer sacrifices because it's humans, it makes you feel good and makes gives you a reason and a place. to express your devotion. But since now the temple is destroyed and then there are um and we're in a different age where people uh generally don't offer sacrifices, that sort of thing for the boo They reason and I personally believe that if uh we have a uh a different era when a third temple is built, we wouldn't be there sacrificing animals. We will be there going there to pray to God. Well except perhaps on Passover, which we're going to celebrate now. Okay. It's interesting to me that um there's not just uh a division over uh the person and work of Jesus Christ, but it seems like there's a division between what uh modern Judaism believes about many of the things that are found in with the Christian Old Testament. And what Orthodox Christians would find in that uh in th those same passages. So that's it, there's a different understanding there, uh, which probably center around the person of Jesus because a Christian view is that Jesus fulfilled certain aspects and elements of what is found in the Old Testament. Um interesting. That was a different answer than I would have anticipated. But anyway, John, what is uh you were waving your hand at me like you wanted to say something. Yeah, there was a When I've been interacting with uh you, Rabbi David, to invite you to be on the show, it's been very close to your heart and something that you mentioned a couple of times that you'd you'd like to do a show on how to reach out to our young people. And um I I'm convinced that part of the reason why young people are not being reached for you Jewish rabbis are being reached for Christians is precisely because the message that that is clearly taught in our scriptures that we've watered it down specifically Like I f I personally feel like you just did, where instead of taking the word of God at its word, now you're saying that God gave us the law and gave us the sacrificial system to make us feel better about ourselves and so we wouldn't feel so different from the others around us. And I I'm convinced that if the truth doesn't really make a clear make a clear distinction between what is true and what is not true. And if we just all say they're all the same thing, then there's no reason for a Jewish child to remain Jewish. They might as well go be Buddhist, or they might as well go be go be Hindu or uh, God forbid, uh Islamic for that matter. I mean, if they're all the same What what motivation is there for us to stay within a certain uh sheepfold as it were instead of going out? And I'm convinced uh very strongly that that Even today that there are uh some of your Jewish brothers and sisters that when they read the Old Testament, they really believe that God meant it. as an eternal command and not as a just a temporary let's make these guys feel good. And then as society changes, we'll let them be more like society still, you know, and and that as long as we encourage our young people to that they can be as much like everybody else as possible, I think we're gonna lose them. Over and over and over again. By the way, we have just a couple of minutes left in the show, so it's going to be really time for everybody to kind of give maybe one last thought. Uh let Rabbi uh David Wee's. I wanted to give you the first shot, if you wanted to, to have a chance to respond to something that John just said. If you cared to, otherwise, you know, you can save that till after uh Peter goes. It's up to you. Okay, very good. Thanks. Listen We can't find out the truth. Religion isn't about truth, it's not science. The only way we'll know the truth about which religion is right is after we're all dead and millions of years have gone and bang uh Messiah I don't know Savior God somehow appears to us in some sort of a way that no one can argue about and say This is the true religion. And until then we don't know. It could be Judaism, it could be Christianity, it could be Islam, it could be Buddhism, it could be Shintoism, it could be a tribal voodoo religion. You just don't know. Meanwhile, we have to live on faith And we need to respect each other for our faith. Thank you, David. Um I would agree that w we can't know the truth because we're finite in our uh in our understanding. unless God reveals it to us. And I believe that's what He's done in history, uh, to the Jews, in the Scriptures, and as a Christian, I would say, in Jesus Christ. And secondly, my friend Um I would say I don't want a religion that just tells me how to be good 'cause I have a problem with guilt. I need a religion that shows me how to be forgiven. And once I'm forgiven, then I can look to scriptures as a moral framework for my life. Now Peter Kemery Good News Presbyterian, thank you for being uh on the panel today. Rabbi David Wiesenberg from Best Shalom Congregation, thank you. Jonathan Sweitzer, you didn't get a final word this time, but you'll have to uh You can have first word in the next show. Make up for that. Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you all for being uh on the show today. Reminder the Frederick Faith Debate is brought to us by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction. Oh Shred, Shredding Today for Growth Tomorrow. They sell security. Thanks for listening. I'm Troy Skinner, by the way, and you're listening to News Radio 930 WFMD. God bless.