Welcome to the Frederick Base Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930. WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Our panel this week consists of John Slicer from Crossroad Valley Chapel, Khalil Al-Shazli, the president of the Islamic Society here in Frederick. And Drew Boswell from Baybreak Community Church in Frederick. Frederick Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson said the class of ideas There's a sound of freedom, and it's in that spirit that we seriously wrestle with important ideas. And uh you'll come to find in this show that sometimes we disagree. The hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. Today we're going to discuss the question of why do bad things happen to good people. Our show is uh sponsored, by the way, by All Shred, All Shred Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding today for growth tomorrow. You can contact All Shred at 1-877-2 Shred. Last week we were talking about uh the the questions surrounding things like the tsunami and big natural disasters and things like that and would God allow such a thing or perhaps even cause such a thing to happen There are a variety of uh of opinions on that, of course, and uh hopefully if you listen to our show last week, you're able to to come to uh a better understanding on your own view. on uh God's uh sovereignty over such things. But in our conversation last week we ended up talking uh in uh about a couple of different things that I think are related. One, you know, sometimes Bad things happen to these bad evil people, whether they be nations or individuals. Hitler came up, uh people who persecute uh uh individuals of faith uh as a as a corporate entity, as a nation uh came up. Um And then it was brought up that well yeah, but bad things went when the tsunami hit, for example, it wasn't just uh, you know, Christ haters who were killed, for example, it was Christians who were killed as well. So why would the Christians uh from a Christian perspective be killed or let's say from Muslim who who f sees some devout Muslim there that they would say is a good person, why would this horrible disaster strike them and their family if they're good people? So Why do and I'm gonna let John Schweitzer go first this time. I usually hesitate to let him go first because then nobody else gets a chance to speak. But I'm gonna let John go first. Woo! Why do bad things happen to good people. There's a probably a couple of assumptions in that question, but go ahead. Yeah, I'd simply uh answer that question by saying that according to the Bible, uh none of us can say that we're good enough to deserve to be free from uh Bad things that happen. All of us have sinned in some level, some way or another, whether it's little lies that we tell or whatever it is, and according to scripture, the wages of sin is death. And so anything even less than death that happens that is bad in our lives at some level, we don't have a right to complain about it. We we are alive by the grace and the mercy of God. However, in saying that, I will say that that scripture promises Very clearly that those who love God and submit to His purposes, uh and uh humble themselves in His presence, that He will Exalt them, cause them to to be blessed and to prosper, and ultimately every bad thing that happens in their life, God will use it for good. Uh the passage says that um um Uh that oh I forget the passage. Thank you. What does it say, Drew? Oh, we need to get on the mic. Romans Romans passage. Yeah. I don't know which one you're talking about. The bottom line is that is that um Oh, here it is. All things work together for the good of those who love God and serve according to his purposes, whether it's bad or good, all all of the things that happen, God uses them. for the benefit of those uh that really serve according to his purposes. And so the point is is that I don't think any of us can really claim to be that good. So the question again I I was anticipating you might go in that direction. So the question really shouldn't be why do bad things happen to good people? Maybe it should be more like why do good things happen to bad people? Is that A fair way of turning it. Sure. Well Drew, do you uh agree or just are you a Khalil? Drew defers Oh no, no, they're gonna hug me, Mr. John. Don't give him honey, Mr. John. Here I go. It's very simple. Whenever you uh when you graduate from college, you work as an apprentice. Uh the reason you do that, uh you need to gain some experience, you need to gain some toughness. So what do you do? You work as an apprentice, you work hard uh literally for nothing in the beginning. Then you get tougher, then you get it you get good at what you are doing. Uh the same thing uh when it comes to religion I'm just trying to connect the logic here. Uh if you claim that you are a believer, if you claim you're a good person, uh don't think that you could just go about your life without being tested. Yeah. God will test your faith. Mm-hmm. Uh bad things will happen to you, you'll get hit with calamities, you get hit with disasters, you get hit You get into a car accident, you know, one of your kids die, one of your kids gets sick, you get sick, one of your family members gets sick, one of your family members get uh d uh die or whatever. God is testing your faith. Is your faith true? Yeah. Or false. Or false. So if if it is true, uh and you hit you get hit with calamity, it will strengthen your faith. Your faith. And if it's your fault, if it is false, well, it is false. Then you need to re examine yourself and and and and see where you are and what you're doing and and trying to reassess uh really your faith and trying to uh uh really work uh to better yourself and better your uh faith and strengthen it Can I add one thing in addition to that? Oh boy, here we go. All right. The one thing I would add in addition is that is that sometimes the bad things that happen to us happen because I've done bad things and I'm just reaping what I've sown. That was not the question. Yeah, because sometimes bad things seem to happen to good people. So I guess the point is sometimes I'm saying bad things happen to bad people. Okay, I think I I think I lost the question. Uh I'm gonna I want to talk about why do good things happen to bad people. Okay. Is that what we're looking at? Sure, that's good. Let's go back to our question. and they look around them and their neighbor gets a nicer car or the the you know the guy at work gets the promotion or you know whatever it might be and and you kinda say, Well man, I I'm living my life the best I can, I'm doing everything I know to do. Why why is it when you look around that Other people seem to be getting blessed. Yeah. And Ecclesiastes Solomon actually addresses this very question and the whole book is deered toward that. Vanity, vanity, vanity is where where he comes down to of this issue of, you know, we don't necess I don't think we necessarily need to be looking around and looking at others, but to be looking within and say, you know, am I am I following Christ? Am I following the things and doing the things that I know that I need to do? And then ultimately God is sovereign and He will bless those who He chooses to bless and He'll give the promotion to whoever he wants and we h we need to kind of be content with with what he's given us and be content with following him and being obedient. And then also I think Hebrews eleven six talks about that God's a rewarder of those who follow him. And uh and so our reward may not be here, it may be elsewhere. And then I'd just like to end with this as as well as that You know, Jesus Christ God sent his only son Jesus Christ to come and die a horrible death for us. Yeah. As a gift. You know, Ephesians uh talks about uh that it's the wages of sin. that the the because of that, you know, God's in his son and and he gave it to us as a gift that we can accept. Now what better thing can God give us than that. You know, and I think that if that was all that He gave us, that should be enough. That we should be happy with that and that we should serve Him gladly and and to and to e you know And that's enough. And I think we get too caught up on looking around at uh other and how others have been supposedly blessed. It seems like uh if I could you know kind of lend an opinion to this and then let you guys react to that. It seems like any time somebody would be bold enough to say, you know, why would God let this happen to me? Yeah. Um, that there's an issue of pride at the core there that needs to be dealt with, and perhaps that's why it was allowed to happen to them, who knows? Uh and Paul uh writes from prison that he you know is is content in Jesus in in all situations and there's no greater joy for him. uh than being connected to Christ and in Christ no matter what his situation. Um all th we have a we have a good God. A sovereign God who is a loving God and all the different attributes that we know he's also a God of justice and and and things too. But yeah. Uh we have to deal with natural disasters and crime and all those sorts of things. It's all the natural result of of the fall and and creation isn't the way it was originally uh set up. But all of that said, all things are a blessing. Would you agree with that? All things are a blessing, even things that would seem to be the most horrific, horrible things in the world. All things Can be viewed. Let's put it that way. All things can be viewed as a blessing. And um so I mean yes, all things are a blessing, even the bad things. But then it with that's just another way of kind of rephrasing the question of why Do bad things happen to good people? We you you hear that question. And then uh, you know, what you've just said was is that there are no good people. Basically. You know, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Uh so the fact that anything good happens to us, period. is an amazing thing because of who we are apart from Christ. I also think that so often this discussion falls into into the few cases of like major exception, you know? And and so instead of dealing with with with the broad sense that that people really are blessed like say when they work hard and they work diligently and and it ends up you know for their best benefit. Or like say when people are honest, they tend to have more people that trust them or say when people um uh uh don't steal or you know w when when they they take captive their thoughts they tend to to have better marriages. These kinds of things that you know where good things come from us choosing to obey God in certain areas And and I think that that what happens is that discussion tends to focus in on that one person that we all know and all of us thinks they're a good person and yet something happens to them That is so bad, which is exactly what happened with Job. It's that one situation, that one guy that we all think deserves nothing bad to happen to them ever. And in that situation we all zero in on it and they they kind of become this poster child if as it were for for all those that that think that uh that Christianity or or any kind of an absolute God, an absolute truth is is uh uh unenlightened, and they'll use this as a poster child to say, see, there can't be a good God. It must just be evolution There's no way that we can expect anything. My concern is is that those are the issues that end up or those are the situations that end up focusing all the attention of the conversation and I think it's inappropriate for them to do so. I think there are Job situations where God in his sovereignty chooses to test even the best of us. You know, the the ones that are the most righteous and the most good, and God even then tests them so strongly that you and I looking on would be like, wow. Can there be a good God? And yet, what we're taught in scripture from the situation in Job is that even then, God is just and holy. And he has both the right and the perspective to to judge those things and to bring the kind of difficulty into our lives that he desires to. And in Job's situation, he ends up blessing him after what happened way more than he did before. The point is, it i it almost seems like God pays Job back for what he allowed to happen to him. I mean Can I say that? It it seems almost that that's the case. It's my biggest surprise of the show so far is we're about thirteen minutes in and uh we finally had Job come up. You know, when you talk about these histories, like the very first thing that comes up is, Well, in Job took us thirteen minutes to get to Job. And we're there. And we're finally there Uh you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer is uh back again from Crossroad Valley Chapel, Khalil El Shazli is back again from the Islamic Society of Frederick and uh Uh back again also Drew Boswell from David Community Church. And Khalil uh leaned forward before I jumped in to reset what was going on here, so I'll let Khalil add his two cents. Yeah, I'm going to quote uh from the Quran. When God tells us uh or teaches us that uh sometimes we hate things that seems to be happening to us. Yeah and there is blessings and good in it. We just don't know it. Only God knows it. And sometimes we love things. that we think they're good for us and God's telling us no they're not good for you. They're uh they're bad. And also uh God is telling us also uh in verses of the Quran that Uh if things good happen to us, it's from God. And if something bad happened to us, then we really need to examine our deeds and examine what we're doing. Uh having said that, uh all good people are hit with calamities. You you you look at all the prophets uh throughout the scripture and throughout history. The w they were all hit with calamity. Almost each and every one of them were kicked out of their own uh homes or hometowns Uh they had to uh migrate or immigrate somewhere else. Some were tortured, some uh uh people conspired to kill them and uh So on and so forth. So why would God send your prophet and have him face all these calamities? Uh Right, strengthening. Somebody wants to be a prophet. So strengthen them. Yeah. You know, if if they had everything easy, uh then you'll take everything for granted. And that that that is the whole point really. Uh that whene whenever whenever you hit with calamity you always examine uh yourself and and see what you're doing. And in some sense it's all relative. I mean, take average American for example. Well said. And transplant them to any other nation in in the world and they're probably the wealthiest person in that nation. Um so when when a bad thing hap quote unquote bad thing happens to somebody in this country, it's uh um It might not be perceived to be a bad thing at all to somebody a different country, somebody uh and I'm wondering too and I'm trying to formulate a question on the fly here, which is always dangerous. Yeah, yeah. But I'm I'm wondering if Um all these times that we face individually face pain or suffering or some sort of consequence for whatever that it's all meant to point us back to the only way we get full satisfaction and fulfillment is through a relationship proper relationship with God. So when uh a loved one dies We have a void in our life. Yeah. But if you have a proper relationship with God, you don't really feel that void the same way as somebody who had their whole existence wrapped up in that human relationship Or somebody loses their job and they're destroyed by it. The person who has a right relationship with God isn't destroyed in such the same way because they're not trying to fill that void with some artificial filling. So is is it possible that all of these uh that the good to be found in all these bad things is they're all used as pointers, as directors to force people to seek the only true satisfaction they can find, which would be a right relationship with God. It says in Romans uh that Creation groans, creation itself, meaning like the trees and and um you know the ground and the mountains, creation itself groans in eager expectation that the sons of God would be revealed. Uh according to Genesis, the ground itself fell under a curse. And so um the bad things that that are out there, all evil, all sickness all pain, all rejection, you know, and hatred of one another. It all stems back to that first fall of man in the Garden of Eden where Where when they responded wrong to God, what was introduced into the entire cosmos is this potential for things to be wrong. And um Anyways, the the point is is that is that is that evil and bad things ultimately are traced back to that. And in immediate situations, uh Christ himself said that we have to be careful to not Um like like say Troy something really bad were to happen to you or to your son. Uh they actually brought somebody like that before Christ one time and and his disciples said, Well Well, why is this child like this? Is it because this man sinned, or is it because he sinned or his forefather sinned? What happened? Why was this man born blind? Why was this man born blind? And Christ said, Look, it's not for you and I to figure out why this happened, but that the gl glory of God would be revealed. Jesus laid hands on him and healed him. The point is, is that God is a good God and he doesn't want these bad things to happen to us. He wants to bring good into our lives, and that's how he's glorified. When his people go out into the world and help others to understand that God's bringing good into their lives, bring healing, bring prosperity. give, share with one another. That's what God really intends is that whatever evils out there, that we be instruments of redemption to help change those things and to turn it around. I don't think I answered your question though on that. I was trying to bring it back around, but I didn't. I've grown used to it. Yes. Yes. I'm so good at it. It had to do with whether or not Just having the right perspective ends up making things less evil in our lives. Yeah, right. If if these quote unquote bad things. Again tying back to an earlier comment I said that maybe there are no such thing as bad things. even these things that we see these bad things are good things in the sense that they would force people to seek what they really need most, which is a right relationship with God. Yeah, this is how I I intended to tie that in. The point is is that is that all of these bad things that happen, every single one of them, if they're traced back to the fall in the garden, the point is yes, all of them should be tools in our life or opportunities in our life to focus our attention back on God and what God intends for us. Now you brought up uh uh Jesus in your answer a second ago, the the answer to your first attempt to answer the question. Yeah. From a pastoral sense, you know, we have two Christian pastors uh in the room here. Um that's one of the more comforting things is the example of Jesus, right? With somebody who's really suffering and hurting, and you can point to Jesus and say, Look, he suffered. Everything you can imagine, everything that you've possibly suffered and then something can relate. Paul and the apostles suffered, yeah. In fact, th there's a lot of Christians that think that uh that that the Catholics are wrong in leaving Christ on the cross with when with their crucifix, you know, and and they'll have up in the front of the room Christ hanging you know, a picture of Christ or or actually a a sculpture of Christ hanging on the cross. Um and a lot of Protestants think that we need to take him off there because he rose from the dead and he's victorious. And uh the problem I have with Protestants that think that way, and I'm yeah, I'm a Protestant, uh, is that The greatest thing for anybody that is stuck in the center of suffering, the greatest thing for them to see and to meditate on would be the suffering of Christ. In fact, Mel Gibson said this himself. apparently had an extremely abused childhood in Australia. And there were some deep personal issues that he had to deal with in terms of being healed from all that stuff. And the way that he went about stepping into that healing was to meditate on the suffering of Christ on the cross. And the reason why the movie was as violent as what it was is because as Mel meditated on what happened to Christ on the cross That's where the healing came from. He realized that God himself went through way worse than I ever did. And you know what? He still loved. He still forgave that other that other guy on the cross. In fact, uh I've got a very close friend that I've been uh talking to that has been unsure in his own faith in God and came from a difficult background himself. Recently he watched that movie and since he came away He is a lot less bitter about what happened to him. He's a lot less willing. He's a lot slower to say, well, where was God and all that? Because he realized that God allowed his own son to experience the fullness of the horror of evil on the face of the planet. And as a result, when anything happens to us, we can look to Christ to to be renewed, inspired, and even to experience the same thing that He did, the resurrection power of God That pulls us out of the most horrendous of situations, heals us, redeems us, and just like Job sets us back into a place of blessing, despite how bad those things are that happened to us. And God could do that before we die, or he could do it after we die in heaven. Either way, the redemption and the resurrection is going to be uh such a powerful thing. And such an amazing thing. It's a lot of reason to hope, despite what's going on. Now we have slid so easily into this conversation. Everybody's kind of agreeing on so many things. But you know, I I'm gonna relate a story. Uh if this is going back probably two years, I don't know, time goes so quickly. And I was at a a b business function and uh a a business associate who who uh I I've known for a while was there and And uh and we know a little bit about each other personally. We were talking about, you know, uh some things going on and and kind of this issue came up. Something, you know, bad had happened and you know, why would you know, why do these bad things happen? And I said, Well, you have to remember, you know There are no good people. And she was she's a Christian woman, active in her church, and she was greatly offended He said, Oh, you and I are gonna have to have lunch and talk. You can't believe that. You can't really believe that. And I said, No, I I really do. There's n there's nobody who's who's perfectly a good person and say, Oh, there there's good people out there. We have to really talk about this. You can't go through life thinking that. So we so easily are talking about this as well yeah that's the way it is, that's the truth. But I don't know if that's the mainstream People uh people on the street view. I think most people have this view that uh that people are good. The whole Star Trek mentality, right? It's about this this uh idealized future where Man is going to continually get better and better and is going to reach his full potential, and that man is inherently good and is destined for greatness. Which is not what we're talking about here. We're talking about for the most part, we're talking about man is not inherently good and is deserving of any and all that would befall him. Where is the disconnect Uh we well uh the script the Bible teaches that uh in Genesis whenever God or whenever um Adam and Eve partook of the fruit and that they and they call it the fall in Genesis chapter three and sin kinda was ushered into the world, that it it was introduced Sin was introduced into mankind through one man. And so sin was passed from generation to generation to generation. And then sin was able to be we're able to be rid of sin because of one man, Jesus Christ. And that's kind of the plan. And so the so when you say when you're talking about goodness, it's it's sub it's a subjective term because when you say uh he's a good guy you you're you're you're not comparing it when you compare it to scripture, you're you're right, none of us are good. Uh then but when you compare it to the man on the street who compares himself to Hitler and he says, Oh, you know what, I'm not such a bad guy. Um, you know, that's that's kind of I think the way that we that we generally tend to to think. And uh and so I think that having a proper reflection of ourself in the scriptures kinda that's why I think the Bible's so important, 'cause it tells us the truth about who we are. And it's not just what my opinion is. So that's the disconnect I guess. Where w people want to compare themselves to somebody who doesn't measure up somebody else, yeah. Instead of comparing themselves to s some idealized perfect example, which for the Christian would be Jesus. I'm not sure from a Muslim perspective if it would if it would be Jesus, but Which is an exercise in pride. As soon as I'm sitting sitting here trying to compare myself to you to convince myself that I'm a good person because look, at least I'm better than you are I mean that's an exercise in pride. I mean I I'm not really being honest with myself about myself. I'm trying to find those people that I think I'm better than so that I can appease my conscience and and rationalize my behavior and say, well at least I'm not as bad as Hitler, at least I'm not as bad as as Michael Jackson. I'm at least I'm not as bad as all these other guys that are out there, you know. I must be a good guy and and I It's an exercise in pride. I think uh you're right that we need to be more honest with ourselves. Khalil, that's the last word. Okay, uh I'm quoting here from the Quran that God is telling us all sons of Adam are sinners. and the best amongst them are those who repent. Uh that that tells us, okay, worry only about yourself, better yourself. Then look at everybody else. Don't judge others, just judge yourself. Judge what you do. Look at your deeds. Are they good? Are they bad? Are you serving God the way God wants you to serve Him? Or are you just going around and looking at other people and and and ignoring yourself and forgetting about yourself? So perhaps instead of asking the question, why me, we should ask ourselves the question, why not me? Exactly. It seems so negative, but I think there's freedom there. The truth sets us free when we're finally able to be honest with ourselves. Well, thanks again, uh, the three of you, John Sweitzer, Khalil El Shazley, and uh Drew Boswell. respectively from Crossroad Valley Chapel, the Islamic Society of Frederick, and Daybreak Community Church. This has been Frederick's Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks so much for listening and God bless.