Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate. On Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, sponsored by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding Today for Growth Tomorrow. Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? And Dynamic Living Solutions And technology and make your life better. Well, we're uh in between uh the the the two year end holidays. I I guess uh well technically today's almost kind of a holiday day. It's uh New Year's Eve. Yes. Christmas is now behind us, but we didn't have a chance to do a Christmas related show. So we're gonna have the big night. You're gonna watch it drop? I don't stay up anymore. Yeah, I don't know if I will or not. You know, it's uh when I was a kid it was a big deal. Yeah. If you've done it once or twice you do you realize W why is this such a big deal? Yeah, because your par well, because your parents didn't make you go to sleep at your normal bedtime, so it's a big deal and then you know, it's a big deal 'cause you go out maybe with friends and have fun, but then You're married. Yeah. I mean daughter's still at the age where I think she kinda likes to stay ups. We'll probably stay up for her and you know Yeah How about you you're gonna say with the kids? Your kids are gonna go to bed at normal time? Yeah. Yeah. No, there are some churches that are doing like an all night prayer meeting and I've I don't know, I thought about maybe joining in on something like that. A couple of times my wife and I have had uh like um Another Christian couple come into the house or whatever and do like a devotional evening kind of a thing. Right. Yeah, that's kinda cool. Pray in the new year kind of. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So start it off on the right foot. Yeah. There is something right about taking the time to examine your life, examine your heart, and say, okay, what was last year like? What's the new year going to be like? There's definitely a lot of value in taking that kind of time Without a doubt. We should do it all the time. But at least once a year would be good. Right, right, yeah. Well We didn't get to do this last week, but hopefully it's not too late. This is something that's titled The Origin of the Twelve Days of Christmas. Do you know the origin of the Twelve Days of Christmas? Uh I probably couldn't give it to you verbatim. Had something to do with that it was uh Um the Bloody Mary, isn't it? And uh they were um after Bloody Mary the Protestants came in and kicked all the Catholics out. So it was a it was a way to celebrate Christmas without your enemies knowing what you were doing. Yeah, you're m you're you're pretty smart. All right. No, I don't think so. Well let me read this for those who don't know the whole story. Yeah. Alright. You're all familiar with the Christmas on the twelve days of Christmas, I think That's what it says here. Yeah. To most it's a delightful nonsense rhyme. Now I'm taking some debate with how delightful it is. Set to music. But the Muppet version was always, you know, very delightful. Yeah. But it had quite a serious purpose when it was written. Catholics in England during the period fifteen fifty eight to eighteen twenty nine. Okay. It's a pretty long period of time. Yeah, it's three hundred years. Plus nearly. Well nearly. Just shy of three hundred years ago. When uh Parliament finally emancipated Catholics in England were prohibited from any practice of their faith by law, private or public. Interesting given the political climate of things today, isn't it? Yeah, right. The Twelve Days of Christmas was written in England as one of the catechism songs to help young Catholics learn the tenets of their faith. The song's gifts are hidden meanings to the teachings of the faith. One could argue, by the way, that they're so well hidden that today we don't know what they are. Right, by the way, yeah. The true love mentioned in the song doesn't refer to an earthly pseudo, it refers to God Himself. The me who received the presents refers to every baptized person. The partridge in a pear tree is Jesus Christ. The son of God. The bird and the tree. In the song, Christ is symbolically presented as a mother partridge which feigns injury to decoy predators from her helpless nestlings. Did you know that? Yeah, no I'm no I knew birds did that, but I didn't know the song. Yeah, much in memory of the expression of Christ's sadness over the fate of Jerusalem. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how often would I have sheltered thee under my wings as a hen does her chicks But thou wouldst not have it so. So here's the other symbols and what they mean. Two turtle doves, the Old Testament and the New Testament. Yep Three French hens, faith, hope, and charity, the theological virtues. Four calling birds, the four gospels, and or the four evangelists. Five golden rings, the first five books of the Old Testament, the Pentateuch, which gives a history of man's fall from grace. So wait, the so so if these are catechism things then uh then I guess this is maybe an outline for catechism in Catholic Church, maybe. I guess. But I don't know why five golden rings would make you think of the first five books of the Bible necessarily. I don't see how there's an automatic natural connection unless you were told this is what that means. Right. So I don't know. Right. Uh though it's all about covenant, the five the the five books of the Torah, the covenant and golden ring, you know, having to do with, you know, we're married to God. So there's some connections that that uh a creative imaginative uh person that doesn't know much of anything could come up with if he had to do so. Well there's hope for me Yes, yes, yes. You and I are clearly Still in the ballgame. Six geese of laying is the six days of creation. Mm-hmm. Seven swans of swimming, the seven gifts of the Holy Spirit, the seven sacraments also. Oh. Eight maids of milking, the eight beatitudes. Nine ladies dancing, the nine fruits of the Holy Spirit. There's nine, I thought there were eight. Yeah, I wonder what the ninth would be. Interesting. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, faithfulness, self-control. Love's already in there, so you can't add love to that. Okay. Alright, well that's what they're saying. Yep, yep. Ten Lords are leaping, the Ten Commandments. Okay. Eleven Pipers Piping, the eleven faithful apostles. Twelve drummers drumming, the twelve points of doctrine in the Apostles Creed. See, I didn't know there were exactly twelve points of doctrine in the Apostles' Creed. No, I might have gone with, you know, like if I were to guess, the twelve tribes of Israel maybe. Yeah. Right, right. Or maybe like the twelve you know, that are going to sit on the thrones in heaven. But there's twenty four elders actually there, not twelve. Twelve is the number of government in the Catholic Church, of course. Right. You would have thought maybe it would have to match it to government. Do you know what the twelve days of Christmas are? Uh you meaning when do they start? Yeah. Um I believe they start Like right before the twenty fifth, don't they? And they go through the new year? Yeah, they go through I think to January sixth, which is Epiphany. Right. Okay, so they start after the twenty fifth then? Uh no how no. How many days be f from the sixth to the twenty is it right after the twenty fifth or maybe is it the twenty fifth to the sixth? How many days is it? Yeah, you're right, you're right. It would be just about twelve days. It ends on the day well, I think it's January sixth Uh a uh Eastern Orthodox person could help us here because they celebrate Epiphany in a big way. Yeah. Uh that's the day that the the uh the three wise men are uh whatever sages from the East came and bestowed gifts on on the newborn savior. So by the way, did you see the movie Nativity? I have not. Did you see it? I saw it. And I enjoyed it immensely. Um it's certainly not a uh shoot 'em up, blast them out of the sky like the angels aren't aren't some you know great uh technological um uh presentation, you know, you you don't you don't feel like you're you're getting this great technological presentation, but there's several elements in it that that give insight into what the world would have been like at the time of Christ and at the time of Mary and Joseph and and they play with the idea of what it must have been like for for Mary to be having a child outside of wedlock. you know, and and others looking down on her, you know, and and uh it plays with what it must have been like for them to travel from uh from where they lived in Nazareth to Bethlehem, uh just the two of them. And so there's a couple elements in it that that I feel like the It it it brings the imagination to bear on the story in a larger way and in a way that doesn't do uh damage to the story itself. trailer for the movie and it seems like it's one of those stereotypical religious movies where they're almost like stick figures with voices. I mean Was it stilt was the acting stilted and No, no, I didn't think it was. In fact, that's one of the things that that I liked about it. I didn't feel that it was particularly stilted. Okay. All ancient religious people were these really stoic clothes to the There's no way that could be true. Like did you see the uh the movie the uh about Esther that came out uh earlier in the fall There's another Christian movie that came out about Esther and I thought that that was a similar kind of thing. It's not it's not this uh triumph of production and and uh and all that, but it is very well put together and it You know, it it enlarges on the characters. The characters are real. There's a there's a sense of genuineness about 'em, but it's not necessarily the most exciting movie that you're gonna see. Yeah, yeah, yeah. See that's where you get your doctrine from other people from the twelve days of Christmas. That's right. Vegetables, tomatoes Which aren't e and cucumbers by the way, which aren't even vegetables. Aren't they fruit? So you wonder what's going to happen with Walmart, because Walmart has been moving away from its uh its Christian Moore roots and I wonder if they're going to continue to sell 'cause people say vegetales uh was so popular because it had the vehicle of Walmart to uh to sell it around the country. And uh certainly Walmart is moving away from some of its founders' originals values. And uh I'm interested to see how all that plays out. Hopefully it will be. Oh all your veggie tails? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway. You're probably a target shopper, not a Walmart shopper, aren't you? I'm I'm a I'm a shop only when I absolutely have to shop. Right. By the way, me too. Come on, man, all you guys listening out there, you know it was hard. The advent wreath. Yeah Missionaries adopted adapted the Advent wreath from pagan custom, it says here, to communicate the Christian message of hope and relate it to the birth of Christ. The wreath's origins in pre-Christian Northern Europe indicated a change of the seasons. Hmm. Originally the wreath was a wagon wheel brought in for the winter. Hmm. It was decorated with greenery, flowers, fruits, and candles adorning the house for the long winter days. With this light came in for the winter. No, with this light came in for the winter. That's what they used to light up their houses, I guess. Normal activity stopped and everyone waited for spring. Wait, is that where that's not where we get chandelier from, is it? That they would that they would hang the wagon wheel in the room. I'll betcha, you know. Yeah, yep, see Somebody out there if you would call us, send us an email, let us know. Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Interesting. So The shape of the wreath, round, reminds us God is eternal and its evergreens symbolize everlasting life. The wreath reminds us to slow down and wait. Week by week as another candle is lit, the light of Christ slowly increases the light in our lives until we celebrate Christ's coming on Christmas. That's all very nice Christianized kind of stuff, but I'd have issues with the Advent wreath. Maybe we'll get into that in a second. Yeah. There's uh if you're not familiar with an Advent wreath, I know you are, John, but there are five candles. First candle symbolizes the prophecy. It's the prophecy candle, symbolizing the promise that God has made to send Jesus. The prophecy can be found in the Bible in Isaiah 7. 14 and 9. 6. The second candle, this is the Bethlehem candle, symbolizes light. It is a remembrance of the town in which the infant Jesus, the light of the world, was born. The third candle, the shepherd's candle, symbolizes love. It reminds us of those first common people whose faith brought them immediately to the manger to see this wonderful event. This candle is rose or pink, reflecting the joy of the season. The fourth candle, the angel's candle, symbolizes hope. We think of the angel's chorus singing glory to God in the highest and announcing the birth of the hope of the world. The fifth candle is the Christ candle, symbolizing Jesus Christ. Go figure. The light of the world, it is lit on Christmas Eve. This candle is white. Okay, now that feels a little bit to me like the twelve days of Christmas. Exactly. I I I feel like I I feel like it's um you know, arbitrary. Okay, we're gonna take this thing and we're gonna celebrate it. I mean, lighting candles doesn't necessarily pull me into the season per se. It's a forced fit. It sounds to me like it was some sort of a pagan related thing that the Christian church uh leaders somehow couldn't get their Christian adherence to stop using put a positive side. Let's figure out how to turn this and make it work for us kind of thing. Which isn't necessarily a bad No thing to do because it's true. Culture is a funny thing. And scripture when it comes to cultural issues says, look, if your faith allows you to partake in a cultural thing, then go ahead and partake in it. But if your faith uh is weak and you feel like, you know, you're gonna be offended by partaking in the cultural thing, then don't partake in it. But the point is is that God made everything and so if you partake, you know, and you're honoring God and you're not giving glory to some pagan idol or something like that, then you're free to do so. You don't have to worry about somehow God's offended because this thing has pagan roots to it. Right. But the point is what are you doing? You know, what's what what what have you chosen to honor uh by using that thing? And I think that that's the most important issue. You know, it's the heart issue ultimately. I think it's a little bit dangerous for the church to hang on to these uh practical tools of the moment forever and make them such an important part of the tradition. The Christmas tree is an example too. Uh I'm sure it was a symbol symbol uh a symbol of some sort of uh you know, pagan life symbol or something that got co opted into Christianity and sure. And in the moment you can use it as a tool to transition. Yeah But now, if you're not careful, all of a sudden the reason for the season becomes the advent wreath and the uh Christmas tree and the Santa Claus caricature and all of those things. And we totally lose sight because we carry on all this additional baggage that is extra biblical and not really have doesn't have anything really to do with Christianity other than what we make it have to do with Christianity. Well you can make anything have to do with Christianity. You can put there's the the famous thing about the pumpkin. You carve the pumpkin and it symbolizes what God does in our life, right? Cleans out all the bad stuff, puts the ones, puts the light inside. Yeah. And it starts at the very beginning with the pumpkins laying there in the pumpkin patch, can't do anything for itself. Particularly apart from the vine, which is so even God's general uh uh provision is providing life for that pumpkin. And then God comes and picks that pumpkin out of that dirty, horrible, rotten patch, and it's disgusting and gross and he washes you off and cleans you up on the outside, but that's not enough. So the gets all the ooky stuff out from the inside and replaces it with his light, his Holy Spirit. Right. Puts a smile on your face. Right. I mean that so you can take Well it's clearly a a a a pagan jack-o' lantern kind of thing and right and turn it into whatever you want to sure, but then do you should the church be living with that as part of their Uh identity for thousands of years now. or whether or not your uh your particular church is driving down to the deeper issues, you know, that are at the center of the season. And so um I think you're a bit more uh reticent to participate in these things than I am. Um and you know, I don't I'm not necessarily saying that it's wrong for you to be so reticent. I think it's good to to to draw the lines. For me right now I'm like, you know what? I know what the season's about, you know, and and I'm I'm taking major effort in my own heart and in the in the lives of people that I know to uh to stay focused on these things. And so if there's if there's what what I feel like is frivolous um additional uh ideas surround you know, for that matter Santa Claus, you know. Uh is Santa Claus something that that we would need to fight fight for, you know, th there's some legend behind the idea of old Saint Nick uh, you know, giving presents to uh poor kids, you know, this kind of thing. Uh clearly it's turned into something that that has gone way beyond. But if you watch um the movie Polar Express At the very end of it, when Santa Claus comes out, there's an image of a guy that I feel like is is a little bit like the Chronicles of Narnia And it and it's a it's a fairy tale that takes on elements of the redemption story that ultimately uh can like be a pre evangelism kind of thing. Like, yeah, there should be something like that. There should be something like that. And so I don't know, I'm I'm a little bit split as to the value of those things. When Christ came he didn't use extra Things like that. He just spoke to people's hearts and And if there was a closer a alignment between Christ and Santa Claus, I I might be willing to go there with you, but there's not. I think it's the exact opposite. Kids aren't writing letters to Santa Claus and hoping that Santa Claus will will give them the gifts of their heart's desire and that Santa Claus you know, and thinking that you know Santa Claus is watching them when they're awake and when they're asleep and making a list of who's naughty and who's nice and all those sorts of things. You could you can draw a parallel and say, oh see these are God things, but that's not what's being taught. And so God is removed from the equation completely. I don't know what's being taught in other places. So it's hard for me to know like how people approach these things. My boys have never come anywhere close to really believing that there's a Santa Claus. Uh, you know, which is the s w which is this story and and you know, I kinda play with them about the idea and and um but you know, I I I guess I'm I I think it comes down to like you're saying what you're teaching in your particular home. How many secularists do you know that have a Christmas tree in their house? Secularists? Yeah. You wouldn't call them Christians. They're you know, they're non religious but they have a Christmas tree. Or they exchange Christmas gifts, so they'll you know, they participate in the Christmas season. Probably quite a few. Though there are many that are trying to, it seems like in these d in these days, attempting to even undermine the the whole idea behind, you know, having a holiday season. You know, why should we even have a holiday season this time of year? Um and uh those particular secular secularists are uh going to great lengths to undermine even those things. But then they take our eye as the church off the ball Because we end up t fighting for these traditions that have absolutely nothing to do with Christianity. Instead of spending our time focusing on spreading the gospel and talking about who Jesus really is. And you know Yeah, I think the time also a thousand years ago or whenever these things the Advent Wreath Christmas tree, whenever they have their roots. A thousand years ago I th I I think it was f It was likely very appropriate. Very appropriate. And continued to be very appropri appropriate for a lot of years. Sure. But I think maybe we've begun to reach a point in uh Western civilization history where Christians need to push back and say, okay, now we need to say Christianity is this and it's not that. And are you saying that you're gonna fight for Chris Christianity is not the Christmas tree? Uh that's not even worth fighting for. Or Christianity is not the Advent wreath, or it's not the twelve days of Christmas. I'm not saying fighting against it bumps it and not not continue to embrace it I don't think, for example, my my opinion, I'm not sure I could fully defend it with scripture. Sure. Before you get into this, by the way, you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD Brought to us by All Shred, Putman Flooding and Heating, and Dynamic Living Solutions. I'm Troy Skinner and Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, which by the way, I'll think I introduced you at the beginning of the show. Yeah, because uh We just dove right in. Yeah. John Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. There I introduced you twice just now. Yes, there it is. Uh I don't think that that uh churches should have Christmas trees or Advent wreaths in their sanctuary. Yeah. If a Christian wants to have one in their home, or if anybody wants to have one in their home, that's fine. I don't think we're the the people of God gather together to worship uh in Christ's name. should have that sort of secular distraction because right now they're secular s symbols. They're symbols of of everything that is wrong about the season. about the focus on how far do you go. Look at the lights people have in their yards. Yeah. They'll have pictures they'll have in their yard all the Christmas lights. Right. R or the Christmas decorations include A bunch of these multicolored lights. Yeah. Maybe some reindeer. Right. Maybe a Santa Claus thing. Maybe a snowman. Mm-hmm. Um Maybe an off chance an angel or two. Sure. I can't remember the last time I saw a nativity scene in somebody's yard. Like doves. You know? It's it's all over the place, really? You haven't seen any I don't well maybe I'm going to the wrong neighborhoods. Yeah. Certainly the pr preponderance is the non religious icons. Lots of Santa Clauses, lots of snowmen, not a whole lot of Jesus and Mary figures. I think that's a problem. Right, but again that brings us back to uh culture at large. I mean, are we a Christian culture any longer? Are we a a nation that that embraces Christ across the board and Um and maybe that's part of what you're saying. Maybe maybe what you're arguing is that because the culture in a in a broad sense has moved away from Christ and the and the teaching uh of righteousness that he brought and his uh his atoning sacrifice uh for us. Uh you know, maybe we're far enough away that you feel like we gotta do whatever we can to make a The clarification. Is that what you're saying? Yeah, or it yeah, see I don't want to I don't know if I want to say go as far as you can to make the clarification. I think we need to stop contributing to the problem. We meet we meaning the church. And by we actually I'm maybe I'm putting I'm giving my I'm not even talking about me so much because I'm not in any sort of a leadership position in the church. Sure, right. I'm just a guy on the radio who you know likes to talk a lot, mouth off. But somebody like you, for example, if I were in your position, this is something that would be weighing on me. I think that uh elders and deacons or whatever the different positions of the of uh the uh leadership of local churches are. I think they should be having these discussions and be ask if they should ultimately decide, you know what, we think it causes way too much discord and would be unbecoming for for the Christian church to remove the the Advent wreath from our sanctuary and our our December services because there's such a tradition here and we're gonna cause a huge division and a split. We'll have a local little schism here. It's not worth it. Okay, you know what? I'll respect that, but have the discussion. Should we or shouldn't we, maybe even bring it before the congregation, say, hey, these are things that we as your leadership are thinking about. Has the Advent Wreath outlived its usefulness in the Christian church? Is it causing more harm than good? And the admin wreath not as much as a Christmas tree. So let's talk about the Christmas tree specifically. Should we have Christmas trees in our sanctuary? You can have I'm not saying you can't have it in your house, I don't think it's sinful necessarily. I'm just saying, is this really the best and should our focus be on that? And have the ask the question. See, it's it's interesting because from a pastoral perspective, there's there's certainly uh a number uh a limited amount of time that you have. to be with people and to disciple. And I feel like taking the time to even bother dealing with with those other issues uh is a distraction. I mean there's a there's a there's a significant number of issues, spiritual issues, deep issues. uh related to the season, like having to do with making sure that you're you're getting time with family, making sure that you're not buying into that it's all about materialism. Making sure that you're not s you're not you're not buying your s buying presence so much that that you're in debt after Christmas every year, you know, for the next couple of months. I think it's all related though. Christmas tree represents all those problems. issues that need to be dealt with and that that need to be dealt with on a on a uh on a on a very personal forthright issue and that That, you know, put up a Christmas tree if you want, do whatever, but don't spend yourself into debt. You know, and don't drive yourself into the ground, you know, so that you're depressed And so do the Roman Catholic tradition, an awful lot of weight on on images and and icon uh uh uh whether it be art or statues or whatever. Icons are incredibly important, incredibly instructive, and they point to deeper important meanings and issues. And the Christmas tree is a huge icon in Western civilization. And it's a huge icon in the Christian church. Is what it's representing good or bad? And if you think it's starting to represent something that's bad or negative for the church, maybe you should at least get it out of the sanctuary At a minimum. That's what I'm saying. I think that Yeah, you're talking to somebody that has never thought to put one up in the sanctuary and historically, you know, has not had to deal with uh that speaks considering where you meet you'd have to put it up and take it down all the time every week. Right, right. Um though there was a Christmas tree uh up in the space where we had our Christmas party. uh just a couple of weeks ago and so maybe um you know and we actually put our gifts around the tree um you know, which to me like I grew up with a Christmas tree and and in my mind, in the back of my mind, the association that my parents helped me to make was Christmas tree and nativity. Like in my mind just somehow the two are related. And then Nativity being the more important thing, this idea that you're bringing this tree in the house. Christ was born in a m in and laid in a manger. He's born in a, you know, in a uh barn. You know, all the all all those kinds of um orientations that for me That's what the that's what it's tied to. And I'm not saying that it's not tied to other things by other people. Well, you have a grandfather who's a pastor and a father who's a pastor, and now you're a pastor. I'm not sure you're the average American family I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks again to All Shred, Putman Plumbing, and uh Dynamic Living Solutions for sponsoring the show. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMB. Thanks for listening. God bless