Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. The show is brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How could we make you smile? Freddy Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to get together and and hash out what they think are the most important things for us to be thinking about in this world today We're hoping that through our wrestling and wrangling and hashing out that you will somehow walk away benefited uh by that. Um no holds barred, but we're all gentlemen. Or at least that today on the show we're all gentlemen, sometimes there are ladies and gentlemen on the show. And on the show this week, Rabbi Dan Sikowitz from Kolamy um is in town for like the last, I don't know, five months maybe, four or five months. Well I was the student rabbi prior to being clearing the rabbi, so I'd been around for about two and a half years. So those who are anti-growth and don't want any new people c he's been here two and a half years, leave him alone. Actually is it psychowits? It's psychowits. Oh psychowits. I think that's psychowits, right? Psychowits. They always call me Switzer when it's Schweitzer. So you know I have a similar one. And that's John Sweitzer, also known by some as Switzer. That's Troy Skiner over there. And Jonathan has been in town for what, six years now? Six seven years. So leave him alone too. That's right. Thank you. Yes. Uh how about you? You've only been like seven. Yeah, so we're newbies. We need to get some Obi's. Yeah. Is there such a thing as an Obi? Probably. Sounds like a cartoon character. It does, yeah, yeah, yeah. Anyway, so today I want to ask you guys a you know kind of a blunt question and see what you do with it. Okay, here we go. Are there any homosexuals in in in uh the nation of around? Uh well apparently uh Ahmed is not aware of any at this point in the history of the world Uh did you want to try to give that a shot? Well uh my guess is that they probably are. They're probably afraid to announce themselves as such. Uh but um According to Akhmander Ja Jahan? I don't know. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, he says there are none, but I would be I would not believe that Quite so much. You know, I I think it's a definition of what is is. From my perspective, is anybody really a homosexual or is that a description of activity that they choose to engage in. And I don't know if you want to go there or not, but I would say that uh there are definitely, I would say, people there who choose to engage in the uh in the homosexual activity, without a doubt. Well, we certainly have opened up a can of words here. Yes, why don't we? Um what do you think? Do you think it's a a a you know, a choice or something that somebody is? I think it's what somebody is. I don't think it's a choice that they make. I think that God made them the way that they are, just like God made the rest of us the way we are. And uh frankly, I don't feel that I can um Uh disagree with the way God has made people. So what do you think, John? I mean uh y you were kind of playfully answered. I want to give you a chance to answer it more seriously. A choice or the way somebody is? Um I'm I I'm quite confident that God hasn't made anybody that way. I think there there's a whole slew of issues. Um at this stage of the ball game there is no proof uh of any genetic uh direct genetic um they haven't found a gay gene uh uh out there anywhere but uh I do think it's very likely that there's a whole slew that it's a very complex um uh thing for those who uh feel that they're homosexual or have homosexual tendencies that uh that that are uh in some measure um biologically inclined, at some measure uh that deal with uh uh the environment and how they were raised and things that have happened to them uh as they've grown up and at some measure are just simply uh a choice to uh react a certain way to their surroundings around them. And the reason for that is because it's very clear in uh Leviticus that uh a man is not to lie with a woman as a man I mean a man is not to lie with a man as he does with a woman and uh the term that is used there is the term abomination. You know, and and it's interesting. I actually gave a sermon on that very topic uh a year ago uh at the High Holy Days. And if one would read um the the entire what we call the parshao portion you'd find that um Moses through God is listing all of the practices of the Canaanites that um we that God doesn't want the Jewish people to uh engaged and actually Israelites, they weren't Jewish at the time. And it apparently the Canaanites had cultic male prostitution. And basically what that is saying is we God does not want us to do have cultic male prostitution. In our temple. Not saying that a loving relationship between two men or two women is not good, but saying that a male cultic prostitution is not acceptable. Yeah, it's very interesting. In Leviticus chapter 18, the context of that specific chapter is saying stuff like Don't uncover uh your mother's nakedness. Or don't she is your mother. Don't uncover her nakedness. Don't uncover the nakedness of your father's wife. Because that's the same thing as uncovering your father's nakedness. Don't uncover the nakedness of your sister. Don't un uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law. Like it's all So all these these uh issues there in Leviticus 18, it is referring to the practices of the of the Canaanites, but But there's no description in that specific passage of uh in fact it's a it's a very personal description of what's going on in the family and how it's going on in the family Uh and then it breaks into an a a man should not lay with a woman. I mean a man should not lay with a I keep saying it wrong. Man should not lay with a man as he lays with a woman and then he goes on, you know, dealing with more uh like he gets into, you know, that there's there should be no bestiality you know, should not approach a an animal to have sex with it. And uh and then it also talks about the other things uh that the nations have done, you know, in order to be defiled. And so my sense is that uh is that an argument could be made in that direction, as uh the rabbi has made, uh, but uh honestly I feel like it's a tortured argument and it's an attempt to argue something that is not a clear reading of of the passage, but it is it goes farther. In fact, part of the reason why why I'm concerned about it is the word abomination is uh the word uh tau what is it tau taubi uh I can look it up here in a second. The word for abomination there is very clear that it's something uh that God not s uh wants to have nothing to do with and you know that the land w land will vomit out it its inhabitants if it's it you know they engage in these kinds of behaviors. In fact, I asked this question, why is it why is it if God in his all-knowing, and for that matter Moses in his presentation of the law would not say it's okay for a man to lie with a man as long as they don't do it. You know, everywhere else in Scripture You know, he's he's abundantly clear that uh, you know, like he even says this. He he goes on to say in Deuteronomy that that a uh if a virgin does not show the tokens of her virginity at the time of marriage, which means that she goes to sleep with her new husband and uh there's not the ranking of the hymen which produces blood, the tokens of the of the virginity that that they can show to everybody, then she would be taken out and stoned because it would be proof that she had had been um whoring about. That's the term that is used. Uh and if if if scripture is so abundantly clear, then why doesn't it say it's okay for a man to be with a man or for a woman to be with a woman? I mean that's a glaring absence if if God you know wanted to to protect a certain group of people. But nowhere in scripture does it come close to saying that. There's an awful lot of things it says in scripture that probably have never happened. For instance, it talks about that it's okay if you have a son who is a drunkard and who's running around and who is dishonoring mu the mother and father that they can go to the community and have him stoned. Well, you know what? Um there were not there's not a whole lot of records of people getting stoned. There's not a whole lot of records of women. Yeah, this is getting stoned Stoned because they didn't have a bloody sheet uh after their marriage. Sure. Um So what are you saying that because We don't have record of it following that being followed through with that maybe God didn't intend for it to be said in the first place? What I'm saying is I mean that seems a little These things Again, tortured in my side. Well, I don't find it tortured. I mean I think we're well, let's just go right to the heart of it. I think what we're saying here is that um The Bible is for me is a divinely inspired document. Okay. Okay? I don't believe that the that the Bible is God's word written through Moses. So you don't believe it's God's word? So so divinely inspired you're saying in your viewpoint doesn't mean that it's necessarily God's word? I mean that I don't mean yes, I don't mean that God stood on top of Mount Sinai with Moses and Moses was the uh sonographer, if you will, and took down what God was saying. These were m stories, these were rules, these were um uh threads, different traditions that were passed down for the about the first four five hundred years orally. Hm. And then they were not written down as well. So now what happened on top of the mountain? 'Cause we're told that there was like thunder and lightning, we're told that God himself You know, wrote on the the Ten Commandments with his own finger, we're told. Uh huh. Uhhuh. And so you're saying that that part is not to be believed? I'm saying that something happened on Mount Sinai because uh revelation occurred of some sort. Um But does it did it happen exactly the way it says it happened in the Bible? Hm. I don't know. I don't know. Very not. So then then if you start to question part of it, then how do you decide what can be ex what can be kept and what can be thrown away. I mean at that at that point you're you're kind of you're kind of moving into a you're kind of moving away from the idea that that God has set up a divine standard and you're moving into something that's very Evolutionary, is that the word? Well, um Reform Judaism, and I'm a Reform Rabbi, believes in um we believe in that each person We don't throw anything away. We read. We study. We have more than just one sacred text. We have other texts called Talmud, Mishnah, Responsa, we have Literally three thousand years worth of writing. We read what the commentators have said. We read what the rabbis have talked about. That's correct. The rest of the Bible too. The rest of what I call the Hebrew Bible. And we read about it, we decide what makes How do we fit this into our life today? How does this make sense? Uh Who's we? We being reformed Jews. Okay, so there's a sense What like like there's a few maybe rabbis at the top or a council that that makes ultimate like like how do you come up with that ultimate sense that this is the the standard to which we will give ourselves. Reform Judaism is extremely decentralized and we do not have while there is we do have a leader of the Reform Jewish movement in this country He does not tell us that this is the way we need to lead our life. Eric Yaffee. Yafe. How do you spell that? Y O F F I E. Okay. Interesting. Okay. And so so he's kind of the leader of it, but he's not he's not like the Pope, as it were. He's not saying this is what everybody has to believe and so there's there's there's a um uh kind of a a rainbow of different variations then on what reformed people believe and how they believe it Uh across the United States and and then around the world. And across the world. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. I would say that most of us or uh as many of us as we'd like are engaged in very serious study. to try and understand what the messages are. We get I mean I work with Bar and Bot Mitzvah students, these are thirteen year old boys and girls, um, and we talk about the most in-depth uh aspect of the portion that they're going to to to um to talk about at their Barambhat mitzvah. And we have a very deep discussions about that. this, trying to figure it out. We I bring commentary in and then ultimately this child with their parents have to decide, well, this I can believe this or I can accept this or I want to live my life this way. Because the Bible, the Torah, teaches us these lessons. These are lessons that have come down for thousands of years that are tried and true. Okay, and so like Again, how do you like how would I get it get get a like a good summary of what passages would a reformed Jewish rabbi in and congregation uh synagogue, what passages would they embrace? Which ones would they like like what's the basis upon which you would accept or reject? You know, um Reformed Judaism uh which began about eighteen in the eighteen tens, eighteen twenties, was probably more prophetic Judaism. So much of what we started with was from the prophets For instance, taking care of the widow and the orphan and what was more important were our acts towards other people. Helping our neighbors. And that's really social action, social concerns was what we were really based on. Over the course of the last twenty-five to thirty years We've really started focusing on the laws and the what we call the mix vote, what you uh what other folks might call the commandments. Um and really started studying them and figuring out. So for instance, someone Because I've thought often about this because I feel like the prophets prophesied about two things justice and righteousness. And I have to say that often uh when I hear uh a reformed Jewish perspective and in fact uh there's a whole part of of the Christian world that I think would lean in the same direction as a Reformed Jewish. Maybe we'll call well, no, we can't call him Reformed Christian because that's uh too attached to Calvin and and Luther and those guys. Uh nevertheless they they tend in that direction like like what a reformed Jewish would in terms of not necessarily believing everything automatically that scripture says, but they kind of um will uh I don't know, what's the word to say that? A pick and choose? Well pick and choose no I would say more y W what I like to say that use the term is if someone asks me if I'm actively engaged in a certain commandment or mitzvah at the moment, I'll say, I'm getting to it. There are so many There are six hundred and thirteen in the Torah, six hundred and thirteen commandments. I can't possibly get well, we can take a whole bunch. Actually we can take two hundred and forty-eight of them out because that had to do with the service at the temple. Right. Um there are a lot. So I'm working Through them. And working through them. Nevertheless, there's a there's a sense that that some of them you would reject or you would you would you would say um aren't to be Followed through on. Like for example the one where it says actually in that passage that you referred to earlier where it says that if you have a rebellious son and he's completely rebellious, it says you are to bring him before the elders and what we're told in the Torah is that the parents are supposed to stone them in front of the in front of the congregation. Which to me there's a profound truth there. In fact in Sweden right now, s uh Switzerland right now, they're trying to pass a law that if your son is engaged in criminal activity, uh, then you forfeit the right as a family to live in Switzerland. Meaning that they're trying to make the parents responsible for what the what the children are doing, which you find a little bit of that in the Torah. Anyways You would you would take as a reformed Jewish person, you would take that passage and and like like I feel like there's a lot of teeth in that. Well what I would do is you try and bring it, make it modern. Now it Make it modern as well. Well here's why. You know, here's what I'm talking about. Um there clearly are people whose children are out of control, who are doing things that they shouldn't be doing. Should we stone them? I mean, is that what the an should the parents stone them? Probably not. However, we do need to learn to work with these parents and work with these kids and get the parents to figure out other ways to work with them. Um, you know, uh W in in this country, in certain states, obviously, if this child kills someone, then it's up to the uh to the courts. So then that's out of our hands at that point. But Should we be actively involved? Should the community be involved to help these parents with this? Of course. Absolutely. And I think it is our responsibility. I don't think stoning is a particularly uh logical option or acceptable option at this day and age. Um yeah it's interesting. So uh because I've I've wrestled with this so I'm interested to see what your perspective is. We're a little bit off of the the homosexual thing, but we're dealing with the bigger question of of what part of the Old Testament uh can we accept and what part of it do we uh need to modernize. Maybe that's that's the word you feel comfortable with. I want to use a word that's not necessarily um abusive towards the way that you believe. I want to be respectful. So how to how to modernize certain parts of this. And you're saying that um in modernizing those passages that talk about stoning The point is that that we just what need to take it very seriously, that we can't allow this just to go on undealt with. Exactly. That we need to take it super seriously. Like for example, adultery. you know, was was a situation where you would stone. Uh the homosexual whatever you define I I define it as just generic homosexuality, you define it as a a cult, uh Canaanite cult scenario. Um but but that thing was was worthy of being stoned. Uh worshiping another God was worthy of being stoned. breaking the Sabbath was worthy of being stoned. There's a sense that there's certain things in the Old Testament that if you did it automatically God was saying, look, we just can't allow that. Why why would that be the case? Why would it have been okay back then? Well, I'm not sure because they did stone a guy for the Sabbath. We are taught in numbers that they brought somebody to Moses and and that that they were like he was gathering, you know, he was doing what he wasn't supposed to do on the Sabbath. And they brought him to Moses and Moses went before God and came back and said, Stone the guy. Right. And uh you know, I'm not gonna sit here and say that, you know, if we had newspapers then that we'd actually see this. This might have been one of those stories that was that was basically passed down to say this is what we're supposed to do. Um I'm not sure. So like how that story was made up just to scare people into doing the right thing. Yes. Yes. Now now I'm also going to say that it's possible that it could have happened. I'm not saying it didn't happen. But I don't know. Why that bothers me is because I because I think it's so easy for people to take the scriptures. Um is this the reason why it bothers me? One one possible reason why it bothers me. So easy to take the scriptures and to be like, oh, you know, uh religion is the opiate of the masses. They're just trying to scare us into being a certain way. you know, so that they can control us, you know, blah, blah, blah. And that's one of the one of the most powerful tools that are used against religion, which then is encouraging the majority of Europe, you know, a large portion of people in the United States to just totally put religion aside and to come up with their own rules and their own laws, at which point There is no standard. There is no no uh basis of of right and wrong against which we can gauge everything because at that point whoever has the power makes the rules. W well, you know what, that's generally the case. Anyway. But let me ask you a question. So are you suggesting that if we have a rebellious child, if my son decides to go out drinking one night that I should stone him? No, no, I was I was hoping that that you would actually ask the question. Because I'm of the opinion that a rebellious child is worthy of death. I'm of the opinion that the wages of sin is death. But that God, through Jesus Christ, has provided a way to cover, to pay that penalty for us. And so we don't have to stone him anymore Before God, he is accountable, and if he does not repent, if he does not deal with righteousness, then in a in a i in terms of eternity, he will lose his soul For eternity. He'll lose the opportunity to be in heaven for eternity with God. Separation from God is death. And so in my mindset, God was absolutely serious about those laws. that yes he intended to follow through on them because he wanted to raise a set a standard that absolutely their uh God is holy and righteous and true and can brook No uh no rebellion or or resistance against that. But like the Sadducees and the Pharisees argued all through the years, the Pharisees being on the side of the common man, there had to be a way for God to maintain his holy righteous standard, but still connect with those people that can't live by it. And so he sent Christ to do just that. Which is an a uh you know, which is of course central to Christian theology. Sure. And what happens to those of us who don't accept Christ, who Jesus was A person, certainly he was Jewish, came from the Pharisaic tradition. Now did you say the Sadducees was for the common man or the Pharisees? Pharisees. The Pharisees. Okay. Clearly. Okay. Clearly. The Apostle Paul was one of those guys. Yes, they were. Yes he was. We call him a reformed one, sorry. Okay. Yeah. Uh no, actually I wrote my thesis on Paul and on First and Second Corinthians. My point is is that this this in fact Yeah, but let me look at this at a bigger level here. You're saying that, at least uh from what I heard, and please help me if I'm wrong, is that if that presumably this child who is being rebellious has not accepted Jesus into his life. What happens to those of us who don't accept Jesus in our life because we do not believe in Jesus? Does that mean that my soul was damned to hell for eternity? Well, I I would say that you you are then stuck with the conundrum that is the classic uh Judeo-Christian foundation, the the Judeo background. The Sadducees and the Pharisees arguing with one another about what's more important, the holiness of God or the holiness of the people. You know, where where in uh um uh Korah's rebellion, Korah argued the whole people are are holy, and uh and Moses and Aaron said, well maybe that's the case. Let's go before God in Aaron's rod buds that says, no, it's not true. There's there's a there's a holiness that is greater than the holiness of the whole community, that is the holiness of God, that must be kept intact. And so we have to have a holy God and we have to have a way for a holy God to interact with With unholy people like you and I. I I'm clearly one of those people. Um I don't assume I'm probably more unholy than you are. Well that's not sure. So the point is is that is that you're I feel like then you're stuck with the conundrum because you no longer have the sacrificial system And you no longer have a way to cover the sins, but you still have the conundrum that God must not allow into his holy presence any kind of unholiness. He has to maintain the righteousness because all of the earth is upheld by the power of his word And if that's the case, then for him to be unholy in any way whatsoever would would uh corrupt the world. It would corrupt all creation. And so how do you how do you make unholy people holy? There's gotta be a way. And you don't have a way I mean. No, no, we do well we ha well we believe, Jews believe, that our soul is holy. Our soul is pure, has never been touched Um I know I realize that that Christians don't necessarily have that same belief, but we believe that. Yes. And ultimately our s we say we say this prayer every single morning in our uh in in our liturgy. Right um, that the soul that you have given me, O God, is a pure one. Um you've created, formed it, uh formed it inside of me, and you've you formed it and you put it inside of me. Um and that's the prayer we say we say that prayer every morning. Okay, there's a couple passages though in the Old Testament. Where the author, both in Psalms and uh Isaiah, he he says, of the Jewish people, things like There is no one who does good, no not one. Their throat is an open tomb. With their tongues they have practiced deceit. The poison of asps is under their lips destruction, misery, the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. You're saying that those people, uh and and clearly it's not referring to all the Jewish people. He's referring, you know, to to to a time in the history of Judaism where where certain Jews had uh had fallen to the lowest depths of what any of the Gentiles had ever fallen to Are you saying that those people too are holy? Jezebel, Ahab, those guys you have to separate the soul. From the human experience, from the human body. We're running up on the end. How are we doing time? Well, we're like we're out of time. Oh my god. Unfortunately. I the this was on such a roll, I feel like I was just a spectator this time, which was great. Um and it to help you discuss you. It's kind of an awkward, weird place to end. Sure, it is. But you know there's that old cliche and show business, always even wanting more. So I think we've done that. And we hope to have the rabbi on with uh John again soon. Thank you. Maybe we can pick this up. And we'll armrest a little bit more. Sure. Thank you very much. Thank you. Are you even listening to the Frederick Faith event on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating? How can we make you smile? Rabbi Dan Sykowitz from Kolamy Congregation in Frederick. And Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick. Thank you so much for listening. God bless.