Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD and different theme music for the show today. It won't be a regular s uh standard Part of the show though, I can assure you of that. This will be a collector's item. Yes, yes. If you're taping the show, save this one because you can say, hey, remember that one time they played the wrong music? That's right. We'll even sign it for you. It'll be worth money one day Anyway, Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. That other voice you hear is that of Jonathan Sweitzer, the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here in town. And joining us on the show this week, Paul Smith, Alderman and Frederick and former bishop of the Mormon Church uh here in town. And I want to thank our sponsors, All Shred Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding Today for a Growth Tomorrow. Dynamic Living Solutions. If you don't own a purifier, you are a purifier. And Footman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? Well if you were listening to the show last week, yeah, there was a portion of the show where Jonathan and I decided to do some on-air brainstorming show prep. Yes, and you did two of the things we said was, you know, boy, we'd really love to do this and this and tackle that issue and go after this and and one of the things that was At the top of our list was it'd be great to get somebody who could articulately, you know, argue for and defend the Mormon faith. Go figure. And here we are this week with Paul Smith, who has He knows his stuff. He wrote a book. He wrote a book. I will send I will send my messenger, an introduction to Mormonism by C. Paul Smith. It's a three hundred and forty-some page with appendixes and everything. I haven't read the appendixes. Well the appendix is the best part of the book. You want to get it. Uh boy I aspire to be articulate, so thank you. At the end I hope I can still be called articulate. Is that book by the way if I went to like you know Amazon dot com or something, would I find that book for sale somewhere? Uh you wouldn't even find it on eBay Nevertheless, you can write in. I wrote the book and uh it didn't sell. Um Actually I I wrote it eighteen years ago and uh pulled it out recently and I think I did a good job. I'm quite proud of it and I mean I think ar uh it's articulate. Good rhetoric, well organized uh and and I think pretty pretty good. So you reread it? Uh I haven't read the whole thing, but I read parts of it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, when I look at this I I realize, golly, did I Know all that. I have all sorts of biblical references I didn't know I even knew. Yeah, no, I find the same thing when I do extensive study on something that I That that it means that I know it really well for about, you know, a week or so. You know, and then after that I gotta keep reading new things to replace all the knowledge I've forgotten in the meantime. You know, on the on the other hand, one I've written now uh two or three books And uh when you go through the process of writing a book, your your level of knowledge of the of the material comes from It's now on your on the tip of your tongue. Yeah, you kind of have a spike in knowing that you know for a period of time. Yeah. Really it's a great educational tool. So anybody who really wants to be educated in something, write a book. Well Jonathan's working on a book. Yeah, three or four as a matter of fact. That's a problem. And it took uh Paul seven years to write his or whatever. Yeah, what am I going on? Three? Four more years you'll be done. But a lot of the editing is just trying to make it read well. So that uh you when you finish one page you want to read the second. Exactly. Exactly. It's all editing, isn't it? The best writing is editing. And there's an old cliche for those that uh write for a living that the best write is the rewrite. Yeah, yeah, now uh obviously uh that doesn't work for radio, at least not for our show, because we do no edit. We just go right on the air. Yeah, although you know well it's not on a great rabbit trail. But you know, seriously, you know, having uh in years past uh worked as a program director and having to work in on coaching on air talent The most talented talk show hosts, the most successful and talented talk show hosts, Rush, Rush Limbaugh, whatever, no, is they are tremendously good at editing on the fly. Oh really? They're constantly self-editing, self-censoring, self-screening. So they say something, then they stop and they say, No, that's not what I meant. I mean Or before it's even out of their mouth, they're so quick at figuring out how because we think faster than we speak Well, most of us do. Right, well yeah. Couche. So as the thought is Coming out of your mouth, you're already making these editing choices of how you want to phrase it. And that's you know, Rush Limbaugh, you know, uh on our on our station, Laura Ingram, you know, Glenn Beck. And you can hear the progression I I'm gonna end my my uh aside here in just a second. Glenn Beck when he first started on WFMD uh a number of years ago was relatively new as a syndicated host. Yeah. And there were some moments in his show when I would be like Boy, I wish he could take that back. I I I think I think Glenn is thinking to himself, I wish I could say that differently or I could do that whole bit over again. Now he's so much cleaner and sharper because he has developed more of a skill at editing on the fly. So it's still all about editing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It really is. But you're doing it, yeah. So anyway. Maybe one day. Yeah. So let me throw out a question that uh has been edited because I've I've thought about it for a week. Yeah, yeah. It's the only part of the show that is prepared, really. And that is might sound strange asking somebody who is a member of the uh Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints this question But, and you can give me a short or a long answer, is the Mormon church uh Christian? I thought you were gonna ask. Absolutely. Uh but uh that's a great question because so many people ask it. And um we believe in God the eternal Father and in His Son Jesus Christ and in the Holy Ghost. Uh uh the Trinity as they call it. And we believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, that He uh came to earth to pay the price for our sins. That through his atonement all mankind may be saved, uh all mankind will be resurrected, and uh if we uh obey his gospel, then uh then when we are resurrected we can have a glorious resurrection. So uh we uh without question we're Christian. Uh Um Jonathan? Mormon's Christian? Uh Paul, I love you. And I think you're doing a phenomenal job as an alderman. And uh I would have you represent me in the court of law uh any day of the week. However, uh I'm gonna have to argue uh today that Mormonism is not Christian and that they Um they have several doctrines that I think you'll admit uh uh during the course of our discussion together are uh in uh pretty strong contradiction to what uh Orthodox Christianity teaches and uh in that in fact you will claim that that your interpretation is the right interpretation and I I think uh will conversely claim that uh that your interpretation sets you outside of uh the Christian uh uh uh theological realm and puts you into what, you know, uh is commonly called a cult. You have to forgive me for um uh in any way being cavalier about any of that because I I certainly um especially having read your book uh on the topic I I don't want to take lightly what you believe or or just write things off lately. Uh because it's clear to me that there's a a ton of sincerity and a lot of thought and uh care that goes into uh your beliefs. However, again I think we'll get into why it is uh what what specifically the doctrines are that uh that lead me to make that statement. I think you'll agree that there are significant uh differences between between us. Well let's take a second to uh to make sure we're defining our terms correctly to see if you know if the divide is as wide or maybe i is less wide than than some might think. Um what how would you define Christianity or Christian doctrine. What makes someone or something Christian, Paul? I think basically a belief in Jesus Christ, uh who he is and what his message is. Um so I'm and what does the Mormon church teach uh about the person of Jesus? Who is Jesus? We believe that Jesus Christ is literally the Son of God. that um he is the as it says in John three sixteen that he is the only begotten Son of God. The only being whose Father is God the eternal father. And because of this, Jesus had the power to resurrect and to And to bring to pass the atonement. So in that respect, he's different from any other human being. But he is separate and distinct from his father. Now a a lot of that sounds pretty orthodox. Yes, but it's it's the definitions of the terms that are so key. Um uh for example when uh Paul is saying that Jesus is the literal Son of God. Um a Mormon believes that God himself has a body and came down and had marital, uh not marital, but uh sexual relations with Mary. uh and in fact that God himself, uh the the the one that we worship, meaning Jesus Father, which actually there's some distinctions that uh Mormons make along those lines, uh that uh that God himself was at one time a man and that he became God most high over the earth and then uh he had a son with Mary and so uh Christ uh became you know also a God as it were uh because you know he uh he was the begotten Son of God. I get a I get a little bit confused in there, but because the the the distinctions of the definitions, um uh Orthodox Christian. Like uh 'cause 'cause obviously that means that every time I say it then then I'm like being being rude. So I'll say Mormon doctrine versus what doctrine. You helped me to come up with a term. How about uh Protestant Christian Traditional Christian Uh a traditional Christian doctrine uh would would claim that that God most high uh has has always existed and there is no other like him. He is the only God and there there there is nobody that will ever be uh what he is and that Christ his son um uh came in human form, but that he's the only begotten Son of God, that that nobody else com will ever come anywhere close to being uh on that level. What which actually Mormons actually believe that at some level as well. Help me to talk that through. Uh we do, as I said, believe that Jesus is literally the Son of God and uh because in our day of of all sorts of ways of becoming pregnant. I'm not sure how it how it happened. But um but that but that Mary is the mother and God the Father is the father, yes. Uh we d I have it's a question I've thought about. Well no you referred early on in describing uh uh your belief the m I guess the Mormon's belief uh in who God is. You referred to him as you believe in the e the eternal Father. Um but Jonathan commented in uh and it's similar to some things that I've read that seem to say something different than that about what the Mormons. So where's what what do you mean by eternal father? I use that to to designate God the Father. uh eternal meaning Okay but help us know where you where you think he came from. Well you know we don't know. I will tell you I will tell you this. In John chapter five there's a verse there. It's either I think it's John five or John eight. It says uh Jesus says, I do nothing but what I've seen my Father do. Yeah. And, you know, what does that mean? In fact, he says it a whole bunch of times. Yeah. Uh I mean we don't know exactly what happened before, but uh but maybe to give you an idea of of something else, we believe that in the expanse of I don't know, just beyond the universe in the expanse, that that God has created worlds without number, that he has created them by his only begotten son, Jesus. And uh and that there are people on other you know other worlds. Um and that in fact as as as priests here on the earth that there are those um Mormons who will attain to actually being uh rulers over various worlds. Uh we believe that is our possibility and um uh as uh what's the verse it goes that uh uh where Jesus said well I guess it's in I think it's in Romans that uh I think it's Romans eight. I think it's Romans eight sixteen where it says Uh we are heirs of heirs of God. Heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ. And joint heirs with Christ, which is a very interesting term. heirs and heirs are different than servants. You know, heirs you know, they inherit. Uh we believe that our Our divine potential is to become like our Father in heaven, as any father would want his children to be like him And though you and I can't understand how this will happen, I mean I can't understand there even being one other world, you know, in in the universe. It's so vast, I I can't understand But I believe it. And Joseph Smith actually it was probably, as I understand it, actually as he was contemplating and praying about that verse in John about I've done nothing but what I've seen my father do. He was the one who said that something to the effect that that God himself had to go through some experience and And that we can become like him just as he has become who he is. And that that raises m as many questions as it answers. The point being the way that we be like God or be like Christ is that we start out human and we rise to a Godhood, is what you're saying So the point is is is we do what our father you're what what you're saying is the interpretation of that passage says we do what we see our father did and our father started out human and became divine. So therefore we can do what we see our father did, which is is that is that what you're describing? You know there's a scripture, I think it's in John ten. I think it's John ten around verse thirty. Uh the the Jews were were criticizing Jesus because of him saying that he was the son of God. Yes. And Jesus quoted the I think it's from Psalm eighty two, he quo quoted a verse where uh I have said ye are gods. The word there for gods is Elohim. And and but it but it's plural. And of course Elohim is is a plural form. But the the point then that Jesus was making is that he said to them, he says, you know, you criticize me bec uh because I say that I am I'm the son of God, but But the prophet, I guess it was David that wrote that psalm. He's he said that there are gods. So what's the what's the problem with me being the son of God? Right. And and of course there are other couple of other few scriptures in the Bible that refer to gl gods in a plurality, including in Genesis when the gods said, Let us make man in our own image. Yeah. So So yes, I suppose the Mormons, there's no question, we have we have suggested and and taught and and we teach uh we don't back off. We teach yes, we do know a few extra things. We probably have that many more questions we don't know. But I think but the point is, I think from my uh discussion here, you know, there is a basis for this in the Bible and and I think ultimately uh You know, some of these questions I don't think they're that critical. You and I were discussing off the air some some of the other problems that we are combined in wanting to face and address to help uh the people here. But But uh I think some of these intriguing doctrinal questions will be resolved later on and we'll have a lot of discussions like this. And someday we'll all say, oh yeah. It's interesting that you say that they're not very critical because um from your own book, you argue very um uh uh passionately that um that Christian doctrine uh is off has been corrupted and that even some of the scriptures that that we in in traditional Christian circles uh have have not only been corrupted but that Joseph Smith corrected them and that only Mormons that believe in um Mormon doctrine are able to attend to the celestial uh heaven. There, you know, there's three heavens, you know, there's the telestial, terrestrial, and the celestial. And uh you argue that that only Mormons make it to the celestial. And so, I mean That's pretty significant. If we're talking about eternal realities that that I'll be left out of a celestial place, I mean it's it's not really an insignificant doctrine at that point. pertains to what you're saying is is the doctrine that that we have divine potential to be like our Father in heaven, that we will have immortal bodies of flesh and bone in the resurrection And that we can be with our families, with our wives and our children in some eternal state in the hereafter. I think that is a great doctrine. That is not a something for later on. I think that's a great doctrine. It it it encourages people and motivates people to be good and uh but some of them about how many gods there were and what God went through I I don't know that we need to know all that. Uh you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. That last voice was that of Alderman Paul Smith, who for many years was bishop in the Mormon church and I guess once a bishop, always a bishop, although he's not actively serving uh as bishop in the in the church. And Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel uh here in Frederick. And There are so many different things. And I kind of let that go a little bit because I thought it would provide maybe s uh some good couching and and some good background and kind of a feel for some of the things. But I don't want us to get too far away from some of the specific things that we're trying to uh to address otherwise we'll be here all day and and and not probably accomplish anything. Um Boy, what I have so many different things I want to ask. I'm gonna go back I'm gonna I'm gonna be disciplined and I'm gonna go back to the the original question because I think it's important for us to define our terms and exactly what we mean by them. Um How how does the Mormon Church understand the idea of God being eternal if God was once a a man, has his own father and and would therefore have been a created being? himself, correct? I wouldn't say that. Um I mean now you're getting into some something I mean I don't know the answer to all these. I believe that every one of us had a spiritual entity that has always existed. And I think our coming to earth, by coming to earth, uh God gave each of us an opportunity to have a body. and have the experiences of of Earth. So they all existed in eternity. In some form, uh I would call I use the permanent the word intelligence. I think as an intelligence entity, I think Is it fair to say because I I mean I've done some reading trying to get ready for the show. Is it is is it a fair characterization to say that uh matter of some sort has existed eternally and that there's been some intelligence innate within that matter that has uh been used or has somehow spawned or become beings. Yeah. Because I believe that matter uh wasn't created. It's all has existed. It can be reorganized I don't believe that the earth was created from nothing. I b I believe it was basically. I I don't know about that. I I think that God as an intelligent intelligent entity existed forever, as far as I know Okay, um just trying to get my head around that. I know that like um uh Hinduism talks about being swallowed up in the great Atman, you know, which is which Which is this uh this place that we came from and that we return to when we finally get released from the cycle of, you know, in their orientation, the cycle of reincarnation. Um that sounds a little bit um similar to to what you're describing, that we came from a place, we're returning to a place. You know, both of those things are divine and eternal, but in the in the meantime, we we kind of worked out a few things here on earth. Um I don't know. Am I stretching it to to try to think of it in some of those? I mean I I'm not sure what others believe, but I I do not believe that my my identity bec be began and existed for the first time at my birth. I believe just as uh I think it was Jeremiah where the Lord says, I knew thee before I formed thee in the belly. And I believe every one of us existed with with God before we came to the world. life into him and that and it sounds like that would be the beginning of of life in existence for a man. I think that was the existence uh the beginning of his mortal life. Now the cre the the case of Adam, you know, that's interesting. Because the first person that came here, you know, how did it happen? Uh whereas er after Adam and Eve everybody was born. And uh so that one the Bible really doesn't explain that. Um but Joseph Smith taught that God walked the earth just as Jesus walked the earth, correct as a man. No, no, they don't quite say that. Well I'm not s I mean th uh again I'm just going back I mean I'm not well studied in it. This is something that supposedly is a quote from teachings of the prophet Joseph Smith. I'm assuming something that Joseph Smith himself wrote. And this is what this is the quote apparently from pages three forty five and forty-six for what it's worth. Anybody wants to read along at home? God himself was once a man as we are now and is an exalted man and sits enthron enthroned in yonder heavens. For I'm going to tell you how God came to be God. We have imagined and supposed that God was God from all eternity. I will refute that idea. and take away the veil so that you may see. He was once a man like us, yea, that God himself, the Father of us all, dwelt on An I guess it's an earth, okay, dwelt on an earth, the same as Jesus Christ himself did So Yeah I think that's I think that's true. That's my understanding. That's the quote I was referring to. Very interesting Okay. And y and so obviously that sets us apart, you know, from traditional Christian teaching. Um you are Uh you're definitely in a different place from where traditional Christians would be on that issue. Traditional Christians simply say that God was God and has always existed, and that he created mankind, and that yes, God knew that he was going to create men before he created them, and he knew all of our days before one of them came to be, but that that that doesn't mean that we existed before from all eternity Uh what we believe is that that means that that we were going to come into existence and God knew that we were going to come into existence at a certain time and uh and and that it was in his mind ahead of time. And so so traditional Christian doctrine would be different from, you know, Mormon Christian doctrine at that point. Well, yeah, I w that may be true. I would say that the measure for truth to me is two things. What is taught in the Bible and what does the Spirit bear witness to be truth. Yeah. Which is a whole nother topic. Do we get into that now? Well we can't because we are out of time for this uh edition of the show. We're gonna have to uh pick this up Next week if you're agreeable to coming back. Yep. And we'll be here. What are we gonna tape it in five minutes? It might seem as though Yeah, yeah. Anyway, thanks so much to our sponsors again, uh Putman Fleming and Heating, All Shred and Dynamic Living Solutions. Thank you, Paul Smith, Jonathan Swipe And thank you for listening to the Frederick Bate Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. God bless.