Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Frederic Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for Jonathan Sweitzer and me to talk about what we want. Jon Sweitzer is the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Um I'm not And the usual gist of the show is they have a a small panel discussion on things uh of interest, but every once in a while we'll take a break from that typical format Just for us to kind of catch up, get to know each other, get to know you a little bit better, you know what I'm saying? You're looking mighty fine this morning. You are. So careful. Keep your eyes on the road. Anyway. Yeah, I wasn't talking to Jonathan when I said that, by the way. That's you he's talking about. So uh when you're in this kind of business Doing this kind of show, you get all sorts of why won't that stop? Hold on a second. Technical difficulty. I can open and close the drawer of an electronic device like that. Your daughter will be proud of you. Yeah, anyway. Yes. So when you're in this kind of business doing this kind of show, you know, things gravitate toward you. And you probably can which is crazy for us because that was never the case before, you know, we just, you know repelled people. You know, you notice something uh If someone notices something in the news, th you know, on the news, in the paper, on a website, an email They start thinking we need to tell Troy. Yeah, I think Troy would be interested in seeing this. Yeah, let's throw it over to John, see what he'll do with this. You know, you just lots of stuff and you probably get a lot of that as a pastor. Yeah, yeah. Oh, all the time So anyway, so I'm not sure who this was sent to. Somebody at the radio station received this C D of of religious programming stuff. And I mean it it's not well here, I'm just gonna play a little yeah This is a very important thing. I never ever did. This is a designed to be a daily, I think, or perhaps weekly vignette, short form vignette that radio stations could air if they want. Huh. Alright, so I'm just gonna play a sample. What, meaning like a little like uh devotional or something? Yeah. Would you call it that? Maybe. Well here. It'll speak for itself. Okay. It's from uh people called Word of Promise. Don't we get to look at it too? Sure. Well here, let me give you a part of it. And in case you recognize some of the voices, see if you w well should I give them away now or see if you can identify the voices? See if you can identify these voices and then we'll name some of them uh later on. So this is a different way to respond to people that can't respond back to us. Alright, so here let's get this uh keyed up and make it go. Inspiration for today. Narrated by Michael York. A reading from the Gospel according to Matthew Chapter 5, verses 14 to 16. You are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. I am sure you have heard it said of someone that they possess a smile that could light up a room. We hear it often, but what does it mean? It is sometimes easy to believe that your life choices affect you alone. Nothing could be further from the truth. Your life will positively or negatively affect those around you. Whether directly or indirectly, the consequences of your choices are visited upon everyone whose life touches yours. Your joy can generate joy. Your anger can ignite anger. Your love can engender love in others. Jesus refers to us as the light of the world. The light we bear is the light of God. A light that was lit within us when we first believed in Jesus, the only begotten Son of God. Let us live in such a way that all around will be illuminated by the love of God. Alright. A couple of things. First of all, do you recognize the narrator? Uh well Jesus was Jim Caviezzel. Cavizel. Cavizel, is that how you pronounce it? I think so. Jim Cavizel. Who by the way, in case that name doesn't mean anything to you, it might mean more to you, he's the act actor that played the role of Jesus in Mel Gibson's The Passion of the Christ. Right. So now if he's been typecast as Jesus for the rest of his acting career, which he apparently doesn't mind, and he's voicing this the the voice of Jesus in these uh inspiration things. The Michael York was the narrator. Yeah. Other people that are participating in this series wait you didn't hear all these voices in this, but if we were to play more of them you would hear uh Marissa Thomai uh Richard Dreyfus, Stacy Keach, Lou Gossett Jr. , um who are some other big John Schneider, Lou Diamond Phillips, John Hurd, you know, some big names. Chris McDonald, Ernie Hudson, Luke Perry. I'm assuming all of them are Christians, but I I couldn't say for sure, but I'm assuming that they were involved in the world. believer. Oh though you might be Jewish? Yeah possibly. That could be. Because he does the quotes of Moses in the in the So anyway. Yeah. So First of all, general impression, what you just heard, what do you think? General impression? First general impression. Well, you know, it's I don't know. I'll give you my general impression. Why does everything that has the stamp of Christianity on it have to be so boring? Oh it was boring to you? Let us determine then to walk in their ways. Let us meet greed with generosity, ego with humility. That's boring. What do you want? Like like electric guitars in the background. A little excitement from Michael York. Give that man a cup of coffee. Listen to them. And to be loved. Inspiration for today. Narrated by the day. Alright, wait a minute. Okay, well that's the end of that. No, no, no, no. Anything that is like uh quote unquote inspirational is this soft flowing. That's even true like with the New Age religions, you know, they get into the soft voice. Who made that decision? Why wasn't I consulted? Because, you know, it's like this Buddhist New Age kind of a thing, you know. Nobody's a uh fiery um uh like uh Billy Sunday or or uh or Finney Charles Finney anymore. Nobody's fiery like that. Even Paul is pretty fiery. You know, but but now the order of the day is that if it's inspirational then Bring back the waiting bench. I'm telling ya. The waiting bets, you're like throw everybody off. That's something j Finny used to be. You know, I'm not uh obviously I don't think that you know religion uh should be preserved. Well that's like a back end accomplishment. Thank you very much. I tried though. On the air no less Your wife I bet thinks you're more exciting than these guys. Yeah, well I dunno it if you ask her to be short. Right, right, yeah. I I'm a pretty boring guy. Your daughter might not, but I mean I host a show called The Fred of Create Debate. How exciting can I really be? Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. No, you're right. Takes a certain time, right? All of you guys listening out there. Obviously the motivation behind this here, let's listen again for a minute. For when hope is lost, the eye is darkened and the spark in the soul grows cold. It's supposed to feel peaceful while it's Yeah, no, but the point is the motivation behind this was sent to a secular radio station, a non-religious radio station that really has about hours worth of r religious programming on it all week long. Hundred and sixty eight hours in the week and only one of them is religious programming. This vignette was designed for a commercial secular radio station to put on its air. Why would it why would they want this put on the air? Because they want to reach out to people and share the Christian faith. Obviously there's there's some sort of motivation there, right? So why would you package it in such a board listen to that? Even that guy's boring, I don't even know who he is. Yes. Why would you package it that way This is the Oh, I don't want to be a Christianity and involved in Christianity because Christians, they're boring. They never have any fun. Yeah, but you gotta realize, Troy That's not everybody yes you do. You and everybody needs to watch Troy as you or listen to him as he realizes this, that There are large portions of the body of Christ whose lives have been exciting enough because of the pain of sin in their lives that all they want is peace. And to be you know, it's it's have a nice church to go sit in, you know, and to to come to a place of No no no you stay quiet for a second and listen to this again. You're not listening to the from our area of responsibility. Oh, come on man. He's Irish, what is he? I don't know, but he's horrible. He might even be not horrible. Yes. Michael York is great and he does exactly what I'm sure the people who produce this asked of him. He does a great job doing what they asked him to do. He's a fantastic voice actor, a fantastic actor in general. He's got a fantastic accent thing going on. But the whole concept It's boring. If you were not a believer already, it might be hard for you to try to relate to this because you were born in the Christian family. You're not already a believer, all right? No, no, no, no. And then you hear this and you're like, oh You know what? I should have had a V eight and become a Christian because by golly, that sounds like it's for me. Yeah, yeah, but you're talking style points. That's all you're talking. Well plus style points aren't going to bring people to Christ. But the other thing is not going to be a good thing. And it sets them free. That's what's gonna draw them, not the style. Okay, well that's this is missing on that point too. It is? Yeah. Wasn't he saying that that for all those that are in Christ Jesus He I I was it so I didn't feel like you went long enough. At first I thought it was just gonna kind of be this this new age, we all have light within us, everybody on the earth, you know. But then he says for those who are in Christ Jesus He said that right when you were turning it off, but you were caught up in your point. Hold on a second, it chapters. Okay, turn it on so that everybody can see it. You are the light of a world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden Nor do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand. Yeah. The context is the Sermon on the Mount. And who is Jesus talking to? Well that's what I'm saying. We gotta okay, turn it back on. I am sure you have heard it said of someone that they possess a smile that could light up a room. We hear it often. But what does it mean? It is sometimes easy to believe that your life choices are fake. See it is boring. Whether directly or indirectly, the consequences of your choices are visited upon everyone whose life touches yours. Your joy can generate joy. Your anger can ignite anger. Your love can engender love. Jesus refers to us as the light of the world. Who's us? The light we bear is the light of God. A light that was lit within us when we first believed in Jesus, the only begotten Son of God. Okay, okay. So it does So he does say it. Right, right. But I was watching for that. That's why I was that's why I'll give you an initial response because I was looking for content. You were looking for style. Did I just say that to you on the air? I I am a s stylish individual. Clearly, clearly that is the case I was so distracted by the by the boredom. The moroseness of the delivery. That I missed the the the point that he went on to say those who That's now it is Christ isn't actually I mean you can pick a uh a theological bone there. Because he says for those who are in Christ Jesus, but that's not actually true, what he's saying is that What makes you a light set on a hill is when you live by the fullness of the Sermon on the Mount. That the light can use it lose its light if you don't live by it. Aha, see, so they are theologically suspect. You got 'em. Burn em at the state. I'm t well here, we heard it that same one like five times that we don't like. Yes, we did. But here, let's here's here's a sample of some other voice maybe. Okay. This Michael York is like always on this thing, and I'm not sure. Yeah, I'm gonna listen to the background just a little bit until somebody else is talking so you can hear something other than Jim Cabezel. Okay, so have you ever listened to the Bible on C D? That's boring too. Right. Uh really? The way they read it is so boring. What do you want them to be like? And God said you can go you know you want him yelling the whole time? Not the whole time, but when appropriate why burn you out or something. No. Content, you want the content not to be distracted by everything else. No, but what if if somebody says, you know, If the context is let's say you you know, let's say somebody was going to be reading a narrative about the history of your parenting. All right. And there's a moment when you were really, you know, given a scolding to one of your young ones W but they probably didn't deserve because they're charming uh little men. But but you being the the mean spirited father that I'm sure that you must be because you're one of these morose, boring, mean spirited Christians. You know, you're la you're laying it into saying, you are never gonna do that again or else and then the person who reads this. You are never going to do that again. Or else. No, well I mean God voice, you know, it's like really powerful, you know. You like feel it in your gut. If you got a good bass on your system, you know, like you know, it d there's all experience. Okay, so what we need to do is Jesus. It's still Michael York. I can't find a spot on this thing when it's not Michael York. Okay? I get to pick. Okay, you ready for this? I have my Bible on me. I got one right here. Proverbs chapter 11, verse 16. I want you to read this with the right style right here. Are you ready for this? Okay, I'll try. What is this? Proverbs chapter eleven, verse sixteen. The Proverbs are hard to read. Well, that's my point. style. But this was this isn't okay. Okay, so so wait, are you saying that we can't just twelve wait who's this It is rarely thought of a couple words. No that was a that was a voice. Anyway, we're getting a little bit distracted here. Obviously Proverbs, which is just a bunch of like, you know, short little So So is there a way to do that or not? Do you want to give up on those? I mean do you think there's a way to stylistically present those. Some some castanets going on. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All of a sudden you got all your Latino friends, but you don't have any you know any of your uh uh African American friends. All right. Uh all right, let me go to I will grant you that the this word of promise inspiration for today thing has its audience. And for those who are into it, yes, it's peaceful. For its all that serene, it's how it should be. That is a very minuscule minority of the general population and this was sent to a secular radio station as an outreach program. This isn't gonna inspire anybody to want to check it out for I'm gonna read the Bible. It sounds boring. Coming out in six months, Troy Skinner. Reading of the Bible. Stylistically very attractive. Yes. Set for a pop audience Why not? You're the pastor of a charismatic church for crying out loud band. On my website. That's right. With a drum set and everything. That's right. So You should be with me on this one. No well, I think it's possible. I I I think there's something to be said, though if I'm looking for Peter Kempeny from you know the the more uh traditional uh you know Presbyterian model of of worship and and and they they would be more I would be expect a little bit no but I'm saying I would I would expect them to say, hey, you know what, Troy, you're just being Troy and we love you for that. But you know, there's a lot to be said for And they would probably talk me off of the ledge that I'm on. But you I'm shocked. She thought that I was going to be different. But it's not true. Underneath we're all the same. All you pass is right. Style is only skin deep, but underneath we're all about content. So I can't get you to admit that that's boring. Would I would I ever listen to that for any length of time? Never. See? I never. I wouldn't. I never would. So there's something wrong with that, right? Right Uh well. That's right. Well I can't get any more yeah thoughts out. No, yeah. Good. I would never listen to it Well, I mean th that's kind of a litmus test there. Who would? And we would want to. That's really what struck me. I watch lots of stuff on video or listen to things or read books that most people would be like, You read what? you watch it. But that's so boring. It's so dry. And I'm like, but it's so interesting. It's I I'm like one of those weird freakos who enjoys this sort of stuff. And I don't even like that. No, no, no, no. But you're like a you know, you you're you're definitely a cult like when it comes to music and that kind of thing. Yeah. You are not a hymns guy. I wish there was more. Yeah And 'cause the content is great. Because you like the content. But you know You like a good story to be told in a song. Yes. Even if you're singing it on Sunday morning. Yes I do. Not just a simple little But stylistically that's what everything was, simple little ditties for a while. Yeah. I don't know what the re we're taking a little by the way, listening to the Freddy Safe debate on Freddie's News Radio 930 WFMB. I'm Troy Skidder, he's John Sweitzer, and we found a point of disagreement today. Yes. Obviously I'm right. What we listened to earlier on the show was boring. And finally Jonathan admitted it, and I'm not going to let him back off of that agreement. Now that he's finally come around to a sense. Yeah, but talking about the the the hymns thing for a second, it's really it's fascinating to me those who are so staunch in the defense of the traditional hymn Must not a at the expense of introducing more modern styles of music into the into the worship, even if you were gonna take the the verses of the hymn and set them to new the new music. A lot of people are resistant to that. Yeah. They must not be aware that an awful lot of those original hymn tunes were bar songs Yeah. Hey we went and got drunk and drank lots of beer and then they changed that into you know we went and got saved and gave praise to God you know same song, different words Right. So if we can take those bar songs and make them hymns, why can't we take a rock and roll song and and set it to hymn verses? What what why why are we so resisting? No no no no there there's there's some uh uh obviously coming from a church where we have a band, where we have electric guitars, where we have, you know, uh the full uh drum set going, uh there is arguments that are made for those kinds of things. And the argument says that uh that music is worldly and specifically that it that it uh brings up in people's minds sexual images or rebellious attitudes. And it is true that there's certain chords that you can put together, you know, in a song and certain melodies that that have the kind of edge to them that it's hard to argue that that their peace is there a scriptural argument in support of that position that you've heard? Uh well it talks about music ha having that sort of effect. All worldliness or cultural things having to do with um food that is sacrificed to idols or music that was previously sacrificed to idols, we know in the end that the idol is nothing, and so if you have faith, then you can eat of That kind of music. You can you can uh you can participate in all the technology, you can participate in all those things. But it is true that a lot of those things at their cutting edge when they were b born and birthed They were birthed out of, you know, a rebellious, you know, uh who cares about God, you know, throwing everything to the wind. And so the argument is at what point after some new thing has been birthed into uh rebellion, can you then turn it and redeem it for good? Well didn't hasn't Christianity done that with Christmas? Absolut absolutely. Right? You you did this whole show just to get me to go there, didn't you? No, but we sure did end up there. You've been looking to take me there. To which I would say yes Absolutely. The church has done that and they have um oftentimes the word is syncretized, meaning brought too much of the world in with them. But the point is every stage of the ball game, well why not? You know, it's not bad in and of itself. It's not bad to have a holiday. It's not bad to sing, you know, music that, you know, gets us dancing. In fact, in the Old Testament, David danced in God's sight. You know, so it's a good thing. So so the argument for or against is always comes down to what is that music or what is it producing you? And if it produces, you know, too much memory of worldliness, then it's probably bad for you. But if it produces um you know joy and excitement uh that is apropos, you know, for things uh of the Lord, then man go for it. Now obviously I mean I really unloaded on this uh inspiration for today word of promise. thing. Uh but really it w it's the entire genre that I'm speaking about. You watch most of these religious Jesus movies. There are exceptions. Yeah. But Mal Mel's the only exception at this point. Yeah probably. But you know Jesus is always this Soft spoken, unemotional. Okay, so what was he like? Well I don't know, but he certainly wasn't this plastic, you know, Robotron thing. Was he mean? Well, not meek the way that the popular contemporary culture would define it. Okay. What kind of meek would he be? Maybe you're meeker than the biggest. He'd be biblical meek than you think that he is. This to him Well it's it's a matter of Caviezo Cavizel. Some might find the man attractive. I walked right into that one. But the point is Does your wife find him attractive? I you know what? She hasn't seen that movie, she don't know the intensity of it. Yeah, she just doesn't do that sort of thing. So good. But anyway, yeah. Um what I was saying wasn't that the wasn't the physical look of the character, although I did like the fact that that the Caviz Cavizel character had a presence. Forget that he was good look there was a presence about the character. And certainly Jesus had to have had a presence about him, whether he was good looking or not. Not like Sean Connery, you know. Yeah, Sean yeah. Yeah, well though people think Sean Connery's good looking too. So we're all good looking, right? We're in the image of God, he's a good looking. Especially on the radio. So but the how much time we have here? I've got almost no time left. The point I'm trying to make is those little flashback scenes in the movie where he's a person. Yeah. He's smiling, he's joking with his mom, he's he's like a real person. Right. I appreciate that part of what Mel Gibson brought into that because Jesus had to have been a real person. Yeah. Right? He had to be. Yes. Had to be. Anyway. So I'm gonna end on this show, I'm gonna end agreeing with you. Yes, you are. Just for posterity's sake. Just for How does it provide sanity? Yeah. Is that the first time? I'm not sure. Anyway, thank you for agreeing with me. Thank you for listening. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. He's John Schweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner from WFMB. Thanks for listening. Oh, and thanks for our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? God bless.