Welcome to the Frederick Based Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putbutt Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner joined this week by Pastor John Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel. Hello, Troy. How are you today? Just the two of us this week, so hope you're on your game. Are you pumped? Are you ready? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well the question is are you? Right? Why are you gonna take me to task? Yeah, yeah. Well we need to play basketball sometime because apparently you were pretty, you know, like fierce on the basketball court. Once upon a de time I was okay. But uh I'm like twenty years past that once upon a time I think. Yeah, we all say that anymore. I don't know if your nose can take it anywhere, basketball. For everybody that doesn't know, I played a couple months ago and my nose was broken by a very close friend of mine in a very fierce basketball game. Yeah, and and as I've learned more about the story, it's less that he broke your nose, it's more about you broke your nose using his elbow. I definitely was at fault. I was he was trying to take the baseline from me and I wouldn't give it to him and I was being less than you know, like my play was very uh there's a lot of body. I was pushing him pretty hard And so I kinda had it coming to me. Yeah. I don't think passes should play basketball anyway. Right. You know? Right, right. Something quite not right about that. Yeah, yeah. Well as long as I can admit that I was, you know, wrong No? It's not as quite as simple as that. No. Pastors should be perfect at everything they do. Absolutely. Dude, man. You can like knock those pastors off the pedestal in your life, man. No, I'm not saying that they are, I'm saying they should be. Right, right. And I'm doing of course the pastor is preaching every week. So should you. Amen. Well I got it's something I want to get to i in a second. Uh we we received a a letter. Yes. From uh Blues Clues. We just got a letter. But it didn't have a little video with it. It was just writing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But before we do that, I want to clean up a couple of things. If you listen to last week's show with um Rabbi Dan Psychowitz from Cola Me. There are a couple of things. If you listen to last week's show you heard almost none of me. And that's uh That's lamentable. Well yeah, okay. Appreciate that. That's because they were on such a roll and I didn't want to spoil anything by actually interjecting anything, but there were a couple of things I wanted to see if you could clarify for me. Oh, okay. So if if you We're listening last week and you're not listening right now, I apologize. Yeah, yeah, and by the way, we're gonna have him back on. He he uh he just had something he had to go to and and our timing got mixed up, but we're looking forward to trying to have him back on sometime. So 'cause there's a lot more to talk about. He's a very you know, he expressed himself really well. You quoted uh a passage from Leviticus eighteen, I believe. Right? Yeah. Wife. Yeah. What is uh how are we to understand the word uncover Um is that you don't expose the the the nakedness. Does that mean like don't look at them naked? Does that mean don't have relations with them? that should be kept only for marriage, you know, and nakedness is one of those things, seeing one another, you know, the the marriage bed All of those things are are marriage only, and if nakedness then is uncovered in other situations or Uh, you know, like even even in a family, for you know, like for a brother to be looking in on his sister or looking in on his mother or something like that. uh, you know, at the wrong time, you know, when uh their nakedness is uncovered would be wrong because it has the potential to uh to lead in directions that that are inappropriate, that should be kept for the marriage and should should not be found anywhere else. And so so the gist of it, it's almost like an anti you know pornography thing. Back then they wouldn't have had any, you know, uh internet or you know, magazines. And so, you know, uh kids might you know, be trying to run around to the different tents and peek you know, peek in or whatever. You know, so so it's kind of saying no, you know, we just don't allow any of that kind of So uh it's probably it's the I'm trying to figure out where where there might be a line of distinction. Let's Okay. So it's about modesty and sexuality and that sort of thing. So let's say uh you're A father's wife, your mother, right, to make it simple. Well b yeah, but yeah, back then it wasn't, but it could it could possibly have not been. Right. To make it simple for us to to think through this. Your your mother is having some sort of a medical crisis that would require you to uh to treat her medically to expose a certain part of her anatomy that would uncover her nakedness. I say to do uh to do What do you call that? I don't know. CPR, just CPR something. Whatever the situation might be where you need to in that case We should be understanding that in the terms of the sensuality and the modesty and not so much Yeah, I I th I think I think likely that that kind of a law would would drive you the Old Testament law, don't uncover the nakedness of such a person. would drive you that even in a situation like that you would go out of your way to treat treat that person as modestly as possible And to be as, you know, as sensitive to those kinds of things as possible. And obviously there would, you know, there would be some leeway to not, you know, uh you know, to do CPR, you know, if somebody got shot, you know, or or cut badly in that part of their body, obviously a doctor, you know, would be free to go in there and and and to do some things. So yeah, I I think that there is a distinction Okay. Though though with the distinction would be the the effort to be as modest as possible. Something else that came up in last week's show. The rabbi. said this and I and I wanted to kind of follow it, but it would have been a rabbit trail and so and I and we we had some momentum going in a particularly di different direction. I decided not to, but He made a combination of the thing. I wish he was here. That's a great joke. He would have loved it. Too bad. I'll have to tell him when he gets back. Maybe he's listening. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Pastors go on those too for the rabbit. That joke's for you. Yes. So he talked about you know we're talking about stoning. Yeah. Stoning people to death. Yeah. And he made the comment about a couple of times actually I think that there aren't really any records or about that happening a lot. Right And i it the thought flashed through my mind, wait a minute, this is like I don't know, when when was the uh Pentateuch, the first five books of the Old Testament written three thousand years ago? About, yeah. About fifteen hundred years before Christ. Okay, so thir so thirty five hundred years ago. Yeah. So how many written records about anything do we have from then Yeah no yeah I was thinking similar kinds of questions. And I wouldn't mean in a challenge I don't mean I mean the way the I throwing a voice there was channel but s seriously, do we have very much of anything from back then? No, we have First and Second Kings, First and Second Chronicles, Joshua. These are the historical books that give us descriptions of uh more national things that are going on than than like the lives of individuals. None of that is like a journal of an individual except for maybe the book of Esther and the book of Ruth, uh all of which um uh seem to, you know, move in on on specific aspects or elements of of the Jewish uh religious And no biblical sources there would be very much surviving from three thousand five hundred. Right. And if there were non-biblical sources, most of the time the non-biblical sources were given to uh adding to the story and in and making it, you know, less than believable. So anyway, I just th I thought that was interesting I mean the follow up with him and when we have him back on again now because you know I How comfortable could you be making that a litmus test? Right. You know, for something of not having records. I mean we're talking about thousands of years ago. Sure. I don't know. Yeah, I'd be interested to hear his response to that. And We started the show, we didn't two thirds of the show we didn't talk about it at all, but we started the show talking about homosexuality. Yeah. And whether it's a choice or it's just the way someone is. Yep And the rabbi, his response was, I won't speak for him, but I think I'm representing him properly here, was that basically yes, that's the way people are. And he's not made them. They're born that way and he's not and it's not for him to, you know, judge or whatever. Pass judgment on the way God made somebody. Right. And your position was really the polar opposite of that, that it's a choice. Yep. It's an activity that people engage in. And it's There's no DNA evidence, there's no gay gene, that sort of thing. Plus there are significant factors that could make it uh uh social experiences. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Environmental the way they were raised or whatever. Yeah. And things that might have happened to them as they were growing up. I I don't know how many people I know of I I I was talking to a um uh homosexual one time and he said, Yeah, you know, um uh this guy when I was six years old, you know, uh got to, you know, interacting with me that way. And um, you know, I was aroused by it and so therefore, um, you know, it was just natural And and I asked him and I said, I said, are you telling me that it's normal for an older guy to be doing something like that with a six-year-old? And he was like, uh Well, no. You know, and the point is is that it feels natural maybe in that context, but it's not natural because there's there's an environmental issue that was introduced into the child's you know, environment that was absolutely inappropriate and as a result then it leaves this impression in the child's mind that maybe something is true that's not necessary necessarily. Well let me run that's one possible situ I think there's a a a whole slew of others. I don't want to leave the impression that I think that's the only thing that might produce uh a a a natural desire for the same sex. I think there that there's a whole slew of things uh that come into play. What do you think about this as a potential argument? Okay Yes. They're b born that way. Okay. Meaning them meaning homosexuals. Okay. They're they're born homosexuals. Uh-oh. Go there. So what Um deal with it. Still a sin. Mind mind your act near your your actions and And don't commit things that God says is an abomination. Well again, if if you're of the opinion that that scripture is inspired in the Word of God uh and uh relevant to today to prescribe what we do and don't do, then um then it is true that that even if we're to find that there's a genetic element to it uh that Th you know, obviously there's a genetic element to all kinds of um things that are less than Healthy, you know, um diseases or um handicaps, retardations, different things that that have a genetic component to them uh that are clearly, according to Scripture, a uh a reflection of a fall from what God originally intended And so if that's the case, I would say uh I'd say attitude and how you communicate uh, you know, and walk through with a person, how they how they work through things. I personally don't believe that it is genetic. Uh they've yet to find a gay gene. And if they do, please, you know, if anybody out there knows one, you know, please write us here uh at uh clear channel let us know. But you know, as far as I understand, there's just no such thing. Right. Or you could go to www. jonathonsweitzer. com and you can comment on any one of my things and tell me what you think. My um thinking on that is one, who who knows what science could claim to find, sure, down the road, whether they find it or not as Yeah that's what can you trust science when can't you? But for the sake of argument, let's say that um you know, secular science quote unquote finds a gay gene. Right. I think it's dangerous for the biblical Christian perspective to rest its, you know, a significant part of its argument on, well, there's no DNA evidence Part because what if that evidence changes? It doesn't it still doesn't change the moral command as far as I'm concerned. And going a step further This might sound outlandish. Okay. I think I think an argument can be made that each and every one of us is born homosexual. Okay. We're born in sin. Yeah. We are sinners. Yeah. If you've broken one law, you've broken them all. Okay. I've certainly broken One of the laws. Not gonna tell you which one. Yeah. You ate the tree too, didn't you? That's the one. You ate of the tree. So I'm guilty of the whole law. Yeah. So I'm guilty of of homosexual activity. Okay, well that's that's the other point about being born into the thing that that I do agree that there's a likelihood that that's the case Uh in that um my my point is that is that genetically if they were to prove that there's such a thing as a gay gene, um I I I think that there is a very uh logical, applicable argument that uh it still doesn't mean anything because we're born into sin and that there's that there's a sin that has actually uh uh invaded our genes for that matter. And what happens when they find, you know, the terrorist gene or the mass murderers gene or the And it is true that people come f that that that are born into families will tend to whether it's because of environment or nurture or nature, w whichever one it is, whether it's genetic or environment, uh will tend to look like and act like and have tempers like and and be abusive like W you know, uh those that uh that were were their parents. And so I think it is true. Scripture even speaks to that, that sin will be visited Down to the, you know, generational things. But that doesn't make them not responsible, right? They're still morally bound by God's holy righteousness. So even if you could somehow prove, well, I can't help but I'm born that way. I'm willing to concede the argument, in fact agree with them and say, yes, sure, you are born that way. Sure. Because we live in a fallen world. We're all born that way. Yeah. And I think it's a credible ar uh credible theological argument from scripture. Why do why do you lie? Yeah. I'm a sinner. I can't help it. Right. Give me a break. Right, right. And clearly there's some people that can drink alcohol and not become an alcoholic, other people that can't and they'll become an alcoholic. Clearly there's You know, smoking's a similar kind of thing. Drugs, gambling, some people can gamble, you know, and just to have a little fun here and there, but other people are just sucked right into it It's possible that some of those things have a genetic component to them, which just goes to show why we need to keep gambling as far away from people, keep, you know, um uh Drunkenness is far from people keep pornography is far from people, you know. That's that's part of the impetus behind the desire for people to find ways to create environments where you know you don't have a bar within a certain distance of of houses, you don't sell pornography within a certain distance of a community, you know, that that you keep them away so that if people have those natural inclinations to be sucked into anything like that, that they'd be kept far away, which is a good reason to say that homosexuals shouldn't be teaching children. You know, where homosexuals shouldn't be leading the Boy Scouts or something like that because the reality is that uh that there's the potential that they could get, you know, being an environment that is more temptation than is healthy for them. Yeah, see I think that uh I agree with you. Thoughts going through my head is you know we we've um We've co-opted the language that's been, you know, foisted upon us. Yeah. When we when we even refer to somebody who identifies themselves as a homosexual as your homosexual Exactly. Right. Because that was your argument last week is it's it's an activity. It's an activity So those that are engaged in repeated homosexual activities with Uh unapologetically and unrepentantly from a Christian's point of view. Yep. That's what you're talking about as as the quote unquote defined homosexual Yeah. But you're not really you're not really comfortable saying someone is a homosexual. Right? Absolutely. It's like saying somebody is a um you know, a uh well, anything. That somebody's d defined by their drunkenness or somebody's defined by their See, that's where you and I have a little bit of a difference 'cause I'm like, yes They're a homosexual and so am I. Right, right, right, right, right, right. Yes, they're a murderer and so am I. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, they're an adulterer and So am I. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Amen. You're a lot more merciful if you recognize that you needed that mercy as well. Absolutely. And you know, there but by the grace of God go I is a phrase that's thrown about a lot. But I think it changes the perspective a little bit. Oh I Like that church, supposedly Christian church in Kansas that does all the gay bashing and uh protests at the military funerals. What makes them so rude is they act like maybe they've never struggled with sin ever. Yeah. So I think if they would admit that you know what I'm a sinner too, and if I've broken one law, I've broken them all, so you know what? I should consider myself a homosexual also, and how would I want people treating me? What's the loving response to somebody who's struggling in their sin? I think the loving response to somebody struggling in their sin is always, you know what? I too am a sinner, and I too have had a very hard time coming to a place of of winning over that sin. You know, and so, you know, please understand I'm not holder than anybody, but I think there is a way to get past it. You know, is there a way that we can work together that I can help you out? You know, that's I think that's the best way to go All right. I'm Troy Skinner. That's Jonathan Sweitzer. He's the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And he mentioned you can uh go to Uh, www. jonathansweitzer. com. com. You can also go to wfmd. com, find the faith debate page. And you can link to Jonathan's page from there. You can see his blog. I do a blog that I do uh I update. He's daily. Well, daily weekdays. So I take the weekend off from my blog but I but I daily weekdays And uh sometimes the material is reason reasonably interesting, sometimes probably not so much. You figure out which is which. And also if you're wondering what's coming up on the show, we we highlight upcoming shows, topics and guests that are gonna be coming up. There's lots of links on the website to uh all sorts of different faith traditions. You know, if you're interested in I tried to think of every faith tradition I know. And to have a good link. I really thought long and hard about every faith tradition I could think of. So non-critical if there's one presentation that I haven't mentioned, go to the website and if there's some faith tradition that's not represented, you let me know and I'll do some research. and I'll try to find what I think is an even-handed, fair website for that particular tradition, and I provide the link. So if you're interested in the Baha'i faith. You can go find a link for somebody that is actually espousing Baha'i beliefs. You name it. Yeah. There should be a website a link on our webpage that you can. Right, so the question is why do we why would we be willing to do that if we're so intense on uh Christ being the truth, why would we give any airtime to those who are of the different opinion? And I think the answer to that is like the point of the entire show, that that we have nothing to fear from the truth. We have nothing to hide in and you know, explore 'em all. My experience is that if you explore everything that's out there and nobody has the kind of time to do that, th from my experience. That's true. But that if you do, that what you're gonna find is that Uh the the one that answers the the the questions most effectively, I'm of the opinion is Christ. And you can email us. Or you can write us letters. Yes. Okay. And so we have a letter. Yes. It says, Dear Pastor Sweitzer. So it must be a friendly letter. Yes. I really appreciate your participation on the local religious show, Frederick Faith Debate. To me, you are the Rush Limbaugh of Religious Radio. You ha so I assuming he's a Rush LeBoeff fan. Yeah, yeah, yeah clearly, right, right, right. That exposes him. You have a gift for explaining things in an uncomplicated way. That's because he's simple minded. Today you spoke with a minister of the Seventh day Adventist. This was a recent show maybe a month or two back. You made an excellent point about the relationship of Christians to the law. How with the glorious triumph of Jesus Christ the law of Moses is done away and replaced with the Holy Spirit. I couldn't agree with you more. Okay. However Yeah, yeah, there's always a butt in these. I am having trouble with something you said in the early spring. When in for this guy to take notes apparently on Thanks for listening, dude. We love you. I'm not doing it anymore. Can't take the pressure. In the early spring, when in conversation with Paul Smith, Alderman Paul Smith was on talking about the Mormon faith tradition. He argued that the standard of truth is the Holy Spirit in conjunction with the teaching of the scriptures. Yes. At one point you said something like, and I kind of remember this moment in the show actually. The problem with taking the Holy Spirit to be the standard of truth is, and then you related an experience you had with a man in your congregation, you concluded your s uh by stating that only the words of the Bible verify truth. Forgive me if I misunderstood your explanation, but how can you hold both positions at the same time? I'd be interested to hear how as a Christian I should live according to the Spirit, but not depend on it as a witness of truth and ultimately Jesus Christ. Don't get me wrong, I believe the Bible and cherish the words therein, but if it disappeared tomorrow, Jesus Christ could still testify of himself through the Spirit However, if the Holy Spirit disappeared and the Bible didn't, no man could know that Jesus is the Christ. I know the Holy Spirit is the ultimate witness of truth and Seeks to lead all men to Jesus Christ. Best wishes in your ministry, and I love being able to hear religious programming in Frederick, yours truly. I'll leave his name anonymous because he didn't give a permission for us to say his name on the radio. So Yeah now I kinda wish that he would have uh made it a little bit more clear like what background he comes from because Um of the theological. Right, right. I know, and I do that to people all the time as well. As soon as I come out and write a book, people are going to be way more effective at refuting me on the show, right? Because they can use my words against me Uh no, um the question is, how do you you got the Holy Spirit over here on one hand, you got the written word in the Bible The written word of God on the other hand does matter because Which one do you trust? Yeah. Well who do you trust more? The Holy Spirit? Christ? Right. God? Yeah, that's what he's asking you. Yeah. The point is they're all the same. God. God is Father. God is Son. God is Holy Spirit. And the Word of God. Christ is the Word of God become flesh. And uh, you know, the very word of God, like it says in John fifteen, that if my words remain in you, then I will be in you and you will bear much fruit. He goes extensively, John does, to to talk about the importance of the Word of God. But John is also the one that says in 1 John that you have no need of anyone to teach you, because you have an anointing from the Holy One who will guide you into all truth And so there's definitely a both and uh reality that's going on. I know plenty of uh I've actually met people who were raised Muslim, who had uh an epiphany of Christ appearing to them, showing them who he was, and telling them, go down the street and meet with this guy and they're going to tell you all about me. You know, in India there's stories of of prophecies where where an angel came and said, look for the guy carrying the book. He's going to tell you all about me, the black book. He's going to tell you all about me. And so, uh, can you separate the Holy Spirit from the Word of God? Christ said when he came, he said, um Uh how did he put it? He said, You study the scriptures that testify about me, and yet you don't believe in me. The point is that we we could study the scriptures inside and out, but if they're not And uh and s um they're not, if we are not filled with the Spirit, if the Spirit does not bring them alive inside of us, then it is true that we're going to be led astray. At the same time, there are plenty of people who, claiming to have the witness of the Holy Spirit, have developed uh this unwillingness even to listen to the word of God and even uh the sense that they transcend the word of God because they have the witness of the Holy Spirit, i. e. like the Mormons have said. And so how do I square the two? I I don't know. It's it's kinda like a pen and paper. I mean you gotta have both. Right. You you gotta have you gotta have the writer who is the Holy Spirit, but then you gotta have what he's writing and uh and the testimony of I don't know if that's a good illustration or not. It's just I'm I'm just kind of flying by the seat of my pants there. Well you got the spirit and you got the word. Yep. And they're both God. Yes. You've made that point a couple minutes ago. Okay So God's not going to undermine himself. Yeah. So if you feel the leading of the Holy Spirit and you want to test that spirit to see if it's truly from God, you've God has given us something by which we can test the Spirit. So if what you find in the word seems to be contradictory to what this sense of the spirit is giving you, You need to maybe doubt your intuition and say maybe that's not really the spirit of God, that's some other spirit. For example, the Catholic Church has developed a whole Catholic Church next week. Okay You'll see the Frederick Baith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. Thanks for listening. I'm Troy Skinner. He's John Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel. Check out the website at WFMD. com. Just look for the faith debate page. And there's great stuff there. Great stuff. Great stuff. Shalom. God bless. Shalom.