Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Swan. Fancer of Crossroads Valley Chapel and Bob Miller, host of the Morning News Express. Faith debate is brought to us by All-Shred Mobile Doctor Destruction, Shredding Today for Growth Tomorrow, and Futman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? This week we're going to reach deep into the email bag and there's a couple of reasons I'm doing this. One, I got an email from a couple of different people, actually, I think three emails in a week or a week and a half from somebody that It's uh a hoax. It's a hoax. So you know put the uh the hoax alert out if you're if you're getting this email. Snope it Hoax, don't forward this email. Hoax, wait, it must be about global warming. No. Sorry. If not wanna hold it, I mean I'm an Al Gore on the program and to debate whether that's a hoax or not. Actually I think we were experiencing global cooling Yeah. Yeah, clear well right now we are. Well, as of we record the show, yeah. Yes. And speaking of hoaxes, today is April Fool's Day. April Fool's Day So Now I know why I'm here. No, you're not a fool, just the April bomb you're supposed to be a Christian. So but seriously Given that it's April Fool's Day, we're gonna be this is seriously a hoax. I'm not saying that I'm not pretending this is a hoax to be funny. Here's how the email reads Dr. Dobson You know, from uh uh family uh folks on the family. James Dobson. Says that Dr. Dobson is going on C N B C to urge every Christian to get involved. I hope you will think about signing this and forward it's a petition. And forwarding to all of your family and friends. Dr. James Dobson with Focus in the Family. There we go. Pleads for our action. An organization has been granted a federal hearing on the same subject by the Federal Communications Commission, the FCC, in Washington, DC. Their petition number two four nine three would ultimately pave the way to stop the reading of the gospel of our Lord and Savior on the airwaves of America. They got 287,000 signatures to back their stand. If this attempt is successful, all Sunday worship services being broadcast on the radio or by television will be stopped. This group is also campaigning to remove all Christmas programs and Christmas carols from public schools. You as a Christian can help. We are praying for at least one million signatures. This would defeat their effort and show that there are many Christians alive, well, and concerned about our country. As Christians, we must unite on this. Please don't take this lightly. We ignored one lady once and lost prayer in our schools and in offices across the nation. Please stand up for your religious freedom and let your voice be heard together. We can make a difference in our country while creating an opportunity for the lost So did you sign that before you found out it was press forward, clean up the message for this blah blah blah. Now please sign your name at the bottom. Don't delete any other names, just go to the next number and type. And then you can see I mean this is There is printed off all the names. Look at this. I got pages of names on here of people that apparently Let's go down and read them all. All these guys got hoaxed. Just to let you guys know, you are the people that got host. Now before I had a chance to do this. Wait, wait, how did you find out it was a hoax? Before I had a chance to do anything with this, the this was forwarded to me by my wife. Okay Minutes later, it was forwarded to me. Uh uh uh uh this email was forwarded to me. Hello everybody. Well, I went against my own rule this morning and forwarded something that I received via email from Uh I received email from there's a grammatical error there, I think. Wrong. I was usually I usually just delete that stuff without even looking at it. It was brought to my attention that this petition is an urban legend. Thank you, Maria, person who gave her a heads up. I also checked it out by calling Focus on the Family who confirmed that it is an urban legend. For future reference you can go to www. truthorfiction. org and check out the facts about anything similar that you may receive. This site was recommended by Focus on the Family, my humblest apologies. Now, there's a couple of things though that I want to talk about on this. First of all As you know, John, and if you've heard any of the shows about the emails, Bob There's so much crud out there. These chain emails don't Forward the chain emails. Particularly if they say if you don't forward this, you'll be cursed or if you do forward this, you'll be blessed. You're playing right into the w witchcraft kind of stuff. Yeah. Do not support that stuff. Don't forward them. Yes. And if you're gonna forward something like this, there's another one out there, by the way, about a girl that's missing. Uh and it shows a picture of her and says this girl is missing and it's a hoax. She's not missing. She's been missing for a month for five years. For those of you that aren't paying attention to still reading all those things that you've got to do. So I checked it out. I don't know if it was truth or fiction. org. There's other sites Sure enough these emails are just floating from one email. I don't know if if that's uh some girl who wants to be famous and have her picture all over the internet if it was a friend playing a joke on some other friend. Hey, I'll get her picture all over the internet. I mean I don't know. Uh I'm gonna do one about you missing. See if your wife picks up on it or something. Any change? Yeah, you're missing. This would be sad. Uh focus on the family thing with James Dobson speaking out against, you know, uh somebody trying to get rid of preaching the gospel on the radio or on television and and all that sort of stuff. This resonates with a lot of the Christian community, particularly the more conservative Christian community. Okay. Because this feels real. Right. Right. This this could happen. Because there's enough of this kind of ACLU stuff going on that that something like that were like, well maybe we are close to that. So I'm wondering if somebody sent this out as like a uh what do they call those things when uh a call to action? No, no, no, no. Because it's I mean I think cynically to the opposite. Yeah, so that maybe a year from now, James Dobson is spearheading an effort to protect And everybody will assume it's another one of those hoaxes and nobody will take any action. Well you do you think this is an inoculation? You're you're going, Wow, they are trying to do that. I mean I can see people thinking that. I'm going, Yeah, you know what? Because it r it resonates. It has a lot of truth to it And there's something like this in Canada, right? That fact of the matter is if you preach about homosexuality or that kind of stuff, they're gonna throw you in jail for hate speech right now. You can't do it. And it's you know, it's it's it's basic to Bible uh what what scripture says about homosexuality. It's basic so in Canada. In in Canada you can't do it and there's other nations. Right, but not here you can preach on it still here. Definitely here you can still do it, yeah, yeah. Yeah. I just want to make sure that people understood that you were commenting on my own. You know, in in um even here in Maryland, um, they're trying to get hate crimes laws passed. Did I say that? Hate crimes laws passed. They're trying to get those things passed even here in Maryland. And the point is all they have to do is put a list of people that you can't speak against coupled with the hate crimes. There's already hate crimes, you know laws that are out there and as soon as they put homosexuality in the list and then you go preach about it, there's the potential that that law here in the United States will be used against you. And so the point is It's a lot closer than we like to think it is and yet then somebody sends a hoax around like this. I can see what you're saying it might just be. But seriously, what else would the motivation be? Why would somebody what kind of hoax is this? You know what's the motivation I mean this is a well-crafted It seems official. Seems like they've done homework, they know what they're talking about, they quote the bill number, right? What kind of person legitimate? So what's the reason for doing that if it's not to inoculate us against taking action when we need to. You're trying to give me a concern. Oh, they get you to be one, aren't you already? Well, just because I think Roswell no no Well that's a whole nother four episodes there. But you know like it like I said earlier, it it can be somewhat of somebody's call to action. If somebody read that that might get in the s to start thinking, uh uh I need to start getting involved. I need to start getting involved in the political process. Right. Whatever that means, maybe in a local level like a school board. Good intentions. uh how many people typed in the the House bill number or the Senate bill number and maybe you type it in and maybe there's something I'm not saying that that's true So you think it might have started as a simpler message and it got added to by people who thought they knew a fact and it was like a game of telephone. It could be and he added a little credibility by adding James Dobson's name to it and focus on the family. And and so I don't know it's funny because you're you're being a lot more uh optimistic about it. I I'm totally a cynic about that. I feel like Somebody out there is just trying to make Christians look bad. The glass is half full, brother. The glass is half full. Uh no, I mean No, I like a half full glass. I mean you get it you get more out of a half full glass, I think. I like a half full glass, but I mean I it This seems too devious to be an honest mistake to me. I don't know. Somebody that would be that thoughtful about that, but trying to do it to do good I mean It's too naive to think t to to to think that that would do good because if people find out it's a hoax You know, it's going to undermine their motivation that to be involved next time, not encourage it. And it's so well written that for it to be that well written and that person to also be naive enough to think it's going to help Christianity or help Christians would be, I don't know, it it doesn't fit the uh you know, now I'm like a a detective, you know, it doesn't fit the psychological profile. And a better email for that purpose would be, here's what the law is in Canada. Here's what the law is in some select countries in Europe. Yeah, you don't have to lie. You don't need to lie in order to get people pumped up for action. If you listen to what that email said and we'll and then I'll end here, then and then tune into Jay Seculo every day and you can see a lot of parallels of what that letter said and what and what you know Jay Seculo fights every single day. So I mean even though that wasn't a person wanted to help saying it it could be it could be some a modicum a bit of truth to what they were trying to do, even though it was a hoax They went about it the wrong way, but you hear Christians' rights being dwindled away every single day. When in North Carolina now they can put their hand on the Quran instead of the Bible, you know, okay I'm gonna start getting I'm gonna start. You don't need that to Yeah. There's enough to fight. Without a doubt. You're listening to the Frederick Bait debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD on the panel. Bob Miller for the Morning News Express. And what does that drop say? My dad's Bob Miller and he's an idiot, or what does that say? My daddy's always right, at least that's what he says. That's what it is. Yeah, well well uh my my father in law has something on his wall that says something about grandfathers are smarter than dads, you know, and so my kids come over and they read it all the time. That always bugs me. The person who's always bugged by his kids is Jonathan Sweitzer Crossroads Valley Chapter. Oh his father in law. Oh okay. Alright never mind. His his kids love him. His father-in-law can't stand him. Um I remember now that earlier Bob said he had some sort of story about being in radio or being cr for the video. The premise of me being on the program was living a uh a Christian's life in a public persona. Right. Um and one of the things was that when I became a born-again Christian, which in which was in nineteen ninety seven I sat there and said, okay, God, what's what's next? Show me what you got for me. Show me what you want to do. And it came in a very uh quick manner and and we were talking uh I was hosting a show by myself. I've hosted every day part on this radio station. Uh and I was doing a midday show where uh Laura Ingram is now And we were talking about uh doctor assisted suicide. Jack Kaborkian was big in the news and I was I was laying out my points of why I don't like it. And a gentleman called me by the name of Bob. Good name. We struck it out. And and he talked to me a couple of times and finally he called me up and he said, You know what, I really like you. He said, but I have Five different types of cancer in my body. I'm dying. And I said, Well you know, I apologize. And I said, you know, what can I do? And he said He goes, I have friends who are in pain. We're all dying and and we want to make a statement about doctor assisted suicide. And I said, Well what can I do? Well and he said, Well, we want to go down to the capital steps and kill ourselves. And I was like, Okay. What do you want me to do? And he said, I we like you. He goes, I want you there to record it. I want you there to commentary on it. Be the commentary. And so I had I told him, I said, look, I gotta get back to you. I said, you know, a and on one hand, I'm sitting there as a fairly new talk show host Uh I've only been around for maybe four years here and I'm thinking five guys killing themselves at the Capitol steps. I'm gonna be the only person there. It's my story. I'm thinking Larry King, NBC, CBS, ABC. I'm thinking This is my ticket to to rush stardom. You know, I'm thinking twenty million dollars down the road, I'm thinking this is it. Wow. Then on the other side of me, uh, you know, it was like this is not the Christian thing to do. This is not what you're supposed to do And it was funny, I walked around and I talked to people and I said, What would you do? And they all said, Dude, I'd go down there. This is the story of a life. This is what we all wait for. So I finally I called the I I I talked to him again and I said, You know what? I said I can't I said I don't believe in this. I said I don't believe you killing yourself. I said, You will be the story for a week and then you'll still be dead Yeah. So there's a lot of good to come. And you know, what I did was I prayed for him and I said, I can't do this and and uh I had to make a choice between what is right and what most people would say would be a great career move. But I think it was the g what was God was testing me saying, Okay, is this about me or is this going to be about you? Wow. And I mean and that just it it always it's always stayed with me And and I don't and I lost track of Bob. I mean I don't know what I'm and I'm sure he's he's gone now. Yeah. But um you know, it was one of those things where it was like When you ask God to show you and you really want him to show you, he'll show you. Mm-hmm. Um so the point is is that is that when you're a Christian, you're living your your life every day, you know, you can't just make the decision based upon what's good for your career, you know. I mean there's a whole new level of conscience that if we're wanting to have integrity in our walk with God, we have to pay attention to that that that whole new level of of uh of conscience. You know, and it's hard. It's not easy to do. You know, there's temptation, there's There's all these things that go on. The other thing I want to say you and I had this discussion one time and that and I don't know if you live by this, Jonathan, but being a public persona, um Uh I had the opportunity to go out with one of our sales uh people here who was a you know a fairly uh attractive young lady. Okay. And she came to me and said we we do this thing, uh, half off on Frederick where you go to restaurants and get you know, it's a deal that you get and and I for part of my share, I get to go there and eat and try the food out, which I like. Okay. And I told her, I said, Well we need somebody else to go with us. Okay. And she asked why and I said, Well I don't go out to lunch with a single woman by myself. Right And she kinda looked at me and I said, Look, it's just a it's a Christian thing that I have. I don't want to be seen with another woman where somebody will see me with an attractive woman having lunch and the perception could be, what's Bob doing with somebody else? Well I don't know her her faith, but she was very puzzled by it and I said, It's a Billy Graham thing. I don't know where I learned it, but I read it in a Billy Graham book where he said, Look If I'm in a room with a woman, he goes, There is another woman in the room with me. I don't leave. If I'm having a meeting with somebody in a hotel room, I leave the hotel room door open. So there's no chance of anybody thinking that's a in any impropriety whatsoever. So I mean the scripture says avoid all appearance of evil. And and so that means that even if there's the even if there's no evil going on, we make sure that there's no way that people could, you know, assume that there might be evil going on. I run into this as a pastor all the time. You know, you have ladies that might want counsel for, you know, this or that or the other thing. And I make a point that I do not counsel ladies one on one. In fact if if I'm on the telephone with a lady and it's getting to be a longer call about ministry stuff, I'll go in a room where my wife is and and I'll talk to this lady while my wife is able to be there listening to what's going on because it there it's too easy for an appearance of something wrong to come along. And then uh we'll just leave Tory out. Eventually he'll go and I'm Tory Skinner. But also when you're at a when you're at a when you're at I I have and I don't think I have a distinctive voice, but I have a loud voice. Sure. Um and I'll be at a restaurant and I'll just be having I have an accountability partner and we're having lunch and Somebody will walk up and say, Oh, hey, you're Bob Miller. Right. So you gotta worry about what you say, how you say it, when you say it and and if you know if you're scolding your kids in Walmart or the grocery store somebody can hear, well hold it, I know that voice or you know, they see the picture on the website or in Frederick magazine or in in the Frederick newspaper. So I mean it's always out there. Now I don't have paparazzi around me or anything, but there are people who know who I am. by the job that I have and also know that I'm a Christian by what I what I say sometimes on the radio. So either you're living it or you're not. I know of whom you speak and uh she's a Christian, Roman Catholic. So it goes to show you that, you know, not all Christians are thinking along the same lines or have the same kind of teaching over them or you know, it it It's uh even a Christian looks at you, Bob, and says, Man, you're weird You know? But that would be good for any male. I mean that's for common sense if you It's not just necessarily a Christian thing, but I mean even if you are sometimes it's tough. Like I'm in the field of sales and sometimes you have a luncheon appointment or you have a meeting with the decision maker who controls the advertising and marketing money. And it's gonna be a a one on one meeting and that person is a woman. You know? Or in in my case it would be it would be an i well, in today's world it wouldn't matter if it was a woman or a man, I suppose, but Right. More often you think in terms of being a prominent woman, well if I'm a female seller, I'm gonna run into that an awful lot of times with a male decision maker. And as a practical reality, what do you do? Is it I mean is it appropriate I don't want to get it off under the thing but we do. Is it inappropriate always for a uh uh an adult male and an adult female to be alone having lunch or in a meeting room together or Is that ever appropriate or that should always be guarded against? I think it should be guarded against. I I I the reason why I do it is because I'm a uh I'm a public figure and I'm also a Christian. So I d there that's a double whammy. You're in sales Um so I'm uh you know, that's part of your job. You have to meet with people. I don't necessarily have to meet with people, so it's a different so for me it's maybe a j a different dynamic, that's all. All right. Well let me ask let me ask you this question. When you're in that kind of a situation and the lady is um You know, whether it's attractive personality or attractive just as an individual, uh, do you or do you n I I mean maybe maybe this is dangerous for you to expose yourself. this way. Maybe maybe I shouldn't even have to do that. No, no, no. I'm not asking that. I'm saying I'm saying do you do you not sense that there's the potential uh that that things could go in a flirtatious in a in a unbecoming way for you as a Christian. You know, I I would say if you're full blooded male, of course there's that potentiality. And and so if you're a businessman, the question is what what do you do If if you need to have those kinds of connections, what do you do to keep yourself, you know, from letting it go that way? Come on, I mean, the how much of society gets involved with those kinds of trists in relationships all the time. You know, so a as a Christian man and woman for that matter, in those kinds of settings you gotta find ways to to set some boundaries for yourself, you know, that you're able to hold yourself accountable to. The question is how do you do it? I just make myself as unattractive as possible. I didn't even go there. I'm going to walk right into that. Troy, I know you never had this problem, but for other men What I'm seeing there is a uh a man who is skirting the issue because his wife is listening. He is uh he he is avoiding that question, Jonathan. You stay on him about it. You tell him to answer the question. That's right. No, well I just have this to say, my wife is so beautiful that there's no other woman that could ever attract me otherwise. Well that is an issue and actually that helps me because I I don't know if this is the if it's the answer, but it's my answer for now. Okay. Um You can't ignore that that is a potential issue. Amen. Because that's when I think you really can get blindsided. You're you're doing something or saying something inappropriate before you even maybe realize You know, I'm being kinda flirtatious here, what am I doing? Right. So if you're conscious going in that I need to be guarding against that, I need to make sure that it's purely professional and if I sense any sort of flirtation from her, I need to do what I can to rebuff that, you know, and and be aware that's an issue. And I'll be honest, that wasn't something that I was very aware of as an issue until uh my wife came to Christ in a very strong way and this became an issue for her, me being in sales and and she we're not having a meeting with the with the the client alone are you? It's it's it's a not a woman, is it? Well is she pretty, you know, those sorts of things. Right. All of a sudden it was an issue. No, what do you thought? It's not an issue on the sale, it's just a professional meeting. But you know, the fact that she's thinking along along those lines made me think along those lines and it forced me to take that concern seriously. Yeah. So I still have meetings uh from time to time with clients or whatever that are females and oftentimes they're you know they're attractive, they're well put together, they dress well, I mean they're professional ladies. Mm-hmm. You know, and I have to be I have to make sure that I make myself be consciously aware that there could be an issue if I don't have that at the forefront of my mind. entering that meeting and throughout. It's not like it's just at the back of the corner mind somewhere. It's at the forefront, I have to make sure this stays professional. And I I do that out of you know, regard and respect for my wife. I do that to because of my own sinful nature. I want to make sure I don't slip up and you know so I do just get to be conscious. women causing problems for us men, it's a problem for men that will be that way with women as well. It just happens that that we three would make an effort because of Christ in a large in our lives to not be that way, but there's plenty of men out there that like for my wife or for for Christian women, you know, will cause just as many problems. And so this isn't just Just women that that are the problem. Clearly men and women can be equally guilty al along these lines. Jonathan's always more guilty than his wife though. Um I've met his wife, I guess it's Uh Jonathan, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chat I'm Jonathan Schweitzer, Pastor of Crosswood Cross Boy, I have a hard time talking all of a sudden. Jonathan There's already the comedian though, Jonathan, isn't there? Oh, oh, oh. Jonathan Schweitzer, the pastor, not the comedian. Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel meets at uh boy, which school? Crestwood Middle School. Crestwood Middle School, thank you. Drill Blind. Bob Miller Host of the Morning News Express and uh and uh guest on the panel for now four shows. Uh am I done now? You'll probably never be on the show again. Get misty eyed. That's okay. Okay. And to not sponsors, all shred mobile document destruction, shredding today for growth tomorrow. Putman plumbing and heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you so much for listening. And make sure you check out the faith debate page on WFMD. com. Woohoo! We're excited about it. Hope you are too. God bless.