Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? On the panel again this week we have The Christian lay leader in the community, Tom Sandy. His wife is Kelly, past a pastor at Damascus Wesleyan, and um he's been involved in youth ministries, went to a uh college that focuses on a lot of Christian teaching and that sort of thing. He's read a lot of heretical books apparently. I'm just kidding. And uh And John Sweitzer who uh that's a good, you know, softball setup. And John Sweitzer who is pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel uh back on the show this week. We've been talking the last couple of weeks um about this idea that that Tom's been trying to articulate and we've been trying to understand and as we understand it pick it apart a little bit about Really it comes down to what is the basis of salvation, I guess, is kind of the question. And Tom making uh the argument that it has nothing to do with the law. It's all about the decision that we make to our accept follow God. Our acceptance of God's salvation. Right. Our decision to accept God's salvation is really what it's all about. It's not about the law And Jonathan isn't sure whether he fully agrees or disagrees yet because I think he's still trying to grapple with exactly what the nuances of Thomas' position are. Um I'm a little bit less um patient than John, and so even though I don't fully understand the meaning of the thing. But you're sensitive. Yes, I'm sensitive. Yes. Not nearly as sensitive as you, but I'm sensitive. Yes. I've already made up my mind that I'm not fully understanding all the nuances, I'm pretty sure I disagree. So Even if it's only on principle. See I thought I d wasn't gonna disagree, but I'm starting to think I am. Yeah, uh see it's kinda shy. I told you we might get there. Yeah, no, yeah, you kinda called it, didn't you? So the point is, uh the hard thing that we had, I mean if you listen to last week's show, you know, boy I love ya. And you stuck through because that was some tough slugging. You know, we were really slugging through it and it was hard and This i it's such a nuanced thing. Yeah. And I don't even know if I like that word, you know, but it's a it's a difficult thing to work through because it feels like Every statement is a hair split. So you're splitting a hair every step of the way and you're trying to clarify what exactly do you mean or whatever. So I'm trying to figure out What does it boil down to? What is the big picture thing? Yeah, can you say it like in two sentences? Sure. Okay. Give it a shot. All right. Our salvation, our being God's chosen people, comes down to our response to his salvation and our one-time andor daily decision to be involved with what he's doing at that point in time in the world. Okay, is it or is it not necessary for us to be willing in our hearts to be involved with what he's doing in the world his way? Oh, most definitely. But I a and and I agree with that and we were kind of getting into that at the end of the last show where you know, in fact I I can't quote it but you know, the the old old testament word that said and the law will be written on their hearts. You know, it'll be our desire to fulfill the law. But my point is is not that You know, it will or will not be our desire to do so, because the Bible obviously says it it will, but uh to how much we succeed or fail Is irrelevant. And that's and that's the definition of grace. And why at on one level it's like, Yeah, I can agree with that. Yeah, I buy into that. I'm I'm I'm having a hard time disagreeing. It doesn't feel exactly right, but yeah, I I think I I I'm pretty sure I agree. Well maybe not I think I figured it out. I think that the argument that you're trying to make is anachronistic. No, I'm not bright enough to know what that word means. I think you're looking at it from the perspective of Christ having already come. And so now we live in the Christian age and we're applying that Christian mindset to the preincarnation age. And I don't think it works because Everything centers around that moment in history. Yes. Jesus' moment in history. And to apply the post resurrection uh thinking to pre-resurrection times, I think that's where the problem is because the law is critically important. Well if it weren't important, then why is it so critical that Jesus fulfill it perfectly? Okay, well that that's a sec second if I could speak, I would say that's a separate issue. And I figured one of you would say such a thing, although I didn't know know the term that would be used for that. Anachronism. That too. But and that's why in in the first time It's a good word. It is. That's five syllables. First thing in the morning. How many points might that be in Scrabble? Yes, yes. And and that's why in the first time when we went over this, I wanted to show and I realized that I am and and there's nothing I can do about it, and there's nothing you can do about it. We see the world through our You know, smoking, glasses, you know, not Do you believe in absolute truth? Yes I do. Okay. Keep going. All right. So many people use that comment that you were making to argue for we have our own truth. No no no I'm not saying that. I'm saying that you and I, us three, cannot escape our bias no matter how mu how hard we try. And there's going to be some of that new New Testament thinking in everything we read, but that's why I wanted to show And in the book of Exodus, God's salvation plan for the people of Israel and for the individual, and how it developed over time and without the law. Ah, but see that's where I think the hole is in the argument, because just because we're told what the law is in Exodus and that's when God officially puts it on the tablets for Moses, doesn't mean that there wasn't a law before that. In fact, we're clearly taught that even before the law people sinned, and we're clearly taught in Romans that uh that that people who die without the pe people who who die no, who sin outside of the law will still die because of their sins. That is correct, and I'm not debating that. However, you say there was a pre-existing law Yeah, thou shalt not eat of that fruit. Okay. That was there might have been only one, but there was at least one law. Alright, well and that had already failed and we've moved past that. But as far as that passing on In the book of Exodus, you know, we in fact we referenced this before, it says God had heard their their cries, he'd seen their affliction, but we have no record of priests, we have no record of prophets. Any sort of get together. In fact, when Moses goes to them and said, God sent me, they said, Who's that? Obviously a rough paraphrase. But they didn't recognize the God of their forefathers. No, no, no, no, no. Show me that one. I'm gonna have to call you on that. Show me. Exodus what That's like Exodus one? It's like a game of poker. Yeah. All right, I call ya. I call your bluff. He's looking it up. It's almost not fair. Moses Moses at the burning bush. Alright, and he comes to the people. Um who should I go? Suppose they won't listen to me. He goes to Egypt. Here it is. Goes to Egypt. Moses went in well, they went to Pharaoh first. If I knew you were gonna have a computer, I would have brought all the books that are in my car. By the way, while you continue to try to figure that out, maybe you can for your pages and stuff. I'm going to reset a little bit. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Guests on the show this week Jonathan Sweitzer, who's the senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick, Tom Sandy isn't a pastor, his wife is. She's one of the pastors at Damascus Wesleyan. He is, however, a former student at Asbury College, which is a Christian school. Uh um I think that I'm not positive, but I think that if you go there you have to go to chapel service. on Sunday. Actually it was three times a week. Three times a week, okay. So uh you can tell he's very theologically trained, uh, has been involved in youth ministry and I've decided that the best title for Tom is to refer to him as a Christian lay leader in the Christian community And we are talking about, really I think, as it turns out, I wasn't sure what we were talking about for a while, but as it turns out, I think we have stumbled onto a critically important issue. How to understand the law, the role of the law, not only in the Old Testament, for us today, what is the role? And I think that now I'm beginning to have some sort of cognitive recognition recognition. There's some other big words for you. Well those I understand. Is that an anachron anachronistic cognitive recognition? But I think I'm beginning to figure out The parts that I agree with and the parts that I'm having a hard time agreeing with and and what the distinctions are. And I don't know if this will make sense to you, Jonathan, or not, or to you, Tom Or to you listening. I think that I agree with the focus on it's about God and Him choosing and us accepting His hand in our life and responding positively and it's about that And it's not about being legalistic and fulfilling the law. We're not saved by fulfilling the law. Yes. Nor can we be. So I agree with that. Yes. But I don't think it ends there. I think it's a both and I think the law is part of that. Part of accepting God's sake. James James said it. Is that you do faith without works is dead. That you seek to fulfill that law. So it's not one or the other. And I think so when you're focusing on the one, yes I agree. But when it starts to sound like you're excluding the other, that's where I disagree. And I say I I In fact I would say this, by your fruit you shall know them. And and and I If you show fruit in keeping with repentance. That you repent from sin. Even in the New Testament, this is true. And the same thing is true in the Old Testament. If you show fruit in keeping with repentance, then sure enough, then I'll then we'll know who you are. We'll know you by your fruit. But if you don't show fruit in keeping with repentance, then you know, there was no there was no salvation in the in in the first place. Yes, faith in salvation comes first and then growth in sanctification comes second. Nevertheless, you can't have one without the other. Well, and and I can't really debate that too much except to say that reciprocally true to James's statement, it also means that works without faith is dead. Meaning that, you know that's yeah, so always so what I'm talking about, or what I've been trying to articulate and just not that good at, is that Yes, over time, as we practice and with God's help, hopefully we do improve on this thing that we would either call the Israelite life and following the law and or the Christian life. in following the new law, as it were. But it's it's not absolute. Not that I'm doubting God's ability, but whether we succeed or fail Doesn't matter. What matters is that God has provided salvation. We have made the cognitive decision. to accept it. We've made the cognitive decision daily as we woke up and as we as we live our life to the best of our ability To do what is right, whether that's obey the law completely or whether that's him. We're not doing it to the best of our ability. I mean we're We're totally missing the whole thing. Well, you began in the spirit. Are you going to finish in the flesh? No, no, no. No, you begin in the spirit. You finish in the spirit. So what you're doing is trying to do it on your own. So you're saying the same thing as I it's independent of me Uh except for the choice, obviously, to submit to the purposes of God, to submit to the leading and the power of the Spirit in your life. Okay, so I'm saying you wake up, you make that decision. And it sounds to me like we're saying the same thing where if God works it through me, which and and I'm gonna try to do the best that I can Sure. But if God works it through me, make every effort to add to your faith, goodness, goodness, knowledge. Then it's gonna work out. But if I fail, yeah I have made my decision to go the way of God to the best of my ability. But why is that true? Why do you get off the hook so easy on it? Because of the blood of Christ. Exactly. It's called grace. Right, but but that doesn't change the importance of the love. See, that's the point. The law is critically important, so important that Jesus had to come and fulfill it perfectly so that he could be an atoning sacrifice Otherwise he wouldn't have had to do that. Yeah, he had to be the second Adam that was perfect in every way or there would be no no sacrifice. Sure. And the fact that God made a way, in fact that's what I That's what I argue is the faith statement that we need to make. It's it's uh it's Abraham's um uh comment to Isaac as they're going up the mountain to sacrifice Isaac. God himself will provide a sacrifice. That there will be salvation, but it will be because God himself provides a sacrifice. All right. And so so you're in agreement with that? Yeah, and the order of Melchizedek and and a better sacrifice and you know that that whole thing that Hebrews speaks of, I'm in completely agreement of. But I'm just saying that God already did it. Jesus, as you said, fulfilled the law. 100%. There was nothing left unturned, no part of it that he didn't fulfill So in that, and if I'm in him, then I don't need to worry about fulfilling the law. And those people who were in Israel. See, that overstates it though. To say that you don't have to worry about fulfilling the law, I think, overstates it. I'm not sure if you're saying that as like a i it's hyperbole, like you're overemphasizing the point to make the point. But i you're not is m but I want to make sure. Is that what you're doing? Or are you saying that literally we don't have to worry about it anymore? Because I think that Paul in Romans speaks pretty strongly against it. No And that's not what I'm saying. But I'm saying whether we succeed or fail is completely irrelevant. It's going to be our inward desire to try and that old testament, you know Scripture law written on their hearts. We're going to have a desire to please God. But whether whether we succeed or and in fact, Paul, again, if we're going to quote Romans You know, that which I do not want to do, I do, and that which I I I want to, I do not. So there is that there is that thing there that You know, even though Paul actually refers to other people as being perfect, quote unquote, and actually the the Greek word for perfect in that circumstance is actually a moving towards, it's not actually a static existence. But he himself said that I'm not able to fulfill it. And you know what? If I have a good day, if I have a bad day, it really doesn't matter a hill of beans because Christ already did it. Now I'm gonna have a I'm gonna try to have a good day. It doesn't matter hilla beans or it's completely irrelevant, except for the fact that that if I don't measure up Meaning that I missed the marks, sin harmony, I missed the mark. Then it is true that that both God and people have been hurt by by my lack of measuring up. And so so it might not You're saying God God Number one that my wife is is the victim of my sin, it matters a hilla beans, that I am very repentant and that I look her in the eye. And then I say, you know what? I am so sorry. Well repentance and fulfillment are two separate things. Number one. Number two, you're also it what do you mean by repentance and fulfillment are two separate Okay, you failed. Now you repent. Yes. Okay. It's two separate things, meaning that, you know, I've already said the reason that I know that I failed is because the law has made it abundantly clear to me. And so then I know that I failed and knowing that I failed, I repent. You're saying that all that's that all that's normal, that that that's right for me to do and that that I should care about those things. I'm just trying to clarify your language. You're saying I should care about repenting to my wife and to God for that matter because the wages of sin is death and and whenever I sin it produces death somewhere. However, taking a step back when you said that you hurt people and you know you're not fulfilling God's, you know, plan. And I agree with that, and I'm just posing a an a a opposite opinion here. That kind of insinuates that God isn't f you know all-knowing and didn't foresee that happening and didn't make a plan B for lack of a better term. And it also implies but if anyone claims he's a perfect man, you know, and was out w is without sin, then then he's a liar. But God is faithful and just to forgive us our sins when we confess our sins. I'm not saying that God didn't know ahead of time that I wasn't going to sin. But it's still important for me to confess it and to have you know an appropriate Blessed are those who mourn. They'll be comforted. I mourn over what? My sin, because it produces death. That's why I mourn. In fact, uh it says in Ecclesiastes, he who increases knowledge increases sorrow. Why? Because the more I know about the world, the more I realize that sin is everywhere and it's pervasive and it's destroying everything in sight. The more cynical you get. By the way, a little inside lingo there, Mark Kruger is one of the employees at WFMD. Uh-huh. And uh he's a very wise, uh intelligent guy who says witty, clever things and uh we're we're uh we are uh often want to quote him and Yes. We can do it like one one a week, a Mark Kruger quote of the week. Krugerism. Yes. That was Kruger 1 section one A. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, um but yeah, I'm not saying that we should be without repentance. In fact I'm not arguing that at all. Okay. But I'm saying is that we need to accept that Perfection, as you said, doesn't exist. And you actually in another in the previous show, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Apart from Christ When did John say the perfect did you say that? Perfection doesn't exist? He said there's no perfect man. Oh, okay. No, no, I agree with that. But he wasn't saying that perfection doesn't exist because God does in Christ. Yeah. Apart from that. Okay. And we'll be like him when we get there. That'll be nice. Okay. Okay. I'll agree. Sure. All right. Okay. So but moment of Zen. Oh wait. Wrong religion. You guys are so sensitive. But what I'm saying is is there's gonna be there's gonna be a falling and and no matter how how superficial that falling is or how deep that falling is. Yep, yep. It's really irrevol irrelevant because As long as we repent and understand based on the law which did exist to bring us to the knowledge of sin, and we do repent, then we are accepted based on everything that Christ has done for us already 100%. Now, does it hurt people? Sure. But in the grander scheme of things of one's salvation andor acceptance with God. And you'd reference, you know, there are different levels of holiness and and there are people we've talked about this already, you know, there are different people who have matured or moved on towards perfection farther than those others who haven't. Mm. But in in any step of the way, whether it be a huge fall or a minor, it's it it's you know, it's been paid for, it's been accepted, we've moved on, there's been the greater sacrifice And we just now need to one repent and two accept the benefits of God's salvation and that greater sacrifice. Let me ask this question because I'm in agreement with that. Now that now that we've kind of come full circle a little bit, we've worked through some of the hyperbole and some of the you know word choice things that we were struggling over. There seems to be maybe still a little bit of a different weight of em of emphasis on what we're talking about, but in general it sounds like all three of us are kind of saying the same thing. Sure. We're just choosing to amplify certain parts more than others and and uh I think there's a danger. That's why I'm disagreeing as strongly as I am, I think there's a danger in amplifying one so much over the other. I think that they need to be helped in It's um reciprocally important. Okay, scale of one to ten. Scale of one to ten, how important is the law? Ten being very important. Troy? In in what aspect? And what am I it how important is it regarding what? Overall life? I mean it's a pretty vague question. I want to qualify my answer. Yes. It's a ten in all aspects. Thank you for that clarification. Yes, yes it was a qualifying response. Certainly. Um Okay, how important is the law to our repentance? Well, I mean, we've already acknowledged that we wouldn't know sin apart from the law. So how important is I mean it's it's the basis by which we have the knowledge that we should repent. Okay, and how important is the law in our He's supposed to pick a number. Pick a number. Okay. Sure. See? I read his mind. Wasn't that amazing? You said ten? Yes you did. That was the weakest ten. That was a ten. Or it could have been the strongest because I provided justification for my answer. Ooh, ooh. What do you have to say? No, no, no, no. This this is key. This is key. Understanding people very sensitive thing for us to do. What are you, a pastor or something? It's not just the one of ten thing, Troy. Why? So how important is the law to our ability to communicate love to God? That's a pretty tricky question, but um I would say that how important is it? It should be our desire. It should be our desire number ten. But how important as to whether we fulfill it or not? No, to understanding what what communicates love to God. It says, if you love me, you will obey my commands. Right. Right. Don't doubt that. My commands are not burdensome. Love your neighbor as yourself. The summation of the law. All of the laws are are boiled down to one simple thing. Love God. And love your neighbor as yourself. Right. So he's thinking ten. So I'd say that the law is a ten. Would you agree? I would agree, but my emphasis, as Troy would say, would be on the motivation. It's a little ten. As opposed to the outcome. I have a big ten, he's a little ten. Based on conscience. My tens bigger than yours. So you're saying tension you're saying the road to heaven i is paved by tensions. And the road to hell is not patient with good intentions. That's what you're saying. It's all depend I mean that's a very broad statement. You could say intentions, but I'm saying intentions towards the one through the word intention. Towards the one true living God that I want to please him and be accepted by him and go in the ways in which he is going And see, and by timeout by by throwing in the one true living God, he's the one talking, and he calls it timeout on UFC. And this goes back to the to the Muslim question you asked. And that's why I qualified it with the intention towards the one true God. Now We had joked earlier, not even on the show, but about referencing the Quran, and I would say that there's aspects of God that cannot be hidden by or from anyone, and there might be some small measure of truth in that. For instance, it says God is light in the Quran. However, that doesn't mean that you are having the right intentions towards the right God. I could have the right intentions towards this microphone all I want, and it's not going to get me to heaven. So towards the one true God in the way that I desire or not I'm sorry, in the way that he desires to be, you know, glorified. You would say it's by the law, and I would agree, but I'm saying whether it's completed Well I'm not saying it's by the law. I'm I'm I'm you saying you said God said obey me, God said the law, you said it's all summed up into love thy neighbor, which I agree with. And so yes, our motivation should be love, and our desire should be love, and everything that we try to do Should be in that cognitive context. Now, whether, and like you said, you have done things out of love that people have not seen as in love But you but you did them in love. So are you at fault because you did them in love, or are they at fault, or is nobody at fault because your intentions were good and they just received it wrong? In Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any value. The only thing that counts is faith expressing itself through love. Right. I feel like that boils down Everything that I think about about this. Faith, the intention, the the the faith, the evidence of things hoped for, my hope is in his salvation, faith expressing itself through love. That's what counts. And now I need to jump in and call a timeout. And I'm gonna I'm gonna pick up on the whole what boils down to and have an a and kinda use an analogy here. Oh okay. All right. I think today and last week's show, maybe the show before that. What's more important in this water? The hydrogen or the oxygen? Um if I was a biologist, I bet I could split it there. The point is you take away the hydrogen, you have no water. Yeah. You say well the oxygen, you have no water. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You need both. I think they go together. And I think I think we're kind of saying that, which has to scratch my head, why are we debating it? Well we seem to be in agreement. Yet there's a there's a air of disagreement. I'm not sure if we'll ever figure exactly that this is why I want to ask the question. Save your question. And uh saving. Yeah, we are 167 and a half hours away from the next show. We'll see you then. Thanks to Putman Plumbing and Heating. for uh uh sponsoring the show. Hope we make you smile. Jonathan, Tom, thank you. Thank you for listening. God bless