Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Futman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Last couple of weeks we've been talking with uh a couple of representatives from the Ahmadiyya community. Yes, that's the uh Muslim group that is looking to buy some land in Walkersville And uh last two weeks we've talked about, you know, zoning issues, uh local politics. Oh I'm sorry, we talked about that. I'm sorry, that was Blaine Young on the Frederick Forum. That's crap. I was confused for a half a second. No, we haven't talked about any of that. We don't talk about that. We've been talking about what really matters. Yes. That's right. Different zoning issue. Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick Also on the panel this week we have Imam Zaki Kowser from the Southeast Region of the Ahmadiyya community and Dr. Khaled Ahmed Atta, a national secretary for the Ahmadiyya community. And this week we're going to clarify some you know, between shows, between last week will we ever clarify anything else? Well, we will this week we attempt to. Between shows, between last week and this week, you know, we were talking about well well what exactly do we want to talk about? We want to talk about you know uh different understandings of the Messiah. Yeah. We want to talk about salvation. Do we want to clarify some issues we brought up before? I think they all end up kind of being the same issue. So we can start wherever we want. We're gonna end up covering all of that. So but I think we will start with We did we we drifted a little bit last week from our church and state topic uh and got into something that we're going to press in a little bit more firmly this week. And that is the salvation question. Imam made the point in last week's show that you know people uh choose their religion because of you know they're concerned about salvation. Yes Uh now we're not going to get into the debate on whether or not people choose their religion or their religion chooses them. That's going to be a different show. Uh but anyway, the salvation is really what I've been talking about. Anyway, at the start of each of the shows that we've done with this particular panel. It's not about land acquisition in Walkersville, ultimately, at the end of the day what really matters is the salvation question. That's the big question all of us need to face. So Jonathan kind of went down that line a little bit on salvation and created a little bit of confusion on the panel. So I want to hear Jonathan extricate himself from this one. The question was put to you, Jonathan. You are enjoying this so much. Yes. The question was put to you. Can a person Who never hears the gospel of Jesus Christ preached to them get to heaven. Absolutely. And now you're going to need to explain that because that's very confusing to the Unwashed, unlearned, unabashed, unafraid, unkempt, un running out of uns, so start talking. Uh it's hard to describe yourself at times, I know. Um no, uh really the uh the point is is this is that uh all of creation we're told in Romans chapter one, verse eighteen. that what may be known about God is plain to all men because God has made it plain to them. I'm quoting directly from the NIV uh Romans 118, for since the creation of the world God's invisible qualities qualities, his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood from what has been made, so that men are without excuse. And so the point is his wrath is being revealed Toward men because men were clearly shown his divine attributes and his divine power through nature itself Nature itself proclaims the glory of God. And that being the case, uh those men that turn from God and that reject God and don't come to Him by faith uh are are the ones that will be rejected. They'll be rejected uh because uh they uh have had creation itself proclaiming the gospel, but they turn from that clear revelation that is in creation itself and they became ungrateful and uh when they become ungrateful it actually says then they became greedy and after they became greedy they became full filled with lust and they then they turned to perverted lust and then they became depraved. And the point is is what leads that direction is ingratitude. And the the point is is that when we know his divine power and his divine uh qualities because of n creation itself, then we are our our road is forked. And at that moment we can do one of two things toward God. We can say, okay, God, I clearly have messed up and I owe you my life and I owe you everything. I need your help. I throw myself on your grace and mercy by faith, trusting that you're going to um uh uh make a way for me to be reunited with you. Or or you say, as a human being, you say, you know what, forget it. I don't need God. He's nothing. I'll take care of myself. Pull myself up by my bootstraps. Do my own thing. And what makes the difference What what made the difference with Abraham? Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. He wasn't righteous because he lived righteous. He was righteous because he believed God. And that God Himself would provide the sacrifice. You guys believe it was Ishmael that was sacrificed up on the mountain. We believe it was Isaac that was uh about to be sacrificed up on the mountain. Either way What Abraham said on the way up on the uh way up the mountain is the the statement of faith that we all need to say. When Isaac asked him and said, Dad, What are we going to sacrifice when we get up there? Abraham, knowing that he was about to put his son on the altar, and says to him, he says, God himself will provide a sacrifice. 2,000 years later, 1400 years later, God himself provided the sacrifice on Mount Calvary when God gave his own son. Abraham didn't have to give his son. You don't have to give your son. I don't have to give my son. God gave his son to die so that we could be made righteous. His blood covered our sin. The wages of sin is death. But the gift of God is eternal life. And so I don't earn salvation. I don't get to go to heaven because I act righteous. I get to go to heaven because I trusted that God alone could make a way for me to get to heaven. And so faith is the important thing, not me living righteous. Even though faith without works is dead, and so when I live by faith and I'm able to walk into righteousness. So Well, what are your thoughts about that? Salvation. Faith obviously is very important, but righteous actions are, if not more important, just as important. So there's no such thing as having faith, but not living out that faith by showing righteous actions. I'm going to come back to the question. The question was if a guy never heard about Christ and he lives a righteous life and as you have beautifully said, he can go to heaven. Right. But then you said in your statement is that by the way. No no no no, it's not it doesn't because I believe that there are many people that that live with an appearance of righteousness Well that's for God to judge. I mean we can't judge everybody. We can't judge anybody. Right, right. And I'm not claiming to judge anybody, but I am making the distinction that God will judge that there are many people out there that that have lived quote unquote righteous lives, but in their hearts they lived righteous lives thinking to themselves that they could earn their way to heaven themselves. And that is precisely I'm saying the arrogance that God has no patience for whatsoever. So indirectly you're saying that it's a self-possibility, but no one can do it? I'm saying that nobody can earn righteousness before God. The only way is for God to give us righteousness, and so it's by faith alone. Okay. Well we believe that a person who has faith and then lives righteously obviously will go to heaven. Do we understand that? But a person who has never heard of whatever religion or does not believe in something or does believe in something but still acts righteously, God would judge that person individually. The reason being, let's say there's a billion Christians in the world. Out of those billion, how many truly believe in Christ and follow what Christ said and did. I think there's many that do not exactly right. In fact out of the six and a half billion people in the world, you just Sure. So for me as a human being and as a as a m you know, supposedly a a righteous person who I try to be, it'll be very difficult for me to accept the fact that God would create six and a half billion of us and throw five and a half billion of us into hell and just take only f you know a half a million of uh uh half a billion of us. Okay. That would not make sense to me. Yeah could I respond to that? Sure. Go ahead. Uh because I believe it's extremely rational. Um It's a question of relationship. What is the basis of relationship? And if I'm in relationship with somebody, um have you ever been in relationship with somebody that they spend their whole time when they're with you trying to prove themselves to you? You know, and they don't just relax and spend time with you, but they're always trying to impress you with what they say and how they say it. They try to impress you with their knowledge or with their skill or with you know, their personality or whatever it is. It's very irritating and it actually keeps the relationship from being genuine. Well, in the same way, if we spend all of our time trying to prove to God that we're worthy to be with him There's no relationship going on there. In in a true relationship is where people talk with one another. They uh they apologize when they do things that are rude to one another. Uh they acknowledge like for example, if I if I don't show up one night When my wife is expecting me and we're gonna we're supposed to go out on a on a date for, say, our anniversary, and I don't show up for three hours past the time when I was supposed to be there and we miss our dinner appointment, we miss our show, whatever we're gonna go to, we miss everything. I could come in and I could say, oh you know what? I'm sorry. I just wasn't able to make it. I guess we're not gonna be able to do this this year. You know, and then go to bed. Well that would be totally inappropriate. My apology needs to f fit the punishment as it were needs to fit the crime. I need I need my apology to show a level of sincerity. Well in the same way we need to we need to acknowledge that the wages of sin is death When I lie to somebody and I've lied to people, the the times that I've cheated in my past I try not to. By the grace of God I l I I live as righteous as I can now. But all those things that I d that I've done wrong, all of those are deserving of death And unless there's a way for that price to be paid effectively, then my lack of sincerity is a slap in God's face. It's rude and it's insensitive. I see the way you put the relationship now let me tell have you been in a relationship where the other person doesn't even try Absolutely. Absolutely. There is no relationship. Exactly. So for God to love us, there has to be a relationship. And it's not a one-way relationship. We believe it's a two-way. Absolutely. You have to try to get God's love so He blesses you with faith. Faith is a reward. It's not it's something you take for granted and then say, Oh, guess what? I'm forgiven, I'm going to heaven automatically. It doesn't matter what I do. Wrong You do good, God will give you faith, and you will increase in good. That's it. The other thing I want to make a point is that's where we disagree. That's a significant difference. Perfectly legitimate disagreement. Sure. The other thing is we keep saying God is love and mercy. You fall in love with God. He loves his righteous people. For us to say that and then say, but he's gonna put eighty-five percent of us in hell, and that hell is supposedly eternal. Yes for a limited amount of sin. Sure. Because this life is limited. Some people live to a hundred. So for a limited amount of sin to be punished forever And na and some of us I'm from a third world country and again I'll tell you, a lot of people in Pakistan probably never even heard of Christ. Okay? They've seen creation and creation proclaims the glory of God. I guess it doesn't proclaim it as loud as it should. The other question I would put is that Yeah, but I'm I'm in I'm in complete disagreement with you. And that's the very ingratitude that I think Really ticks God off according to Scripture. Where does it come to the point where let's say A Christian is preaching to a non-Christian. Where does it come to the point that okay, I have made it abundantly clear? I have pressed my point enough. If you do not understand, that's too bad. When does it come to that point? I might just come up to let's say I'm a Christian priest. I'm gonna take this for example. Sure. I go up to some guy in Pakistan in the middle of the village and say, hey, Christ is here. And I walk away. Well now supposedly the message has gotten to him Yeah, but I'm saying the message got to him already. Oh, okay. The message is there in creation itself. In fact I know people uh I'm gonna be visiting with some of them uh in a couple months here in the Middle East. who have uh had Christ appear to them in dreams and tell them to go walk down the street, you know, and show themselves to a certain pastor, you know, in a certain place. uh because they knew that they had to come to God by faith and in the the Islam that they'd been presented with uh was legalistic and and distant and uh had presented to God with whom there there was no way to have relationship. They just had to pray five times a day, they had to do all these things, but there was no relationship and all I'm saying is that these people Cried out and said, God reveal yourself to me. And he did, and God himself appeared angelically and said, I want you to to go to these people and they give their lives to the world. Few examples of that. But I'm not doubting that. He loves every human being Okay? Any hopes that every human being loves him back. And those who do try, they're blessed with heaven. That's basically it And those who are ill spiritually and do not win his love in this world, God sends them to hell, which is like a hospital. And that hospital, it purifies or cleanses or removes that illness, that spiritual illness that they have. And it's not forever. Okay, once that spiritual illness is removed, again they have the the blessing of God that he takes them back into heaven. So I have a difficulty potentially with that, if I'm understanding uh what what you're presenting, Well. My my difficulty is that um I'm of the opinion that there are those who genuinely by free will will reject God. And even if they're sent, you know, and I don't believe that there's such a thing as a uh as a uh hell that is a hospital, hell hospital. Um I I I I don't you know, scripture doesn't present that kind of an idea. But let's say that there was. Um the point is that many of those people would still reject Christ. They want nothing to do with the truth. They hate the truth. They they've they've been uh they they have chosen the deception of the enemy and in doing so it's given to a man wants to die and then the judgment. And my concern is that uh i in in terms of what I hear uh that I that I think is d different from what Christianity teaches is that it's going to create an atmosphere um Well, it's just like doc Dr. Spock taught uh thirty thirty years ago with parenting. He said as parents we should never discipline our kids You know, we should just let them, you know, find their own way, you know, and if if we just nurture them and we're kind to them, then what's going to happen is they'll just grow up and and they'll learn whatever they need to learn and we don't need to be so disciplined with them. And thirty years later, after he had taught our entire nation that in the United States, he raised a generation of spoiled children, and he finally, for the first time in his life, thirty years later, had his own children. And you know what he noticed? Oh. You have to discipline your children. You gotta train them up. And even then they might not turn out the right way, but you gotta give them boundaries. You gotta train them to do the right thing. The perspective that you're describing to me, and I picked this up when I was studying uh Ahmad, who you believe was was the uh promised Messiah, he he apparently was this phenomenally loving individual that would never uh that would never rebuke anyone but but would just take it and take it and take it and then he would teach. And and honestly I came away feeling to myself that he would be the kind of parent that was that was so loving that would raise spoiled children. Honestly. That was my perspective. Ideal righteous people. I'm gonna take that example that you use as a as a father. We believe God is like a loving father. Let's say you do something that disappoints your father. Does he ban you forever? Does he punish you forever? Of course not. No. Sure, but that spanking is limited. Sure. That's my point. Because this life is limited, the punishment cannot be forever. It doesn't make common to me it doesn't make sense The other thing is Jonathan, I'm gonna take you for an example if you don't mind. Sure. Let's say you were not born to a in a Christian family in the United States. Sure. Let's say you were born to a Pakistani family Straight out Muslims in the middle of a village. Do you really think you'd be a Christian today? I think that there are many that have chosen Christ in that context. And that to this day when in fact I think that's part of the reason why your Ahmad uh uh changed his approach to religion and said that you should no longer push it by the sword and he and he and he was was less legalistic 'Cause he recognized two main things that that were very powerful in the in the eighteen hundreds. Number one, modernization. which included science, which included technology and all these kinds of things. And there is clearly an enlightened view of law that um I I don't know that you guys would recognize this, but it it the the enlightened view of law that that the Western world was uh helping to uh export to the rest of the world that Ahmad at the time identified. He appreciated it the British government. Yeah, the British government. It arose out of a Christian orientation. It's human rights, it's rights for women, it's white rights for slaves. It it uh for the first time in the seventeen, eighteen hundreds, Christians for the first time in the history of the world fought to abolish slavery. It happened first of all in Great Britain, and then it happened in the tree, I guess. And then it happened in the United States. And in the United States those that were arguing for slavery were Christians that that were arguing against Christians that believed that the Bible taught there was no slavery. It was a uniquely Christian argument that happened in the United States. And and my point is is that is that you have built uh your Ahmad, I feel, has built a religion on the foundation of Christian theology and Christian thought. And that's part of the reason why I think that I feel like I have so much in common with you guys because you You embraced something that was clearly enlightened and you followed it because you knew in your heart of hearts that it was true. And that's what I'm saying Is that all creation proclaims these things and when you see it then you respond and you're like, okay, we gotta change. Yeah, Donald, I want to bring another perspective at the at this point. The uh righteousness It's not granted. You have to work for it. Now the concept. Every soul will earn for itself and it will be responsible for whatever the r ye the reward, good or bad. This is what it says. Okay. And then it also says that for uh for the human beings is everything that they earn for themselves. Lay sale insani illumasar. But what is Emi? It means for the human being, is that which he earns Oh meaning that whatever he earns he kinda gets to keep or something like that? No, no. No, I don't understand. What it means is that if you work for righteousness, you go you're gonna get it. It does not grant it. You have to work for it. Sure. And this is a major distinction between Christianity and in fact it's interesting because you're arguing for a loving God that accepts everybody. But you're saying that each person has to earn their own righteousness. I'm arguing for a love of God that doesn't accept everybody, but has to approach him by faith and receive the gift of righteousness that he gives. Right. So which God is more loving? The God that gives righteousness? Or the God that holds up the standard of righteousness and says you all got to measure up to it. And I'm saying that the one that holds that standard up is actually the more exasperating God. Yeah, that's what I said I'm going to do. I want to bring a new pers another perspective. Sure, I hear you. The uh other thing for us, as we understand from the writings of the Prophet Messiah as we call him is that paradise is not something that will be granted in the hereafter. Because generally it's a conception that once you're dead you will either go to paradise or hell. Okay He tells us that our paradise bigger. Right. Yeah, go ahead. Our paradise biggest in this world. And paradise is not something physical. It's not a material sure surroundings or pavilions. Interesting, right? So you don't believe that there is a an an eternal Existence? Oh wait a second. Okay, I'm sorry. No keep going. Sorry. Yep. Our paradise begins here on this earth. What that means is that if we are at peace with God In complete accordance. We obey him. We get his pleasure. And that pleasure is in reality the paradise. That's the reward of all the good acts. So paradise if we fail to gain in this world, we should not expect to happen that in the hereafter. So the journey for us towards paradise begins here in this very order. Now Jonathan uh a a Christian wouldn't necessarily disagree w with that idea that it's uh a a Christian with talk in terms of the kingdom. Yeah and the kingdom has arrived. Yep And and the kingdom's already here. Yeah. And so that for for a Christian believer, that promise of eternity with God has already begun. They've already entered the kingdom. In fact, it says in Hebrews that we enter into that rest when the Word of God dwells in us. And we let the word of God divide between soul and spirit. So actually it is true that there's a rest that begins here. Yes. I actually want to come back to Jonathan's uh scenario of God for a second. Okay. That was uh very well put, but The end result is a God who is coming down to human beings. And we we're not saying that our God or God doesn't come down. Obviously he's the one who causes us to be righteous. It's impossible for man to be righteous without God's help. Okay. But after that righteousness. But after that righteousness, if you don't earn it, you're not going to get it. Simple as that The end result is six billion people are going to be individually checked and it's up upon them, their actions, if God wants to send them to heaven or not. How do you know when you've earned it? You don't know. You have to keep trying. I don't know. I'm I claim to be the Imam. This is perfect. I don't even know. You have to keep trying for the your whole life, every moment to be as righteous as possible. And even our beloved Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, said, I will not get into heaven with my actions alone. It's going to be my faith, my actions, and the grace of God. That's it. And we believe he was the most perfect person. Sure, but the but this is what concerns me. Exasperation we're told it we're told in the Bible, we're told fathers do not exasperate your children. They do, they expect their kids to do good. is described as setting up a standard where somebody never feels like they've arrived. And And my concern is that in our definition of love that we set up a standard and that you just gotta keep going. You don't know that you've attained it, so you just gotta keep trying, keep trying. And so we spend our whole lives not not not feeling and not being in a place of rest and knowing that God has provided for us, whereas uh in the Christian perspective God grants righteousness based on faith, and then we're already in a place of peace. We we're actually told that the Holy Spirit is giving as a seal guaranteeing our inheritance and so then all of our acts of righteousness out of that are done out of gratitude We differ with that. Once you know that you've accomplished it, who's going to work harder? You've got it. It's done. We believe as long as God keeps us oh fighting, we keep improving ourselves. That's a very good question. Keep going at it It'll only better our lives. Once you know you've got your million dollars, you know you're done, you you just kick back. Is it impossible for human nature to work harder after you know you've accomplished what you wanted to accomplish Here in the United States we've got these football teams, you know, the NFL football teams. The best coaches in NFL football will tell you that those teams that that uh that try their best out of love for one another are the teams that end up being the best as opposed to those that have coaches that are just always cracking the whip and driving them all the time and making them feel like you would you just gotta keep trying, you just gotta keep trying. That those teams end up feeling exasperated and like they never measure up. And that's part of the reason why some of the great coaches through the years, those that that that are the most um uh active, the most likely to work hard, I think are those that know and are secure in their love. You're making it sound like the God doesn't tell he even talk to you or anything with you until you're dead. No. God is what keeps you going. Once you do something good, God rewards you and you feel it. You feel it. And then you say, I want to do more because what I did, God rewarded me for it and I felt it And that's what keeps you going. If I kept doing good all my life and God never in any way told me or rewarded me, why would I do good? So God in every instant of your life is sh He shows you He loves you and He proves to you that yeah you keep doing good you'll be just fine And all I'm saying that it started with the gift of righteousness, it didn't start with my own. But see then you're putting limitations on the people who don't have that start. You're putting a limitation on the five and a half billion people who didn't get that lucky l Lucky chance to live in a Christian country in creation itself proclaims that question back to the first time. Everybody on the planet has you would be a Christian if you were born in a poor village in the middle of Pakistan. It would it's uh I I'm not a skin right. I don't believe that I'm I'm the product of my environment. No I believe that I'm a product of my choices and when I choose to reject creation than I choose to walk away from God. And that is the choice that more uh Christians are in America in a Christian, you know, environment and there are less Christians in Pakistan. It's not I'm telling you, it's not a choice. You're stuck in the situation. You were I'm telling you you're lucky that you were born a Christian, that you didn't have to make that choice. You got it. No, no, no, no, no. I had to make the choice every step of the way. Okay, well good. The music plan, we have to wrap it up. Uh John Greater, Pastor Across Valley Chapel, Imam Azaki Kowzer, Southeast Region of the Ahmadiyya community, Dr. Khaled Uh Ahmed Atta, National Secretary for the Amadi Community, our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you so much. I do want to say one quick thing. I know in my heart my wife loves me and I haven't stopped Trying to earn her love each and every day. Thanks for listening, God bless.