Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Faith Debate is brought to us by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding today for growth tomorrow Dynamic Living Solutions, if you don't own a purifier, you are a purifier. And Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? You know, a number of years ago there was a show on tel well still on television reruns. There's a T uh TV show that uh became famous years ago for being a show about nothing. Nothing. Yeah. Which mic are you on? Okay. That's what today's show is. Nothing. Today's edition of the Faith Debate is Call us the Buddhist show yet. Uh oh. I don't know. Yes. Maybe. But there won't be any racism. But this is a show and now if you i if you've been listening to this show for the last two plush years, uh in its various incarnations and forms, you have heard shows before with just Jonathan and I on them. Okay. But but we always have some prepared material, whether it be things from the email box or some topic in the news or things that we we kind of touch base beforehand and say, Hey, I think it'd be good for us to talk about this. I don't know that we've really ever walked in, turned on the mics and said, Hey Let's do a show. About what? I don't know. Let's just do a show. So, what's on your mind this morning, John? Now I'm looking at this paper that you wrote by the way about church By the way, Jonathan Sweitzer is the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel meeting at Crestwood Middle School. Uh in the is that the Ballinger Creek area? Just over the highways from Walmart. That's what I always say. Now if if you if you show up, uh odds are of what, fifty fifty that Jonathan will actually preach. No, no, no. Actually the odds are literally like Uh five out of six times I'll preach. It just happens that if your Troy Skinner's showing up, that the odds are it's gonna be fifty fifty. I have I've visited Jonathan's church I think it's eight times. Yes. And I think I've heard him preach twice. twice. So actually the odds are one out of four times coming to church uh that if you're Troy Skinner that you'll hear me preach. Yeah. Anyway. They were good both times, by the way. Let me ask you, when you took church hist history, did you Uh did you find it very motivating? In w in what way? What do you mean? I don't know. When when I studied church history, I always came away motivated like like wow this thing is alive you know this this idea of the church of Jesus Christ and it's been reacting responding you know as God's hand in history to whatever was going on at the time in history. And and so I see it responding, you know, back in in the Middle Ages, you know, or previous to that, you know, in the the three hundreds or four hundreds and then into the Enlightenment years uh, you know, of of uh You know, the Gutenberg printing press, you know, and and uh colonialism and and I come away and I think to myself, oh Oh, well, let me look around and see what's going on now in the world and what is it that God wants us to do now? And and and it I don't know, I just I I come away thinking to myself, Man, now's the time to be alive as a Christian. Right now in history, you know, all these different things that that they worked through as a church and all the all the life and the great things that happened and the negative things. things that happen. We're living in the middle of that right now. D do you is is that something that relates at all to something that you've probably not as passionate as you just described it. But I'll also say one of the things when I whenever I read something that's machine or something, you know I definitely feel more connected. Um like there's this historical narrative that ties the church together. Yeah. And it's interesting, I think that the the things that are true about the church today have always been true. And if you read history you see that that's the case. When the church is doing something right, The things that are behind that that make it right are the same things that have made it right all along. Yeah, yeah. It's it feels very contemp contemporary. And I'm reading about things like a thousand years ago and it feels contemporary to today Because the types of issues they're dealing with, it's it's human. It's you know, I'm like, oh well I could see that, you know, being a a problem today. And the things that the church has done that, you know, you you're not so proud of in church history. And there's things in the church today that we're not proud of Right, you know, with whether it be uh televangelists or other church leaders uh f falling into uh you know horrible sin and things like It those things have been around forever too. Yeah, that's always been happening. Whenever and it seems to me this is gonna sound boy, I'm gonna sound so much like a Protestant right now. Okay, here we go. Like a Protestant? Well right. Well I'll try to sound Catholic actually. But it seems to me that whenever the church has uh behaved badly, or even in their attempts to do the right thing when those things uh haven't turned out the way that they thought they would, they ended up being in the wrong direction. Yeah It's because they weren't rooted in the in the written word of God. They didn't strain it through that to see if it w if it would hold up under biblical scrutiny or not. Right. When the church quit doing What they were clearly taught to do by Christ and the apostles. When the quit church quits doing that, it's funny how the church ends up looking really ugly You know, all through history. But when the church stays true to what they were called to do, you know, they're not going off and waging war. They're preaching the gospel, taking care of the poor. They're you know, they're um uh making disciples and and uh uh calling uh kings and uh and people in power to account, you know, for the greed, you know, power hungry selfishness and all that other kind of thing. Let me ask you something. This popped into my head just now can you talk? We're talking about and you know me, off the air I say this more than I've probably ever said it on the air, but I I have a I have a tendency to a flaw. It's a I don't think it's a good thing necessarily It's the way my mind has a tendency to wander. But your wife loves it about you. Well I hope so. She's not here to say otherwise, so yes, that's true. Uh but I have a tendency to try to tie things together into a a bigger picture and simplify things. I have a hard time hanging on to a whole bunch of different facets of things. I lose track of them. So you need a big picture. So I try to tie it together into something that helps me have a you know a central idea. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So you just said, you know, the a construct. Yeah. So as a central idea. Yeah You know, the when the church is is rooted in the word and and obeying Christ and stuff, the church does good things. Yeah. But now a multifaceted version of that, because who is the church? We're the church. If in case you're listening for the first time, I am a professing Christian, Jonathan's a professing Christian, and both of us would agree that professing Christians are the church. Right. Right? So we're the church. Yeah. We're m we're part of the many facets of what is the church. So looking at a facet, instead of looking at this overarching thing, saying, yeah, well When the church in this overarching way is being true to the word, then they're they're following God's call and God's leading and they're doing what they're supposed to. Yeah. What about you and me? Forget you. What about me? What about me? How do I know? It's the Troy Show. Yeah. Why not? Well, since since we have no real plan, we'll just, you know, The Seinfeld show is all about Jerry Seinfeld. No, this show can be all about me. Troy Skinner. So how am I supposed to know when I'm following God's lead, when I'm doing what He has planned for me, when I'm in His will? How are you supposed to know? How do I know? Okay, well I'm going to give you my textbook answer. If anybody were to ever ask me this question, including you, I would say the way to know that is uh Number one, if you have uh become a born-again believer, Christ uh is living in your heart. The Holy Spirit is living in you, too. Uh the um you you have confessed your sin and you've been willing to confess your sin. Those two things uh bring you to a place of sensitivity to the leading of the Holy Spirit. You add to that mix a study of the Word of God, you know, that uh that is directed by a cry in your heart to know God better, to know the fullness of who God is better. And you study the Word of God, you meditate on the Word of God, and then you say, Holy Spirit, lead me today. And what happens is the Holy Spirit brings to remembrance everything that God has taught you and applies it in the situations of life as you go through your day. And so uh so that there's a there's a a both and connection. You confess your sin You know, you you uh accept Him as Lord, you study the Word of God, and then you say, Holy Spirit, you lead me. Holy Spirit, you enlighten the Word of God and help me to apply it to my life. In that context, then you're able to uh oftentimes uh he only shines the light on the next couple steps Other times he gives us a glimpse at you know five, ten years in the future and you just know that God, you know, wants you to do this or to do that. But in putting it all together, he gives us, you know, he leads us according to what we need and how we need it. Does that answer your question? Alright, I'm gonna well I guess in a vague overarching way, which is which is good, I guess. What Troy Skinner needs to do is listen to whatever his wife tells him to do. Not that I can't think of one, although right now I'm having a George Bush moment and I can't think of any negatives about myself. Let's take the uh the the leadership of I think it's Waynesboro Bible Church in Kansas. Okay. You familiar with them? Yes. They're the ones that go and protest at all the uh military funerals. Right. Say that God hates homosexuals and all that sort of stuff. Uh oh. There's a negative I'm going to use a positive personal example here in a second. There's a negative example, right, of there's somebody that would they would probably say that They're following God's lead. But I would say that they're probably not. Right. So what are they doing wrong? Um no, you tell me what they're doing wrong. What does the word of God say about the way that we're supposed to communicate the truth? We're supposed to communicate with grace and truth. And uh they would uh what what they do is uh they think that they have an exact Um uh like if something happens, it happened because of this directly. And so So they feel like God I I think I'm right about this. They feel like like God has specifically told them this is h like these people died because this happened in American society. Or these people died because there's this sin at large in American society. Am I right? And so what they're doing is they're uh they're preaching the B basically they're they're trying to apply scripture directly. Like I I do this. In fact I do what they do. Except uh I don't feel like I have uh uh confidence that I have the exact precise you know, connection between the Word of God and what's going on in the United States. I feel like there are th ways that the United States is paying for its sin in the world. I feel like uh there are ways that uh that I pay for sin in my own life, you know, and there's connections. Uh, but I'm not always exactly sure that it's that there's a direct connection between my s my sin or the nation's sin and something that happened. You know, um and so that being the case, these guys are going around saying specifically that homosexuality is the cause of people dying over over in Iraq. And I would say that there's war on the planet, um, in general, and that it is true that Um I think it's likely that the the Islamic world uh has the power that it has to hurt people in the United States in some measure because we in the United States have not thrown ourselves on the mercy of God So, I mean at some level I think you would probably agree with that, but you're not confident enough of that that you're gonna go out and you're gonna you're gonna connect a dot and say this, therefore, that. Am I right? Yeah, probably. So why do you so the question is why do you think they're so confident? Maybe they pray more than you do. Maybe they study the Word of God more than you do. Maybe they don't either of those things and they just have this vague impression, you know, that that's the thing. You know, because in Romans chapter 2 it talks about homosexuality. I mean basically basically this leads the whole discussion in the direction of homosexuality. I'm not sure if you want to go there or not But it but it drives in sixty seconds? It drives the disc it drives the discussion into wondering whether or not um Whether or not homosexuality a at large in a society will lead to certain consequences. But that's the issue that motivates. Okay. Right? And that was you know, he was feeling v the leading of the spirit supposedly And he he felt and he was uh he must have been praying and meditating on it, but he wasn't right. Was or was he? Why do you think he was right? Why do you think he was wrong? No, I would argue that he was wrong. And I have rationales that I think come from Scripture. Why do you think he was wrong? Well Yeah, to commit murder is wrong. Now if he was looking at it as a capital punishment issue, like somebody needs to go and take care of these people for murdering all these unborn children uh then he was outside his authority because the the the sword has been the authority of the sword has been given to the state. Right. Not to us as individuals. Right. So the point is you studied the word Yeah, I feel like he just hasn't read his i read his Bible. He's He's a little bit less clear about what scripture teaches. And that would be sixty seconds or less? I think it would. That's a record, yeah. And I guess the same could probably be said true uh of the Waynesboro Bible. Church, they haven't read their scriptures enough? I think so. Ultimately I think that's a good question. All right, now let's take let's get back to me. So so now that let's get back to you. Which by the way, he's got a nice tie on today. He's got a nice uh gray pinstripe suit, very nice. uh aesthetically pleasing. Right, right. Which is the key. It's important, right? Yes, yes. Yeah, it's important to look good. uh Billy Chris used to say our Saturday Night Live Fernando Lamas or whatever. That's right. Fake it till you make it. Yeah. So all right, let's take uh this show. Yes. Right, we think that it's a good thing to be doing this show. Okay. Why? Is it? Have we have we tested it by the spirit? By the spirit. I had, you know, cornflakes for breakfast. Was that the right thing for me to have for breakfast? Did I test that by the spirit? Right, no, this is good. Yeah. I've felt for some time, through prayer, through whatever, through my study of the Word of God, through my my involvement in the church and and various things, that there has been that there's a major move in the in the United States. uh to uh be unwilling to have the kinds of discussions that we have on this radio show. And I felt like that unwillingness ends up being uh this massive barrier to people hearing perspectives about Christ that have been extremely valuable to me. And and that I feel like have made all the difference in my own life. And if people are unwilling to hear something, then you know clearly that's gotta be bad for them. So As I prayed about it, I prayed about, you know, the clear teaching of Scripture that says that, you know, I should go out and and preach the gospel. I read about how Christ engaged people in the public square, you know, and he didn't have these quiet, nice, you know, gentle conversations. But but oftentimes, you know, he he confronted issues head on in the public square. I think to myself I think that we should have a public square like that as well. And uh and so you know, my point is that through prayer through asking the Lord to lead in in studying, meditating on the Word of God, I feel like we we came to a place of saying a show like this would be very beneficial for, you know, people that live in the Frederick area You're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here in town. I'm Troy Skinner ask acting typically as host and moderator or whatever you want to call it, but this week I guess Today we're just it's a show about nothing. Two buds. Yeah, just hanging out. Um Oh I had a thought and it just escaped me. I hate when that happened. What did it have to do with what I just said? Yeah it did. Yeah. Yeah So let's do some on-air show prep. Okay, here we go. What are some things that you think this show over the next six months? should do. I think we should like break out some coffee and some some some cookies and and uh enjoy this time together. We tr we try, Jonathan and I do. Try to get together and do the this sort of thing where, you know, w uh typically it's he and Carol, his wife, will come over to our house and uh Uh and and we'll we'll talk about the show and what's going well and what's not and ways you can improve it and different topics and guests we can have on. But life gets in the way sometimes. We don't do that as often as we could or should, and particularly with your run for public office this past fall, that made it even tougher. Yeah, for a period of time. So uh This is the first chance we've had in a while to have this conversation. Yeah, but we had a great time together on New Year's Eve. We got together, we talked about some goals in a more personal way. And uh I just have to say that was very enjoyable. Fun. We actually sang some songs. It was uh an interesting one. Yeah. Yeah, that started uh uh we're going off of our subject here of brainstorming. I think it was four years ago. I think it was four years ago, somebody that my uh wife and I, you know, went to church with, they had it as a tradition for them as a couple anyway on on New Year's Eve to do a devotional time, to have, you know, uh praise and and worship singing and to p to to pray and and then to actually actively pray for specific things in the coming year. Yeah. And they would write them down. Or no, I don't know if they wrote them down. I think they would just pray for things in the coming year or whatever, and then they would thank God for his work in their lives the previous year. Yeah. Well then and so So you actually wrote wrote them down. So we had them over to our house and we and and we d they introduced us to h their way of how they do this. Yeah. And and we still to some level model what we do after that initial experience. Yeah One of the things we changed my wife changed this was she started writing 'em down. Yeah. 'Cause she journals and all that sort of stuff and looking back in her journals she can see where God answered prayers that sometimes months, years later you forget you were praying for that. Yeah. And God doesn't get the credit he deserves. Right, right. So she didn't mention how encouraging it is. Absolutely. Yeah. So that next year we did it on our own, just as a family. Yeah. And we wrote 'em all down. Yeah. And so then Last year you did it again. Was the third year we did it, but it was the first year we had a chance to compare the year before the year before from what we wrote down. Right. And I'm telling you, it was Stunning. Yeah. How and some of the requests were so specific. Right. And they came to pass. And wow, what a a boost to your faith. And th some of them are things that well, one of the things is my daughter wanted a dog. Yeah. And she got a dog by the end of the year. Yeah. Well, if you had asked me in January of that year if she was gonna get a dog, I would have said no, never. Wow. So from my per my worldly perspective That was an amazing thing. And she ended up getting it. And we had some control and say in that obviously. But there were other things on there. We prayed for our son to have a healing of his heart. That was huge. And his heart condition, which by the way, if you'd like a copy of that, we could email a copy of that show. We we talked about that on the show. Yeah. Last summer I think. And uh and it it came to pass. Yeah. So anyway, so then the next year we did it again. We wrote and this was last year we wrote them all down. The the thing we didn't do very well is we were a little vague. They were more general. Yeah, they're a little uh looking back now I do realize they're a little more general. It's hard to know, okay, yeah, God kinda answered that prayer, but I'm not sure because it wasn't Why why do you think And we might have done that again this year now that I'm thinking about it. It requires a little bit more time to be more specific, that is. Absolutely. I think that's the thing. Absolutely. We and when we get together with our wives we just get to talking about stuff. Yeah. Yeah. So the way it seems to me, for those who are taking notes, I'm sure if you are taking notes listening, if you want to try this next year or if you want to do it now and We're starting a movement. It seems to me faith debate movement. It seems to me the way to do this is to have a good, I don't know, couple of hours of praise and worship. Oh. Oh. Now if you're if you are gifted in playing the piano or guitar or whatever and you can do it on your own, that's fine. My wife and I don't play an instrument, so we just get out our favorite, you know, praise and worship music um on C D and pop it in And we and we don't just listen to it. I mean we're singing or we're dancing. I'm um I can't dance at all, but I'm dancing. I can't sing at all, but I'm singing. We should try that on a Sunday morning sometime, by the way. And smoking like a true charismatic path. That's right, that's right. So uh but I mean after two hours of that, you feel like you're kind of in a T totally different place. Okay. And then you do some real heartfelt prayer. Yeah. Like long winded prayer, you know what I mean? Where it's just Everybody's praying and it's long. It's yeah. An hour or more. Yeah. An hour and a half of like really praying. You know, in some places they go all night. Yeah, I'm sure. Yeah. And then when you're done praying, yeah Then you stop and say, okay, what are the things we just prayed about? What were the things that were on our heart? Interesting. Let's write 'em down. Let's make the list. See, we had a good time this this past time, but We didn't quite do that. No. And I think it it was good. I needed to hear that vision pitch to me and then we could try to do it that way and see if you don't agree. Yeah. But we're still friends by then. So all that to say Is that one of our prayer requests? That we would remain friends driving each other crazy. So so coming back to uh the next couple of months with the show. Yeah. Um how uh how much time we got by the way? About uh about three minutes. Um I I I spoke with uh the guy over at Kolamy and uh uh the rabbi over there and they represent a different branch of Judaism. uh you know, a more uh a less conservative branch of Judaism, significantly so. And uh so anyways, I feel like that would be again a a perspective you know, that in our society a lot of people uh would benefit from hearing Christianity uh uh line up opposite to it and you know and how how do they line up opposite and and what what is the nature of how it lines up. Okay. That'd be good. Um we haven't had is there a Hindu congregation in Frederick County that you know of? 'Cause I don't think we've we haven't had a Hindu representative on the show and I don't know if there is one. You know what, I th it seems like there's one down in uh Germantown. uh that is Hindu. Uh is Hindu uh Hinduism as um uh popular in the States as like Buddhism is? Buddhism seems to be pretty popular. It probably not, but Hinduism is bigger worldwide than Buddhism, isn't it? It is in India in China because Buddhism was kind of an offshoot of that. So I don't know. Yeah, I mean if I can find something. I think number one is Christianity. Yeah. About a third of the world professes to be Christian anyway. Uh then I think number two is Islam, right? Right. And number three I think is Hindu. Well Islam's the fast fastest growing. Yeah, and then Buddhism, because Buddhism is an offshoot. Yeah. But I mean there's so many people over in India. In China that is just you know Now we've talked about some of the, you know, quote unquote Christian m fringe uh groups. Yeah, we've got them on the show. We haven't had uh a Jehovah's Witness. Representative on the show. And a Mormon. Um Seventh day Adventist. I don't think we've had that on the show, have we? Do we want to get into names? Different churches? Or like a people. Okay. Paul Smith. Oh, Alderman. He's a Mormon. He's an alderman. He's involved in issues here in, you know, the area. There is a guy from from uh the church of of um the Seventh day Adventists that I spoke with when I was doing uh phone calls for uh election stuff. that I bet he would love to come on the show with us. Specifically to try to convince us that Saturday is the day that we should worship. That'd be fascinating. I bet he would love to have that discussion. And you know, I'd be curious to hear the argument. Yeah. Well he's got a whole bunch of them. I don't know if that's a the issue that I would you know live and die on. I'd be curious to hear what he has to say Of course they're very strong on that. The growth movement. So I need to call him. Growth. The church growth movement. Maybe we can get the uh pastor at uh Frederick Christian Fellowship on. Yeah, I'd be interested to hear if you would. Because that would be uh I think interesting. Um Definitely. What are some others? We've recently had we've we've had a couple of guests on recently that had been on our want list for a while. We wanted to have an agnostic Yeah. Yeah, we got him. And we got 'em. Look at that. So that was No, did we pray for him a year ago? No. You know, I gotta say this, the thing about putting together those prayer requests is um, you know, because I'm I'm big on setting goals, you know, and thinking through goals and that kind of thing, is that it turned it into a totally different perspective. It's like I'm taking my goal directly to God. I'm calling it a prayer request and I'm saying, I'd like to see this happen in the next year. Right. It's very, very cool, you know, um uh orientation. Well one of my goals is to end the show on time. We've got to wrap it up. Thank you. All shred, Putman Fleming and Heating and Dynamic Living Solutions for sponsoring the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Thank you, John Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you, John. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. God bless.