Welcome to the Frederick's Race Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host, Troy Skinner. The show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Every week at this time we get together and we knock heads. And this week knocking heads, a couple of good-looking heads we're knocking together there. Yolanda Gamble, Pastor of Sure Fellowship. And Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Now Yolanda, you gotta know he wouldn't have said that about me if you weren't here. So normally he he says other things about me. Well I had the excuse to talk about knocking Jonathan Sweiser about the head. I'm all for that. You needed more brothers growing up. That's what you needed. I had three and I got knocked plenty. See That's right. The last couple of weeks on the show we've talked about money issues as it relates to uh Christians. Yeah. And we haven't really talked about tithing yet. And we will. Before we go there, my concern is that once we go there we'll never talk about anything else. Yes, yes. You're being prudent. I do want to talk about uh something else before we get on to tithing and that is the idea of investing. Hm and there's two different parts of investing that I the the idea of it that I want to talk on. One, I think it was two shows ago, Jonathan, you said something about Uh you give to give. You don't give as an investment, you don't give expecting a return. You give generously um and cheerfully without expecting anything back. Yeah, in the context of poor, in the context of the right. There is the idea of you reap what you sow and you hear people talk a lot about, you know, when they give money that they're sowing into something. Sure. Sure. And so if you're sowing into something, you are expecting to reap something. So is there a level of investment Even in those situations where you're just giving generously? Like what is you're sowing into something, right? Yeah. Aren't you reaping something then? Yeah, I personally am very leery of um preaching. I'm not sure where you're out you're at on this El Honda. I'm very leery of preaching that that um that we give to get or even uh over magnifying, you know, that that my giving is a seed uh in the future only because um I I feel like there are out there in the culture at large uh ministers that that have over preached that and it's been turned into something that um that is not used with the kind of um in I don't know how I say it. Uh it it's a little bit of an integrity issue I feel like, you know, when a televangelist is preaching, you know, that that uh that if you gotta sow your seed, you know, and then you get 'cause it it's send your love gifts. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It looked it it it feels to me like it turns into a um uh well a fundraising scheme. However, the principle of giving, and that that when you cast your bread upon the water, soon they're going to come back home on every wave, that a generous man will prosper, and he who refreshes others will be refreshed That principle is a very powerful principle. And so my question is how can we teach that in such a way that one, the televangelists don't end up, you know, with uh uh fleecing the sheep is is the term. Uh and two, that that we don't create this orientation where I'm giving because I'm greedy. you know, that that I'm giving to get, but instead I'm just giving because I'm a giver. Because that's that's the way Christ is. He's the giver and and I know God's gonna take care of all my needs. And so I'm worried about my needs taken care of. No, I'm not worried about my needs taken care of because God's gonna provide. And so I give freely because I've received freely You know, and so the question is, do I give to get or do I give because I've received freely and God has so abundantly blessed me? You know, and and uh In fact, somebody just mentioned earlier, you know, that when you're in debt that you tit that that you need to start tithing because then, you know, God'll bring you out of debt and and um I think that's I I I think the principle is true, but there's a danger in the communication of that specific principle that we need to be we need to be abundantly clear that we give like we give to God because we're because we're thankful for what He's given to us. I don't give to God because I want him to give me more. I give to him because he's given so much. I mean look at look at I got clothes, I got food in my stomach, I got a a roof over my head, I got shoes on my feet, my kids are well fed You know, I got friends, you know, I got I got family. I uh God has given me so much that for me to give to get is to me just a bit ungrateful. Well you saying just give out of a thankful I agree, but it so many people haven't got there yet, John. But now I I think about Preaching from God's perspective where the word says it's so many, so many scriptures that we can use. But one I won't quote exactly the way that it said, and maybe you can help me, maybe Luke chapter six, verse thirty-eight or something where it says Give and it shall be given unto you in good measures. Pressed down, shaken together, running over, and men shall give it to your bosom. Okay. Yes. So there is a giving And there's a receiving. God wants us to receive. So we have to talk about the receiving factor. But I think that we should, is like you're saying, John, it's is to Teach that imbalance to where we're not the whole perspective of our giving as an individual shouldn't be just so I can get something back from the Lord or just so I can get something back. Yeah. But really being so thankful And and and understanding that uh when it talks about that men will give to your bosom, do we expect for for men to give? Then I think there's some some point that we should But sometimes our blessings is not just from the handoff of of another person. It could be just just to have good health in our body and just to be able to have the breath of life and, you know, our lungs and just you know, it j just to have our children well and doing good and all of those things. You know, I think that we we should look just even further than just from a man giving from his hand to your hand. You know, so there has to be a balance in all of this this perspective of giving. Yeah, um yeah, I I maybe I'm kinda tying all that in the whole lot there, but um the the context of uh you know given and it'll be given to you is in the context of um of the uh it's it's Luke's version of the Sermon on the Mount. And uh in that passage he's he's saying, Blessed are those who are poor, for theirs is the kingdom of God. Whereas Matthew says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for there is the kingdom of heaven. Luke actually leaves it at just poor, and then he says, Blessed are you who hunger now, blessed are you who weep now. And then blessed are you when men hate you and exclude you and insult you. And so Luke's version of it is a little bit more um, you know, dealing with the poverty issues. than Matthew's version. Then he turns around, Luke does it and says, Woe to you who are rich, because you've already received your comfort. Woe to you who are well fed, for you will go hungry. Woe to you who laugh now you will mourn and weep. He's he's uh Luke's Luke's recognizing that um that God is going to ultimately reward what deserves to be rewarded. And he's going to He's going to bring the ultimate judgment. And so in the context of that, he's talking about loving sinners and loving those who don't love you back, loving your enemies, giving to those you know, who demand from you and that kind of thing and he's talking about a giving attitude. It's not again just like you said before, it's not just a financial thing. It's being a giver. You know, I give my time, I give a smile, I give an ear. Uh learning how to listen to people I think is one of the one of the costliest things that we can give to anybody. You know, that that I listen and I hear where they're coming from. In fact My personal opinion is those people who are the wealthiest are those who have learned to listen so well, to give, pay attention so well that that that people feel understood around them and as a result, like it says in Proverbs, good understanding wins favor. And so then we have favor with our boss, we have favor with our customers, we have favor with the people we interact with And as a result, we we just find success everywhere we go because we pay or give attention. And so I I again my my concern is that we would, you know, boil it down to a a money transaction, I'm giving to get instead of a a way of life. I'm a giver. I give attention. I give smiles. I give love. I give everything, including You know, if somebody's gonna demand my shirt of me, well hey, take my shirt and and and take my cloak as well, you know, that that you you're gonna make me go with you one mile, I'm gonna go with you two miles because You know what? I'm not a victim of your tyranny. God's bigger than your tyranny over my life. And so I'm going to give you more than you demand from me because 'cause God has given me so much. You know, it's a it's a it's a transformational perspective that if we just leave it in the realm of money, I think it just reduces it to uh unfortunate um levels. So I would say then this this conclusion would be an issue of the heart. Because God is the one who examines the heart. You see, whether they're poor or the rich and how they give and all of that and that perspective. You mentioned the televangelists and all that sort of thing. Something else that a lot of uh a lot. Maybe that's an unfair. Certainly there are there are examples among televangelists that pop to mind that uh would fit within the description of word of faith movement. I'm wondering how that ties into this. And you know the whole idea of you you speak it into existence. Yeah, name it, claim it. Yeah. Speak the word in faith. But God I and uh this is an example. This is a literal example. God I want that Mercedes I'm trusting in you for that Mercedes. I speak to you that you are God of provision and you love me and you care for me and and I can move mountains if I claim it in your name, and I am claiming that Mercedes in your name, Lord. I am trusting in you for that Mercedes Scripture because I just don't see it. When everywhere that I see confession in scripture, it's in the concept it's in the context. No no I I'm hoping you'll go there with me. Good. We're we're gonna get a little bit feisty here. Confession, everywhere it shows up in Scripture, we're supposed to confess two kinds of things. One, that Jesus is Lord, and two, our sin before God. The that those are the only places where confession rises. All the other places are are uh sh show me the sh where where's the passage? Confess with your heart. Confess with your mouth. Yes, you were supposed to confess Jesus is Lord with your mouth. Romans, that yep, that's exactly where it is. That if you confess with your mouth Jesus is the Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you'll be saved. That says nothing about me confessing over my life that I'm going to be wealthy or prosperous or any of those other things. What do you want me to read? How about those two existence? Call those things that are not as though they were. Right, right. So this is Romans five and seventeen. For those playing along at home, we have uh extra guests in the studio who are chiming in. And it keeps it exciting. Um it says it says this, for uh this reason it is by faith in order that it may be in accordance with grace, so that the promise will be guaranteed to all the descendants of Abraham, not only to those who are of the law, but aut also to those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. And then he says, as it is written, A father of many nations I've made you, and the presence of him who believed, even God who gives life to the dead and calls into being that which not does not exist. Now are you calling into being or does God? That passage clearly says that God calls into being that which does not exist. And I'm more than happy for God to do that. But nowhere does it say that I am supposed to call into being that which does not exist. However, where it says that we should confess with our mouth and believe in our heart. I believe it's Romans chapter eleven is is the passage that uh that is most often used in this context. Um and I'm trying to get there quickly and I'm not quite doing it. Romans Cool. While you do that, you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD with Pastor John Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel and Pastor Yolanda Gamble from Shure Fellowship. And he's now found it. Uh in verse nine, it says What does it say? The word is near you, it is in your mouth, and in your heart that is the word of faith we are proclaiming that if you confess with your mouth what Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved For it is your with your heart that you believe and are justified, and it is with your mouth that you confess and are saved. The confession there is clearly in the context of chapter 9, 10, and 11 talking about Jewish people. who even though they heard the word of God, even though the word of God was in their mouth, they still did not confess God as Lord. And as a result They're not saved. Romans 9, 10, 11 is all about Paul being abundantly upset and concerned for his Jewish brothers who are not going to be saved because they reject Christ. And what he's saying in that context is that what they need to do is confess that Jesus is Lord. He's not saying anything about some kind of esoteric principle that that by confessing the word of God it makes it come true. In fact, what he says is that uh i in Romans he says, faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. That's what gives me faith to believe that God's promises are going to come true is when I believe his word. And if that means that I quote it to myself uh in order to help me to better know the Word of God. That's great as a devotional tool. But I I I believe personally that there is no principle out there that confessing the word of God makes me believe it or makes it come to pass more. What makes the difference is that I believe the Word of God and that I live the Word of God. And if confessing it helps you to believe it, then fine. But the key principle is that we believe the Word of God. And that G You can disagree with me on this if you like. No, I'm not disagreeing. Because I think there's many that do. No, I'm not disagreeing with you. No, I I agree with with you in the word of the Lord. Um but in our our confession that Jesus is Lord is that He is Lord of over over everything, all of our lives and every element finite element of our life. And when we use that word confess, is that I honestly acknowledge when I confess, I honestly acknowledge God's ability to supply all of my need. According to his riches and glory. Lord of all. So now we can't really take that scripture and use it as a monetary context But and when we look at the Lord as Lord of all, well that would certainly include our money, that includes our whole life. Yeah, it's interesting. The confession that Jesus is Lord Mm-hmm. Is more an issue of submission than it is an issue of me trying to um you you know what I'm saying? I I I'm I I'm saying that Jesus is Lord in my life and so therefore I'm gonna let him be Lord. Yes. And so I'm gonna let a financial counselor that's a Christian teach me how to budget my finances and how how to let the Lord uh expose when I'm given to envy and when I'm given to to other kinds of things. Snurdly is giving me another I I need an you you're like Snerd et or something like that, you know? Or smurf et maybe that's what I call you. Snur Snurdley is uh is Rush Limbaugh every down his show. He's got this this ghost guy who's who's always writing things to him, you know, kinda egging him on, you know, trying to trying to ask him questions just to spur his thoughts and he calls him Snurdley. And so I'm calling this one Smurfette. Yes, okay. Oh we we have here power versus submission. Yeah, in the context of lordship That that he that we submit to his power and his right to uh to wield his power and authority in our lives. And as a result of that, I do believe that that there's blessing and there's prosperity that comes. But the blessing and prosperity is not the goal. The goal is the intimate relationship with God as our Father. And then it comes. Knowing that He provides for all those things. And so so I can't say that somehow there's not a genuine uh belief that well, it's better to follow God than to go other ways in every way, financially, physically, emotionally, health-wise. you know, in every every area of my life. But the point is is that is that my main focus is not on the getting, my main focus is on the kingdom and on his righteousness, on following Christ. Amen. You alright. Yeah. Are you sure? You're alright. Yeah, at the very beginning of that uh I don't know, five minutes of of really cool stuff. That's twice now. It's un you know, uh they say nice things about me. It was it was sparked by a chapter and verse From Romans, right? Now the listener wants to try to look that up on their own later and and study on it or that should make it easy to remember then. Let me shift gears for a second. A lot of people have taken uh a lot of people in the church have taken the idea of of prosperity and financial fairness and and you know distributing the wealth within the church or within society in general and that sort of thing as kind of a mission statement for their purpose f for being in the whole social gospel uh idea, particularly in third world countries or in or in uh uh Latin America, South America uh particularly it's it's more prevalent there. where the idea is to bring about social justice and by social social justice they mean economic fairness. Right. A redistribution of the wealth. Um Thoughts or comments on the social gospel in general. Yes, I'm trying to do that. Um there there's a whole social gospel and a um a gospel of uh what's the name of it? It's called um Uh it's a f it's a not freedom gospel, but it's um um I forget. It it was it was common down in Latin America that that was this idea that that the gospel calls us to take up arms to set ourselves free from tyranny. Liberation theology is the name of it. And liberation theology and a social gospel is this orientation that if we're really living the gospel, then we're advocating aggressively with the government to uh take from the rich and give to the poor, to uh throw off our oppressors uh very intimately tied with liberation gospel is this idea that uh that the rich are oppressing everybody else and so we need to rise up, you know, like Mark said, we need to rise up, throw off our oppressors because we've been set free in Christ. Um and personally I'm of the opinion that that that is a uh perversion and a distraction from the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is true that a society that that as a whole embraces Christ is going to be more just Uh but it's not wrong for those people that work hard to be blessed and to not feel like they have to redistribute their wealth. Um and and it's I think it's righteous for those that are lazy and don't work hard to not have a lot of money and to to struggle to put food on their table. It's it's not right for them to be allowed to be lazy and to to think that somehow they're going to be blessed. And so the social gospel unfortunately I think tends in that direction. And the liberation gospel is a little bit more militant form of that and personally I think the Bible doesn't uh doesn't encourage either of those. I don't think the Bible encouraged either one. of those. I don't I don't even want to talk much about that myself because I really think that's a good idea. There is in Nigeria and Uganda a couple places in in uh some African American countries that are poorer uh on the whole. but are Christian. Uh they're they're working to try to find a government style that is not capitalistic or socialistic but is would be biblical. And in those contexts I think it's righteous to think in terms of how do we take care of the poor, you know, how do we provide for for those with less You know, how do we how do we help out? But um but it's a whole that like we could have like three or four shows just on on those kinds of concepts and I think I'd have to probably do a little bit more study, I think, to answer them. And I think one of the big and it just popped in my head because of just this this swirl of different things we've talked about, they kinda tie into that. And I think one of the things that they missed remark on, 'cause I would agree with you, Jonathan, I think that uh certainly they're Christian. Yeah. Uh they're they're motivated by wanting to do the right thing. I don't think that they're evil. I don't know that they're that I would characterize them as heretical. Uh but I do think that they're s slightly off in their theological approach because was it last week or two weeks ago Jonathan talked about, you know the the weight of giving the gospel versus taking care of the physical human need. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And the fifty one forty nine it's at it's at least fifty one percent gospel, forty nine percent take care of the physical human need in the here and now. Right. And I think that the the social gospel adherents might have that flipped a bit and they spend more emphasis is spent on Taking care of political problems and monetary problems and and all of those sorts of things. in our own human strength. Are we to worry about tomorrow? The Bible tells us not to, right? Yes. There's only one way to answer that question. When you ask it that directly. Are we to worry about tomorrow? Well, I've got a bunch of things that I gotta do tomorrow. Now that you're mentioning it it gets me thinking about it. I don't think we are. Then why do we invest for the future? Well, I think that we're preparing and we're just living life, you know, because that life requires us to uh prepare and to plan ahead. Not because we know the scriptures talk about tomorrow's not promised to you All of those things. Should we look at? Yes, we still should look ahead, just with understanding that, you know what, God has my whole life, you know, in his hands. And uh he knows my days and all of that and we can trust that. But we doesn't mean we just stop living. You know. We have to continue to project, we have to continue to to look ahead and understand that um Even in our looking ahead, still we're submitted to to God's order and His plan for our life. Even though we're making plans all along, we're still submitted to God's plan. All right, let me let me give you an example. Um Christian University raising money, they they get an endowment that uh that that provides all these funds for the university. The Christian University started out with a with its emphasis on raising up missionaries to preach the gospel around the world. My uh my Sweepingly an adequate perception of history is that whenever ministries start living off of endowments and those kinds of things, they lose their emphasis on the gospel and they move in a more humanist kind of a gospel and in more of a like YMCA would be a good example Um and and I'm of the opinion that that that a lot of ministries when when the when the guy that was the the leading light that that created the ministry and got it up and running when he dies that they should sell all the assets and uh and and give 'em to to different people that they feel like are in the comp uh in the ministry and let them go start their own ministries. But when you try to keep a ministry going by by investing for the long term. You know, I hear people say this thing, you know, like like I think this all the time. Man, I'd love to have an endowment. Then I could just, you know, send church planters out, you know, all across the United States. But as soon as that endowment becomes an endowment, then the wrong person can get into the institution that is governing the endowment and it ends up going liberal. And You know, I I feel like it's almost a year of Jubilee kind of thing, you know, every every fifty years or so we need to we need to shut all ministries down. uh in and sell off all the assets and start from scratch almost kind of a thing because because of the danger of serving mammon instead of serving the kingdom of God and in ministry. You ever thought? Well what about vision? What does vision mean? I think that we have to have to have a vision for our life. We have to have have to have a vision for our church. And so we plan. Even God said he predestined us. You see what I'm saying? So everything is a projection, right? Planning is definitely important. Yeah, plan we have to plan. As William Carey said, we should Plan like we cannot pray and pray like we cannot plan. Oh. So maybe the trick is you you plan and prepare and have a vision for the future, but you don't worry about tomorrow. But we don't have to be a problem. Hopefully, expectantly, but not based out of worry and fear. Is that maybe the balance? He says today has enough worries of its own. And and that principle I think is key. I mean even here at the end of the day, you know, going home, there's a couple worries, you know, some things that that I could address um you know uh w with the rest of the day. And in the context of that um I you know, there's just a recognition that that, well, let me focus on what's here today. God's with me here today in the midst of what I'm doing for the rest of the day today. And so so let me worry about those things and I can plan but I won't worry. There and I think there's a difference. Well then that's it for today and planning for the future. Our next show will focus on the issue of tithing. Yes, like we've been trying to do for a couple weeks now. Yeah. Pastor Yolanda Gamble from Shure Fellowship, thank you. Pastor Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel, thank you. Thank you. And thank you to Putman Plumbing and Heating for sponsoring our show. How can we make you smile? Thanks for listening, God bless