Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heather. How can we make you smile? Credit Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson once said, The clash of ideas is the sound of freedom. In that spirit, we seriously wrestle with the important ideas, at least things that we think are important ideas. And our hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth that the most uh about these most important issues that we face in this life. That said, what the show is really about is having some fun and tackling really serious issues and it's like it's la it's like intellectual mud wrestling. It is is what this is. Intellectual mud wrestling both. I don't even want to imagine what that looks like with you in the mud pit. Keep it closed. I look good at mud, let me tell you. Your daughter's been wanting you to say that. I'm sure she loved to have a good mud wrestling. Anyway, so you know, quick aside. Yes. Once upon a time, you know, my wife used to put that green mud pack stuff on her face. And I you know, I can I'm old and secure enough now that I can admit that she used to put the green mud pack stuff. On my face too. So uh the the whole point was there is that you're now old enough to uh comfortable to just share a mud there. That's what we do on the show. What are you gonna admit publicly that you used to wear the the green mud pack? That's what I'm saying I did. How about you? Oh you did? Yeah. No. I never did. Did you? No. Maybe you're all alone in this. You wouldn't have did it You're right. Even if I did, you're right. I wouldn't admit it. So the the uh wimp of the group is Jonathan Sweites, Ambassador Crossroads Valley Chapel. Yes. Uh also on the panel this week, back from last week. From the southeast region of the Ahmadiyya community, we have Imam Zaki Kauzer and Dr. Khaled Ahmed Atta, National Secretary for the Ahmadiyya Community. And if you weren't listening l last week, let me just set the context a little bit. Yes, this is the Muslim group that is uh hoping to buy a whole bunch of acres in Walkersville to put a retreat complex there. And just like last week, no, we're not talking about politics. If too bad. If you're excited about that, go sit in on some sort of planning commission, zoning meeting. Yeah, they're they're having them like twice a week these days. And get your jollies because that's not this. We talk about things. We were talking about this before this show. This show, you know, whatever happens in Walkersville. Yes. We like you guys in Walkersville, by the way. Love ya. Yes. Absolutely love you. Walkersville, favorite place. Yes, I love to drive through there and go golfing over in Glade Valley. I love to golf in Glade Valley. But the point is Yes I'm not sure how old you listening are, so let's give you the benefit of the doubt. In a hundred years, whatever happens in Walkersville, you won't care. In a hundred years you won't care anymore. That's true. But what you will care about is what we talk about on this show. The spiritual eternal things. Last week we were talking a little bit about how the Ahmadiyya community is different from what we typically think of from the vast majority of Islam. Though I think it's important for for us to uh just identify again that that uh both the Imam and and Dr. Atau were very um uh at pains to make sure that everybody knew that they're not trying to separate themselves out as being like the best Muslims out there or anything. We're not trying to speak for other Muslims. There's a measure of respect there And we're just here to tell you about ourselves. And so our efforts to distinguish them in in the uh whole m uh Islamic community makes them a little bit uncomfortable. Because they don't want to make a big deal necessarily about all those distinctives in a disrespectful kind of way. So um blame it on Troy and I Well, if but if you're a a listener, you know, regular listener to this show, part of what we do is is educational at some point, you know. And for me, I mean I learned so much just by having the opportunity to do this show. But if this will help you to understand w um The only reason we're trying to go down that path at all is y you say Christian and in the Middle East that might mean one broad brushstroke. I don't I have no idea, but they might think Christian means the Pope or who knows what they think it means. And we know in in a more Christian context, in in a culture that is more predominantly Christian, we understand that there are different shades and colorings and and angles that are played. So there's There's Roman Catholic, there's Orthodox, there's Protestant, and then even just within some of those, I mean you've got Greek Orthodox, Russian Orthodox, or you know And then you've got branches of those that tend more conservative, tend more liberal, you know, and so everything. Calvinists, Arminians, and you've got and then among the Arminians you've got the the Methodists and the Episcopalians and the Subdivide so many different ways. But now I wonder, is this a fair analogy as long as we went down this road a little bit? We're gonna get into church and state issues here in a second. But is this kind of a fair analogy? It is. Would a mainst w what I'm gonna call a mainstream, the the vast majority, the ninety eight percent of Islam that doesn't think you guys are on the right track with your theology, would they view you maybe the same way that mainstream Orthodox Christianity would look at Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormons, some sort of radical wild haired sect whose Heretical. Do you do you understand the distinctions you make? Because we consider those guys when the Jewish people thought of the Christians. In the beginning. They knew they were from the Jewish faith but they were kind of like a radical new group. Well which which is interesting because to this day, um uh probably the majority of the Jewish people would still reject us. So possibly the same thing is to view us as a new radical kind of group with new ideas, dynamic ideas Uh but we are strongly Muslims, we stand by that. We are Muslim. Sure. But just as you put it in Islam there's so many varieties of I think there's seventy-three sects supposedly. Sure. That's a lot of sects and uh there is no real mainstream Islam. But there is an understanding that we have that Muslims believe this. But that is by the way, I think. jumping in. Yeah. The uh the matter of uh Ahmadiyya coming up as a new sect in Islam is uh as Imam Zaki has already said It was in fact uh prophesied much earlier in the scriptures as well as the Prophet of Islam. He prophesied that after uh thirteen hundred years, when the fourteen fourteenth century comes, the lunar uh there will appear an imam who will be Masi and the Mahdi. So we are more or less in the same way as uh Moses, peace be upon him, had Jesus Christ coming after him about fourteen hundred years later So we we we fought. Yeah, for those of you that are doing the math, fourteen hundred years by the lunar calendar uh comes quicker than fourteen hundred years by uh uh the other counter, you know, the the the solar counter. And so that's the reason why it seems like uh that's a little bit off there. Anyway, so now that we've gotten some of the preamble stuff out of the way, Jonathan started to ask a question that I uh Rudely but wisely interrupted uh toward the end of last week's show, and he wanted to go in the direction of church and state. If you can recall what that question was, uh Well again we're gonna we're we're hoping to identify um distinctives about the uh Ahmadi community in the Muslim world and one of the uh glaring um doctrines uh of the Islamic world from what we understand in the West is that there seems to be no separation of church and state. And there seems to be the sense that that the two are one uh and in fact even uh that if there's a secular state that is over top of uh the Muslim state that the secular state by by many who consider themselves orthodox is automatically illegitimate because it's not a religious state. And so uh there seems to be very little separation between the two and uh that's a distinctive that you guys don't believe that. You guys actually think there should be a separation of those two Uh describe that to me a little bit if you would. Exactly right. We believe that church and state should be separate and that is how uh you say mosque and state or do you say church state? Religion and state, okay we'll put it that way. The reason being in in our uh in our lives there are two very important things. One is your religion and the other is your government. Those are the two things that are gonna guide you and influence your life very much so. We believe Islam is a complete religion which In the Quran it clearly says it answers every aspect of your life. Okay. Okay. And government being one of them. Okay. So religion is there to guide you spiritually. and guide you towards God. Yeah. And government is there to guide your life, how you should live and how society should be. Islam does tell us many things that help that government. But it does not in any way say this is how government should be. It should be a president, it should be a a king, or it should be a parliament. No. It says the only things that we that a government must do is be fair, just peace loving, uh take care of its citizens. These are the basic requirements that the Quran says that government must have. So other than that it could be any type of government So the interaction between religion is government and and government is that the religion would provide the qualitative Right. Uh um uh distinctions, you know, that you should be just, you should be righteous, you should be moral, you should be all those things. But besides that, it doesn't prescribe a specific type of government, i. e. monarchy or oligarchy or democratic republic that doesn't prescribe any other. It has to have government uh religion to help it America, for example. Our government is great. We love it. But without the good aspects of religion like righteousness, honesty, all of these things, a government could never work. So we believe church or gov religion and government must work together. We kind of put this separation of church and state like they're separate and fighting with each other. No. They're both from God, they're both supposed to be in harmony. So we believe they both should be harmony working together for the betterment of mankind. See, and I could get on a soapbox about this, you know, uh the original founding fathers of our nation and setting up a uh a uh an establishment clause that says that the government shall make no law uh concerning the establishment of religion uh and that there be oh nor nor the prohibition thereof. The point was exactly what you're describing. The original founding fathers uh had no um intention whatsoever to keep religion or morality out of the public square. In fact You know, everybody from Ben Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, every single one of those guys, uh uh uh persuasively argued in Congress and in the Constitutional Congress and and previous to that when they were trying to come up with the Constitution, all these guys persuasively argued that that religion was necessary and that we needed to and and for them it happened to be the Christian religion Whatever religion it may be. All religions basically teach the same thing. Live in peace, love your neighbor, uh you know, be good and be righteous. So never really because um I think I think that you believe that they all teach the same thing more than I do I do believe that. I think that there are many things that they teach that are the same, but uh you might be a little bit more is universalist the word than I am on that. We because we believe it uh again, we're expressing our understanding here that all religions are from God Like do you think Zoroastrian Sharans uh worship the same God? Worship the same God originally they did Okay. But now they've changed it. We do. We believe there is only one God and everybody has a different understanding of that God, but it's basically the same God. Let me jump in then and ask if if you take that to its logical conclusion, it wouldn't really matter then that you're a Mahdi, right? Why not be something else? Sure. We we believe We're coming to salvation now, right? That's basically it. So we believe anybody who follows a religion truly And praise to God and has a relationship with God. God has the right to forgive that person, give him salvation, no problem. We just believe being in Ahmadi It makes it easier because we believe that's the truth and that's the you know perfect form of religion and the way uh life should be. So you think Jonathan has a good idea. I hope he does. Not only do I think he I if he's a good Christian And he lives the life the best possible and he has a good relationship with God. God, I hope and I pray he does go to heaven. We would like everyone to go to heaven. Now that sounds really nice and likable. Jonathan, you're not gonna sound very likable and responsible. Yeah, yeah. Our founder said on the day of judgment we'll find out who was a Muslim, who was a Christian, who was a Jew Meaning that's between you and God. However, there's a map. And we believe every religion is a map. This is the quickest and best route to salvation. Yeah, and the distinction between that and what Orthodox Christianity believes is that um that there's only one way to the Father and that is by Him sending His Son to die on the cross for our sins. And so the distinction is that uh is is whether or not we can attain to righteousness or whether or not we can't attain to righteousness, we can desire to attain to righteousness, but that God had to come down. In fact I was doing some cliff climbing the other day and uh somebody spoke up and said, hey, what's a good illustration for cliff climbing and and our relationship with God? And the guy that's on the side of the cliff speaks up and says, It's easier for him to come down than it is for us to go up. It was great. It was classic. And the point is is that in Christianity we believe that God had to in grace he had to stoop down and to provide a way so that holy people could interact with a holy God and to make a way. And Um and so anyways, that's the distinction. Yeah, and and let me make one one other point about it that it specifically if a person doesn't Isn't of the opinion that God has to make a way to provide a sacrifice, meaning that somehow we could attain to it, that that specifically is the arrogance that God hates that that that if that that for a person to think that that in any way we could come close to attaining that without God himself having to provide the sacrifice that that's the arrogance that that would kind of be a slap in God's face. We believe if you pray to God and you have a relationship with God, that's it. Um a person who's never heard of, let's say Christianity for example, but leads a righteous life And he does his best. But he's in a place where there's no Christians. For us to say, for me to say that no, that person is damned just because he didn't do that, that would be tough for me. Okay, go ahead If if Christ is not around or or or somebody is is not around that can preach Christ to people, uh I am of the opinion that all creation proclaims the glory of God and that in all proc all creation proclaiming the glory of God, that it is abundantly clear to all of us in our hearts that we do not measure up to his holy standard. We know whether whether you call it Sharia law or whether you call it the law of God, it's written on our hearts. And it's abundantly clear that nobody measures up to it. We've never met anybody. We see people that come closer, but they're coming closer is like the difference between one and two on a scale of ten. You know, that that they're coming closer is is it seems huge to us, but it's minuscule, and that the point is that Christ was a perfect ten, that he was the perfect sacrifice that would make the way. And and so we believe that even if uh somebody hasn't had Christ preach to them that in their heart of hearts, if they know that God himself has to make a way and provide a sacrifice, then that is the that's what saving faith is all about. That if they heard the message of Christ, they would say, yes, that's it. You know, that's what we've been looking for and that that's what would make all the difference. And so it's a little bit of a distinction there that I think is a very important distinction. Doctor. You see, uh coming back to the uh question of the separation of the church and the state. Um is he would believe firmly He wants my job. He does. He pulled you right back. He did. Yeah, absolutely You know what? Don't pay that much. But at the same time We also believe whereas the uh church has no right to enter into the domains of the government or the state, the state has no authority to interfere with the amount of the church or the mosque. The two should remain separate. There is an area of overlap, but that is for the good where the where you can see cooperation from each other, some guidance. Yeah, yeah. So they are not working as hostile forces even if they are separate. And um I don't see a reason why any peaceful Ahmadi Muslim, for example, or for that matter any Christian would out of nothing go out and you know have argument or you know th that sort of thing with the with the state. There is no reason for that. It's interesting guy by the name of Dines de Souza has written a book, What's So Great About Christianity that has just come out uh on the bestseller list a Amazon and he argues this the the same exact thing that there's a place where the state has no business being in in i in the religious circles there's a place where the religious stuff has no place being in the state and uh he argues that that's uniquely uh arose out of medieval Christianity and rose out of a Christian mindset. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Before that was Dr. Haled Ahmed Uh Atta, National Secretary for the Ahmadiyya, and also on the panel, Imam Zaki Kowser, uh, with the Southeast region of the Ahmadiyya community. And by the way, the Southeast region goes all the way from Baltimore to Miami. Did you know that? No way, South East. He has thirteen divisions or thirteen chapters from Baltimore all the way down to Miami and he does all that traveling by car Buy car. By car. What kind of car? That's a Honda court, nice car. Ding ding ding. Great, great. So w we started off talking about Church and State and we drifted into almost a second topic there, but I do want to maybe finish out the Church of State thing a little bit. Yeah. Because I don't know that we've articulated in this show what a good Orthodox understand a Christian Orthodox uh understanding and by Orthodox I don't mean East Orthodox, I mean uh traditional Christianity Uh from a Protestant precision uh position anyway. Uh what should a Christian think about that issue? Well how much influence should the church have on the state and vice versa? Christ put it very simple. He said, Render under Caesar what is Caesar's, and render unto unto God what is God's And uh the state wields the sword, wields its power to restrain evil, to protect its citizens from evil. Uh but it's not the place of the state to attempt to uh legislate morality. It's the place of the state to to provide a covering where people can live free and l uh live safe. And then it's the responsibility then of the religious leaders and the uh people to choose uh to be moral and to follow God and to serve God. And so it's not the place of the sp state to tell people how to be, but it is the place of religion to s be speaking prophetically into the public square calling the people uh to righteousness. And so do you feel like that's um sufficient Yeah, I mean it's a question of it's got a nice broad classic description, right? Okay. Yeah. It doesn't get into nitty gritty we would have trying five for nitty gritty. Yeah But uh it sounds like you would agree with that. We agree with that. That sounds perfect. I think so. But we in agreeing amongst ourselves here this this morning would find disagreement among the more fundamental fundamentalist thinking Muslim mo uh Muslims, correct? Which for the record I think it's I think it's helpful to acknowledge that fundamentalist Christian in the United States believes in the separation of church and state. Like that's fundamental to uh to to Christian belief system. In fact it goes all the way back to Augustine that that that argued that there was a city of God and that there is a city of the world and that there would always be the two, even at e even where when there are the most uh significant abuses in the Christian world, i. e. the Inquisition and their Crusades, there was still the sense that if somebody blasphemed God then the church would would uh would put the guy to death And if somebody committed murder, then the state would put them to death. And so the idea of the separation of church and state is an idea that has been there ever since the time of Christ. and has been uh uh persistent and consistent through all of the uh ages of Christianity, that the two would be separate and that one would rule uh in the spiritual w and the spiritual life of uh society and the other one would rule in the political life. And all fundamentalists are are classed together, kind of like what we were talking about last week, the the label Muslim. It's it's just thrown around and it's a label and it means this the exact same thing in all situations And it doesn't, as we as we've you know, like for example the fact that we as Christians would believe that abortion is uh is evil, that homosexuality is a sin and uh and should not be allowed in society, or that we would believe that um uh that immorality in general, sex outside of marriage, that kind of stuff, uh is something that should not be allowed. We would be labeled for that as being fundamentalist Christian. and uh trying to impose some kind of morality these days, at least in the media, in uh popular mainstream media and Hollywood and that kind of thing. And in fact, to that extent you guys would as well, because you guys would tend to agree that abortion is wrong, homosexuality is wrong. You know, these kinds of issues. Abortion, uh there's you know, obviously some extreme cases where it would be permitted. For example, like the the the life of the mother is in danger and the doctors s specifically say that no, you will you will suffer if you have this kid. That's medical reason. Then we would say that kind of abortion is a good idea. But would you agree that that happens like. 0001% of the wrong You know unfortunately in our countries, back in uh in the third world countries, it happens a lot more because they don't have the medical facilities that we do here. So over here someone said that to me, I'd you know, check it twice. Gotcha. But over there it's understandable. Yeah I totally I totally hear that. But other than that, abortion just because you had a illegitimate child that would not be acceptable That is not permissible. Because it is a life and it has to be respected. And then homosexuality is completely not permissible and it's uh not acceptable at all. So see, they're not con recognized as fundamentalist Muslims And yet they agree with the fundamentalist Christian. So be careful how you use your your labels and your words and try to classify. That's an important distinction. And to to put maybe a little bit of a bow tie on the separation of church and state thing, to pick up on what Jonathan was saying I think it's important for us Christians to remember that Jesus said that his kingdom was not of this world. Yeah. You know, so render on to uh Caesar what is Caesar's render on to God what is God's But uh Jesus wasn't saying that the two were equal. Yeah. Uh and that you know, and we certainly shouldn't confuse the two. Yes. Um around three hundred years after Jesus there became a blurring of that line with the uh the conversion of the Emperor Constantine at the time and all of a sudden Christianity became legal. Well they say that there's a blurring but I but again historically when you when you look into it the blurring is more in the minds of modern uh uh people that really don't understand history. Yeah, I mean there there was still a genuine uh distinction between the two uh the two the church and the state all through history, even in Constantine's time. Right, but that I'm saying there began a blurring, I think that blurring became really uh emerge at some point. When you have popes raising up armies to g to go on crusades And when you have uh John Calvin trying to set up the you know the perfect Christian government in Geneva, uh I I think there became some efforts and then the Puritans coming and trying to set up uh a a theologically based, you know, government um in New England. I think there was some blurring that was uh Inappropriate from a biblical standpoint. I don't think that they had the Bible at their backs on on those issues and you know, I I have high regard for many popes and for John Calvin and for the Puritans and you know I've been accused of being a Puritan by the way. Yes so night. Yeah. So um This I so I'm not saying that in a pejorative way. I'm just saying that in that case I think the church lost its way on what's truly important. Kinda what we started at the beginning of the show. What's gonna matter a hundred years from now? Right. You know, the government agencies and all that sort of stuff isn't really what matters. And that's the church should be about the business about of what really matters Yeah. And I think when we lose our our way in those areas, we really lose our way in some important areas. So anyway, we're gonna have to put a wrap on this show. We got time for maybe a final quick thought. If anybody has something that they've been itching to get off their chest on a church and state issue Dr. Ada. See one of the problems uh if the church or the uh mosque, for example, has to take over the uh the government or the state. Now, for example, in the Islamic faith itself there's seventy-three sects. And in Christianity and you know other religions everybody does have sects and subsects. Now which sect are you going to give the government to? Who is going to impose his law Yeah, fall seventy-three for example in Islam are going to impose their own law individually, where do you end up? It will be chaos. There will be a lot of blood bloodshed and you know unrest. So that's a problem. And the problem is I view secular humanism as a religion and it bugs me that they're imposing their religion on us. Yes, so we got a whole lot more we can talk about, and with that we're gonna Tie that boat. Yeah, we're gonna we're gonna wrap it up on that point. I'll just say you're half of the county now probably. Anyway, Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor Cross Israelite Chapel, thank you. Thanks for being here. Imam Zaki Kowzer, thank you And Dr. Khaled Ahmed Ata, thank you. And thank you for listening. Thank you to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And again, I want to invite you, if you have a question. or a thought or a comment or you want to tell me I'm absolutely crazy, uh you can send me an email. It's pretty easy. Troy T R O Y at WFMD. com If you forget that, just go to the website and there you can access my email information there. I'm updating my blog on that website. Um every day, Monday through Friday, and Jonathan's got much better at updating his. He doesn't quite do it every day, but when he does it He does a whole bunch of blogs at once to kind of make up for lost time. So there's plenty to read there. So if you were to check his blog at least once a week, you'd have plenty of stuff to try to keep up with Um and you know send in stuff because I like to use emails from listeners and stuff as part of my blog as a way to try to be interactive. So anyway, thank you for listening and uh I don't know. We're going to try to do this again next week? We'll pick up and we'll talk about maybe the person of Jesus or the person of the Messiah. Who was the Messiah from a Mahdi and a Christian perspective? That's next week on the Faith Debate. Thanks for listening. God bless