Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, and joining me on the panel of one this week again is the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Sweitzer. And I was just telling Jonathan off the air, you know, we had uh I I don't know if it was a good show, but it certainly was an interesting show and it was fun for us to do. I'm not sure if it was fun for you to listen to. But it was a fun show last week and I was just talking to Jonathan off the air, you know In the spirit of what we were talking about last week, we were listening to some little vignettes, if you missed last week's show, some little vignettes that were of a Christian nature. They were Bible readings with some narration from by Michael Murray. And Troy thought they were extremely boring. Yeah. And I you know Jonathan was trying to give them the benefit of the doubt. He was trying to see the glass as half full. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And finally I beat him into submission and he had to admit that yes, you're right. It was boring. So in that spirit, we've been doing this show for we're about to celebrate our third anniversary doing this show. Can we have champagne on a faith to basis? I think we probably should. And in the spirit of what I'm about to say, I think that we will I would like to publicly apologize for boring you for the last three years. We're not gonna be one of those typical religious shows that you tune out after thirty seconds. You don't even know what the content of the show is, but you can tell within thirty seconds that it must be a religious show because it's boring. Yeah, yeah. That's like so scary. That's like Interesting. Yes, and in spite of our uninteresting lives. Yeah, yeah, yeah. God help us now that we're going to try to be interesting, you know? But Like that in and of itself is like boring. But what a wake-up call. Automatically boring. Yeah, that's trying to be interesting. I don't want to be Like those vignettes we listened to last week. And I think all too often we probably have been. Right, right. And I'm sorry. Because we get so Though you know, the w when we had uh the rabbi on a few weeks ago. That wasn't boring. Yeah, yeah, he went to a whole new level, which is you know, a good debate really isn't That's true. If you're going head to head and you're not going to be able to do that, you're not going to be able to do that. So what are you saying? Everybody else that's been on the show has not been a good guest? And you've offended half of the pastor in Frederick County. It's not me that you're so boring. Trying to defend myself, but you have exposed my nakedness in front of everybody. I have uncovered your nakedness. Yes, yes. Oh my goodness. That's not a pretty sight. So so back to the show. Anyway, here's what the show's about. This has nothing to do with religion or the show, but it caught my attention. Okay. As a pretty good way of describing what the show's about. Okay, so we're gonna do a show about the descriptions of the show. Yeah, no no no. Just just little aside right here. Okay. Yeah. Don't try to structure the show. I know, I did You know, don't you pretend it on me. I'm following you today. Go with the spirit. Okay. Pretend you're charismatic. I'm in the mood. All right. This is a headline uh or I s little internet story that's headlined Elephant in the Living Room Confronting the Tough Stuff. Okay. You may remember this one. Question Heavy. But up bump. I didn't even mean that. There's an elephant in a living room and it sounds heavy. But up bump, I'm loving that. Oh, you're too honest for your own good. I am. Alright. Question. Where does the elephant sit in the living room? Answer. Anywhere it wants to. An old favorite from a childhood joke collection, but one that is solidly based on a proven component of human diamonds. boring thing from the exciting new me. Oh, okay. Okay. So this is the boring thing I'm reading. Okay. Prepare to be bored. So be bored for the next 10 seconds. Alright. So This this is uh now you got me all thrown off. An old favorite from a childhood joke collection, but one that is solidly based on a proven component of human dynamics. For the most part, we all tend to avoid addressing the issues that are the most cumbersome and problematic. Yes. Who wants to tackle an elephant and try to change what it's doing Human beings have an incredible capacity to turn a blind eye to situations that are difficult. Call it denial, call it avoidance, or call it just plain old fear. If you tend to avoid the really tough stuff, you're not alone. The problem with the natural inclination is that it can lead to a culture of accepting the unacceptable. So does that describe this show or what? What that we're trying to go after the tough The problem with this natural inclination to ignore the difficult, the weighty, the heavy matters, the elephant in the living room is that it can lead to a culture of accepting the unacceptable. This show is all about tackling the weighty, heavy, traditionally held to be boring. stuff because it's what's important and if we fail to do that we will end up with a culture look around you that finds the acceptable I mean the unacceptable to be acceptable. Yes. A dear friend of mine, uh former pastor of mine, uh once talked about the cycle that happens in in culture and it's probably not his. He probably borrowed it from someone else. Although maybe he did. He was a pretty brilliant guy. He talked about the You move from tolerating something that's unacceptable. Oh, yeah. To accepting something. Yeah to celebrating that same something. Yeah. And you can see the phases in a society when that begins to happen. And I and it happens when you refuse to acknowledge the elephant in the living room and refuse to tackle that elephant for all its worth. Yep, yep. And take that chance, so you end up tolerating it, ignoring it. I'm afraid to deal with it. I'm gonna just deal with it. So you lose all your momentum, you lose all of your credibility, because well, you know, you're living with it and who might say anything, everybody's kinda going along to get along. Then pretty soon somebody's brave enough to admit that they're beyond tolerating it. And you know what? I don't just tolerate it, but I accept it. That's an acceptable alternative. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And if you want to be in the in crowd at that point in the ball game, you just have to accept it too. Right. 'Cause that's what the in crowd is acceptable. And you're not going to tackle that elephant because to do so would uh would go contrary to your nature, which is to deny, avoid, or be fearful. Yeah. So we avoid the tough stuff. This says you're not alone and we're not. We're all sus susceptible to this. We're all cowards. So then you end up in this environment where you have to say, yeah, you know Yeah, I guess I accept that too. Because I don't want to make waves. I was just tolerating it, but yeah, I I guess I can see your point. I'm gonna have to accept it. Yeah. And then it moves from acceptance to let's have a party in the street. Yeah, yeah, because it's boring just to accept something. Let's have a national day of honor for this Right. Previously unacceptable behavior. Yeah, yeah. It's it's crazy, but it's true. So let this show is about tackling the elephant, baby. Tackling the elephant. Can you eat it? We're trying to eat it. See, this is a show for you Democrats too. You should enjoy this because you on this show can tackle the elephant, baby. That was good. That was that was witty. I'm done for the day. I've only got two. All right. Now here's something. I think I might have shared this to you once before, kinda offline. Okay But it still kind of fascinates me 'cause I don't know what it means. So little on air cycle analysis if you want. It's up to you. There's an online What I don't know what the website is now. There's an online website you can go to. I think somebody emailed it to me. That's why I can't find the the website on this sheet of paper I'm looking. But it was a quiz farm. No nicotine standard. It's called the quiz farm theology quiz. Maybe that'll help you find it if you're interested. But you answer this questionnaire. It's an online questionnaire and it's got 20 questions, 30 questions, I don't know how many. Th forty questions, whatever. It's all multiple choice. Okay. Or it's actually less multiple choice. It's more on a a sliding scale. You agree kind of a thing. Right. If you really, really agree, it's a ten. If you really, really disagree, it's a zero. And if you're somewhat ambivalent, it's a five. Without getting into education. Which is perfect for someone like me. So I'm doing this test thing. Okay, that yeah and I can't remember exactly what the questions were, but it might be something like, you know, all people are born a sinner Yeah, I totally agree. So you would mark a ten. Yes. Someone else, like we had the rabbi uh he was saying everybody's sold Rabbi Psychowitz Psychowitz He he might disagree and it might be a zero for him, or it might be a one or a five or whatever, right? So anyway, you answer this question. Okay. Now uh it is, I think uh skewed toward a Christian perspective of the answers you get from this. So I don't know how a a a Jew or not or other non Christian how they would end up scoring on this quart sort of quiz. Okay. But maybe they'd show up okay. Okay. But anyway, so I've answered all these questions and then it tries to match you up based on the editors of this website with you know, noteworthy theologians from the ages. Oh, that you would kind of agree with. That you're in alignment with. Oh. So I guess they would figure, okay, if you if you say everyone's born a sinner All right, well Luther would also say a ten. Yeah. Right? Calvin would say a ten. Augustine. Yeah, uh Augustine would say a ten. A lot of people would say a ten. Okay. So okay, you'd you'd score with all of those people on that particular question. But maybe the next question you're very different than Luther, but you're still similar to Augustine, for example. So anyway, they weigh all this and and the computer goes and it spits it out. That's how the old computers used to sound on cartoons anyway. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And nobody knows that anymore. Your kids don't know that. You know? I don't think computers ever really did sound that way. They never did. They just didn't co in cartoons. But anyway, so it spits it out. Yep. And here's what it says about me. Yeah. Uh oh. It's uh and it's not a hundred percent. It would have been really freaky scary if I was a hundred percent. But I had an eighty percent alignment with two people. One of them I know quite a bit about. Very interesting. And one of them I know very little about. But I was tied with 80% agreement with Martin Luther and Carl Bart. Carl Bart, yeah, yeah So by the way, number three on my list got sixty seven percent. Jonathan Schweitzer, wasn't it? No. Actually I had three tied for the next position. I guess three tied in third place in 67% agreement. 67%. With John Calvin, Friedrich Schliedmacher. Schleiermacher. Schleiermacher. I c I my German's a little rusty. Yeah, me too. Is it Schleermacher or Schleiermacher? Um I forgot both ways. Okay. And uh Anselm Anselm also tied a sixty seven percent. And I know a little bit about those guys. It's interesting that Calvin and Schleiermacher would be I would have the same with them 'cause uh they're I think they're significant enough different from each other that it would be hard to match up sixty-seven percent with both of them at the same time. Yeah, and I'm wondering like how many of uh the people that are listening today have any idea who these people are. Probably not, but for the theologians in the room. Yeah, yeah. Well, okay. Are are you well studied enough to be able to give a quick synopsis of who some of these names what they represent when I do know uh so anyway and in going down the list, others that sh ranked high for me were Charles Finney, Jonathan Edwards Uh those guys. Jorgen Moltmann Paul Tillich and and Augustine. And Augustine. So Karl Bart, he's a twentieth century guy. Yeah. He German. German. He was a German. And I think that Carl Bart was big into like the church being the church, right? Um wasn't that a big thing for him? Like the church eminence of God. And the church should stand up and be the church. Like it's important for the church to step up. Right? Isn't that I I don't know a lot about him, but I think I know that about him. Is that true? Okay, sure. Well I would agree with that. Okay, maybe that's where some of the agreement is. Okay Martin Luther, obviously, if you don't know who Martin Luther is, he uh is given credit for launching the European continent into the Reformation. Yeah. With his ninety-five theses that he sparked a whole Wikipedia in front of us or something. Yeah, exactly. And so it wouldn't be surprising that I would identify self-identi identify myself as a Protestant Christian. Yeah. And so that there'd be a lot of alignment with Martin Luther isn't surprising. Yeah. John Calvin being right in Being next in line makes sense. I mean that's like the one two punch of the Reformation right there. Finney, you know, Wesley. You know now Schlermacher, he I have You know, I've heard a lot of pejorative things about him over the years. I know that he's supposedly this brilliant guy, but has some kind of hare brained theological schemes Okay. Which actually makes sense. I can see why I'm a crazy. Now Ann's helm Anselm, yeah that w that was an interesting one. Definition is one because Calvinists are real keen on some of what Anselm Uh stood. Uh sixty seven percent, which was the same as John Calvin. Now Anselm is criticized, right, if I if I'm getting my historic theologians correct. Yeah. Anselm was kind of noteworthy for Co-opting a lot of the Greco-Roman philosophy stuff and applying it to a Christian apologetic context, right? Yeah, he was definitely very Greco-Roman. Roman. And some people think that he's a little too Hellenistic, there's a nice word for you for those who aren't reading along at home. Boring, isn't it? But So I'm not sure but that's just anyway, so what does it say about me? Charles Finney doesn't belong on this list. Charles Finney is on there. I know. So how does that hap Charles Finney and All right. Nobody knows what I'm talking about, okay? But Jonathan does. So I go from Carl Bart okay, I don't know really enough about that to reach you today. Martin Luther, John Calvin makes sense. Schleermacher, where'd that come from? Anselm, that's odd Then Charles Finley Finney followed by Jonathan Edwards. How does that happen? Jonathan Charles Finney is this was this outlandish Um kind of like part of the charismatic movement almost really before us before the charismatic movement really was such a thing. And not having things be boring. Yeah. Charles Finney was not a boring guy. Exactly. And Jonathan Edwards brilliant but boring, right? Jonathan Edwards, brilliant. I've heard stories about him doing sermons. He would just Right. That would be helpful. I need to write to this em this uh website and find out. And furthermore, what that means is that whoever came up with these uh definitions have Uh you know, they could be wrong about any one of those. Well that's true. Uh we don't know their interpretation of Exactly. And I did mention that at the beginning, the way the editors or however you want to pres the webmasters or whatever of that website how they're positioning. How they're understanding Luther or Finney or whoever. So that could explain part of it too. I don't know anything about a couple of these nasals, it makes you feel like an idiot. Paul Tillitz, who is that? Yeah, I always wish that I could read more of these guys. Tillitz again is another uh German guy. With with Schleiermacher and all those guys. The point is you have enough uh newfangled ideas, enough of a willingness to think for yourself that you fit with some of those guys that you didn't think you would fit with. Because they're known for thinking for themselves. for thinking outside the theological box. Is he a pastor or what? What I'm trying to encourage you right now? Did you like encourage and bring that around and make me just feel really you know centered and Sorry, why did I do that? Warm and fuzzy? That's way out of character. Wait, wait, wait. I meant but I didn't mean to make you warm and fuzzy. I thought I was gonna like really, you know, make your day rough. And I failed. Well, you just keep failing like that and we'll stay friends. All right. You're listening to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I'm Froy Skinner. He's John Sweitzer, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. meeting at Crestwood Middle School. If you want to check out uh Jonathan on the drums one of these Sundays. That's right. He he he doesn't really preach anymore. He uh lets other people do that for him. That's not true. Yeah, okay. Anyway. Percentage wise. So here, qu uh this is a a list I'm not sure why or how this was drawn to my attention, but somehow at some point in the not too distant future this list was brought to my attention and I thought it would be interesting for us to kinda go through relatively quickly on the show. We don't do anything particularly quickly. But uh more like plotters. Yeah, yeah. Well you gotta plot a little bit if you're gonna tackle an elephant. Yeah. But questions about eternal reward. Yeah. Uh and these this is some of the setup, you know. Is money the root of all evil? No, it's the root of all kinds of evil. Yeah, right. And it's not money, it's the love of money. Yes. Right. Does the tithe apply today? We've talked about this recently on this the t the the tithe. Apply today. Apply today. Yes. It's not an advertisement or adverse advertisement. I can't even say it that way. I'm not English enough. uh for a credit card. It's not about applying for a credit card. Although if you want to, you can just visit my mailbox because I get two or three invitations to apply for a credit card just about every day. It's unbelievable to me. Where did these companies get from Wait, wait, how did how did you get from tithe to credit card? Well, apply today. Oh, apply today. Does it apply today? Yes. Yeah, see. See, that was even too witty for for my really intellectual stream of consciousness. Yeah. Are we required to give anyone to anyone who asks? These are questions actually we talked about but three or four or five weeks ago on the show. Generous giving is committed to answering stewardship related uh questions thoughtfully. And so there's a bunch of these questions that are people would ask. And I'm sure maybe you even ask these. And so probably just run through these Kind of quickly. Yes. Will God reward qu Christians in heaven for good works done on earth? Um Will God reward Christians in heaven for the good works they've done on earth? Yes. Okay. Should I move on to the next question? for what we've done. In fact I think that this isn't taught often enough. We just kinda are given this br vague impression that that there's the has and the have nots, you know, those that get into heaven and those that don't when in fact the scripture is very clear that there's a sense that um that those who uh serve give their lives for the kingdom you know, who are sacrificial in their giving that all of those guys um will actually what get a larger but I gotta share this. I'm not gonna do it. I'm not gonna do this with all of them, but with this one I've got to. Okay. There are actually answers on this list that were provided by people that I are probably pretty biblical in their thinking. And here's the answer they gave. Probably pretty b biblical. Well, you know, I don't want to vouch for it. You know. Right. Okay, right. Their answer is yes, which was your initial answer. Period, which was your initial answer. But then they go on to add, just like you did. Although this theme has received little attention in Protestant churches. Right. The point is Catholic churches. Is this a Catholic website? I don't I don't think so. But I don't know. Sure. But anyway, it is the consistent teaching of the New Testament. But there is an extra reward for those that are. So Jonathan said yes. And it Yeah, you said the scripture is clear. Maybe I wrote that one. Did you write this? Yeah, see? I tricked you on it. Wow. Where do you find the time? All right, question two. Are these rewards that God gives to Christians in heaven for the works they do on earth, are these rewards earned or deserved? Absolutely. The point is that uh is that our righteousness in Christ that brings us salvation is not earned, but our response to that righteousness is what leads us uh into sacrificing ourselves for the sake of the kingdom. Oh wow. Now they disagreed with you on that one. They don't think that they're earned? They said no. Eternal rewards I I I th I tend to agree with you by the way. Okay. This says no, eternal rewards are gifts of divine grace having no human merit of their own. Far from contradicting God's grace, eternal rewards are the crowning piece of salvation by grace Having freely forgiven our sins, God goes on to empower us for good works, then to reward us for the good works that He has brought about in us Well, that's a classic Calvinist one. Calvinist it must be, 'cause that's a classic Calvinist reformed answer. Hm. I can't disagree with that exactly. But it seems like some of the things that we have to do. No, I love you more. No, I love you more. All right, why does God promise rewards to believers? Why? I'm going to say to motivate them. Well, their answer was similar, I suppose, although it's not semantic, it's it might be more than semantic. The purpose of eternal rewards is to encourage Christians to persevere in obedience. Yeah. Motivate, encourage. You're gonna say that kind of the same meaning there. Yep. Alright, so you might be a little bit more uh Calvinist than you think there, buddy. I am. Alright, number four I like Calvin, not the Calvinists Oh, I think I've heard that before. Are you one of those guys that thinks that if Calvin were alive today he wouldn't be a Calvinist? I am. Yes. Yes. What what rewards what what rewards does God promise to give to his people in heaven? Two love. Marriage Okay. That one was too precise. Yes, the point is is wait, ask the question again. What what is the question? What rewards? Yeah. Because God promised to give his people in heaven. Uh crowns, mansions, uh, and um uh being in the presence of God for eternity, eternal life, uh healing. Um, although I don't know if that's a reward that it just kinda comes as as part of the package. Well um they gave a really lengthy answer on theirs. Oh? It says it goes on to say the Bible's not particularly clear on the specifics of the rewards. And then goes on to give a bunch of types of things. Types of things, I guess. Yeah. Says that heaven serves as a storehouse, uh, place that we will dwell. Um I don't know. And seeing if there's anything else in here that's particularly helpful. Not really. So we'll move on. Number five. Number five. Survey says Are there different degrees of different degrees? Now I've heard this question a number of times from different people. You probably get it too, I would imagine as a pastor, are there different degrees of reward in heaven? Well that's funny that they asked that question here because I thought that's the question they were asking at the beginning. You know, the very first question. Are there any rewards? And my point is yes there are and there's different degrees and that people Some people will get more of a r rew it's a tough word. I actually had trouble with Rs and W's growing up. Yeah, growing up. I had to have a special speech Help. So reward is a particularly difficult. Yeah, I used to say we we uh I was wanting or I run the game. You know, like I'd get them mixed up. So reward is a tough one. So, yes. Uh so are there different rewards in he levels of heaven? Yes. I d I'm not saying there's different levels of heaven. I'm saying there's different levels of levels of reward, different degrees of rewards. Emphatically, yes. I I think so, yes. All right. Yeah, in fact, there's the sense that the saints, uh the martyrs, those that are martyred for Christ were told in Revelation will rise to reign for a thousand years, but that all the rest of the Christians do not rise to reign for a thousand years. So what does it take that word there for martyr is the word for witness? that those who are the true witnesses for Christ will reign with Christ for a thousand years, but all the rest of the believers uh will be raised to life and will live eternally with with Christ. And so there there does seem to be differences there. Well it doesn't uh it go it goes on to give you know a nice paragraph of response here on this site, but it their general answer is this is unclear. So they they don't take a strong stand where there's different degrees of reward in heaven. on that. So that's interesting to me. Anyway, there's a few more on there, but kinda like on Johnny Carson and Jay Leno on on the Tonight Show. You know, when they're doing those little comedy bits with the cards or you know, showing you the the cutouts from the newspaper or whatever on the show. Right. And then he throws it. He's always got sh like twenty of 'em, but he only shows you maybe ten or twelve and he skips past some and he throws the other side. This isn't funny. Yeah. It was funny an hour ago, but it's no longer funny, so I'm not gonna share it with you now. Yeah. Or whatever. And I was why did he do that? So how many did you just throw out? I throw out five. Yeah. See. So I'm just like Jay Leno. Yeah. And me and Jay were tight. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You and you were so judgmental of him. But he's he's not boring. No. Right, right, right. And that explains everything right there, buddy. Anyway, we've reached the end. Yes. Thanks for listening. Thank you to Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? For sponsoring the show. Jonathan Sweisser, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, and uh this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD.