Welcome to the Frederick Space Debate on Frederick News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Faith Debate is brought to us by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction, Putman Plumbing and Heating, and Dynamic Living Solutions. This week is a first on the show. We have with us Jonathan Schweitzer, who is the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here in town, who is a theist Yes. And opposite him we have Dr. Karen Gray, who is an A theist. So aren't they calling those brights now? Is that w is that a word? I really prefer the term uh non theist. Non theist, okay Well, most uh people refer to an atheist and maybe don't think what would that mean. A like atypical, meaning non-typical, meaning you know, not believing in a theist, theo, God. Uh so Cameron's gonna be representing a viewpoint on on the show. Not just the show, but later today. We'll talk about that in a second too. You're actually speaking uh later today at the uh Frederick County Public Library downtown. In fact, let's do that now so I don't forget. That's going to be uh this afternoon at 1 30 um for a interactive exploration of religious atheism is how it's uh promoted here. Is that a is that a pretty good it's being presented by Fresh. Frederick County Public Library neither endorses or promotes the views of Fresh, it says. Uh but Fresh stands for uh Frederick Secular Humanists. Uh and I guess they meet uh monthly or something. And you're their featured speaker this uh, yeah, and and of course a little bit problematic for them because they're secular and I say that I am a kind of religious person. So we're gonna have some interesting discussions there also. Interesting. Yeah. Well then you and I would agree, because on this show, Jonathan's heard me say this before. I think everybody's religious, whether they want to acknowledge it or not. I think everybody has a religion. I think everyone has belief systems, but I do think some people have uh extremely secular belief systems. And in fact You're looking very puzzled, Jonathan, but one of the first points I make is that for a monotheist from the Leventeen tradition, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam To even talk about non-theistic religiousness is a contradiction in terms because to be religious is to be in proper relationship with God. Wouldn't you agree? Uh yeah, but I've done enough, I think, study of like non theistic religions and others uh to recognize that there's uh that there's language that is used to describe an experience of connectedness with uh with other people, with the world, with the with the cosmos, uh that does not include a personal uh God. And so yeah, I would I would personally define, like say on a Sunday morning when I'm preaching um uh proper righteous spirituality as being you know, being reconnected with the Father through Jesus Christ. However, um I am aware of the language and the discussion that goes on. The more academic concept of religion and whatnot. That's that you're that you're willing to uh recognize exists as a as a fact within the world. Well, uh actually within the context in which uh I find myself uh even defining the sense in which I am religious is not easy. It is actually very difficult. Especially for secular people. I think you have just accepted it more easily. than do those who really believe not being religious is important. It's important to be secular and I think they that uh the group this afternoon may have more problems Sure. Than you have in accepting the sense of atheistic and religious at the same time. You know what's interesting, I was telling you about on the Washington Post they had this on faith and Sam Harris who, you know, is is a popular atheist of the day, wrote the book Letters to a Christian Nation, um, uh, is arguing in one of his posts on there that uh that an atheist can have a religious experience, you know, and he's he's doing he's actually getting a degree in in uh neurological uh science. I don't know if that's the right even phraseology, but you know, grappling with how the how the brain uh processes you know this sense of connectedness uh you know so much so that literally there were some two hundred and eighty posts on there of atheists saying At long last, there's an atheist out there that can describe these things, you know, because I've never been able to describe this experience that I had that I felt like was a spiritual experience, but wasn't quite uh uh wasn't something that I could describe because everybody then would have accused me of not being an atheist anymore. And they felt like Sam was kind of helping to give them the language uh to describe that. And I think That may be along the lines of the side of the world. It is somewhat like that old. So I have to say I tend to be um um a hyperintellectualist. It's a fault of mine. Sure. Uh that I readily recognize and my dad was too, so I've learned to love people like this. Yeah. My family's learned to live with me too. But not just live with what love, you know. It's good, yeah. Yeah, well that's a special kind of goodness to get that part. But um one of the things that is very important to me is the recognition that the human brain is actually a very fallible uh thing. It uh can only understand uh certain things in certain ways, only so far. Uh it's it remakes memories all the time. It reworks stuff, it is not reliable. Um and it's very limited in terms of what it can do, experience, understand. And here we have reality. And reality is incredible. And I say that literally, which means It is beyond believing in a sense. Uh even the foremost cosmologists of our time are struggling with some of the most basic questions. And one of the fun questions. Stephen Hawking. why is there something rather than nothing? You know, actually there are really interesting responses to that question these days. So the question is why is there something as opposed to And you'll just sit and think about it if you got nothing else to do. And the reason that I'm not a strict secularist is not because I am agnostic. The the whole concept of God, I have never been able to find any justifiable way of defining that or using it or developing the thought that w that to me I can honestly agree with. It would be dishonest for me to assign any of those that I have studied and and that was my area of doctorate study. And that was my doctorate was in seventy-five. I'm a sixty-five year old woman. And maybe we'll even talk about some of that stuff next week or the week after. Continue to study it and uh you know it just there are many reasons why I think it doesn't work. Sure Um we won't go into those now, but the thing is. We won't go into those now. But uh I think that one needs to have humility about the fact that uh the universe and reality is astonishing. It is incredibly beautiful. I get so excited about it. You know, it is beyond me. And what is consciousness? You know, by the time I get to feeling and talking about these things, when I look at people having a religious experience I have the profound sense that inter as the experience goes, as the neurology goes, uh, there isn't an enormous amount of difference going on here. uh in terms of it. And I'm not willing to just back up into I have friends who are scientists who are secular scientists. Sure. Just back up into that kind of secular science mode where you cut off yourself from I love the ancient mythologies, I love ancient epics, I love biblical literature I love the great scriptures of all the religions. Sure. I never tire of reading and working in these. They are a vital living exciting part of my life. Yeah, now this is interesting, um, because you're talking about humility, and I think humility, and you'll have to tell me if this is right, is set off against the arrogance of thinking that we've got it all figured out. Or that we have the pardon me, but that we have the truth. The truth and everybody else does not have the truth. Now we do believe that. Sure. We humans do believe that. Sure. Humility simply means that every time we find ourselves thinking that, which is almost constantly, we pull back and say, wait a minute. you're a fallible limited brain here. Just have a little bit of humility. Sure. Um because I the the reason I move in on that is because I think it's very likely that most people would say that I'm arrogant And that I think that I know too much. You know that you know, because I claim that Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, and the life, the only way to God And that that being the case, that literally everybody that does not accept Christ per His words and the Gospels, that uh that they will not get to the Father. And so so I I I get, you know, I'm I I feel very strongly about that. I don't I don't make make any uh bones about it. But that being the case I am keenly aware of the fact that I know very little. But the fact that I know that, see the problem is that that statement in and of itself is a um i i i it rules out that there's any other way to God, the Father. It it claims to be the only way, and it was said by the guy who I think most of us would agree is is uh uh had the most sublime vision in all of the history of the world. I mean the Buddha never never came as close to uh to to uh pr uh painting a vision of of um humanity and reconciliation as as strong and as powerful as Christ did. And his his comment, you know, to do unto others as you would have done unto you. I know there's others that had said, do not do unto others as you would not have them do to you. But but clearly Christ in all of history is is without a par. Yeah, I wouldn't I wouldn't agree with that actually. So who's on a par with Christ of the let it go? I think there are a good number of people who are in And the Jesus message and and I don't want to argue Christianity to tell you the truth. But the Jesus message uh is in fact not clear. I I think of Jesus saying, I have not come to bring peace but the sword. But to bring a sword and a man's enemies will be the members of his own household. a mother and father and daughter and son. In fact he says, unless you hate those guys you cannot be my disciple. And when you look at any of the great religious leaders of the world, any of them what you find in fact is something far more the complex than the kind of simplistic uh uh you know common everyday statements that people love to hang on to and throw around. But the truth is in all the great religions where We're men and women with fantastic minds for seeking out the meaning of life and the struggle to understand and find right. Find what your meaningness and purpose is. It is complex. It is not simple. Well, I totally agree that it's totally that that that it's very complex. However Um I see absolutely no contradiction in any of Christ's statements. In fact, that's part of the reason why uh why I think he's so amazing. I feel like there's a dynamic tension there that he says this and then he says something that that that appears to be contradictory and the reason why he's saying those two different things is because you and I, and this is central to Christian theology all through the ages, Because as you and I meditate on or think about, like you were even describing earlier, what happens is we catch this reality that he was talking about something bigger than anything that we'd ever thought about before as a human race. And so as a result of that, he says these two things that seem contradictory, but as we're patient, as we're persistent, as we as we meditate on it, and this is the thing that Part of the reason I think most people claim that Christianity is arrogant. One, because we do claim that Christ is the only way. But two, it's because there is inherent in the idea of faith Something that I feel like was never on the face of the planet until Christ began to describe it. And and the idea of faith is this idea that uh that if we keep at it That Christ wants to r reveal God and the universe to us. It says it in James that if any of you lacks wisdom, and it doesn't say lacks wisdom about God or lacks wisdom about, you know his relationships but lacks wisdom about anything, he should ask God who gives to all without finding fault. And there's inherent in in the Christian theology on faith in perspective on God, that God who created this immense, amazing world, is so amazing and He wants to reveal all of that to us. And so you find this you find this irrepressible uh passion that that is built up in all of Christianity so that we get We we we get the uh the Keplers and and we get we get the uh Shakespeare's and we get the uh the the Beethovens, these these people who who grab a hold of this idea that We can discover music. We can discover science. We can discover politics. We can come up with democracy, a whole, you know, human rights. And and in the West we have this we have this irrepressible confidence That we can discover these things if we're humble enough to let God speak to us about it. And I think people think that that's arrogant. Uh no, it's not arrogant. But what you're do what you have done with your material and incidentally there isn't a Christian theology. There are many Christian theologies And I'm reminded of one of the things that I've done. There are, but for the record, there's there's a very clear um uh body of togetherness, without a doubt. I've read them, I've studied them. Um There are those that reject there are those that reject the Bible but in rejecting the Bible they come up with all this other stuff. But those that accept the Bible there is pervasive agreement. Such incredible diversity within Christianity, as you have within Hinduism and Buddhism, the probably the least diverse of all the great traditions is Islam. But uh I'm reminded of something that one of my uh professors at Harvard said, Wilfred Cantrell Smith, a beautiful, wonderful guy, great Christian also, incidentally, beautiful Christian And that may or may not be the same, but that's fine. But sort of what I think of as, you know, the that ideal kind of loving, charitable, uh God believing um uh person. One of the things he said is, you know, there is no such thing as Buddhism. There is no such thing as as Christianity. There is no such thing as Islam. There are only Buddhists They were only Christians. They were only Muslims. That the real truth of the entity, the rest is a construct of our abstracting mind. I certainly think have every right to be called Christians. Even though they're rejects in the Bible. No, they throw out different parts of it They're not rejecting. They understand it differently. They would they they would deny that Christ did the miracles. That's designed for us to connect with the the divine and to connect with ourselves. Sure, but the point is that the way that they approach the Bible is directly different from from how I approach the Bible. Exactly. As it's presented to us and they would they would say it's not true. Your system is built as all of our systems are are built, mine too, are built on certain things which at heart we came to believe were truth. I disagree. I I believe that mine was built on the revelation of God revealing it to mankind. directly. That's a faith that you've got to do. Yeah, but I feel like that that it's based in history. There there are actual historical events that that uh that lead it along. Hey, remember me? Yes. How you doing over there? This is Troy Skinner. I'd like to introduce you guys today. We uh we invited him to be on the show with us. He's the host. Peacefully apart. Uh you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD and uh we jumped s so quickly into so many different things that Sure uh I I'm jutting down a bunch of things. We could spend others. We could spend an hour on I I have uh probably half a dozen to a dozen different notes. We could probably spend an hour on each one of these little juts, and so we'll have to figure out how to I'll have to figure out how to lay that out. But it's been good because it's given me a chance to do this note taking, so I appreciate that. Um I do want to ask uh to lay a a general foundation. I don't want to assume uh uh that anybody who's heard the show before knows who Jonathan Schweitzer is. Okay. And uh certainly uh even if you have heard the show before uh you probably don't know who Karen is. Uh and what you currently believe to be true about God existing or not existing and how you arrived at that place. I don't want to speak for you, John, but I mean I'll you can go first. Keep it brief if you will, but you grew up in a Christian household, right? Yes I did. So that's part of your story. So give me give us some of the backstory about why you hold the current view that you do about God's existence. And when you're done Oh, we'll have Karen do the same thing. Wow, that's very complex. Uh how I come come to believe the way that I believe. I think the bottom line uh issue for me is that as a young child it became clear to me that um that there were people out there that were less than kind in this um this revelation of a God who desires to be my friend and so much so that he would send his son to die on a cross on my behalf. And that he didn't just want to do that for me, but he wanted to do it for everybody. And so I wasn't just an outcast that felt like I had no friends. I was I was welcomed into the arms of God, even though I knew I wasn't perfect. I knew I didn't have it all together. I'd you know, there were reasons at times that that I even felt less than, you know, a part of the group, um, that he accepted me for who I was and and poured out his grace to me and then sent his spirit to live inside me to help me. you know, to grow. The the the revelation of the closeness and the nearness and the the the fullness of who God was was um it fits the idea of God that I feel like uh is the only appropriate uh rationale for for what God would be like. What a man truly desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than a liar. And uh Greater love is no man than this that he would lay down his life for his friends. A God that keeps himself distant makes no sense to me whatsoever. A God who uh does not make a way for anybody that feels far away to be close to him does not make sense to me. And there being no God makes absolutely no sense to me whatsoever. All right. Dr. Karen Gray. Um I don't know if you I don't know any of your backstory. I don't know if you grew up in a religious household or Oh I did. Uh certainly my mother was. My father was not until later in his life religious, but my mother was uh uh born into and and raised in uh quite a religious um family Canadian farmers on the Alberta Prairie. She was an Anglican Um when we m my parents uh moved to Spokane, Washington where I was raised, um, mother started going to the cathedral in Spokane because that was the Episcopal Church she could get to by bus. We were actually pretty poor, blue collar background. Um Mother says I began to ask questions of uh of a basic nature about life, reality, God, etc. Almost as soon as I started talking, we probably share that in common. And um Uh, I asked to be confirmed in the Episcopal Church. Confirmation normally happens about puberty and I asked to be confirmed early. That brought me to the attention of the Dean of the Cathedral Um and we began to meet, he gave me things to read, we would discuss theology, uh I read Tillik Bart, Nieber w when I was in my early teens. By the word, in case Henry's listening doesn't know those names. Those are those are heavyweight Christian German names. uh theology of the m middle twentieth century. Uh very interesting movement, uh very profound thinkers, very deep and of course somewhat reacting, especially in later years, Nieber earlier on, but later to the whole uh uh horror of the Second World War and whatnot. Um, but very socially concerned, uh interesting branch of theology, some of them more than others But um God never made sense to me, I have to say. It it did not fit with the world. None of the ways in which people were understanding God explaining him. or talking about things like life after death and whatnot did not make sense to me. When I was in high school I had a teacher who had a Fulbright had studied under a Fulbright in Thailand. And he d he was a literature teacher. He decided to give us some uh Eastern literature to read. And I read some Theravada Buddhist texts under him and for the first time in my life I said I can't believe it. This is how I understand the world. Now I don't call myself a Buddhist because I don't accept the doctrines of karma and rebirth and most Buddhists that's kind of basic. But I ha uh Theravada Buddhism in particular, which is a uh a more scholastic form of Buddhism than many are, and uh uh very intensively psychological. Uh looking a lot. In fact the the vocabulary and the language of that form of Buddhism for uh psychology is like the vocabulary for snow in Inuit. uh languages. There are just for almost every emotion, every state of the mind, there are many, many more words than in English because that's what they were studying and that they understood as core. And the basic teaching of the bo uh the Buddha's uh eightfold uh fourfold truth n four noble truths and eightfold path became for me just uh like I can't believe it. This is just this is how it's it's fitting for me, it's working out. Uh I continued to study though because I I I really loved uh Christian literature. I loved much of what w I found in Christianity, I loved the uh many of the ideals I thought I could solve my problems. That's really what sent me off to the Harvard Divinity School and ultimately to my doctorate studies looking into nontheistic religiousness in Buddhism and radical theologians. Um, especially at that time. That was in the early seventies, the Death of God school was was pretty much taking a lot of attention at that time. But I really dug deeper than that because I considered that actually relatively superficial and I still do. And I looked at at other Christians who had many of the same problems I had Uh ultimately I never solved those problems and what I came to realize when I was about 35 was that uh it's a little like uh deciding that you're uh not uh heterosexual that you're a homosexual. Well, I'm not a homosexual but I had to admit I there was no way that I could be a theist and be honest with myself. And self honesty is very, very important to me Uh I think that is a final and critical point is that one not lie to oneself. Well, that gotta settle down at least. And it gave us a foundation upon which to build, but we'll have to do that uh building uh on the next show because we've reached the end of the line here. Uh but later on this afternoon, Dr. Karen Gray will be speaking at the uh monthly meeting, I think it's a monthly meeting, of Fresh Frederick Secular Humanists. club or whatever they call it. I don't know if they call it a club, organization, whatever. Organization. The uh Frederick Secular Humanists get together at the Frederick County Library and uh their featured speaker This afternoon, this month, is Dr. Karen Gray, and she'll be presenting an interactive exploration of religious atheism. And We next week will pick up on some of these scribbled notes I've made to myself. I'll I'll pick the one that I think makes the most sense for us to dive into next, and we'll try to tackle that as best as we can in the twenty-seven minutes or so that we have. on this show. Thank you, Dr. Karen Gray, for being on the show today. It's great to have you here. Pastor Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel here in town. And I'm Troy Skinner. Again, thank you to our sponsors. All shred mobile document destruction, shredding today for growth tomorrow. Dynamic Living Solutions. If you don't own a purifier, you are a purifier. And Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? Thanks so much for listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on WFMD. God bless