Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio. 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. The show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? On the panel this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Tom Sandy, he's not pastor anywhere, but his wife is. We'll talk more about that in uh in just a second. But before we get on to the topic today, this is gonna sound a little feel a little bit like deja vu for uh us here in the studio because you don't know this, but I'm gonna help you get a sense of where we are. Never have been so glad to be in the bunker that is this studio. deep in the bowels of the earth, protected from all that is above, because apparently we were just attacked or something. Yes, but we don't know yet because we're still down here. Yeah, I don't know exactly what happened. All I know is, you know, there was a big pop sound and the Everything went down. Lights went out. Everything went down. Um but I was calling that an act of God. I was brave. Jonathan was blubbering in the corner for a while, but we got him back to us and was, yes. No, you guys were very compassionate toward me. I appreciate your Gentleness and yes. Anyway, as we're uh taping this show for playback later, it's just a couple of days ago that we had those knuckleheads from Kansas. Yes. The Wainsboro. Wainsboro, I think. Westboro would have baptised. And I just want to make it clear. Those guys ain't us. They're not. Not even close. For all of those neighbors of mine that have fought otherwise, I'm not them. And really the problem is on so many fronts it plays into so many of those stereotypes about these fundamentalist Christians and they must think that God really hates homosexuals that much. We need to go protest at funerals and we're bringing it up because they were in Frederick uh in the streets protesting and great irony of ironies that means they were eating our food here in Frederick. That's right. I hadn't thought about that. They were at Ammitsburg as well for the uh the fallen firefighters. Uh-huh. So if you find yourself to be hungry right now. It's their fault. They ate your food. See see this is the problem, Troy. Sometimes uh commentators on the radio just take things too far. You just fell into that. It's easy, but you know, put yourself back now and this particular church Uh that's right, we tried to get a morrow. I tried to have the pastor on. Uh actually scheduled the pastor of that church from Kansas The wife of the pastor would be on this show because they were in Baltimore a number of months ago and she agreed to come on but then couldn't come on. I wonder which would be tougher. The wife of the pastor or the pastor I don't know. You know, I'm just thinking about because we we'll never know because they just won't seem to come debate us. Well and our news department has tried to secure comment from them as well in advance of knowing they were going to come and protest it in the streets. We wanted to be on top of that and they were unavailable for whatever reason. And so we don't have Any way to put their side of the story out. Well it's hard to schedule them between funerals that they're protesting and whatnot. And we pretty much know what their side of the story is. They think that God is angry with America because we have gays in the military and to make their point they hold up these disgusting signs at funerals where families are in mourning to try to make their point. Yeah, that's Christian love for ya. I Yeah. They are not Christian. And the reason I'm being so emphatic about it is we've been doing the show for coming up on three years. And early on we did a lot of shows that had to do with Islam. Yeah, we did. You know, we did a number of shows. Okay, yep. And we were very critical at the time, saying Where are the leaders in Islam? Why can't I find a Muslim somewhere in leadership or in in who has a public voice? to stand up and say those terrorists, those, you know, uh radical fundamentalist bomber types They're not what we're about. They don't speak for me, they don't represent me, and we couldn't find anybody to be. To to get that. So you and we're not gonna be like that. We're gonna say these guys are the kind of people that should be publicly repudiated by the rest of the body of Christ. Right. They're not part of the body of Christ. God can judge their hearts for this. Well that's true, but I'm telling you I'm telling ya. Well no no no come on. They will know you by Ans answer me this riddle. Answer me this Batman. Answer me this Batman. Does God or does he not judge nations on the same basis that he used to judge nations in Old Testament times? Does he still interact with nations the way that he always has? Is there a difference the way that he used to and the way that he does now? I say no, but we're gonna get into that later. Yeah, well there's two different things going on here for so you you have to allow me to answer b both of the things. Really? Like before I speak again? Yes. Wow Yeah, I know. The first thing is Do I get to do that too, like saying three things? Because the first one is just a simple yes. I don't want you to jump all over that, because I know that that's what you're waiting for Okay, I'm not jumping right now. So the answer is yes, God still works in history and he still judges people, he's still involved. God is the same today, yesterday, and tomorrow. He he he doesn't change. I believe all that to be true. Okay. But this is not that issue. I'm not talking about God and him judging nations. I'm talking about the church behaving as the bride of Christ. And these people are not behaving like the bride of Christ Because they're showing up at funerals and proclaiming what they believe is the judgment of God against the nation. They're not doing it out of love No. They're not loving their neighbor? Are you kidding? If they're about to go off a cliff and they're and and they're uh in a hearse and they're about to go off a cliff Uh you're gonna do whatever it takes to stop 'em from going off the cliff. I mean uh all right, between you and I, I would never do this, and I think they need to be repudiated. I don't think it reflects the love of God. Nevertheless There's plenty of Christians that I know, myself included, that in the name of love have done things that are less than loving and don't that don't appear loving to other people. And that being the case, I'm I'm saying that there's the potential that these people are genuinely saved, they know the love of God, but that they're not sanctified enough that they know how to how to reflect that love in the context of what they believe is the most pervasive uh uh evil uh for which god is judging us. Was that that was good pervasive evil for which God is judging us that was No. We've been doing I have known you for You didn't think I was gonna come out this way? Five years at least, maybe going on six. That's because we only ever talked on the radio. Never? Ever. You think it's not possible that they're saved at all? What do you think is possible? But it is incredibly unlikely. Hmm. Well in their defense, and not that I'll do this often, you know, they're not just um you know fighting against gays in the military. They believe that this whole war is because we're accepting of the lifestyle, not that we'll just For example, the mainstream media totally ignored that there was a major gay rally in San Francisco, four hundred thousand people at this thing. Apparently there was There was uh literally uh sex acts going on in public at this thing. I've got I've got pictures, you know, mainstream media totally ignored it. Sorry. Yeah, wow Sorry, that you had to Yeah, the point is is that picture. Yeah, yeah, it's actually a Catholic group that happened to have people there to record what was going on. And my point my point in saying all that is that if we live in a nation that is pervasively chosen to reject the things of God, the clear teaching of Scripture Is it possible that God judges us today the way that He uh has judged other nations in the past? And if that's the case, would he not raise up people that would speak his word? I think the way that they're going about it is uh is extremely ineffective, childish, immature, uh uh unloving. Unchristian. Communicates. It's unchristian. I'm not sure. Yeah, I'm not I have to agree that it's uncritical. I can't I have to agree with that. I can't speak for God. You know. God forbid literally that I should try to ever speak for God. Yeah, yeah However they'll forgive us because often. However, God does speak for himself. Yes, he does. And he tells us true human Vessels. Right, but also in his written word, yes. Unchanging word. Yes. And his word tells us that we will know people will know us, uh Christians, the body of Christ, by our love for one another What do you think the odds are that at least one fallen soldier that they've protested has been Christian or the member of his family who was horrifyingly uh shocked and appalled by the protests and didn't feel the love for them was a Christian. Right, right, right, right. I I hear what you're saying. Where was the love for them? Right. And what about loving your enemy? Uh to use your analogy about going out with cliff. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Tough love doesn't doesn't avoid communicating the hard truth. If there's a hard truth to be communicated, you can't. But you communicate it in love. These guys are communicating it in hate. It certainly we yeah, because they use all the hate language and their their language is very ugly. It's vitriolic, it's horrible. I'd personally hesitate to say that uh that that we automatically know that they're not. I'm not gonna say that they're beyond salvation, meaning I think if they were in my church, I would severely uh confront I I would I would uh very boldly, forthrightly confront them and I don't think they would stick around very long. W w well and if they wouldn't change you wouldn't have them stick around very long, right? Exactly. So if it wasn't their choice it'd be yours eventually, I would think, right? Yeah, I think so I would agree with that. So I'm not saying that beyond salvation. I'm concerned now. Are we still like that far apart, man? I mean it's I think we have a relationship to you're trying so darn hard to be like this loving, sensitive pastor. What recently or just like right now? Right now. Yeah, yeah. Never before, just now. That's right. That's right, because you felt the sting of my review. The sting of my wit. But me I'm gonna pass it. I don't have to worry about it. Yeah, so much for that love for one another thing. The point is the point is they need to be publicly repudiated. If you listen right now are not a Christian. And you think that these wackos represent what Christianity and what Christ is all about Trust me, they don't. Yeah. Yeah. If you listening right now are a Christian and you're not outraged and you're not making it clear to people who might bring this topic up that they are not Christian. They might have the word Baptist in the name of their supposed church. They don't represent any Baptist I know They don't represent any supposed Christian church that I know. They are not I'm in agreement. They're are not behaving as a church of Christ. I agree. And so therefore, they're not. Sure. We won't try to split that here at this point, but yes, clearly they represent the worst and the ugliest. Be the body for crying out loud. Yes. You know? Yeah. Anyway. Yeah. All right. Here's good. You like that? Yeah, yeah. You had it you had a tone of of like tough love. You had this tone of, you know, it was it was strong. It was you know, it felt like it came from the gut. Well it did. It did. Was it manufactured? No. Not in the least. No. This was manufactured then. Yes. Okay. There it is. I get a newsletter f it's a it's a radio industry newsletter. In your formally non nicotine pain hands Right. That's the point, I believe. If they were formerly non, that means they are now You're just arguing just 'cause you like me today. That's all. All right, stop it. Yes. All right, I get this newsletter emailed to me once a week from a gentleman named Alan Mason. It's called Mason's Minute, and he quotes Robert Rodriguez, who is the brand officer for Dunkin' Donuts. And Robert Rodriguez, he's an insightful fellow. Yes, Rodriguez. Yes, here's the quote. Okay. Everyday Americans lead extremely busy lives. No way, he said that? He did. Is that profound? He's profound. Is that the time to make the donuts guy? No, I'm not sure. That's right, he doesn't have time to make the donuts. He's so busy. Now I'm not sure if Robert Riga Rodriguez is said this meaning to be quoted. So maybe we should be poking fun at Alan Mason for quoting him. Right, right, right. But then Alan's response is like Because Alan goes out again, here's the quote. Everyday Americans lead extremely busy lives. And Alan says, no kidding And it's not going to get any better either. And then he goes on to say, Well the internet and all its offshoots like email have made some things much easier. Saving time isn't one of them. And then he goes on to talk about Mark Ramsey, who's in the NAB, saying that listeners to radio stations are hearing but they're not really listening. And then Alan says, we've gone way behind beyond multitasking to what Microsoft Vice President Linda Stone calls Apparently Ellen Mason likes to quote people. This is the second quote. Uh Linda Stone calls this continuous partial attention. Wait, you say it's continuous partial attention partial attention. We are continually paying attention, but only partially. There's so much going on in our lives that we aren't able to give full attention to anything but the most important issues. Like the Frederick Faith So what does this mean? And I I I brought this up, it caught my attention because uh this is something that Jonathan's been really thinking about and and uh working uh uh on a lot and how to apply the idea of having r a place of rest or a sense of rest in our crazy busy lives and and resting in what's truly important, like in God and His Word and in the church family and in your uh you know, your biological family and being there for your wife or your husband or your kids or whatever. And you know, we get so distracted. And I think the way you phrased it once was, we give ourselves permission Right? Because well we're busy. Yeah. Yeah, we're we're making a living. We're building our career. We're You know, tending to the yard where y whatever we have all these different things going on. Yeah We've got some important conversations to have. Maybe we should just do it on the air sometime. Yeah, well I was yeah, I was joking saying, you know, people think that Jonathan well a lot of people probably think that Jonathan and I are next door neighbors and we're talking to each other all the time, having dinner together, hanging out barbecues. Shoot. And we we take thirty minutes out of our countless hours of of of uh discussion time every week. Yeah. Just to just to turn on the mics and have a show. Yeah. When the reality is that more than ninety percent of what we ever say to each other is said to each other on this show. And actually that's a problem, isn't it? It is. There's something wrong with that. It is. Uh though I wish you wouldn't have confronted me in front of everybody. Anyway. Yes. But we didn't gather here today to talk about that. That's right, that's right. Nevertheless, we do lead busy lives and we need to stay focused. So the pregame show is over, and now we're going to get into the real thing. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. on Friday Radio nine thirty WFMB. It's not in stereo, but it should be. Sorry. It's about to be. And uh Tom Sandy is a graduate of uh Asbury College, uh what is it yeah, Asbury College, which is a a Christian school, very uh heavy theological influence there. It was founded by a bunch of religious wackos. Right? And it's all and it attracts religious wackos that go to school there. So Tom Sandy is a religious wacko. His wife is such a wacko that she is pastor at uh Damascus Wesleyan uh in Montgomery County. Yes. For the rec the for the for the wacko, for the record I was trying to say. For the record, he's really not that wacko. Troy's just in a mood. He hadn't talked that much. We'll see. Yeah, yeah, we'll see. Yeah, yeah. But again, again for the record. Um Yeah, yeah, yeah. Comparatively speaking, yes. There's that pastoral sensitivity here. Yeah, see looking at it twice in one show. But uh but for the record, as you say, um I actually was asked to take a break from Asbury College twice um because I kinda told the dean the reason for me not attending chapel was because it wasn't worth going. And um if they would bring in people that would preach the word of God as I could rather sit in my room and read it then I I'd get off my duff and and and go to chapel, but uh he didn't find that so so good and then I may have made some other references later that he should change some of his lifestyle and and there's no reason to get into that. But my wife also went to Asbury and she was there for all of the semester and then went back to Lee College. So Are you gonna tell me I need to change my lifestyle? Troy, you didn't tell me that he was gonna Whackle, tell him Yeah, yeah, no, you did tell me, that's right, you did. I she wasn't listening. Yeah. You were continually partially paying attention. That's right, continue It took Microsoft to figure it out. I wouldn't know. I've never heard the full argument because I stopped paying attention. Wait, say that again? No, so so so the point is is that you went to the school, your wife is currently a pastor And uh you go to church here in the uh Frederick, Damascus area. That's correct. Right, right, right. And and even though I did put out my thoughts regarding their chapel, I did take a lot of c classes and read a lot of books there while I was there. Sure. And and since. Yeah, I I can't I mean I wasn't planning on going down this rabbit trail at all, but I I mean I have to ask the question, what exactly were they doing in Chapel that was so offensive that you wouldn't even go. Well, it it wasn't that it was offensive, but um I will I will give them the benefit of the doubt and call what they were doing good. But I believe, and not my words, uh, but good is the opposite of great. And if I can sit in my room and read the Bible And get more out of that because it's not somebody re referencing one scripture for every forty-five minutes. That's correct. That is correct. And also, um, you know, the There really wasn't any worship along with it. So I I just feel like you define worship. Well, I mean obviously worship is is somewhat my you know my responsibility and and any worship that I had there I would say would be my responsibility But it just all seemed like it was more of a performance than a reality. And yeah, they didn't s sing a few songs a couple of times, you know, the the the students that are part of the band get up, give it their best shot, look holy, you know, and then everybody sits down and but there's no real sense of the presence of the Holy Spirit, no real sense of of of God in your midst Together you worshiping just more of like, okay, we're gonna do this show kind of a thing. Okay. The bell rings, it's time to go to chapel, not you know, alright, this is chapel, this has a meeting and it even was to me because obviously I didn't go. Right. Um but, you know, the circ circular logic there and And I did and and you know, I didn't just skip class and go to the to Walmart or the Waho or or whatever, but I would read and And I I didn't find that time more beneficial. Interesting. So there's his there's his answer. I don't think that biblically you can defend the the quote or whatever that phrase that, you know, good is the opposite of great. I mean God created the world and he said that it was good So um guys I think you're on shaky ground there young man. Well I mean what the real interrupt what's in that water you're drinking today Uh no, I don't want to read. Apparently fluoride. There's fluoride in this water. That explains it. Yeah. Fewer cavities. Because it has fluoride. By the way, I I was uh instructed this week that there's no such thing as flavored water There's just flavor in water. Well flavor added to water intrinsically is always water. Flavored water would be a soft drink, I've been told. Alright, so now We're uh two-thirds of the way through the top of the show. Yes. Uh we're probably gonna have time to introduce the topic. I doubt we'll get a whole lot of uh a head of steam built up. So we'll we'll just kind of introduce what we want to talk about and then we'll pick up and next week we'll really get into the the the meat of it because we've only got like five minutes left in the show. Five minutes. But What we wanted to talk about, what we will get into now, and what we'll continue probably in next week's show to get into, is what makes Boy, I say I don't want to make this over the head of anybody who's listening. What makes the true Israel? Now there are those who talk about the church being Israel. Like today the church is Israel. Uh others say no Israel's Israel and the church is the church or whatever. But I think in this context we're kind of talking about the church is Israel. So in the New Testament, it's a statement of faith that makes the church the church. And Tom is of the opinion that even in the Old Testament, a statement of faith is what made Israel Israel. And that that statement of faith made them holy. I've been trying to figure out a way to disagree with them on this, and I don't think I can find one. Well, it it's a little little simpler and yet more complex. First of all, I I believe whether you call them Israel or the church, God's chosen people, his redeemed has never been by the law. And what I believe and we can talk about this is that it it's traced even before the law. So if it happens before the law, it can't be judged by the law. The law itself allows for exemptions, meaning it understands that no one can actually obtain the law. And then afterwards, you know, we have the salvation through Christ, which isn't dependent on the law either. Paul said that the law exists to bring us unto knowledge of our sin and our n necessity for God. And I believe that, and I'm not saying throw it all out, it's it's it's not worth anything. But I believe its primary responsibility is just that and one hundred percent adherence to the law is one impossible But two was never, unless you're Jesus, unless you're Jesus, uh, but was never what it was completely all about. completely all about. You've you've got enough qualifying statements in there that I find myself having a hard time disagreeing with you. If only you would be hardcore about one of those Then I could just come out and agree. Well well let me let me try to go back a little bit here and You're not saying that God didn't intend for them to follow the law. God clearly intended for them to follow the law. But what you're saying is that their their identity as his people was never on the basis of the law. Their identity as as his people were always on the basis of their response to his salvation. Yes. In in a nutshell. However, however, however. One minute left. Basically, that salvation is is kind of twofold. It it is, and you were talking about this earlier, basically by the nation and its individual. And in in Exodus it it kinda talks about that in two different places. And I picked that because it is before the law, and then we can show how it's What that God deals with nations in a certain way and he deals with people in a certain way and that that we need to be pay attention to those differences. Actually I was gonna say pay attention to the similarities. Sure, sure. Nevertheless nevertheless, it's good for us to distinguish between those similarities. And that's what we'll do on next week's show. We'll distinguish I don't know that I'm gonna disagree a whole lot with this. I mean we'll try to keep it exciting and all but you'll disagree Uh trust me. Yeah, if if I'm just like your uh your uh provost at the university, you know All right. Uh I still don't know how to formally in uh introduce who Tom Sandy is. Tom Sandy is like a a lay leader in the of Christianity. He's married to a a pastor. He's very well read, informed. He talks about his faith. He he's been involved in in uh in various youth ministries. So he is what I will uh uh for for my own by my own way of of defining it, he is a lay leader in the com Christian community. John Sweitzer is a Christian pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick. Thank you both for being on the show. I'm Froy Skinner, thanks to our sponsor. Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? If you would like to email me, you can do that at Troy T R O Y at WFMD. com If you have a question or a thought, a suggested guest or topic you'd like us to tackle, if you want to just smack you up beside the head and say, Troy, what's the matter with you, man? Or you can visit online. I post a daily blog, well, weekday daily blog, and from there, um from the it's on the WFMD uh website, so go to WFMD. com. and find the faith debate from there. And there's links all sorts of different what it's called apologetics, different uh websites that have to do with different uh kinds of religions. There's also a link there to Jonathan's uh blog which isn't exactly daily. But often enough to get about fourteen a month is what I noticed. So like every other day. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Anyway, thanks for being on the show. Thanks for listening. God bless.