Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Dynamic Living. Solutions. If you don't own a purifier, you are a purifier. All mobile document destruction shredding today for growth tomorrow. And Putman plumbing and heating. How can we make you smile? Frederick Faith Debate, an open and honest forum for local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson once said that the clash of ideas is a sound of freedom and it's in that spirit. That we seriously wrestle with important ideas, and our hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this life. This week we have back on the show uh the panel that's been on the show the last two weeks. This makes week number three now. Dr. Karen Gray uh representing a uh a point of view that is uh non-theistic religiousness And Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here in town, representing a theistic point of view, more specifically a a biblical Christian theistic point of view. Um and a couple of different times on the air, off the air in our conversations, the three of us, um It's interesting, those who want to uh hold really strong and hard to their atheism might not appreciate Karen's point of view, uh, because uh she has she has admittedly kind of a uh you know, some some some Buddhist uh uh influences that uh that work for her and her worldview that help her to make sense of the world or whatever and um some radically uh non-religious atheists who who reject all major world religions wouldn't like that about you. But uh I like you anyway. But anyway, ex we we've had uh uh a Buddhist guest on the uh on the show before, but it's been a while and perhaps. And we gotta tell you something. When we talked with him He w he would say things like Well well it's just like Christianity and then I'd I'd play off that. I'm like, Oh oh just like Christianity was like, Oh it's nothing like Christianity And so like he just refused to let you pin him down on anything and so he believed one thing, you know, and he's And it was it was it was so hard to have a discussion that you came away just like, What? And so I I'm I'm expecting more back from you. Yeah, we offered Cantwell Smith saying there's no such thing as Christianity, no such as thing as Islam, no such thing as Buddhism, etc. , etc. They're only Christians, Buddhists, etc. Every Buddhist is going to be somewhat different from every other. Buddhism is as diverse as Christianity is. Think of everything from the Greek Orthodox all the way to say the Mormons and whatnot, and you you might not include all of those, but y when anthropologists look at Christianity they do tend to see all those traditions that grew out of the ones that call it anthropomorphic, aren't they? The anthropologists. See? I figured it out right there. No wonder. I'm sorry, go on. Um you know, uh that that all of these grew out of Christian Christianity split off in these many different ways. Christians went in these many different ways, probably is a better way to put it. And some of them found similarities with each other and formed groups and denominations and whatnot. Buddhism is just as diverse. And the branch of Buddhism that has always most appealed to me is the loose least supernaturalistic the one that I find to be the most rational, the most scholastic, and that is Theravada Buddhism of Southeast Asia, for its texts were in the Pali language. uh Pali is uh is a dialect of ancient Sanskrit and may have been very close to the language that the Buddha himself used. And of course Tibetan texts are in Tibetan Chinese texts are in Chinese etc, Japanese etc So uh the Sanskrit texts, which probably were as old as the Pali ones, unfortunately have been lost to us uh very sadly, w which is very unfortunate because that might help solve some of the differences between the two major branches, Theravada and Mahayana. But in Theravada Buddhism, what the first uh ideas that I encountered in the in my brain went, oh my gosh, look, somebody sees the world the way I do. uh was that Buddhism just the Buddha described the world as being def describable by three characteristics The first of those characteristics is that everything is always changing all the time. Nothing holds still, you know, and you get quantum physicists playing with this and you get books like the Dow Physics and whatnot, you know. Nothing holds still until we change it. What follows from that is I don't either. You changed me. I'm gonna walk out of this room a profoundly different person. Right Well, and we're being changed all the time. So there is no Karen that I can get hold of and say, I got her You know, the Karen back there in her teenage years I don't know her anymore. Having talked with you, that's very important to you. Because because you are constantly developing and learning new things and is that part of who you are? Very much. Yeah. Yeah. And so uh I wasn't frightened by those ideas. I uh they they ran they resonated with me. I don't like those ideas resonate with me. I mean I I don't think there's anything in those ideas First off that I would say. I was gonna ask and I don't want to interrupt, but let me j just make sure. Nothing uh holds still. Right. You would Jonathan, okay. If I had to drive deeply, I would say that God stays still and that um that you know, what he uh the truth and moral absolutes and righteousness. I I would say that those things hold still but that we as a as as humans are constantly kind of revolving around those things. I'm gonna throw you a ball and and let you back up from that because in fact you You don't agree with that. Only if I can back you up. Yeah. No, I mean you're gonna back up or let's say you're not gonna back up so much as you're going to realize that you need to explain a little more. Let's always that way, yeah. There's always more hairs to split. The first The first sense of impermanence comes with the word anicja in Pali. Okay, uh so impermanence is the word. Yes. Okay, that's the everything is in flux and change. Sure. The second word is Anatta. Anata. Now in Hinduism The gr one of the great statements in Hinduism, which is a monistic system, very different from the from the dualistic system of monotheism where there is divine reality God and there is created reality and created reality will never be divine Those are two different kinds of things. Even though we'll be married to the divine. Exactly. But you will never yourself become God. Now in Hinduism or at least. Yeah. Troy laughs because I would because literally, uh, you know, like the Mormons believe that we do become God. Yes. Right. Right? And so there's There's uh the the heresy of Christianity get into those things. But I would I would say that one of the characteristics that goes back to the very earliest forms of Christianity is that honest that is true monotheism. That divine reality cr makes created reality, sustains created reality. could at any mo point cause creative reality to cease to exist. So divine reality is self-established. Nothing is going to make it cease to exist. Created reality is exists only because divine reality gives it existence. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's good theology, good basic theology. Now uh in Buddhism there isn't anything that is definite and exists. There is nothing And in some branches of Buddhism that will lead to a very interesting uh school developments called the emptiness uh doctrines of Buddhism in Mahayana Buddhism, but I won't get into those 'cause I'm not into emptiness. Okay. And and by nothing you're talking about Like physical things or even concepts, ideas. Yeah, and actually I have to say in quantum physics and whatnot, you sometimes get people playing around with Buddhist emptiness theory. there there are some very interesting parallels. I don't think they're the same thing, but they're interesting parallels. But let's go back to where I am. I just see the whole world and everything is always changing. Nothing is the same. This table, this microphone has changed by molecules, m maybe just atoms, but it's changed, okay? Second one is anatta. Now, you you agree that we're changing all the time, but you're not going to agree with what anatta means. In Hinduism, thou art that. Within you is the divine. The divine is the great divine, the totality of everything, the Brahman. Tattavanasi, the brilliant, beautiful straight statement of core Hinduism. Thou art that, the Atman within you is the Brackman. The Brackman is the great. Yep. I'm following all your language. That I would understand. Basically what you're saying is that is that uh that that we're all one, you know, and that one is all, that that that there is no distinction really between you and I. Exactly. You know, and that we're all one. So the Atmin is me, the Brahmin is is is what I'm being i i is the all, and there's no difference between me and the all. We're You know, we're we're when you are liberated from your ultimate and you seek liberation in Hinduism and when you are liberated uh from your sense of being separate from the Brahman, then that what you have is that experience of Tattavanasi, thou art that You know. But let's let's move away from Hinduism. I only talk about Hinduism because uh Atman is the soul, the eternal soul, the divine reality that is unchanging and true within the Hindu uh you know, the the supposed the illusive the illusionary self. You know, you are uh that illusionary reality but you have that you're not really there. You're just Okay. You know, a fundamental illusion. Okay. Now I know why I feel that way all the time. That's why your wife never feels like you're there. The Buddha denied that, like uh Atheism is the denial of theism. The Buddha said An Atta there is no soul. Because everything is changing, that means there is nothing in me either That doesn't constantly change. There is nothing to save. There is nothing to go on to eternal life. That I am a constantly changing thing. That's what I am. That is my nature That is the very being. And that comes out of Anitra. So you get to the second reality of Anata. Then you get to the third reality. Uh-oh, we have a problem because the human brain doesn't work that way. The brain says, this table This chair, they're solid and they're real and they're gonna stay that way and this microphone is gonna stay this way and my body's gonna stay this way, you know. And and I don't want these changes. I don't want my hair to turn gray and my teeth to rot and you know, to begin to get arthritis and all that sort of stuff. Uh I wanna be the same. I wanna be healthy. I wanna be able to hike twelve miles with backpack on my back again So the brain is contrary to the core reality of of nature, which is that you're changing, you can't even hold on to So that's the third principle of Buddhism. And that's the third principle, and that is the principle that usually gets translated as suffering, dukkha. Suffering is a very bad way to translate it. it. What it really and there is no English word. And you know studying Greek and Hebrew for in the Bible that one of the problems is that it's very hard to go from those languages to English when there is no English counterpart for them. And we have the same problem, of course, with Polly. There is no English word for dukkha. Dukkha is this fact that the way that our brain works and what we want, the desires we have and whatnot, are contrary to the nature of reality. And that causes us all kinds of stupid there's a there's a golf uh illustration there You know the golf illustration is that is that the best golf swing is actually the most unnatural golf swing. So basically what you're saying is that is that what would most fulfill Our humanity is totally in contrary what you're saying to to who to what we would desire So the Buddha Buddha comes through the problem of like you said the other day when you know and you said, you know, how do we explain what Karen's saying so the everyday person can understand it? That was the Buddha's problem, you know. So he comes up with what's called the Four Noble Truths and the Eightfold Path and And the basic truths are that we suffer, okay? But there is a reason why. We suffer because there's a disconnect between what we think we want and what we really want. And so that leads then to the further truth. Wait a minute, there's a resolution to this then. If we know the problem and we know what's causing the problem, then we should be able to get to a solution to it. By the eightfold path. And that's the fourth noble truth, and that is that the eightfold path is basically a way of living and being, learning how to live and being. It's a process. The first two steps of the Eightfold Path have to be with getting the brain right You know, learning how to think and understand things. You would say how to understand the gospel right, how to understand the true version of Christianity I would say how to understand an each and dukkha, you know. Right, right. I'd say that we have a sin nature. And that in having a sin nature, um, I want sexual immorality or I want, you know, to eat, eat, eat, or I want, you know, for everybody just to serve me all the time. But what I don't realize is that God created me not just for pleasure, but God created me to give And that, you know, that it's better to give. And so there there's a little bit of this um this, I think I want that, but in fact the best thing for me is that And if I'm willing to accept what what scripture says is the best thing for me and submit to the purposes of God, then ultimately What's gonna happen is the desires of the righteous will be fully satisfied. But actually what Buddhism teaches is is that you have to be Is that what the Ma Mahanyan no compassion charity are critical in all forms of Buddhism. Buddhism gets misrepresented very badly in That being said, I will say one thing, and that is that I think because and I reject the doctrine of rebirth and karma But I think because it actually separates you from all of Buddhism. The reason I say that is because uh because a classic thing against Buddhism is that, you know, if you go off to seek enlightenment and leave your family at home It's actually a good thing to do because you're realizing how how impermanent those things are. that you cannot walk away from your responsibilities with your family and go into the life of homeliness. Home uh homelessness as it's caused, the you know, becoming a monk or a nun, going into really practicing the Eightfold Path You can't do that unless your family is taken care of. And if if they can't be, if you don't have the wealth and and you can't give them the emotional and proper context Then you're not free to do that. Okay, nevertheless that's that's still an amazing thing which which is very hard for me as a Christian to get my head head around that that if I can find a way for my family to be cared for and loved. Like maybe I say, Troy, you got a lot of money which I he doesn't necessarily but you got a lot of money, you know, and you seem like a great man, why don't you be uh, you know, a second Let my wife be a second, you know, wife to you and raise my kids and take care of something like that. Then I'll move out in and pursue homelessness. Every bit as real as as is the financial part Buddhists understand human need, they understand love, they understand emotion. Uh they may in some ways look at it more deeply even than you all do, because it is so critical, so core to understand the mind and the way that the mind functions. So let me go on, okay? Now, so the first thing you have to do is you have to understand the way the world is correctly. Now, I'm not a rigid legalistic let's let's say fundamentalist Buddhist, so I'm not going to push that to the extreme. I take that as sort of general. To me for me, understanding that the world is indeed impermanent and that a lot of the things that were I was really uh the my my youth and teenage years were deeply unhappy very painful for me. And it really was due to a great extent to this. So second second set is A great extent to what? It was due to what? It really was due to my not actually accepting that everything is gonna change. It is gonna there are gonna be these difficulties. You are working against the nature of it. You need to learn to flow with things to a certain extent. I couldn't I had a friend who drowned I couldn't stop that. I had to learn to flow with those kinds of things, you know. You have to learn how to deal with grief. Second second area, the the next area of the eightfold path is that and there are names for each of these different steps. There are eight altogether. There they're a group of three and they have to do with the way you live. Wait, you just dealt with the first group of three? No, the first The first are actually two and I'm not going to break them down to you. That's too technical. But they're about getting your m getting things right in your mind, understanding the way the world is, okay, and going The next group of threes are you've got to live right in the world, okay? And those have to do with a number of things. And I actually like to break down a five better that are are the five basic core things for the Buddhist ordinary life. And those are first of all, try not to h injure other things. Try to avo be as non injurious as possible. And that means primarily physical. So we tend to be For example, vegetarians, you know, we tend to be bad. I have to admit it. I try to avoid meat as much as possible. Let me jump in for a second. One I want to uh reset what's going on and also I have a I have a a a question before we get too far adrift the uh otherwise my question might not make sense. You're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on um 930 WFMD. Um our guest this week, John Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm not sure if calling him a guest is even appropriate these days. Permanent picture. I cannot shake this guy. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um he's stalking me maybe, I don't know. And uh Dr. Karen Gray, and we're talking about uh I guess non-theistic Buddhism today. I don't know how to categorize today's show. Buddhism is really your example of non-theistic no, because uh most Buddhists I have drawn a lot from Buddhism. I have found a lot of the teachings in Buddhism very helpful to me uh in and the way I understand the world connects with some of the basic liberty. So you had a question. Yeah I'm trying to understand how uh the system itself, as as so far you've described it, maybe it'll make sense further and I should just like to keep talking, but I'm gonna ask a question now anyway. The the first thing you talked about was impermanence. Uh but now we're talking about some uh s some moral issues, almost moral absolutes which would seem to be permanent. Right? And the four noble truths would have permanence, wouldn't they So isn't it kind of violating its own internal coherence? but you have to be very careful about not absolutizing them. You have to be very careful about always approaching the reality. Now let me go on quickly through the kinds of things. You you try to avoid non-injury Uh you don't take things that are not given to you. So that means more than you don't steal. It means that if you find somebody's binoculars on a bench, you don't get to say, oh, I got some new binoculars 'Cause somebody left them behind. You take 'em to some the police department or something and you leave 'em there because they're not yours. You don't get to take things that are not yours. Okay. Another one is that the way you use your sexuality and your erotic abilities and whatnot must not be harmful. Okay, that's a fundamental truth. Now, how you carry that out into life, Buddhists very, very widely, can you be a homosexual, that sort of thing. the fundamental core reality comes back to. These are very powerful aspects of what you are as a human being. It's very hard to be sexually active and to be uh you know, aware that you have uh erotic capabilities and to use that in a responsible way. But the fundamental Because why? Like a hedonist would disagree with you. Okay. Because the what the Buddha is saying is that one of the things that he saw, and as I practice this I understand why he saw it that way, is that you begin to realize the the suffering for you and others around you decreases as you practice these things. That you actually end up making the world better and living a better life. And really when you say a lot of religion. By saying better life though, again, what you're coming back to is that there is a better that is better than what is here. So you're actually you're working towards some kind of an ideal. You you're working towards getting to the point where you're not causing suffering to yourself and others. That's what you're working toward. So to which I would say that's the point of of of Christ dying on the cross for our sins So you're the one now who's saying all religions are saying the same thing. No, no, no. No, no, no. In some ways, the problem is that Buddhism is not willing to personalize. It's saying it in different ways. It it it it is loath to personalize it. And and you you wanna know why I'd say that's good. Y yeah, you wanna know why I think that is? Yeah. I think it's because relationships, personal relationships are the most painful, where we experience the most suffering. And I think that's why Buddhists, and you have to forgive me for saying it about you, why you too are unwilling to personalize God because it's too painful to deal with a personalized God. I wouldn't I would agree with that. That's where the suffering happens. The greatest area of suffering. Yeah, and partly because people change too. I mean, you know, a lot of divorces come out of the ways people change. From the time that they first fell in love with each other and what so I'm I'm saying that there are some some definitely some some similar concepts But my point is that Buddhism and Christianity, you and I agree with this, could never could never truly uh uh work together because they're so fundamentally opposite. I would agree with you that's not true. Because there's no personalized government. And also I think that basically at the very heart of the way they understand reality it is different. Because Buddhists are saying there is no permanent Perfect sort of thing. And incidentally that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that Which is crazy because they're saying that that you're growing into a better. What is the better? Uh for us and I and I don't deal with nirvana. I don't know what nirvana is. I'm not enlightened. I'm not sure what I'm saying. No, I just admit that there are points where I don't know what the Buddha was talking about. Let me say that. And that's why I don't say that I'm a Buddhist. I say that I'm drawing I've drawn a lot of wisdom and understanding for Buddhism. Okay. Let me but let me go on and say that uh the other parts of these are that uh you must use language properly, you can't use it in ways that are damaging, and you can't damage your body with things like drugs, etc. So many Buddhists won't touch alcohol. Some will drink just a very, very little bit if they drink at all, because you do not harm the body. And do I have to quit at this point? Well we're going to be able to do that. Probably not even half of them, right? Well uh halfway. But I think it's safe to say that in all of that that a major difference is a personal God versus not, and a major difference um has to do with like that we believe that that God is permanent. And that he's our rock. And then we're pulled out of the muck of the world and set upon a rock, whereas you would say that there is no rock ever See I wouldn't describe the whole world as smack. And that's why it's wrong to describe pictures of Buddha. But you would describe it as impermanent as changing so significantly. I keep petitioning for more time for this show, and uh so far no luck, but uh twenty-seven minutes just not quite enough time. Yes, call in to be management at WFMB and Uh I mean the the I I have time for like thirty seconds for me to just chime in a little thought is uh all of the the the moral aspects of that are things that uh any Christian would agree with. We don't want to harm anybody. We wanna, you know, use our sexuality properly. I mean, all of those things. Uh the thing I'm still unsure about, and that's why I wish I had more time, is If I were to ask John what's the foundation for where you get the those morals, he's going to give me um a tangible answer. And a Buddhist I think would give me a less tangible answer, which for me personally anyway is problematic. So but anyway. That is the end of this show. Thank you to uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Karen Gray. Um also thank you to our show. Well thank you. It's fun. Thank you, John. And uh thank you to our sponsors, All Shred, uh Mobile Document Destruction, Putman Plumbing and Heating, and Dynamic Living Solutions. If you have a question, a thought that you'd like to share, a topic you'd like to suggest, a guest you'd like to see us try to get on the show, please email me at troiskinner at clearchannel. com. That's T-R-O-Y-S-K-I-N-N-E-R. It's all one word. at ClearChannel, all one word dot com. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks for listening. God bless