Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to you by All Shred, Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding Today for Growth Tomorrow. Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? And Dynamic Living Solutions. The um perfect new tagline 'cause this is related to the you know holidays. It says give the gift of health technology. But it's health technology stuff. It's like air purification, water purification. Um uh Jason Sear, who is the owner of Dynamic Libre Solutions, used to say that if you don't own a purifier, you are a purifier. My liver is taking care of all that, isn't it? Yeah, your liver, your lungs, yeah, yeah. So anyway. Great. Uh last week we we ended. We're talking about the Christmas Trees and Advent reads and all that sort of stuff. And we didn't get any light fluffy stuff I thought we'd get into. So I'm just going to blow through some of that stuff. I don't know if it's because people know that I'm a Christian or if it's because people know I do this radio show or whatever, but I get tons of this kind of email. Do you get this kind of emails? I mean you you've heard us do the the ema you've been part of these shows where we do these email things. Yeah, yeah. Do you get those kind of emails? I get a few here and there. I get 'em every day. And some of them are every day, some of them are not so okay. Some of them are good, yeah. But anyway, uh some of them are cute and so I want to share those, and some of them are aggravating, and I definitely want to show share those. This one is uh just subject line is Christmas. Twas a month before Christmas when all through our land not a Christian was praying nor taking a stand. See the PC police had taken away the reason for Christmas. No one could say The children were told by their schools not to sing about shepherds and wise men and angels and things. It might hurt people's feelings, the teachers would say. December 25th is just a holiday. Yet the shoppers were ready, with cash checks and credit, pushing folks down to the floor just to get it. CDs from Madonna and Xbox and iPod Something was changing, something quite odd. Retailers promoted Ramadan and Kwanzaa in hopes of selling books by Franken and Fonda. As targets were hanging their trees upside down. At Lowe's the word Christmas was nowhere to be found. At Best Buy and Staples and Pennies and Cedars, you won't hear the word Christmas. It won't touch your ears. Inclusive, sensitivity, diversity are words that were used to intimidate me. Now Pelosi, now Darden, now Sharpton, Wolf Blitzen, on Boxer, on Rather, on Carey, on Clinton. At the top of the Senate there arose such a clatter to eliminate Jesus in all public matter, and we spoke not a word as they took away our faith, forbidden to speak of salvation and grace. The true gift of Christmas was exchanged and discarded. The reason for the season stopped before it started. So as you celebrate winter break under your dream tree Sipping your Starbucks, listen to me. Choose your words carefully. Choose what you say. Shout, Merry Christmas, not happy holiday. Amen. Yeah. What do you think about that? Yeah, well it goes after the uh the definite attempt to uh cleanse the public square of all references to God whatsoever. You know, the whole separation of church and state that has turned into a um a purify the public square from all things religious. I'm guessing that when you send out a Christmas card that you say Merry Christmas on it Sure. Right? Yeah. Is that fair? Yeah. You recently didn't uh receive enough votes to become a member of the school board. Okay. But if you had and you were sending out uh a Christmas card Not as the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, by the way, Jonathan Sweitzer of Pastor Cross Israeli Chapel. Welcome. I but you were sending it as a representative of the school board, would you say Merry Christmas on it? Or would you say happy holidays on it? You're sending it as a politician, not as a pastor at that stage. Maybe is the question too. Well I guess the fact that I would even pause and think about it kind of bugs me a little bit. Um I I guess I don't have any reason to not say Merry Christmas and Okay. Um I'm pausing to think about it 'cause, you know I don't out and out want to offend anybody, but um I don't know. It's easy for me to say now 'cause I don't have to actually, you know, deal with the uh implications. 'Cause President Bush sends out happy holidays cards. Right? And he's a very uh overtly Christian, at least, you know. I mean we have no reason to doubt his faith, and he's out there with his faith, and everybody's talking about what a strong Christian he is, and yet he doesn't send out as the President of the United States uh a Merry Christmas car he sends out a happy holiday. Well like a similar issue would be Franklin Graham praying at an inauguration ceremony for the President of the United States. Is it appropriate for him at that moment? to uh pray in the name of Jesus Christ or should he just pray in the name of Almighty God? Uh I had a recent opportunity at a uh at an event here in Frederick. uh Republican political event and they asked me to pray and um I chose to pray in the name of Jesus just because that's how I pray. And it's very negative feedback. Very likely that some people might have been offended. But I didn't make a big deal about it. That's just who I am. And it and uh You know, if somebody wants to be offended about that, then they can be. But again I feel like it's a it's a small, it's a tiny issue. You know, I'm not out there trying to take people's rights away from them. I'm just out there being who I am. I forget who it was. There was a local politician this past summer that gotten some controversy over that issue. Paul Smith, yeah. I think did a he had a public prayer and he said in the name of Jesus Christ and there's a big Uproar for about a week and a half and it died down. Yeah, as if somehow a as if somehow it's automatically offensive for somebody to do that. Um and I guess I have to ask myself if if a Muslim were offering a prayer at a place like that and they prayed in the name of their you know, of Allah, um I would have to do something for the sake of my conscience, you know, to show that that I'm not in agreement with that prayer. whether it would mean that I would stand up or walk out of the room or, you know, do whatever. But um I don't know necessarily that it's the place of of those in uh political position to you know to make a law or a policy about it. You know, just let the people be who they are. We're gonna get into that a little bit. Actually we got into it a couple weeks ago, didn't we? So anyways, yeah. Yeah. Anyway, it'll give you a little behind the scenes in case we make that the stumble again. Yeah. We record the show in advance. Yeah. And we're recording shows out of order. So we the shows you're going to hear the next two weeks I mean the the the shows that you already heard uh four and three weeks ago. Yeah. We haven't recorded yet. We've recorded these first and then so we might we might in a couple minutes we're actually gonna be doing the others. Our tenses might be a little goofy from time to time, so we're not losing our minds. Thank you for your patience with us. Jonathan's not uh like you know uh time traveling in the middle of the show here or something. It's any religion. Alright, I d uh this one's a different Christmas poem and uh the slug line on this is a different Christmas poem. There you go. The embers glowed softly, and in their dim light I gazed round the room and I cherished the sight. My wife was asleep, her head on my chest, my daughter beside me, angelic in rest. Outside the snow fell a blanket of white, transforming the yard to a winter delight. The sparkling lights in the tree, I believe, completed the magic that was Christmas Eve. My eyes were heavy, my breathing was deep. Secure and surrounded by love I would sleep. In perfect contentment or so it would seem, so I slumbered, perhaps I started to dream The sound wasn't loud and it wasn't too near, but I opened my eyes when it tickled my ear. Perhaps just a cough I didn't quite know. Then the sure sounds of footsteps outside in the snow. My soul gave a tremble, I struggled to hear, and I crept to the door just to see who was near. Standing out in the cold and dark of the night, a lone figure stood, his face weary and tight. So far nothing about Jesus in this Christmas poem. A soldier Oh I puzzled, some twenty years old, perhaps a marine, huddled here in the cold. Alone in the dark he looked up and smiled, standing watch over me and my wife and my child What are you doing? I asked without fear. Come in this moment. It's freezing out out here. Put down your pack, brush the snow from your sleeve. You should be at home on a cold Christmas Eve. For barely a moment I saw his eyes lift. And shift, away from the cold and the snow blown in drifts, to the window that danced with a warm fire's light, then he sighed and he said, It's really all right. I'm not here by choice. I'm here every night. It's my duty to stand at the front of the line. That separates you from the darkest of times. No one had to ask or beg or implore me. I'm proud to stand here like my father's before me. My gramps died at Pearl Harbor. On a day in December, then he sighed. That's a Christmas Graham always remembers. My dad stood his watch in the jungles of Nam, and now it's my turn, and so here I am. I've not seen my own son in more than a while, but my wife sends me pictures. He's sure got her smile. Then he bent and he carefully pulled from his bag the red, white, and blue, an American flag. I can live through the cold and being alone, away from my family, my house, and my home. I can stand at my post through the rain and the sleet. I can sleep in a foxhole with little to eat. I can carry the weight of killing another, or lay down my life with my sister and brother, who standeth the front against any and all, to ensure for all time that this flag will not fall So go back inside, he said. Harbor no fright. Your family is waiting, and I'll be all right. But isn't there something I can do? At the least, give you money? I asked, or prepare you a feast? It seems all too little for all that you've done, for being away from your wife and your son. Then his eye welled with tears that he had no regret. Just tell us you love us and never forget To fight for our rights back at home while we're gone, to stand your own watch no matter how long, for when we come home, either standing or dead, to know you remember we fought and we bled, Is payment enough, and with that we will trust. that we matter to you as you matter to us. And it ends. Please, would you do the kind favor of sending this to as many people as you can? Christmas is coming soon and some credit is due to our U. S. servicemen and women for our being able to celebrate these festivities. Let's try this small way to put a tiny bit of what we owe. Make people stop and think of our heroes living and dead who sacrificed themselves for us, a different Christmas poem. I'm gonna make enemies right now. This is, you know, a powerful image and it's so true, and there are men and women giving their lives, risking their lives, staying away from their loved ones, and all and all of that part of it is true. But as Linus wouldn't say that's what Christmas is all about, Charlie Brown. He wouldn't say that about this poem. This poem isn't what Christmas is all about. Christmas isn't about remembering our military heroes. Christmas is about remembering God's great gift and how he humbled himself to take on human flesh to become a man himself. To really humiliate himself. Okay, so right you're not saying that you don't like the poem You're just saying that that it's not a poem that is that is helping to clarify what Christmas is all about. Rather it's a poem that is going after Uh how easy it is for us to forget that our freedoms are brought to us based on the uh death of other people. Right. And even that From my Christian perspective, for even that's not true. Right? All uh we get all of our freedom from God You know what I'm saying? It's taking uh I know I'm making enemies in this and tr I I understand what is meant by this, but it as a Christian who sees we were talking about this last week who see this how secularization has crept in and robbed the meaning of the season. If this was on its own, if what I just I'm pointing to it, like people can see me pointing to it. If what I just read was in a vacuum bias or or was the only evidence of like not really nailing the the meaning of the season. Yeah. It wouldn't bother me so much. But it's like every time you turn around, all Christmas season, which starts about, you know, August fourteenth, I think, is when the Christmas season begins in all the stores. So for the last you know, for like five and a half months, yeah, you have the the Christmas season and there's no mention of Christ or if there is it's not It it it's not talked about what it really means. Sir, you're talking about the baby Jesus. What does that mean? We've totally lost the meaning. So and this just So, you know, it's a good thing. There's a malaise that you are experiencing in your gut that that bothers you. There's an irritation Uh and and what exactly is that irritation? It's not Christmas and uh the lack of Christ being mentioned in Christmas. That's a symptom of what's really buggy. What really bugs me is that I don't think that the church does a very good and by the church I mean the body of believers, not the hierarchy, not the the the the leadership, you know, not the buildings for sure. The body of believers. We collectively don't do a very good job as the church of being the church. And if the church would be the church, these things wouldn't be nearly as annoying. I would argue that that I don't think that's true. Okay. You wanted to keep this light and fluffy today, didn't you? Okay. Tell me why. Uh because Christ is the one that is purifying and beautifying his church. There is no problem with his church. The problem is among those that claim to be the church that are no longer being the church, that have left being the church. But if you really view the church as those that are Christ's and with Christ, I'm telling you, those people are doing a phenomenal job with these things. And when you see those people, when you spend time with those people, as a Christian, I have no doubt that you're phenomenally encouraged in your own heart and spirit. The problem is that the society, we live in a society that in our generation has moved far enough away from God that there even is a whole slew of these guys that are in churches claiming to be Christians that have walked away from the meaning of what Christ was all about. In fact, Christ called those guys on it back when he was here, Pharisees and Sadducees, the different people. And he and he said he said, If you if you believed Moses If you believed everything that had been written in the scriptures till this time, then you would believe me. And the problem is that uh is that our generation has turned their back on that That's what what is the real problem. It's not the church letting letting those people down. So what you're saying is I'm confusing the visible and invisible church. Yeah. Right? Yeah, and I and I think it's so important because because The visible by the way, for clarification, the visible being everybody you see in the pews on Sunday, everybody who's there, or anybody who would call themselves a Christian. That's the visible church. Yeah. And then there's those that only God knows their heart and only He knows for sure if if they've made Jesus the Lord and Savior of their life. And that would be the invisible church, invisible to us, only visible to God. That's the distinction. That's what I was saying, confusing And you're saying that Christ's church, his true church, those that are truly his, that he sees and knows their heart Making these distinctions in their everyday lives. Alright, maybe that's fair enough. On a regular basis. And the reason why this is important is because Because I hear people say all the time, man, if the church would just be the church, and I'm like, wait a second, there's a point at which the church will be the church and the and the the world around it will still reject the message. It happened in Christ's time. It's happened all through history. It's happening in in uh China right now. It's happening in North Korea, places in Africa, India. And when the church is being phenomenal, everything that that Christ would desire that that it would be, and yet the culture still turns its back and co-ops Christ and the message of Christ, uh, to their own ends, or to their own cultural ends, their own social ends, their own political ends, and they they use the church for things that Christ never had in mind Alright. Well then I might have to temper my view just a little bit, but I had to think through how to do that. Yeah. How I make that how I mean I think it is worth being angry at that. And how I grapple with the distinction between those that are merely professing Christians. I guess that's really what it is. It seems like those who are merely professing Christians, not truly heart-committed Christians. Yeah. It seems like they're allowed to get away with it too much. They're not held account. They're not called on it. And said, wait a minute, you can say you're a Christian all day long, but if you're really a Christian, then this and this and this Have to be true about you. And I'll tell you that as a pastor, as uh no, no, no. Well for you too. Come on, you're a you're a believer, you're a Christian. Uh you have as much the responsibility to do this as anybody else. Our our task, our responsibility in church is always to be doing that, to to call people on those things and to refuse to allow the uh the subtle um uh corruption or uh of the message, subtle corruption of of uh of discipleship, you know, the the um you know, the the little bit of you know, the fly in the ointment, allowing a little bit of foolishness to come in. We we constantly You know, for that matter, look at Christ and his disciples. Did they get it right? I mean, he called them on it and called them on it and called them on it, and they were Christ's. Disciples. They were Jesus' own disciples, and yet that the night before he's to be crucified, they're still blowing it and they're still doing the wrong thing. So I'm not saying that I don't know. I'm not saying that we shouldn't push for perfection, but I I do think that that we have to think in terms of making disciples, and and when we're doing that, we realize that there's a measure of mercy that's necessary. Even for those that aren't doing it right. Because at some level that's been true about you and me. Sure. You know, and To the extent that that's the case, we need to be called on it. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. That's Jonathan Schweitzer, Pastor Crossroads Valley Chapel, taking me to school. And uh if I can't get him into my church, then at least I'll school him when I'm on the radio with him. Here's a deal. He claims he wants this kind of abuse. With w with what my opinion was five minutes ago. Uh the the subject line is this is not a holiday tree, it's a Christmas tree. Okay. If you miss knowing me, you may not have missed much If you missed my emails, you may have missed a laugh. But if you missed knowing our Lord Jesus Christ, you have missed everything. And there's a picture. I'll show it to Jonathan there. All right. A big glorious um Christmas tree. um Elizabethan. This is the kind of Christmas tree you only see on television shows. Right, right And it says, tall is a Christmas tree. It is not a Hanukkah bush. It is not an ala plant. It is not a holiday hedge. I didn't know there was an olive plant or a Hanukkah Bush for that matter. I didn't know. And who called Oh, put your present right there under the holiday hedge there. Never heard that. Say I hope you never do. It says Christmas, Christ Mass, Christ Mass here in the Christmas, right? Yes, Christ Mass, celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ. Take a stand and pass this on. Well there you have it. Oh? Okay. Well too late. I mean we're like into the new year now. Next year. Yeah, next year. Here's uh point is these are cultural issues that you know And here's why it's an issue. And this you know, why do Christians get all up in arms about this and you know, particularly those that are less mature like me about this and get all mad? Because things like this happen. You you might have heard about this. This is uh um uh it's I think it's Wisconsin. Okay. Cheese. Let's see if I can find the. In Dodgeville, Wisconsin, Ridgway Elementary School's winter program changed the name of Silent Night to Cold in the Night. Sung to the tune of Silent Night. The lyrics include Cold in the Night, No One in Sight, Winter Winds Whirl and Bite, How I Wish I Were Happy and Warm, Safe with My Family Out of the Storm. The winter program included decorating classrooms with Santa Claus, Kwanzaa symbols, menorahs, and Labafana, A Christmas Witch. Also in Wisconsin, the Glenn. Because they allow everything except the nativity. E even the Christmas symbols that Christians would say that they love and adore and grew up with, like Santa Claus, right? And they've invented this La Bafana The Christmas Witch. Christmas witch. La Bafana. La Bafana. La Bafana. I don't know. Also in Wisconsin, the Glendale River Hills School District has banned every Christmas song which has any Christian motive or theme, but while ban Now, if it bans any Christian motive or theme what are you what are you doing? Like, well what are you gonna sing about? You know, the brown church are coming. Taking the ax handle to your neighbor? Like what's left? Did you take out all the Christ all the Christian seams which love, charity, hope, kindness, you know? So Uh anyway. The district does permit secular holiday songs as well as songs celebrating Hanukkah In defending this policy, Francis Smith, the District Administrative Trader, says that the Hanukkah songs are more cultural than spiritual What these schools are doing to our children is not educating but indoctrinating, it says here, and they are using Christmas as an excuse, following the lead of the National Education Association. Wisconsin educational leaders preach tolerance and diversity while being highly intolerant Most of the residents of Wisconsin are tolerant but not their educational leaders. And it goes on and on and on. Right. That's why people get, you know, kind of bent out of whack, you know. It's that's where it can go. That's and it feels like That's where it's going. At that point you're dealing with blatant discrimination and they're claiming that Christians are the intolerant ones when they're the ones that are being intolerant. That's the point at at which I think it's absolutely appropriate for For Christians to raise your voice and say, look, there's something absolutely deceptive, wrong, wicked, and evil about this. And uh and we need to we need to be angry about that, I think. I'm I'm trying to read this like in the tune in my head and I'm you know cold in the night, no one in sight. No one inside. Winter winds whirl and bite. Winter winds whirl and bite. How I wish I were happy and warm. How I wish I were happy. See now you got me singing it. I wanna sing silent. Safe with my family out of the so Safe with Yeah, no I'm off. Yeah. But this is um Right. There's nothing Not only is it destroying really a lot of people's favorite Christmas hymn, right? But it's replacing it with just these really trite Horrible lyrics. You know? It's cold in the night, no one in sight. They must have thought hours about that rhyme. Right. What rhymes with night? Yeah, yeah, sight light Bite. Yeah, yeah. I could have written that. You could have written that. I think maybe I did. I don't know. In another life. Yeah, yeah. That's right. That's our uh Buddhist debate, not our faith debate. Oh my goodness. So anyway. Yeah. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. I think everybody should uh uh anticipate a good year despite the fact that our nation is moving away from Christian foundations It's almost amazing to believe that it's two thousand and seven, isn't it? I remember when I was just uh just a little m Chitlin. Chitlin. Um one of my favorite bands back then was a group called Sticks. Mm. And they had uh I think it was Paradise Theater, one of their albums on cassette back then. Yeah. Came out. And one of their songs has uh Dennis DeYoung is a lead singer, starts off by saying, Don't look now, but here come the eighties. No way. Wow. And when I hear that, it makes me feel really old. Really old. Like the Rocky Balboa movie coming out now, right? It's uh Yeah, right You know, and the and the the champion he says, That's not over till it's over and the champion says, What, that's from the eighties? Yeah, yeah, from way back. Yeah. Anyway. Yeah, yeah. I was just gonna say I do think that there's reason to hope for for a good year, you know, to to press in and start things new and fresh. I think all those things are very uh important and to, you know, to anticipate that there's uh that now's as good a time as any to change and to make make the necessary changes in our lives. specifically with Christ and and uh with the power of his Holy Spirit, you know, giving us the strength that we need. So why not? Why not do it now New Year, 2007. Amen. You must be a pastor or something. Jonathan Sweisser, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick. Uh meeting at uh Crestwood Middle School On Sunday mornings. Little plug there. Yeah, thanks. Ten o'clock service? Yeah, ten o'clock service. Ten o'clock service. Uh Fred or Faith Debate brought to us by All Shred, Mobile Document Destruction. Putman, Plumbing and Heating, and Dynamic Living Solutions. Uh this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks for listening. God bless