Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Frederick Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. As I've often said on this show, Thomas Jefferson once said, the clash of ideas is a sound of freedom, and in that spirit, we seriously wrestle with important ideas, with the hope being that our wrestling We'll help you to better develop an understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this life. And one of the more important issues that face us in a real tangible way each and every day are fiscal matters, monetary matters And back to talk about money, back from last week. We talked about money last week if you were listening, and if you were not, shame on you. That's that's like the eleventh commandment broken right there, I think. It is right, yeah, it is Now chat listen to the faith debate every Sunday morning. Yeah, yeah. Nothing like, you know, your your shame in the morning, you know, every Sunday morning, a little bit of shame coming over the over the airwaves to you. Anyway, Jonathan Sweitzer is the one chiming in. He's the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and Yolanda Gamble, pastor at Sure Fellowship in Frederick. Thank you for being on the show again. Yes. Let's uh shift gears a little from last week. We were talking about uh if it's okay to have wealth as a Christian or and if it's on the other side okay to take a vowel of poverty and Uh we decided yes to both and that somewhere in the middle is is where most of us live and you know how that practically plays itself out we didn't really get into all that much. So I want to talk about that a little bit this week I would imagine that as a pastor, you probably deal with a lot of let me just throw some out there and you see if these are these fall into the top ten list of pastors' concerns, all right? Lost people who need to hear the gospel and they're they're floundering and you need to speak the truth in their life, right? Married couples who are just at each other's throats, nearing divorce. and uh in need of having the relationship rescued. Right. Probably a big one. Um career concerns. What do I do with my life? I'm not sure my life has any meaning. I don't know where I'm going next with my life. You know What does the Bible tell me about that? Or what do you uh, as my pastor, have to say about that? Child-rearing questions, what's an appropriate way to raise my child, and money. I would imagine it's a big one. That's right. And I got to that one like fifth on the list, I think, and it's probably not the fifth one that that comes up most often. So am I right? Is that a pretty big issue? I think very often that people's uh relationship with God can can be uh measured on the scale of how they're doing financially. No doubt about it. You know, and for some people they return to God when they don't have money. And they they uh they use that as a warning, oh man, I need to I need to stay close to God. Other people when they don't have money, they use that as an excuse to blame God and to get angry at God. And and and yet very often, uh, I know people who for many for whom money is a is a significant issue. Mm-hmm. Yeah. So do Christians have the same problems that everybody else does? I'm assuming. Meaning you see something pretty in the window and you don't exercise self control and you buy something you shouldn't have? Is that You put it on plastic when you don't really have the cash in the bank account to back that plastic up. Oh, so the big issue all the time. Christians live in the real world like everybody else does I mean we we are all Americans or or other and we all have we have flesh issues, temptations, desires and and all of those things that kind of push us toward making wrong decisions and some right decisions. Yeah. Um I we we learn though through the help, thank God, of the Holy Spirit to who counsels us and and kinda gives us that little conviction in our spirit when we know we're not you we shouldn't do something or or whatever or spend we're spending too much or whatever Uh and thank God for that little check that we can get in the spirit. Yeah. Um, that kind of helps us discipline. But all of us as Christians, we must learn money management. We need to sit down with people who have a good track record of success who can tell us in a very natural sense how to manage money. Yeah, it's funny, uh Christians that help people to manage money, uh, are able to dig a little bit deeper into some of the uh spiritual issues behind uh uh spending beyond what beyond your means, you know, like pride, envy, selfishness, um, uh self-pity. You know, there's a whole slew of of spiritual problems that a Christian money management guy can help you dig into and expose before God where we can come to a place of knowing that God provides for all of our needs. And that he's going to take care of us, but that he disciplines the son that he loves. You know, all these things that are related that are necessary for somebody to grow in the ability to personally manage their own money. And so those people that are in a place of not managing their money well, well they're they're not there because they're doing it well. They're doing they're they're in that place because for whatever reason they're they're losing track and they're getting sucked into gambling, for example. That's a huge problem. Um you know? Or uh or uh sucked into, you know Um, you know, things like alcohol, drugs, all of those things end up being major money problems, uh or or backing just off to like you're saying, things as simple as, you know, I just really wanted that, you know, extra power tool, you know, so I just went out and bought it, you know, j just 'cause I wanted to. And the point is is that Is that when it comes to Christians and managing money, there there's the ability to go just a little bit deeper and to dig into the the genuine spiritual issues behind there and and the need for repentance and for change. uh money managers who are Christians can help dive into or is that something that pastors and church leaders should be getting involved with with members of kind of all that that certainly you If we have a Christian money manager uh team that can help with that, that's great. But in my church I don't have that. I teach the financial perspectives of all of the elements of of of finance, even into point of re retirement, uh the type of insurance that you need. How to manage a a checkbook account, a checking account, a savings account, just a basic management of finance that concerns the the person every the person's everyday life Um, so I think that certainly that we would be robbing our congregations if the par if the pastor wasn't interested in teaching their members about money. What are some of the things that the Bible does teach us about how we should manage our money? It doesn't tell us how to keep a checkbook, obviously, because there weren't checkbooks back then, but what are some real biblical principles that we should be abiding by? Are there simple catchphrases? Is there a top three, top five, top ten list of things we should be keeping our eye on? Yeah, why don't you go ahead? Well, I think that that the Bible has over two thousand something odd scriptures on on money management. And we still have to balance out this natural perspective. First of all, we must learn how to live well. The Lord wants us to live well on the earth. And and we have to get to a system of getting a plan. Get a plan. Get a budget. And that is very essential that we do it. And when we get that budget, which is bringing all of our all of our uh expenses and things like that together and uh managing that and sticking to that plan, then we have a roadmap to live life successfully in the earth. I believe the the Bible is the roadmap to our s to success in our relationship with Jesus Christ. also to in getting to heaven, but also learning how to live well in the earth. So I can see, okay, there's okay, here's point one, two, three, and four, and this is what the Bible says, one, two, three, and four We have to take the whole truth of what it it what it is about the word is about and apply the whole truth to our life. And then that way we can find the balance if I'm answering that question. Yeah You know, there's some there's some key principles like generosity, you know, to be the kind of person that uh that gives more than than people ask of him just to be that kind of person. Prudence, like what like Yolanda was talking about, is a key element of learning to handle your finances correctly. Uh obviously the first top principle is that we recognize that everything that comes to us comes from God. And so for us to uh with everything that comes in stop and say, you know what, this came from God, so I'm gonna give the first ten percent. Like Abraham gave, you know, give the give the top ten percent of the of of the increase that God g brought to me. I'm gonna give it to God. What I find is that when people do that first thing that that For whatever reason, they're uh enabled to be prudent. They're enabled to think through the rest of the other ninety percent. There's something about giving that first ten percent to God that that breeds uh uh a prudent, patient, righteous mentality and okay, well how am I going to spend the rest of this money? It's it's not just for me, you know, it's for it's it's for giving to other people and and and to uh providing for my family. Right. Those kinds of things that are, you know, um I'm I'm trying to get my head around exactly what the issue is there, but all I know is that when we put God first with the tithe, it there's just a transformational perspective there Right, there certainly is. Um, but you have to have a plan and you can you can you can actually pay the tithe. If you have a budget plan, uh which I call a roadmap to your success, your financial success. If you have that in place, then you can see yourself giving. Because the thing is if you have all of your expenses expenses sitting there in front of you then you can see where you're spending too much or well however, where you need to make in the the adjustment. And that keeps us in the guidelines of God's word. But if we don't know, we just spending and just going at it, hitting and missing, then certainly it's going to be a struggle in this world. Let's uh come back to the issue of the tithe here in a second. By the way, let's a natural pause. I'll reset. Jonathan Sweisser, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Yolanda Gamble, Pastor at Sure Fellowship. I'm Troy Skinner and Our show is brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? And you're hearing this wonderful show on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. We'll come back to the tithe. I want to uh talk as as you're giving counsel to members of your congregation, um how far is far enough and how far is too far for the church or you know leadership of the church? uh and particularly as it relates to the pastor, I guess, uh to get involved in the personal finances. Um there are some what I would consider to be non Christian uh churches that one of the big warning flags that's uh said about them is gotta be careful of them because well not only is it a false gospel but they you know they try to get involved in your life and they try to take over your finances and they sit down with you and they Tell you where to spend your money and that sort of thing and people get nervous about that. But is that if it weren't a false gospel, would that be an appropriate thing? Like how far is too far and how far isn't far enough? Well, whenever it comes to discipleship, um the uh i in in finances would be a discipleship issue. in anybody's life, you know, lear learning to live your life as Christ would have you live your life, learning to live your life, you know, as uh i in a uh righteous manner. Whenever you come to issues of discipleship, there's always the potential that the church leadership can be overly involved and overly pushy and overly controlling. And uh and so I think every church has to build into their approach to discipleship um a uh a buy-in with the freedom to to you know to buy out you know the y you gotta separate responding to God from responding to me. You know, what I tell you to do doesn't i if you don't do what I tell you to do doesn't necessarily mean that you're not doing what God tells you to do in w especially when it comes to finances. Um it's it's better to build a uh uh a passion or desire for discipleship, that people want discipleship and then to give them a path. Okay, we're offering a, you know, a um a course on biblical finances, we're offer offering a course on biblical parenting, a course on biblical uh marriage of course on on different things and so people buy in, they choose to buy in and the point is is that it's not a control orientation. I'm telling you what to do in every area of your life, but I'm I'm helping you to learn so that you can make a God informed decision, a biblically informed decision about what you do with your own life. And so I'd say that there's definitely a danger of a church being too involved. Um, but if somebody is really struggling and that's the major a major issue of needed growth in their life, then I think uh that for a church to provide somebody in the congregation that that knows finances and financial things well uh that can graciously interact with with the family or with with the individual to get their finances back on track is you know it's a it's a it's a serving thing. It's it's a righteous thing to to provide that kind of opportunity Mm-hmm. I certainly feel that we should make it available, the information available at all times. Um now If a person is struggling financially, am I going to force them to come to a financial workshop? No, but I am going to bring up some points and some issues to let them know you don't have to struggle. This is what we have available for you. You know, all the answers are here. I'm going to deal with those areas that I know that that individual people are dealing with. I'm going to mention that from the pulpit if I have to And just let them know, you know what, we have the answer for you through this class. Go on to the class. So I think that we should continue to make it available and address some issues that that need to be talked about. I I would say this, that if a person is in debt and continually going into major debt and handling their finances poorly, that a passer would be remiss to uh to not find an opportunity to um appeal to that individual to get help about how they spend their money and about how they manage their money. you know, their kids end up being victims of their you know, the whole family ends up being affected at every level and and helping them to come to terms with the issues that are involved, I would say um Uh you know, it's it's just uh due diligence, it's proper, it's healthy and it's right to provide that for those that that are genuinely desiring change and and to be different. And you talk about debt In that last response, is that something that Christians should allow themselves to get into at all? I no, I certainly feel that um That we're not going to be very happy, Christians. We're not going to be happy in the world period if we're full of debt. Debt leads to desperation. We start becoming very desperate. We become liars. We become cheaters. All kinds of things turns into when a person is full of debt. They just begin to take all sorts of different d drastic measures and then we start dealing with all kinda what we call sin issues because you know that person is is so stressed out. And a lot of times if they're if they are in debt It does begin to ref reflect upon their relationship with the Lord. Profoundly. They they either just say, Forget it, I'm throwing my hands up, I'm just not gonna come to church anymore, I just feel like all the world's against me. are either they're going to be down or depressed or upset and you're dealing with some sort of soul issue um because of debt. Uh proverbs says that the borrower is servant to the lender. And the reality is that is that there's there's different kinds of debt, you know, like for example, credit card debt. Man, there's no way that that credit card debt doesn't phenomenally impact the lives of the people that are stuck underneath it when they when they get up to twenty percent interest rates and these kinds of things, it destroys Uh that that's why usury is uh is against the law in the Old Testament, any kind of usury. And in 20% uh interest rates to me, that's usury. Uh I I I I think it's um it's ungodly, it's immoral for companies to loan money to people at a twenty percent interest rate. It's absolutely Uh it it destroys because 'cause you you get the sense that it's just getting bigger and bigger, you can't get out from underneath of it and it's just wrong for society to allow that much usury. And so so debt is one of those things that like, okay, house debt Um I don't I don't have a problem with it. Car debt, uh I would encourage people to to save up and buy cars cash down because as soon as you drive a car off a lot it uh it loses its value significantly. It's better to just uh to to buy cash down. That's what my wife and I uh try to do and uh have been the last couple of times uh successful at doing that Nevertheless, I I wouldn't say that car debt is necessarily a super bad thing. Just you you have to be abundantly careful that your monthly payment is within where you can live. And so this is why you you know, this is why mortgage companies go through, you know, all these uh layers of screening when they want to loan you money, because they want to make sure that it's not going to be too much of a monthly payment for you to uh f for you to pay, you know, your mortgage once a month. And so, um well why does house debt and potentially auto debt get a pass? What's what's different? Well I think y you need a home to live in. And uh you need a car to drive to get you to work or, you know, round to get the necessity things that you need. Um, so I think that those are very but I I agree so much with John that we we have to still even in that the the sizable house or the how much w house can we afford, um, the kind of car, how much car can we afford? Just because a creditor would give it to you at an interest rate of thirty four percent or whatever, and almost anybody will qualify for that, right? Because hey, they're gonna make a whole lot of money off of you with that kind of interest rate. It doesn't mean that that's what you need. Because it's easy to get let me deal with your question first uh with the housing debt. A house appreciates and so uh e even if even if right now you get in and the house is a three hundred thousand dollar uh house and uh and you purchase it and and you're making the payments once a month. The fact is is that thirty years from now when you finally pay that thing off, the house is going to have appreciated to Probably be over a million dollars uh worth of worth of money, and that's something that you can pass on to your kids that if you take good care of the house it appreciates. A car is different. A car is a service that you need day in and day. You know, you need to be able to get to your job and back and forth. And so um so all I'm saying is that for somebody to to purchase a car on debt, I'm saying it's not the wisest way to go But uh as long as you're gonna do it within the range of of where you can you know, it's it's a cost of doing business in the United States. You gotta you gotta be able to get to your job and back and so to get a car that's within your financial means Uh my recommendation is to buy it cash, but you know, but just make sure that you stay within your means on that. I think most I honestly I think Ron Blue and and uh and some of the other uh uh Christian financial gurus out there would tell you to not buy a car uh on debt. They they would warn you away from it. And you know I'm I I I'm not gonna make as big a deal about that. But going into major debt for furniture, going into major debt for vacation, a lot of people will go into debt to go on a really nice honeymoon or something like that. uh going into major debt for Christmas. You know, a lot of people put it on credit card, they're gonna pay it off in January, then all the bills hit in January. No wonder everybody's depressed in the middle of the wintertime, you know because they're trying to keep up with everything. The point is is that there's definitely Um, you know, th there's there's a lot of these other you know, going into debt to to build a new deck on your house or or those kinds of things, it's just unwise to do. Well what about local congregations going into debt to add on to their building or to buy a piece of land and put a building on it. Aren't they putting themselves in a situation to be the servant to the lender? Which would be the financial institution? Should the church be in a place where it's serving a financial institution? I think it certainly works both ways. How could we tell our congregation or individuals to do be a steward over their money and areas of of you know of of how we spend it and what's too much or whatever if as a church community, uh body, then we're not following that same pattern. We have to do the same thing. We have to lead by example. And I think we can pay our buildings off in cash, right? We can pay 'em off in within a few years. We can do those type of things and become debt free. I know a lot of people that uh that are into church planning that are arguing right now that the better way to go is to not go into debt. uh for building a building. In fact, um you know it's it's it's kind of this understood um uh principle out there that as soon as a church goes from church plant to trying to build a building that like it changes. And the whole emphasis gets off that it it becomes focused on things and money instead of being focused on people and ministry. And I would say that that every church needs to search its heart at every stage of the ballgame and if they've turned to having a money focus instead of a ministry focus then uh then then they need to examine whether or not debt might be a major part of that and so I would recommend that churches not go into major debt. in order to to uh to build a building. And you know how you do that, John? It's by getting a plan. Yeah. And sticking to the plan. If this is the church build plan This is a church built plan. Instead of getting in in the middle of it like so many of us do. And and then all of a sudden we change the plan in the middle. No, we just have this is the plan and this is what we're gonna do, this is what we're gonna put in. And you pay as you go. You pay, you buy the buy the land. You know, and you just work your way through. Pastor Jesse Duke Planus is a wonderful example of that Oh my God. There are some pastors, and I can think of specific pastors, so it's not a hypothetical kind of thing. I'm not going to name names though. to look at themselves as the CEO. Mm. And their job is to raise money, you know, to keep butts in the seats on Sundays and encourage them to give so that they can become a larger, more prosperous church with a bigger building and a fancier choir with nicer robes and all those sorts of things and he looked at it like running a business and that I was reminded of that thought when you said Jonathan about uh Sure you know, keeping keeping your mind focused on things other than money issues, the congregation shouldn't be focusing on their primary focus shouldn't be raising money. I I'm completely in agreement with that. Money cannot be the major focus. You mentioned earlier usury in the Old Testament, you know, don't charge interest to your brother and that sort of thing. Yeah. So should Christians still follow that? If I lend you, Jonathan, money, you know, say I I need uh I I'm a little short. Uh I I don't have the money right now. I I I have it but I don't have access to it. I need a hundred bucks Sure, John here's a hundred bucks. I'll expect a hundred and five bucks tomorrow at two thirty. Uh obviously we don't have a great friend. Obviously we don't do that on a personal level, but check it out. But should Christians be charging interest to other Christians? Like w is it okay for a Christian to work for a credit card company, for example? There's rules that come with working for a credit card company. And one of the rules of working for a credit card company is that we do have interest rate in order for us to keep our company running and moving and operating. That's the way they do it. Okay, fine. That's fine. That's the way they do it. I've talked to a guy that worked for a uh for a credit card company and he noticed he he was one of those guys that had to call and say, Look, you guys owe us money Right. And he noticed that when he would call those people that the people would be very defensive and all these kinds of things, and he started praying and thinking about man These guys are hurting, what can I do to help them? And he started to come up with this idea that when they call they would help the people to think through payment plans and ways to manage their money in order to to to pay it off. And he was so successful that his company uh uh applied that principle across the board that instead of calling just to get the money, they would call to help people to learn how to pay off the the the resources. I think that's an example of how being a Christian in a b you know in a bad situation like Daniel with Nebuchadnezzar, you know, where where godly counsel can transform a uh you know a gross wicked, uh userous kind of a system. And uh it but but then coming back to should Christians uh uh use uh charge interest with one another. Um there there's a somewhat complicated argument that because we now have inflation, that inflation is something that is a product of of a uh um uh uh an economic system that is more modern that they didn't have that uh in the old days that that that there's a certain amount of inflationary cost that you that you would charge that that would actually like if you give me five dollars today a year from now for me to give you five fifty wouldn't actually be like interest, I'd be giving you back the same value that you had given me. And so there's an argument that Christians have have very carefully made uh back through the centuries that that there's a certain amount of interest that doesn't reflect usury but reflects um the the way that that that uh the the rates of inflation that I think is is an argument can be made for that. But I would say in general that Christians need to not charge usury with one another. And we've had a cogent thought to end the show on. I'm so proud of ourselves. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Yolanda Gamble, pastor at Shure Fellowship, thank you. Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, thank you. Thank you. I'm Froy Skinner and our show's been brought to us by Putmate Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile. Thanks for listening to the Frederick Faith Debate. God bless