Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick News Radio 930 WFMD. In the background you're hearing not the same music that we normally play, but a little song by The newsboys. I saw the newsboys uh as as we're uh recording this show just a couple of days ago, as you're listening to the show a week ago. Wow uh in concert and the newsboys are cool. So hold on a second, let's I can't hear it because my headphones aren't working. That's a problem. The New Boys have a phenomenal show. Here I can hear it now. Here we go. Ready? Handle, all about here. Let's throw this party in here. We brought the welcome back. Wherever we go, that's where the party's at. Yeah, that's where the party's at wherever we go. Uh you know what did they do, the uh drum kit where he uh gets uh suspended and swirls around? Brought to us by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding Today for Growth Tomorrow, and Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And on the panel this week, by the way, I'm Troy Skinner. Bob Miller, familiar voice. Thank you very much. And Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, is here again. And you know, we d we've been trying forever to get the show on in Morning Drive and we just couldn't quite get the show on a morning drive. So we brought Morning Drive to the sho Show I like it, I'm glad I'm glad to be here. The only problem is is that there's really nothing to debate because I agree with everything you guys say. So you should know Troy though. Troy's the kind of guy that he can find something with you about he's been taking notes for years. Strength and a weakness, right? Yes, it is All right, so the theme of today's show, John Schweitzer obviously is a Christian. He's a Christian pastor, you'd expect that. However, he had an experience uh this past fall when he was running for school board And um people m might have known him more as a school board candidate than as a pastor, but he was it was pretty well known that he was the Christian. Running for school board. Don't touch Jonathan. I, you know, work in the secular world trying to make money, you know, convincing uh people that they should throw gods and gods of money at the radio stations to get their message out and Um You helped keep me employed and and but I don't uh make it a secret that I have a Christian faith and certainly during the show doesn't uh help me to keep any secrets if I were trying to keep it a secret. Yeah, right. Um and Bob does a morning show. Uh and he has been voted, was it four years in a row, Frederick's favorite radio personality. And it's no secret to those that pay any attention and listen to Bob with regularity, and certainly those that work with him at the radio station, it's no secret that Bob Is a committed Christian. Yes, I am. So the theme of today's show is what is it like being Christian in a world where everybody tells you that your faith should be a private thing? That's between you and God. That's your thing for you and your family works for you. That's fine. That's the cultural uh environment in which we find ourselves. And yet we are in public Uh very uh very Yeah. I don't know if we're we're w famous or anything. Well Bob is. Yes. Apparently you can bobcast yourself. But we are very publicly Christian. Yes. Like there's no secret about hey John Swanson, you're that Christian guy that ran for school board, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like I'm about to, you know, deny it or something. Bob, you're you're the Christian that does that radio show on the news talk station, right? Troy, you you you you're that sales guy that uh does a religious show. You're Christian, right? Yeah. So, yeah, that's kind of the general gist of what the show is gonna focus on today. What is it like being a Christian Where everybody around you knows that you're a Christian and maybe the pressures that go with that, the advantages and disadvantages. And first before we give Bob a chance, I want to g I want Bob to talk about it, but first um so that I don't forget to talk about it. What uh how do you think your experience running for school board would have been different if you were Uh working in an office, trying to help people find jobs, working for a headhunter agency, for example. Okay. Instead of being the lead pastor or senior pastor or whatever you call the title of at Crossers Valley Chapel How would that have been different do you think? Well the reality is that in this particular election, uh I would have had a very different um target audience for who I would get to vote for me, like this particular election, because I was a believer I had a whole slew of people that uh that honestly would vote for me because they knew what I stood for in terms of the Christian faith and in terms of the moral uh uh values that they wanted to see in the public school system. And so Um, I think honestly how it would have been different is I would have had to come I mean when you're in politics you gotta come from some sort of a worldview. You've got to be able to represent some group of people. And so um in order to be effective at any level, you've got to convince enough people that you represent where they're coming from. And so I think it's very unlikely, honestly, that that I could have could have run as well as I did rising from obscurity, nobody knowing who I am. if I hadn't have been a pastor. I think that actually turned in my favor significantly and in fact was prob probably the reason that I got as many votes as I did get. I think if I uh if I wasn't coming from that perspective, I think I'd I would have had to work a lot harder, you know, and then you're getting getting into political strategy and philosophy, you know about how you would address it. So I'd say that that's a big part of it. The other thing is that there were a lot of people that were very concerned about things like well am I going to try to push for creationism in the public school system system, or am I going to try to get you know prayer back in the public school system? There's a lot of um uh significant stereotypes that people wanted to pin on me. In fact, uh Joe Voltz that we had on the show called me up and had an extensive discussion with me and he was convinced that because I was anti-homosexual uh an anti-homosexuality and that it that I didn't want to see that kind of thing taught in the public school system, uh, that I was very hateful. And we we had a long discussion together with one another and and he basically decided that I probably wasn't as hateful as people were trying to uh stereotype me out to be. And so I definitely ran into significant you know, stereotypes that uh that for those that weren't listening or paying close attention, I probably still represent that to them. You know, because they heard I was a pastor and that I was running for school board, so therefore I'm gonna try to impose certain hateful stereotypes on them With what he just said, I have about four hours worth of material. Yes. Give me the stereotype. Give me thirty seconds. What do you mean four hours of material? Well, number one, uh Jonathan I I don't want to say I helped him get into politics, but Um, we were very instrumental in the on the Morning News Express of bringing light something that the school board was trying to get past and that was the teen help card. Right. Um and then that's where I first met Jonathan was at the meeting uh at the Board of Uh Education. uh against the team hel team help card which we had a lot of people uh opposed to that and it didn't get passed. Now they're still trying to sneak it through and we're still being vilj vigilant about it. But um so I'm not saying I got him into politics and going down that road Uh but without a doubt, I've I've rode the coattails of that in a significant way. I mean that that really was my introduction to the whole thing and uh at some level I feel like it did team up with you on that on that that issue. So yes it's true. I'll give give credit. So we'll do we'll do the we'll do the uh chest bumping a little bit later on. Slap is hind. Do you get feedback from people saying you're you know just uh you know fundamentalists conservative Christian be quiet already? Most of the time it's the opposite what people tell me is if I am also a morning show guy who sometimes doesn't get things edited out of his brain before they come out of his mouth. So I'll say something that you know, it's like David Letterman type a a comedy. And the next thing I know, I'm like, I shouldn't have said that and and somebody in church Or somebody who knows I'm a Christian will go, you know what you just said is uh, you know, was a little bit off color. And I'm like, uh, okay. I'm sorry. But that's okay, right? If something in your church is trying to hold you accountable and and make sure that you're not going to be able to do that. Well anybody. Anybody who does that. And they just hold my and and so I have to realize, but I also gotta realize that there are a lot of people who who don't uh who don't believe, who still listen to the program. So that's a fine line I gotta walk down entertainment and and a belief system. So I mean I still have to entertain and there's still sometimes that things will come out. I'm only human. So I mean And sometimes there it's it's funny, but people still will go, you know, you shouldn't have said that. Or I'll say this, I'll do that. My wife will say it. You shouldn't have said that. Are there ever times maybe not even on the air I guess, but uh When you're in a setting where everybody in the room knows you're a Christian, do you ever have a sense that sometimes people are they're watching a little bit differently, sometimes they're trying to set you up, they'll feed you a line to see what you do with it, so that they can have one of those aha! You're one of those hypocrites. Do you ever feel that? Well, yeah. I mean I feel it I I feel it all the time. You feel it I feel it here at work. Um people will say, Well, you're supposed to be a Christian. Well yeah, I am a Christian. Uh I'm not supposed to be. I I am. So they do. They they but the thing is is that they look to you and see somebody different. And I and I always hope that when they look at us we always have the um wow what do they have that I don't have? That's what I hope. Now I i on a day to day basis we always get smacked around, beat down sometimes Uh a and I'm a I'm a type of guy who wears my emotions on my sleeve. So sometimes I get angry. Mm. I get frustrated. And but it doesn't mean I'm not a Christian. It doesn't mean I don't love the Lord. Right. It just means that the daily grind You know, I can I can be mad and I can be angry, but I still have the joy in my heart. And I and I think that that what sometimes people are supposed to think that Christians are supposed to walk around all the time with a smile on their face and oh God loves us all. Well he does love us all, but we're still only human and and the day to day things happen that get us frustrated. Johnny. I gotta tell you this story. I there have been so many times that I've gone out golfing with a buddy and there's just two of us and so they hook up one or two other guys with us And invariably about, you know, seventh or eighth toll. What do you do for a living? Yeah, what do you do for a living? And I tell you what, I'm so tempted to lie at that moment because invariably they've been cussing. or telling off color jokes or whatever and at that point I know as soon as I say it they're gonna apologize to me for their language. They're they're going to to you know to be very embarrassed about it and they're gonna they're gonna discover that they've got a cousin or an uncle that's a pastor or something like that, you know and try to relate I mean literally every single time. And the point is is that it's true is that when people know that you're a believer or a pastor, you know, all of a sudden everything changes and and they kind of put you under something of a microscope like, you know, well what do you really like? Oh sorry I swore and stuff. She goes to church every Sunday, right? See, just like that. No, I'm telling you, but it's not just that my sister's religious goes to church. But invariably they're related to somebody that's pastor. I mean I'm amazed at how many people that I never would have thought is related to somebody in ministry. You're really weird, but you're not that weird because I've got one of you in my family too. Every family has one. Yeah, yeah. You know, well I I have that. It's it's it happens around the office and uh it probably happens every time somebody finds out that you're a pastor that you know if If a curse word is part of their normal vernacular, like if you know if if they're swearing every fifth word as part of how they normally talk, it's kinda hard to turn that switch off when you're in front of somebody that you feel like that might a offend And so every once in a while these words will slip out and immediately oh I'm sorry. Right. Right. And I'm w you know, I wonder it's hard to know. Are they saying they're sorry because they think it's inappropriate for everybody, or are they saying they're sorry because, oh wait, he's that Christian guy and he might be offended or More th and then I wonder is it because oh he might be offended or is he gonna judge me? Yeah. Or you know, it's It's it's it can be tough. You wonder if people are always real with you once they find out you're a Christian. Do you feel like people are real with you? Um yeah, I do. I mean we have people around here who who we're in the communication business and it's amazing how many words begin with F around here. But but you know what we'll mention him, but he does tell me that he swears a lot more When I'm not around then when I am around. And he said this just out of respect 'cause I don't like it. I uh you know but I used to swear like a sailor I just found out that there's better words to use than those words. And and and going back to what Jonathan said, if Jonathan walks in and or you walk in is all of a sudden people start changing the way they talk Yeah. Well that's a good thing. Because you're there. That's a good thing. Number one, it shows some re I think it shows some respect. And number two, I'm sure there's other people in the office or in the business place or wherever They don't want to hear that kind of language either. So if you let it be known that I'm a Christian, I don't want to hear that kind of language in the business place, hopefully that would change and maybe people you know will change because he's a pastor, before because you're a believer. I feel like this is This is the great one of the great conundrums of being a Christian, what being Christian is all about. Because on the one hand you do want to challenge people you know, by who you are to to be better people. But on the other hand, you don't want to recreate a gap between God and people. You know, Christ bridged that gap and you want people to know, look, man, God accepts everybody, you know, uh exactly who you are. You don't need to change to come to God or to be my friend. Just be who you are. And you know, if you want to come to God, God will accept you through Jesus Christ, and that's sufficient. And I find as a pastor that oftentimes I want to tell people, look, just be who you are. Don't feel like you have to put anything on for me But if the spirit in your heart is leading you to do something, just let the spirit lead you. You know, and so so I feel like it it can be a catch-22. Do I want people to be different? Do I wonder if maybe they're not being as real with me? Uh yes, but at the same time I like the idea that they're challenged to step up a little bit. So I it's kind of a both in. I I get ambivalent about it, you know, which which way should I go? You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. That last voice you just heard was that of Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here in Frederick. And Bob Miller, Morning Man, Extraordinaire from the Morning News Express on WFM Digg. You know guys, he doesn't wear a cape. I I used to think he works I do. He's not wearing anything at all. Great. Changes the whole tenor of the show, sure. And you're supposed to be a Christian. Right. That's right. That's right. I wonder if this happens to other people or it's just me because I'm that kind of person. Do you have people walking maybe not so much with a pastor 'cause they might be right intimidated. It's different, yeah. Do you have people walking up to you, Bob, and challenging you with spiritual questions? No, I really don't. B and it I lead a pretty quiet life outside of of the business here. Um I you know, most of my friends are church friends right now. Um, all my friends before I was a Christian, they've all left me behind. They just don't wanna I've had I've had my friends, I've had some of 'em, I've had family members have told me, you know, before I became a Christian I used to be fun. Wow. Um and I'm like, I'm still fun. I just have a different type of fun. I don't drink anymore. I don't smoke, I'm not you know, but I still have fun. I'm still a fun guy. That's right. And and most people But if you don't like it Too bad. I've been waiting for somebody to come talk to me about that, but they haven't. I had a youth come up to me, uh one of the kids in my youth group and uh they told him at at school that they had found the bones of Jesus and he came up and he was like all set to tell me all about it kind of a thing and Uh so that was not quite the same thing. Actually I think they found the bones of somebody named Joshua. But back then that was the name for Jesus. And so it's actually Yeshua is the name. It's not Jesus. And so uh again it was an ac Extremely common name at the end of the day. Right. Not so much Troy, it's not as common a name, but you get the point. You know, we're working to try to get it number one on the boys list. Yeah, I have people I d m it must be that. I uh A week doesn't go by. I'm telling you, a week doesn't go by, so it doesn't come by. Alright, so you got this teenage girl's been an incestuous rape and she gets pregnant. You're gonna tell me it's not okay if she gets an abortion, it's a sin for her to get an abortion Yeah, you know I run into that. I run into that a different way. I run into that from from people that are coming to me or to a Bible study or something like that and and they're young enough in their faith that they're still trying to, you know, figure out what they should do about different situations. situations but because I'm not every day in situations like that. But when I was I definitely got it on a regular basis. I was watching uh an an Oprah show. And for whatever reason, the past week uh the day actually the day we're recording this, uh it was about women who were married who decided to leave their husbands because they were gay. Right. Because their husbands were gay? No, because the the the the wife was gay. She was attracted to another woman. And they were talking about one family getting together and they said we want to go to a therapist and they she said, Well before when when I went to the therapist by myself He gave me a book and the book gave her three choices. The first choice was stay married and be unhappy, stay married and continue to have an affair, or be gay and be happy and leave. And I thought, what terrible choices those were. And and and Oprah with you know maybe being set free from a gay lifestyle or something like that. Right. And being happy. Yeah, yeah. This whole lifestyle and I'm thinking not once did it mention that the the kids might have been devastated, the marriage was devastated, family and and I thought You know, she was like, Well just if you're thinking about like this, just get the tape and show it to your husband and say, I'm like these women. I just want to write her and say, You know what? You're so wrong, Oprah. And you have an opportunity to change a lot of people's hearts and minds. And you missed a great opportunity. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know what she would define her faith as, but Oprah's kind of like a unity church, Unitarian type, right? I mean she c is whatever works for you, whatever she's doing. You know, he he might believe in it for himself, but he doesn't think it's the only way, you know, and he's slow to apply the standards of righteousness in any kind of a uh consistent And homosexuality is the issue that they want to beat, you know, particularly the fundamental Christian fundamentalist Christians over the head with I had somebody today in fact. Yeah, those who have a problem or trying to catch Christians in the hypocrisy or have an issue with it or or whatever. Or just I don't know. Democrats. No, I'm just kidding. I'm kidding. There are many Christian Democrats. Um Somebody today said, you know, why is that why is that your issue? Like why do you guys have to hammer on that issue and make homosexuality? That's a very small part of the Bible and only comes up like a half a dozen times. Why do you have to make that the centerpiece of, you know, all the preacher's messages and all this and all that and everything you guys do is all about homosexuality? And I had to back up and say, wait a minute I don't know how many sermons I've heard in my life. Hundreds of sermons I've heard in my life. And I'm hard pressed to think of one that was that homosexuality. Right. And I don't know, Jonathan, have you I mean have you ever done a sermon about homosexuality? I preach about it when it shows up in scripture and it shows up, you know, basically about three times in the course of scripture and so I deal with it when it comes up and that's like what, maybe once a year, twice a year maybe? So I'm thinking to myself, well why is it an issue? It's an issue because they're making it an issue. They're deciding to pluck this issue and try to beat us over the head with it and then they're The church responds by saying, Well, no, you can beat us over the head if you want, but scripture says it's a synth. It's the old dialectic that comes down from Hegel, you know, thesis, antithesis, synthesis. You know, the the thesis Christianity has been the faith of the United States. What they're trying to do is create this extreme out there that they can keep talking about, keep talking about, keep talking about until we all get used to talking about it. And then the average person on the street is going to synthesize whatever they they hang on to from Christianity and then the new antithesis idea and come out somewhere in the middle. I mean it it's a classic uh a debate or or uh persuasion tool and that's what they're using across the nation, you know, to to uh to find whatever extreme thing they can go as far out as possible, whether it's the the kind of morality they show on the radio or or or in television or uh in Hollywood, go as stream as extreme as they can and then they say, Oh well we want to be somewhere in the middle. And so they have to make it as extreme as possible so that the middle is as far over as possible and and it has proven unfortunately to be very effective in the United States for them for them, whoever they are. to do that. And they're trying to reach the Christendom and persuade them to their point of view. And of course the one of the great charges for the church is to go and make disciples, so we're trying to persuade back. Yeah. Um and maybe we're not gonna have a whole lot of time to get into this, but maybe in uh uh next week's show we can talk a little bit about what it's like, you know, being uh as some people say there's a I don't know if coined the phrase, but there's a phrase being a sermon in shoes. Right. You know, uh you know, preach the gospel always and if necessary use words. You know, that was who uh that was that um sorry I'm not I'm not remembering his last name, Francis St. Francis of Assisi. Yes. Right. He didn't have a last name. He was of a C C right. Boy, we're in it's an awkward place. We have like two minutes left, so I h I hate to start this question. So before I start the question, we will if we have to, but do you have a final thought on what we've been talking about today before we break for this week and come back next week? Um, the only final thought I have is make sure that you're around next week because it's gonna get even better. Oh we do we're promoting. Bob is good. Bob is good. We need to have you on more often. All right now we've got a couple of seconds left to listen to a different uh What's this? Is this Oh yeah. This is the newsboys uh something beautiful. I'll turn off the mic so you guys can hear a little bit of it too. I wanna start it over. I wanna start again. I wanna live again This is your latest PDF. Um it's called Go. And I gotta tell ya, I got I've got like 60 seconds left. The newsboys have a heart for the Lord. You know, I don't know if you like, you know, this modern alternative rock kind of sound or not. Maybe you're not into that. But you know what? At the end of the day, that's not what's important. What's important is the work that they're trying to do. And this is a passion of mine, Jonathan and I've talked about this a lot off the air, a little bit on the air, but it's all about the church being the church. And these guys are the church being the church. They started a whole mi worldwide missions thing now. It's called uh uh Operation Go. Uh and and it's uh to preach the gospel in areas of the world that it's hard to to get into to preach the gospel and it's also to help uh those who are in poverty to lift themselves up out of poverty. So I mean they're doing what the church is supposed to be doing. If every Christian would do what these guys are doing, then there first of all, there'd be less opportunity to be calling everybody hypocrites. And people would be drawn to like Bob was saying, they'd be drawn what do those guys have? What are they doing? So yeah, anyway. Thanks for listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD. Thanks to John Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh Bob Miller, thank you. Thank you. Host of the Morning News News Express here every Monday morning from 5 a. m. to 9 a. m. right here on WFMB. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday also. What'd I say? You just said every Monday Friday. No, he just I thought you said just Monday. Did I say Monday? I meant every weekday, every Monday through Friday. Well Bob wanted to make sure that you didn't forget it was the rest of the week So if you tune in at like eight thirty on a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday, hear Bob. Sorry. There's no day your only hope. And thanks to all shred mobile document destruction, shredding today for growth tomorrow, and putman plumbing and heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks for listening. God bless.