Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator Troy Scott. Our show is brought to us by Fuckman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Don't forget to check us out on the web. Go to WFMD. com, find the Faith Debate page, which you can find it two ways. Go to the show's drop down menu and believe it or not, they have a s they're not ashamed to admit that the Frederick Faith Debate is one of the shows on WFMD. So we're listed on the show's drop down menu or you can go to the weekend schedule and you'll find the faith debate listed on the weekend schedule. You can click on the name of the show and it takes you to the Faith Debate page, which Monday through Friday the blog is updated by moi And Jonathan updates his blog, which is linked to from the Faith of A page, and he updates that pretty darn regularly. But as regularly as you're gonna get from Jonathan Sweitz. And uh Yes. Yes. Yes he does. Yeah, it's not bite sized pieces. Uh you know, grab yourself a cup of tea and choys is something that that if you want to read something in the morning that's kinda interesting, then read Choice. But if you really want to get into the deep stuff then then uh then you are are going to read mine. And some other things that to uh keep in mind that are on the the website. If you're wondering what kind of shows might be coming up, there's a upcoming show's guide that tells you what the the next topics and guests are going to be in the upcoming weeks. And we're not perfect at it yet, but we're getting pretty good. You can link to the audio vault Yeah. They save the best for last. Go down to the bottom of the audio vault page, and there are a whole bunch of archived faith debate shows there for you to listen to. I'm not sure exactly how many, but it's probably in the ballpark of I don't know, forty shows maybe are there? Yeah, there's quite a few on there. And we're w we don't have last week's show, but we're almost up to last week's show being on there. So so we're once we get really good at this, so I'm told by the Monday following the air date of the show that you will be able to hear the show. Like twenty four hours later or thirty-six hours later, the show will be on. the podcast. We're not quite that fast yet, but we're pretty good. Better than we were. Way better than we were, because we were horrible at it to begin with. Anyway Today's show, we're going to talk um with Cynthia Kalla, who or Dr. Cynthia Kalla, sorry, no disrespect intended there, who was with Life Rise AIDS Resources. give you a quick background and then if there's any gaps that you feel are important to share you can uh update us on on what those gaps are. But Cynthia was a Christian minist uh missionary for a couple of years in Cambodia, uh going back a few years. And about coming up on two years ago, she felt a call in her life to start Life Rise, which well, rather than me tell you what it is, this might be a good chance for people to hear your voice for the first time. And you can explain, you know, briefly what Life Rise is about. Okay. Uh well first I'd like to say it's a real honor to be with you this evening and um Life Rise is a That can't be true, but we appreciate you saying it anyway. We paid her to say this. Uh Life Rise is about reaching out to those who are s suffering because of HIV AIDS in poor countries around the world. And uh I started it last uh in two thousand six, February of two thousand six. And so uh it's almost two years and uh it's uh I f I was responding to uh w a calling that I felt from the Lord uh because I had uh taken care of AIDS patients in Africa And they were so sick and they were so helpless and hopeless and they did not know the Lord and so I was crying out to the Lord and I was asking the Lord, can't somebody help them? Yeah And so I I felt like uh maybe that that was my role to try to help. That's one of the Jonathan's tricks. You know, somebody in his church say, you know I think somebody ought to like sweep up that corner every week. And Jonathan's like, Oh, good, why don't you go get the broom? So you went to God and said, God, why can't somebody do this? And God said, Okay, you're it Right. And so at that point you were already doing things in Africa, is that correct? Uh well I was working as a missionary in general health ministry. General Health Ministry shots or or just basic checkups, uh that kind of thing Uh all different areas of medical missions. Okay. And um you know, having having c village clinics or d uh you know, running a h health development project uh in different countries. And so you would take a lot of doctors with you or you happen to be a part of one of the doctors on teams that were already going out kind of thing. We would we would do medical teams and so I would go myself and we would bring other health professionals with us. And the point is is that at that point you noticed there was a massive need for specifically uh help with AIDS in and the AIDS virus. Yes, I was uh where I f where I really felt the burden for that was in um the country of Zimbabwe and we had done a village clinic Wow. In working with a local past. Well that country has a lot of struggles. Yeah. Right. Any par any of those countries in the southern part of Africa. Mm. Very high HIV AIDS rates. Yeah, like massive need for like orphanages 'cause you have whole you know, populations of children with no parents. You got grandparents and all the parents are, you know, dead because of because of the virus and then just orphans everywhere. That's true because HIV AIDS tends to uh ha people die from HIV AIDS when they're r rather young, in their twenties and thirties, and so they have young children that they leave behind. Wow. Now when you go uh not maybe not just you, when s someone goes on a medical missionary journey, is the primary goal of that journey just to to take care of the physical need or is it kind of a both end where you're taking care of the physical need and while you're at it you're sharing the gospel and doing some teaching of how they can avoid getting sick or where are the lines drawn? Yeah what's the balance Uh, that that that's true. The l the latter part of what you stated, that it's we're trying to take care of physical needs because God cares about people and their physical suffering, but also to share the gospel, so you know, because that has eternal uh value for their lives. So it's uh both and it's a integrated ministry. Yes, so how do you balance that out? Like during the day you do the medical part and then there's meetings at night or you know like if somebody comes in uh are they required to you know like listen to a message while they're being worked on or like how does all that work out Uh well um we we you know see patients and then uh usually they we work with a local church if there is a local church there. And so we have people from the local church, the pastor from the local church, who will talk to people, pray with them. Also, you know, the the health providers as they're seeing patients. If if you If someone has a special need and you have a special burden for that person at that time you take the time to, you know, away from just dealing with the physical problems to also talk about their spiritual needs And then we do have meetings at night also, so I was reading a fascinating book uh about uh how Western the Western world is known as being the Christian part of the world and how there's a major shift uh in Christianity, in the Christianized part of the world. where the center of gravity for the Christian world is no longer in the West, but it's in the South, i. e. South America, Africa, India. um uh Indonesia, you know, Southeast Asia and uh and that that the Western world hasn't even caught up with the fact that that's the case, that there's you know, uh way more Christians in that part of the world. And in fact that they they have a uh phenomenal likelihood that they'll be very conservative that they'll believe that prayer can actually heal somebody, that they believe that that God is still active in people's lives, giving them visions, you know, and that kind of thing that that uh we in the West all these uh mentalities that that that we built up around our secular scientific worldview that they're not encumbered with any of that and yet there's there's still some major needs that are there and you know one of those is is AIDS or sickness or other, you know, viruses, you know, what what are we going to do to help out? What's your experience, I wonder, in terms of um uh how open Christians are to working with people with AIDS? I mean there's kind of been a little bit of a or for a while there there seemed to be a a big holding back about Christians working with AIDS. Well that's true. I think that um The evangelical church in particular was rather slow to respond to to the needs of HIVAIDS. Um you know there was, yeah. Well, I think that um that there are Christians who feel like um, you know They have a harsh view, which is, you know, people deserve uh that because they've been promiscuous Right, and so that's the judgment of God. They deserve that, so therefore we're just gonna kind of stand back and let God's judgment have its way and then we'll you know, come back in and minister to people after God's done judging or something maybe. Well, y if they ever get to the point where they come in and minister. Um you know, so I think that um for twenty five years that that AIDS has been in the world, uh the Christian church, particularly the evangelical church, has kind of left that to the to the world to handle. We said, that's not our problem. and we've kind of left it to them. And in that regard I I see us as being like Jonah. Okay. You know, Jonah ran away from the Ninevites, uh, because he perceived them as uh sinners who deserved, you know, God's punishment. So he ran away. And uh then there was a huge storm. Right. And where was Jonah during that storm? He was hiding. He was. He was in the hold of the ship. That's us. We're hiding. And he was sleeping. Had been hiding, right. And so uh in the middle of that storm some of the sailors who were fighting that storm came down and they woke Joan up. And they said, you know, would you call on your God for us because we're perishing? And I think that's the case with HIV AIDS. We've let the sailors who don't know God Fight the storm alone. Okay. And they deserve credit for that. Right. The world deserves credit for that. That they've been out there trying to fight the needs for for those who are have HIV AIDS So uh it's time that the church wake up and respond. So is the church waking up? Like do you do you get the sense that that's happening across the board or like Just in a few places, you know, I I hear Rick Warren, you know, and his wife are significantly involved with this kind of thing. Like how much do you think it's uh the church is waking up to to dive in By the way, just in case you're not familiar, Rick Warren is a very famous pastor. He wrote The Purpose Driven Life, Purpose Driven Church, and is the pastor of what is considered a megachurch, thousands of members in uh Southern California Saddleback community term. Just wanted to see the cultural reference one of the show to who Jonathan was talking about. Anyway. Yeah. Uh you know, I think the Warrens, both uh Kay and Rick Warren have had a tremendous impact in helping to wake up the evangelical church. to HIV AIDS. Um you know if you've heard In fact weren't you just out there at a conference having to do with AIDS? Yeah, I was out there last week in California at the uh Global Summit for AIDS in the Church. that Saddleback hosts. It's a global summit. A lot of people there? Yeah, there were people there from all over the world. Okay. Uh including uh the first lady of Zambia. Hm. The First Lady of Rwanda. And uh other guests. Or, you know, those that have been going to help out, but he actually was able to attract some pretty significant political leaders then. Yes, and a number of the uh presidential candidates also sent videos and uh one of them also showed up, Hillary Clinton. She showed up at the meeting. Okay. Uh-huh And do you ever have people that are on the evangelical side of things or the the let's say the Christian side of things at some level? uh who are critical that at any level you try to share the gospel and and and and preach the bible as part of the ministry. We had a guest on the show a while back who uh suggested that, you know, we should just take care of the physical need, no strings attached, don't bog them down with our message. Let's just take care of the need. That's the loving right thing to do. Hm. It sounds like you don't necessarily agree with that point of view. Have you had to deal with many people who have that point of view, who challenge what you're doing? Uh yes, I think there's extremes on both sides of that. You know, there are some people who say you should only take care of the physical needs, and there are other people who say you should only take care of spiritual needs. And not worry about the physical needs because, you know, the spiritual needs are where the eternal significance is. And so um I think, you know, it's most powerful the gospel is most powerful when you combine those two. When you are holistic. When you take you know, because God cares about people's physical needs as well as their spiritual needs. He cares about the whole person. He's not he doesn't divide it up like we do And so I think um compassion the compassion of of Christ is most powerful when, you know, you you combine those Those two areas. Jonathan, you're a pastor. Can you think of any examples where Jesus you healed somebody who was sick? Yes I can, but it wasn't in the Bible. It was just recently. I d I I have a friend who was just down in uh Botswana. uh doing some ministry and uh they came back with uh with quite a few stories of of God healing, you know, today. um of very dramatic things, you know, blindness and and deafness and and uh you know, it's just very dramatic. So obviously uh I believe very strongly that God is a healing God, that He desires to heal, uh, and not just supernaturally, but but you know, for us to um medically or or make available whatever knowledge we we have medically as well as just a very important thing. I wonder what nations uh you tend to work most with? Like how do you decide where to go? Uh well um how how Life Rise works is that we partner with grassroots Christians. So these are country. Yeah, these are Christians that see the needs around them and they want to respond. They desire to respond. Okay. And so um we help them with um resources to enable them to respond. Yeah. And so in AIDS it becomes prevention, treatment, and care projects By projects I mean you serve a certain number of people over a certain time and uh prevention. That makes me think of Uganda. The Uganda model. Now now apparently they've been touted around the world by the UN as being the most effective country in terms of dealing with uh with AIDS and uh in uh uh uh bringing about a significant decrease in the number of people that were coming down with AIDS. Are you familiar with with that particular model and the story behind that? Yeah, um Uganda was a really dramatic story of um the infection rate coming down. in HIV which didn't it like come down like fifty, seventy five percent or something like that? It was very dramatic, it came down from fifteen percent of all adults positive to five percent. in the decade of the nineties. Okay. So it was very dramatic. And uh when they did the research to try to figure out what that was due to one of the most significant reasons uh that that came down was because Uganda used a model that included Abstinence uh until marriage and then faithfulness in marriage. Yeah. In fact D do I understand this correctly that the original I was talking to a pastor uh from Uganda uh who works with several churches there in town. He was here uh in the United States. And he tells me that the original Ugandan model was ABC, that the A stood for um abstinence, B stood for be faithful, and that the C stood for Christ. And that when the UN came in, the UN uh said, hey, you know, you got this great model, it's so effective, nobody else anywhere around the world has is got uh as as great a as as significant a rate of effectiveness as you guys do. Can we use your model? And they were like, yeah, totally. So the UN came in with all this money uh to help them to continue their model. But then once they had come in, they'd already given them the money, this pastor says, that then they turned around and they said, well, you know, not everybody's so comfortable with Christ uh being in their uh what do you say we uh use condom instead and uh and so they turned it from abstinence be faithful uh Christ to abstinence be faithful condom. So literally the condom was was uh replaced the Christ, which which is very interesting because this pastor says to me that that Uh I said to him, I said, well, so are you happy with the results? And they're like, no. Our whole all the pastors are very concerned and and we don't know how to get it back because now we because now there's so much money involved that the UN brought in uh nobody's willing to let go of the money so that we can return to what was really working, you know, the most effectively. Um how much do you find that that's the case with the UN? They just reduced uh their their inflated numbers, you know, uh very dramatically. from forty was it forty million around the world down to thirty three million, which is still a huge number, but uh, you know, there there's all these charges that there are Falsely inflating them just to get money for research and and that kind of thing. Uh what's your take on on all that Uh well, you know, I think um that what they say is the reason behind the change in the numbers is first of all that they got better at the methodology to try to determine, you know, estimate how num how many people are infected Okay. Uh and they stress that. Sure. Now, you know, you also might say, well, the programs are starting to work Two. Okay. So uh it's both of those probably the the first one, methodology. inflating the numbers but but to to uh there's reason to believe that they were trying to be as uh as sincere and and vigilant about getting that right as possible And that that potentially those things are coming down. I guess it's hard to say 'cause you want to work together with those guys. You don't want to like out, you know, put yourself on the outs with them. You want to work together as much as possible with uh the UN I would imagine. Well, I think um that you know, I I I would hate to attribute some sort of, you know bad motives to them, but but it it may be true that they they inflated the numbers. But I think it's more that it's very difficult sometimes to really estimate accurately Uh, because you have to, you know, look at cer what they call surveillance data, which is people coming in, say, to the hospital or whatever, and and so you don't always have a a population level of um understanding of in the infection rate. So a certain amount of people come in seeking help, willing to get the help, but then the point is is that that's only going to be a fraction of the people that actually have the disease. Right. And so it's a question of kind of shooting in the dark and saying, okay, what percentage does come in versus doesn't come in and how do you uh come up with a number for that? Yeah. And you know, it's hard to estimate in rural areas versus urban and so there's There there are some difficulties in in estimating. I don't trust him. Anybody who's gonna take Christ out and replace it with condom can't be trusted. That's pretty dramatic. By the way, it was shocking to me to to real to to hear that they, you know, actually would have done that. But yeah. We've got a couple of minutes left. I'll I'll let you uh I know that Cynthia has a uh a a thought at the tip of her tongue, but I just want to tell everybody who you're listening to speak. Dr. Cynthia Callow is the Executive Director of Life Rise AIDS Resources. Jonathan Schweitzer is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. And now it was on the tip of your tongue. Hope you hope you haven't lost it. interested in what we call a you know what I would call a C only approach, you know, condoms only, versus, you know, adding the abstinence and be faithful in there. They talk about it, they kind of give lip service to it, but they're not as keen on it. as uh, you know, say um even our own US government, uh, through the PEPFAR president's emergency plan for AIDS relief, they've at least, you know, stood out for A and B. It's interesting, isn't it? We've got the y Ugandan model, ABC, and it's all about abstinence, faithfulness, which ties to abstinence, uh in in a sense. It's at least be monogamous. and and and then being able to remain abstinent and faithful because of Christ Like those things all come together and so it works. And uh I mean there's no secret I'm a Christian. Jonathan's a Christian. There's an internal logic to what we believe about this. Makes sense to me. That works. That's the recipe for success. Yeah. And yet, you know, you've got some secular humanist type of organization out there that wants to take out all the elements that work and change them. You know, what's the what you need is you need a little salt, a little paprika and uh some celery stalks and you'll be good. Well let's replace the celery with some bark And let's replace the salt with some, you know and they want to totally change the recipe and expect that it's going to come out tasting just as good. Right. And then it doesn't, and everybody's like surprised. And then the answer of course is to throw more money at it. Yeah And that's a question I don't know if we have time to get into it, but that is a dicey question. Before the show started, Cynthia and I had a chance to talk about and she gets into ministry and she's you know, finds herself needing to do a lot of fundraising, which is always the case. Right. And there's a great temptation. to kinda go where the money is because it seems like it would make it so much easier. Maybe we need to uh talk about that and we've only got about a minute left in the show, so I don't think we can talk about that. Do you think we can talk about that later on? Well let's let's just finish up because that ties in with the UN and then we can get more into the money issues because there's certainly a sense, you know, with the UN that they're attempting to uh to be the solution to world problems. They they sincerely want to be uh the solution to world problems. The problem is that as Christians, in fact I I think at some level this is part of the reason why Christians have been so slow 'Cause we've kind of had this sense that that the UN is running, you know, and the the the secular agencies are running the the support for these things. And so as a result we find ourselves like, well, I I don't agree with how they're going about it. So I don't know if I want to get involved. You know, and so then so then we we find ourselves hanging back 'cause we kinda w you know, we feel like they've already taken up all the space. So you do do you feel like that That's been part of the issue, you know, that finally Christians are like, well, no, we do want to engage and participate, but that we've been hanging back because they've kind of been taking up the space. Uh yeah, you know, um they have taken up the space and uh it's only of late that evangelical Christians have even felt even uh moved by God to start to respond. So we have a lot of uh Territory to t to have to gain credibility. Yeah. And to be able to have a voice and engage in that arena Amen. We've got a lot of work to do. If you two are agreeable, that's what we're going to pick up next week's show. Great. All right. We're gonna we're gonna we'll put the uh the Christian church in the whipping post for a little while at the beginning of the show. Yeah, that's good. And then go from there. Yes. All right Uh thank you, John Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Dr. Cynthia Calla. I've got to put the doctor in front of there. She worked really hard for that. She deserves the passion. Yes, she does. The executive director of Life Rides 8 Life Rise AIDS resources. I'm Troy Skinnard and our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? Thanks so much for listening. God bless.