We all have the same heart, we ask in the same blood, flowing from the body. Welcome to the Project Faith Debate on Project News Radio. 930 WFMD brought to us by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding Today for Growth Tomorrow. 1-8772 Shred. 1-877 The number two, S-H-R-E-D-D. They sell security. And Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? You give them a buzz, say hello to Marlene and Patrick Forbee and say, Troy, your good friend said to say hello and that's why I called. Well if you're looking into the background is a song called Gloria. It's a Christian pop Christian song by an artist called Paul Coleman. Kind of a worship touch song. I'm gonna turn my mic off for a second so the guys in the studio can hear this. Creation coming. Better than overtly. Christian religious song. And these kinds of songs, maybe not this particular one, but these kinds of songs are sung in worship services all across the country every single Sunday. John Sweitzer is the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here in Frederick, and Bob Miller, the morning man from the Morning News Express here on WFMD. uh back on the show this week. We didn't beat up Bob too bad last week so he came back. I have um I have nothing controversial to say. Well we'll we need to find something. Did I sing horribly? No, I knew that about all that. But when you uh came to Christ about ten years ago or so That one of the things you looked for in finding a church was that they would have a good music program. You wanted to have a drum kit to be exact. Oh yeah Yeah, yeah. When I was a kid, my mom and dad took me to uh a church here in Frederick and um they did the three hymns with an organ and then you were done. I have a great story about this. During the holiday season, they were saying, open your hymns, we're gonna sing joy to the world. And I was like a little kid, I said, Mom, I know this one. I can sing this one. And just as they started to s sing it, I went, Jeremiah was a bullfrog. Obviously a different joy to the world, but But, you know. Anyway, the uh actually for the record I wrote a Christian version of Jeremiah Was a Bullfrog. Oh did you? Yeah, yeah, because Jesus Christ was the Son of God He is a good friend of mine. Now do you have apologetics? Do you have apologetic CDs at all? They are it's a group of guys who write Christian songs based on uh popular music. That's all they do. I have a lot of people who are secular songs and they put Christian words. The Christian version of Yeah. Absolutely. Wow. Anyway the point is Uh and Jonathan's church, by the way, you probably f feel reasonably comfortable at Crossroads Valley Chapel because he has a drum kid. I I have to admit that uh uh we have at our church an awesome really awesome group of people. And they're all just like I mean we have a uh a Frederick County Sheriff who will stand there sometimes in his in in his uniform with the with the holster strapped playing the bass guitar. I hope he doesn't get in trouble for that. You know we also have him take up offering too. Time to play up. You know, the pistol, the hammer, the pistol back. Well we do have people who are very dedicated, and we have a wonderful group of singers, and the front line singers in our church are are fabulous, especially the beautiful blonde that stands on the right Yeah, you're married to her, huh? Now that's your two churches, you know, with the drum kit and electric guitars and this the fabulous thing and all that stuff. But there are other churches. It's all a cappella. They don't have any instruments at all. Some there's a name for it, it escapes me now, but they only sing the Psalms. Mm-hmm. They don't none of the they wouldn't plu they wouldn't sing Gloria by Paul Coleman for sure. Right. But they wouldn't play they wouldn't sing Joy to the World, the Jeremiah Bullfrog version or the other. They wouldn't sing Amazing Grace. Yeah. Right? They only sing the Psalms. Yeah. Uh and some of those churches I think are a cappella. And you know what? I mean, they're not gonna hurt themselves doing that. I mean I I I personally think, you know, where it says in the Psalms, uh Psalm forty Sing unto the Lord a new song. I personally think that it's important for us to sing a new song. And of course, interestingly, the Psalms themselves talk again and again about playing on the ten string lyre. on the loot, you know, on on on uh with with with cymbals clashing and in fact they talk about dancing and clapping and raising your hands. One of them even says to spin about wildly uh before the Lord because he's spinning about wildly for you. You know, and then of course David danced in Jehovah's Sight. And so um so they're not going to hurt themselves by limiting themselves just to singing the word of God. I mean that's a great thing. I sometimes I wish that even some of the modern stuff was more straight out of scripture. But I think that there's definitely the potential and the value in doing newer stuff. As long as it lines up with scripture. I'm bringing it up more from a Or a couple of Christians, Bob and I, and we're out there looking for a church, and Bob picks a church because they got a drum kit. And I'm not making light of it, I don't mean it that way But there's another pastor in China. Right. But it is important in and you're right in the twentieth well in the twenty first century it's important for uh churches to consider Scripturally, first and foremost, I would hope. Right. But then also culturally where where it lines up with scripture. I was talking to a pastor of a major congregation not that long ago who went through a transition on Um what do you call the person that leads the music ministry? Uh music minister. Worship minister. Worship minister, music pastor, whatever. Uh they went through a transition. the person that had been leading the the worship, the music part, left, replaced it with somebody else who apparently had a a different style or wasn't as Sure. And according to this pastor, close to half the congregation is out of three months left. Yeah. Now if they took the drum kit away from your church, would you leave? Like how important is all of that? How much weight should we Well let me start I'm not a pastor, but let me start as as a lay person. Uh we start our services off with, you know, a good thirty-five uh forty minutes worth of worship music before we even get into the word, before we ever sit down. It is very important. I think the worship minister, at least from my perspective is very important to to lead you into what I call the throne room, to lead you into that that area where you're, you know, you're just You you come to church to praise God, you know. It's not to it's not to, oh, forgive me Lord, I'm here on Sunday to punch my ticket. This is where you get to be with a bunch of believers and everybody gets to praise and worship God. And I and music plays a huge part of that. It it it either it sets the tone. It sets the tone for me for the whole time. Let me ask you as a pastor, you have, I don't know, sixty, seventy, eight, I don't know how many people come to your church every Sunday, but it's between fifty and a hundred, I know that, right? Sure. Yes. So, uh, keep the math simple. Let's say it's a hundred. Yeah. Which is not enough. This guy's a great preacher, so there should be more people going to his church. Thanks, Bob. Can I hear an Amen? And you should listen to Bob every day, Monday through Friday. But let's say you're worship leader. moves out of state. Yeah. And somebody else takes over. Mm-hmm. And peop maybe people don't appreciate his way of leading the worship as much and inside of three months you didn't have a hundred people worshiping every Sunday. What would you tell the fifty people that were leaving as a pastor? What would I tell 'em? Yeah. Don't worry, we're gonna fire that guy and get a new one in, or like what would you say? Well again there's there's different reasons why they might be leaving. Um w worship leading requires um a level of spiritual uh uh authority. in addition to musical skill. And it's very possible that people would be leaving because, you know, they feel like uh the guy's got musical skill but that he doesn't have that that that extra level of spiritual depth where where you sense that he's bringing you into the presence of God. There's plenty of m musicians out there that are phenomenally talented and very gifted uh entertainers and, you know, showmen, but that wouldn't be uh spiritually uh mature enough to know what it means to take somebody in the presence of God and and if they were leaving for that reason, um, you know, again, uh Yeah, I mean it that just gets real complex about peop you know why people leave or or why they stay. You know the point is is is You know, what are they leaving for? If if if you've got a congregation and you totally change just the style and you have you have two equally spiritually mature people that can lead people into worship and you're just changing the style then you've changed the vision of the church. Because you're going to reach people based on the style of service that you have. And if the style of your service is reaching, you know, like a top forty group of people or maybe it's re reaching a uh a country music, you know, group of people, or maybe it's reaching, you know, more an African American, you know, crowd with a little bit more of a soul feel to the music. you know, your s your style of music is gonna attract people that feel comfortable, you know, in that style. And, you know, if you change styles of worship then your vision for who you're you're gonna end up reaching I think has changed. And you'll and you'll see that uh there's a lot of churches who have large congregations who are trying now to accommodate all styles. You'll see We'll have uh you know, we have a uh local pastor here, Pastor Paul Monday, I think who's on after we are. Before we are before we are eight eight thirty. And he has quite a bit of music on his show, in fact, yeah. But they do a s the traditional. They do a contemporary service. So I mean they have the their their They're understanding the needs and if they're able to do it, more power to them. Yeah. So you don't you wouldn't throw that into the category of church shopping with the negative connotation to church shopping. That's not Um I uh I just have to say that that um that if somebody's a church shopper and you're jumping from one church to another and you're not plugging in somewhere, I think you're doing yourself a disservice. I think you're doing the body of Christ a disservice. in general. And and so I'd say say if you're a church shopper, you know it about yourself and in fact you may even think think that it's you know something for you to be proud of. I personally think that it's very dangerous and it hurts both you the body of Christ and the community that you're in. However, um, you know, if you're a church shopper, you got all kinds of reasons reasons to jump from one to another. It hurts the body how? Like why? Why do you say that? Uh because what makes the church the church is that you bear one another's burdens. And you can't bear one another's burdens. I'm not going to let you bear my burden if I don't trust you If we don't have a relationship established where I know you're going to be there week in and week out, where I know you're going to be looking at me to see how I'm doing and come and ask ask after me, but if you're just jumping from one church to another church, you know, just just here and there. You have no way to build those kinds of genuine relationships where where you can build that net, you know, that the body of Christ is all about where you're, you know caring for one another in deep and lasting way. And and if that's the case then your I my my personal sense is that that your faith is something that is a bit self oriented and not other people oriented enough. If you want what w I tend to call it g uh I come from a Pentecostal church and I call it the Pentecostal pump up. There's a lot of people who can come in and and can take you with the style music, you know, that you could be jumping up and down, running in the aisles if you want to, or flat on your face. They can they can take you up and down as they want to. That's just somebody who can play music. Or there's somebody who can take you up and down and and and lead you into a worship style and into a worship place or a place of worship. And it's two different things and a lot of people want that that goosebumps feeling, you know, 'cause it feels good. It's a wonderful feeling. And music can do that to you. Exactly. And mus and it's it's a good thing. I mean you can go you can go to a U two concert, you can go to a Grateful Dead concert and you know that there's something you know, spiritual about a whole group of people and the music and everything going on. You know that there's something, you know, just gripping and and moving about that just in the the music itself. The question is whether or not when we go to church are we are are we experiencing a holy spirit when we come together, or are we just kind of whatever spirit, you know, makes us feel good, you know, and and we're not all that concerned about it necessarily being holy or or righteous, which is why people get so adamant about certain worship styles. because what they want is something that's holy and you know, for example, if I grew up and I was a I was a pagan in every sense of the term, drinking, partying, and I was into rock and roll, rock and roll maybe might represent to me even something unholy. And I might, when I got saved, look for something that was different from that, you know, that that was maybe uh seemed more holy to me. Or you could be totally the opposite way, where you come in and you want something that fits what you've been in your whole you know, the the point is you you're you want your music and your worship to to have a sense of this is God, this is not just a bunch of people doing whatever they feel like doing. Let me pick up on something that John said a minute ago about um you know bearing each other's burdens and that's the important part of being in a church and that sort of thing. I have a lot of people, it seems. When you they find out you're a Christian, you're a church or whatever, and you know you end up talking about faith issues and they'll say, Yeah, yeah, I'm a Christian too and I'll say, Oh really? What church you go to? It's oh you know, interesting. I like I like to know what church we'll go to and a lot of times the answer is well, you know, I stopped going to church a long time ago or I don't really go or whatever. And in that moment they've now I don't know if I'm doing the right thing or not, but they've opened themselves up by claiming to be a Christian. Yeah. So now I feel like my job as a fellow Christian, a brother in Christ is to hold them accountable to their faith. Yeah. And if they're going to say, Yes, I'm a Christian but I'm not going to church, then my Christian response to them is, you know, pardon me for being so bold. But shouldn't you be? As a Christian speaking to another Christian, you need to be in a church. Oh I know, but I get what I need by watching the Sunday morning TV programs or listening to the radio and the sermons on there or Ed Young is my pastor. I mean yeah, there's something I would argue with you there's something that you're not getting. Right. That you should be getting. Right. But there's also something that you're definitely not giving Yeah. You're not giving your love to somebody else. You're not there to shoulder the burden of somebody else. Right. There's some talent that God has given you. You have a gift that you're robbing the body by not regularly participating in a worship service and being part of that community And if you can look God in the eye and say, Yes, you know, I was right by not doing that, then that's between you and God. But as I understand scripture, you need to be in fellowship 'cause it's about the power of the Spirit for sure. Yep, I think it's a good thing. And the preaching of the Word and being in the Word and all that. But it doesn't end there. It's also about the fellowship and being part of that body and you know, all of those things are important. And I think it's a cop out for us to say Well I listen to the Frederick Faith Debate every Sunday so I can't I don't have to worry about going to church. I listen to Frederick Faith Debate all right away to church. However, if you want to send your time to send it to your love offering. Bob Miller at You're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Bob Miller, Morning Man from the Morning News Express, NWFND is here. Can I just now become part of the uh the panel all the time? Just add another change. Yeah, just take it out of your street. The problem is then that'll be three on one when we have people that we disagree with and we don't know. Well generally lately it's been it's been one on one. And and Troy every now and then goes and I'm Troy Skinner And by the way, Jonathan Sweites, your pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Let's shift gears just a little bit, 'cause we were talking about when I have an interchange with somebody who's a Christian. Yeah. Yeah. Let's talk about our interchange with those that aren't Christians. Or maybe they're nominally Christians, but they're not really, because they don't even know what it means. It's like you talk to somebody from Britain and you say Yeah, what religion are you? Church of England. Well, that's because you were born in England. Everybody in the Church of England doesn't mean you really are a Christian. Um let's talk about how we interact. Do you have If well if this is going to give away some trade secret, you don't have to come with you have like an you know a some sort of an in, a trick, uh something you do to try to strike up a conversation to share your faith with somebody or You just gonna wait till they bring it up or what do you do about that? Where's that? It's the big church right before sheets on 194. Oh yeah, I've seen that. You guys you know and that's how it starts. You know there's parts of me that wish that I was more bold, that I could just walk out in the street and just, you know, evangelize. I I you know, I I wish I could I I don't have that in me. I I mean I think I do, but I need to take that that next step. I mean but Well I've I've seen those guys in New York City though on the corner and they're shouting out the gospel saying how, you know, if you don't accept Jesus you're going to burn in hell and And I think they're doing it just the same. Yeah, but that's not what Bob's talking about. What is he going out on the street and preaching the I didn't know what you're doing? on a um C D series and he was talking about how they attacked pornography stores in their in their town and all they did was they just walked in front of the adult bookstores and they handed out tracts. To me, that's an email. You don't you're not saying anything, you're just handing it out and uh they they were they were arrested. They said, look, they told us the police came and told us we couldn't do this anymore, we'll be arrested And he said, Well you do what you feel like you have to do And he said twenty minutes later he got a call and he had to bail him out of jail. But they said the the sheriff at that time said, Look, I don't want him around here either This is not the way to go about it, we'll help you out. That's evangelizing. It's just in a different way. There's many ways to evangelize. And most of the most of it is how you act. If you show somebody that love and and if you have that conversation and hopefully they'll see something in you that they don't have and that and that'll start them Um I you know, our whole our whole path of me becoming a Christian started with my wife and the fact that she can sing and that a lady knew that she could sing harmony real well and asked her to sing in a gospel. And then we started talking after that and she's like, We should really take the kids to church somewhere and come to find out we needed it more than the I mean the kids need it too, but we found out that we needed it more now. Um so I mean that's how it started. I mean and it was just a conversation at work. Inviting somebody, um like I said, we're having our Easter production coming up. Um they want us to invite non-Christians. They say, look, we know your Christian friends are going to come. We want you to invite non-Christians. We want to fill this place with non-Christians. Yeah. To have them hear and see the message. How about you, John? How would I go about? How do you enter into that conversation? You wait kinda wait till it just happens or do you try to push the agenda a little bit or uh it's uh I go by the thirty three thirty rule. I'm writing this down. Hold on a second. You know, or or or they ask a question, Yeah, well what do you mean you're a Christian? What does that mean to you? You know, and and uh usually it's gonna come up in a conversation. I figure I either got a 30-second platform, a three-minute platform, or a 30-minute platform But if they give me a 30-second platform and I go 45 seconds, they're likely to never ask me about my faith again because I have abused their question and they feel like I just gushed out and just, you know, unloaded all over them. You know, but if they give me a three minute platform, end at two minutes and fifty five seconds, you know, and you gotta read that with each person, you know, how much time are they wanting to talk to you You know, talk to them as much as they want to talk and then get out of the conversation, talk about the weather, talk about politics, whatever else. You know, just get off the topic. And then they feel like, huh. They got just enough, they got what they wanted, and then they can come back and ask more later. And what I find is that if I'll if I respect that, they'll go from thirty to three minutes, you know, to thirty minutes, you know, because they're asking for it, not because I'm trying to push it on 'em. So trying to be sensitive to where you're maybe pushing too much and reading body language and that sort of stuff. Yeah, I mean if they give me thirty seconds I'm gonna shoot straight with 'em. Look, we're all sinners and and because of our sin we're we're probably going to hell you know, for eternity. And but but God doesn't want that. He sent his son to die on the cross for our sins so that we could be connected with him for eternity. You know, bam, you know, that's twenty seconds and and I've given them the whole message. So so I'm not I'm not looking to pansy or or water down my message at all. I just wanna I just only want to give them as much as as uh as they're asking for and not more than that because if people are really searching, they're looking for somebody that can help them, this is a secret sensitive principle I think at some level, you know, that you're trying to you're trying to read where people are coming from and respond. you know, to where they are. And but and but but and just knowing Jonathan for the short period of time that I've known him, uh, and something that our pastor talks about, John Kenny, i it's being relational. And I think that I think that Jonathan is relational. And when you're relational to somebody, they're more receptive to the message. Proverbs says good understanding wins favor. If I'm with somebody, you know, the the classic term if if When you're with somebody, you spend more time talking about them than you do about you. They're gonna come away thinking you're really intelligent, you know, that that you know Be that kind of person that you care more about what's going on in their life and they've come away feeling understood, then they're likely to be more open to you know, something I might have to say later on down the road. Well, I know we've done a lot of use of the last last week and this week. Yeah yeah. But there's a couple of games. Uh but the song speaks It's a speaking to me and it speaks to what we've just been talking about. So we'll end with this song. Thanks to our sponsors, All Shred Mobile Document Destruction and Putman Plumbing and Heating. Thanks Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor Cross's Art Chapel. Bob Miller, host of the Morning News Express here on WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner and this is the Frederick Faith Debate. on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. By the way, if you're interested, this is a song by Paul Coleman called My Brother Jack. And listen to the lyrics on this. We got into the car with the true believers. We could tell they were By the words they spoke They were talking of Jesus and all he was doing They were sharing their favors From the holy book. And I was with them every step of the way. Cause I'm a believer, saved by grace. But they didn't know it in the backseat was my brother Jack. We traveled on the two-hour journey, springing along the gospel radio. Then my brother Jack quite unexpected said, Do you mind if I listen to my favorite band? And maybe it was when the singer let out a word, four syllables long, and not ever heard in the church circles that the believers heard. How could you play music that evil How could you speak of someone's mother like that? Whatever is pure and whatever is holy. We think on these things, so here's your record back. And maybe it was just because we arrived at the place My fellow believers didn't see his face. Red was the anger all over my brother Jack Well I pulled them aside just before our performance And I told them the story of my brother Jack He's not a believer, but one who is searching. And I told him that Jesus loves him where he's at. When I was speaking, well suddenly I I wondered if we really knew why millions of people feel like my brother Jack. Well they come to our churches and they're not coming back. So please God save my soul and my sweet brother chair. Don't lose a lot.