Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Your host and moderator, Troy Skinner, once again joined by Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chaplain, and Alderman Paul Smith. Former bishop. Still not sure how to refer to that. Former bishop, once a bishop, always a bishop, kind of thing. But anyway it was the uh the Mormon Church, uh Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Our sponsors, as always, all shred. Thank you Putman Plumbing and Heating, thank you. Thank you. Um the show very that was very grateful of you to do. I'm in a grateful mood today, I'll tell you. a page or a section of the WFMD website dedicated to the show in the very short future. There are some things happening in the background as we speak to try to make that happen. What exact form and shape that will take, I'm not 100% sure, but hopefully within, let's say, the next month or so, we'll have a really nice In fact, we owe that to you, the listeners, who have been so faithful and uh have helped to make us uh a show that has has become uh valued. in different ways. So thank you. Yes. For being grateful again. See? See? It's catching. It can be done. All day long. Go go say thank you to someone. I thought you were a mean spirited closed minded Christian then. Yeah, yeah. Now I'm grateful. Now I'm grateful and closed minded. Anyway, uh we are talking about uh I guess we decided traditional Christianity versus uh uh Mormon Christian Christianity for the purposes of this conversation. And then when we actually got into the meat of the show, we started with a question which was um is the Mormon church Christian? Um not any great surprise to me Or maybe a lot of people listening. Paul said, Yes it is. And John said, I'd like to be able to say yes it is, but gotta say no it's not. I'm gonna ask the exact same question, only I'm gonna ask it of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Gotcha. Crossroads Valley Chapel Christian? John? You're gonna let me go first? Sure. The reason I believe that we at Crossroads Valley Chapel are Christian is because we Hold to the uh the Bible uh as it's, you know, whether it's the NIV, uh, New King James Version, King James Version. You know, the the the orthodox teachings of the Bible of today, maybe that would be summed up in things like the Nicene Creed and um just the clear teaching of scripture, we we uh are uh In every sense the word committed to the full authority of the uh of the word of God and in its um power and ability to to transform our lives uh along with the gospel of Jesus Christ which is contained in its pages. I'm trying to hit it all. Did I hit it all? That's pretty good. Yeah is that all right? Yeah. All right. I believe you are Christian. You're you're being grateful. I I am. Certainly am. I you know, I would say um Uh y you I think you hit on something there that I fully agree with. If I as an individual am blessed with the gift of the Holy Ghost that transforms my soul so that I want to serve the Lord with all my heart. If I receive spiritual gifts from him, am I not Christian? And and I've had those experiences regularly and and uh so I believe I'm Christian too. Now we will discuss some of our differences And uh when all this is over, I have no doubt that we will still be as good a friends. Yep, yep. We will have identified some doctrinal differences. I'll still vote for you. That's good. This will be my first campaign appearance after three years. But uh You'll notice he was not quick to add he would vote for you. I did vote for you. And I subscribe to your campaign and I will vote for you. Now, we alluded to this um toward the latter part of the show last week with you know that you know, we could say, well, on one hand, what's really important is that we serve our communities and we stand for moral righteousness and all those sorts of things Um but I as far as I'm concerned, Jonathan rightly pointed out that, you know, there's nothing more consequential than things that uh impact on our eternal existence as opposed to our temporal, temporary earthly existence. Salvation. Right. So I'm with you on that. So Jonathan I think I I I feel weird asking the question 'cause I I know what the answer is gonna be. But still like my wife. Can somebody who uh how do I say this? By the way, I love my wife. When I say that, that's a warm thing. Does does the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Mormon Church, Teach its congregants, its subjects, its adherents, whatever, in such a way to set them up so that they, upon passing away, will have eternal life with the Father. Um it uh it is true that Mormon doctrine defines what brings you to a saving faith differently from how traditional Christian doctrine does and that as a result traditional Christian doctrine those who hold to traditional Christian doctrine doctrine are of the opinion that uh Mormons uh are in danger uh of eternal damnation, significantly so. Um and So without answering for what he's going to say, uh that is a way that that he and I differ because Mormonism will tend to be a lot more universal. Now at this stage I'm not looking forward to apologetic uh for Mormonism, but I do want to ask the exact same question in in the reverse. You know, for the those traditional Christian churches Is Jonathan, as a traditional Christian church pastor, is he teaching doctrine and is he sharing um ideas or things from the Bible in such a way that those that follow what he teaches will have um uh what's the right word to phrase this? Uh the fear. The batch that God has to offer uh living in the the celestial realms for all of eternity. Uh let me answer it this way. Yes. I I think there are of all the different Christian denominations There are there are different truths being taught, some that are taught in some churches and some that are not taught in others. And ultimately the people who love the Lord with all their heart, who are willing to serve him no matter what, they will be united around the truth. And obviously people are going to be changing because we've got, you know, hundreds of doctrinal differences in the different Christian churches. And people are going to change. They're going to change to the truth. I happen to believe that the doctrines that I believe are the truth and I believe that Uh uh hopefully I expressed them right, but I probably, you know, don't always get them exactly right in explanation, but I believe that ultimately we will all come around to the truth. I believe that uh the work Jonathan's doing in his church is helping save souls. And um uh I don't believe that um Well well take for example people who have died and have never even heard of Jesus Christ. Are they for do they forfeit the opportunity of going to heaven? I think that God provides a way later where I think it says in Peter, 3 Peter, it says that that eventually the gospel will be preached to these people who are dead and and he will judge them according to how they did. And so that people will have the opportunity to live with him. So uh i in our impatience to get everything right now, you know, we can be kind of divisive. But I think ultimately you know, we we will converge. The good people are going to come together. Well let me ask this question then. Uh wasn't necessarily intending on asking this question, but pops into my head. If there is, you know, a tremendous similarity or the differences that do exist are of very little consequence in the grand scheme of things because what really matters is that you know you You love the Lord, you want to serve the Lord, and in the end, we're all gonna end up coming together anyway, we're all gonna have opportunity or that sort of thing. Uh You know, the Mormon Church is famous for its proselytizing efforts, you know, go going door to door and and trying to uh persuade, convert, whatever the right word is. People who are already practicing Christians, already in uh involved in a congregation that teaches let's say what Jonathan Sweitzer's church at Crossroads teaches, what's what is the impetus Uh or the the felt need to go out and try to I don't I don't know if you're comfortable with that or not to convert people to Mormonism. No, I understand exactly what you're saying and and we are I I I know we are regarded as as we're taking away people from different flocks. We're we're a very proselytizing uh church, but But our approach is this. If God has sent a prophet to the earth, has given us divine messages That are predicted in the Bible that will happen to prepare the world for his second coming. It's our responsibility to share them with the world. And uh on the one hand it would seem arrogant for somebody to say, well, you know, you think you have, you know, something special that we don't have, but But we what if we got it? What am I supposed to do? I mean, I with all my heart I believe God did call Joseph Smith to be a prophet. Through him he revealed a new volume of scripture called the Book of Mormon, which is just a a very inspiring book. And and I'd like to share it and and I'm I don't back down from saying I think it's the only true church on the earth that has the gospel in its fullness. But on the other hand I I I'm I don't saying that tends to alienate and I that's not my intent. But but if it's true, don't I have to say that? And and I really do with all my heart I believe. It's true based on the the uh from Jonathan's point of view, on the standard of traditional Christianity. Now Jonathan went to the see you the stand I'm a little uncomfortable with the standard. The standard of traditional Christianity I don't think should be the true standard, as I said it though at the last show. I think the standard is what does the Bible teach and what does the Spirit indicate is true? And and I know that my beliefs are founded in the Bible. Now You you may interpret others may interpret the scriptures a little bit differently and but uh but they are founded in the Bible Right. But again, for the sake of the show we've decided to for now you know Well yeah, I mean that's the 'cause clearly the the point is is that the the doctrines that you are that that that that Mormonism uh enunciates that Joseph Smith uh uh clarified uh clearly clash uh in significant ways with uh with what has been traditional Christian doctrine. So the point is is that is that in the context of the clash, you know, there there there needs to be a uh a a differentiation. There there needs to be an ability to say, okay, well this is why We believe, you know, what we believe in in in, you know, obviously then for me to say, well, this is why we disagree. Well th but the but the the traditional a group that you're setting up, uh y y uh the this classification only makes sense if they all believe the same thing. And and the fact is we don't. I mean I've I've talked to another uh enough ministers and people of other faith to know that I mean there are differences about whether you save by grace or works and and there are differences that that exist. So But one of the things that ties those together, at least you um again, you'll get some disagreement on this too, but um from from Jonathan's point of view, I think he would say the thing that ties what he thinks is true Christianity together is that it's biblical Christianity. So if we and it sounds like y me you're quoting scripture and you're using the Bible as as as an authoritative source for you, right? So you what you're introducing here is we believe in modern revelation that God can reveal additional scripture. Right. And that is that is a point where l lot of folks disagree. And you would uh you, as a Mormon, you know, think that you know Brigham Young and uh and Joseph Smith uh or prophets from God and Jonathan would say they are not. I they're not. And Jonathan would say they are not because uh well Uh for one thing, the um civilization that he claims existed in the United States uh has uh there there's no record of any archaeological existence of uh of what Joseph Smith claimed was an entire uh civilization uh that was descended from the ten tribes of Israel that existed in the United States for a period of time you know, and he describes, you know, certain elements of their history, how they came to be. We have absolutely no record. We had all the Mayan, all the Aztec, all the Inca, you know, uh uh uh civilizations in the United States. We have no record uh anywhere of any civilization that existed except for Joseph Smith's um Well see but that's not that's not accurate. I'm not sure where you're getting your information. There and and every archaeologist that I've ever talked to I've paid attention to archaeological evidences for many years because of the Book of Mormon. So you're saying that the evidence doesn't exist? There is evidence to say that there is to see it. Certainly, so well just tell me what the evidence is. Well let me tell you some of them. The Olmec the Book of Mormon describes the migration to America of three peoples. One of them came the Nephites and the Mulekites, they came about six hundred BC. By boat. By boat. And another group that came by boat about two thousand twenty-two hundred BC. Sure. The Olmex civilization in Central America and s and and uh South America and and uh into North America uh fits the Olmex What civilization fits it? O L M E C the Omec civilization. Yeah, fits the fits what? Uh they are they're called the Jaredites in the Book of Warren. Jarudites. The and the uh Meaning they found parts of the civilization? The Omec civilization is is separate and distinct from the other one and and it did it just has similar Uh archaeologists have identified different like like the May the Mayans and the Incas after the U. Of course the Mayans and the Incas were after the Book of Mormon ended. uh you know, four hundred AD. Yeah. But the Olmecs started about that same time. The there are evidences even in the the the burial mounds in uh the Mississippi Valley, Ohio and so forth of civilizations. One is called the Hopewell Indians and the other was one is the Adenas, that had a civilization about the time of the birth of Christ till about two hundred AD. Two at the same area, two separate uh civilizations that they've they've uh identified. And then they they s they terminated about that time. Now, uh Joseph Smith expressed the thought that he thought that uh the Nephite civilization might have been down in Guatemala. Um but you know we don't know exactly where it was. Okay, so so so this is there is this is part of my major issue uh with Uh Joseph Smith, one, he he openly changes scripture. And he says that there's several passages of scripture as we have it in our Bible that that uh that are wrong. Uh even though there's over f you know, five hundred and fifty different extant manuscripts, you know, across uh the world that have come together that are in agreement th and and most of which come from before the time of Constantine, uh all of which are in agreement with one another. And he even changes some Old Testament passages which the Dead Sea Scrolls uh fit uh what what what our understanding of the old testament was and so so he he uh he takes upon himself to change passages of scripture that Christ himself didn't even feel the need to change and to and to and to transform. And then he interpreted certain passages of scripture uh in direct contradiction from uh passages that refer to Christ uh and and that Christ claimed that he that the fulfillment of those uh passages were in him. And so uh again, whether it's Daniel, whether it's Malachi, these passages that Joseph Smith takes to apply to himself It uh it's just in terms of traditional Christian theology. Well the last part of what you said, I'm not sure what specific scriptures you're referring to. I uh uh the first part in terms of uh the arrogance of someone to look at biblical scriptures and to presuppose that he could change it. It obviously appears arrogant and uh but if but if he's right then it's what he should have done. Now the fact is there are inconsistencies in the Bible. If you know the Bible, you know there are versions of the thing. Give us some examples. Well one is one that comes to mind is uh Peter uh denying Christ. Did he did the cock crow three times or two times? Uh I mean is extremely minor because it affects no uh doctrinal issue whatsoever. I mean uh w one guy having a record that the cock crowed wants, another guy that it that the cockroach tells us, I mean you're a lawyer I mean I mean that that falls within uh the realm of of truth and acceptance, you know, in terms of two tests me. Obviously a cock crowed. Whether it was three times or just one time, doesn't matter. The point is is that is that Paul uh Peter did something, then the cock rode and and and and when it comes to doctrine it's just a lot of things. Which again is extremely minor. Are you saying that the Bible is totally correct with as written without any error? And And you are implicitly acknowledging that, you know, there may be extremely minor differences between those that are that are testifying to the uh the truth of what happened and and and that that reveal uh uh human perspectives in ways that That are uh totally unrelated to any kind of doctrine or spiritual truth. As I've s as I said a couple of times already, at least once today I think uh I mean I think the key to to truth is is What does the spirit bear witness is true? Yeah, and again, that's part of what it what uh Christ traditional Christians have a problem with because um traditional Christians are of the opinion that uh that our heart is infinitely wicked and able to deceive us and just because we feel like something is of the Spirit of God doesn't mean that it's of the Spirit of God But we're able to be deceived, and that's why we're always taught to go back to Scripture. You know, like Christ said, When my words remain in you, when you remain in me, then I will send the Holy Spirit and he will come upon you and he will guide you in all truth Everything is based upon the Word of God. And so as soon as we as soon as we we we decide that we're going to go beyond the Word of God, then we've gone beyond uh truth we've gone beyond the uh the ministry of the Holy Spirit. I see I'd say I think you if the Holy Spirit exists, I think he can bear witness to truth, and I testify he does. And and to uh well because I know a guy I know a guy of the Baha'i faith that will tell you that he feels like the Holy Spirit has told him that the Baha'u'llah born in about the eighteen hundreds, is the second return of the Messiah. And he will tell you again and he will argue from Christian scriptures that that the Holy Spirit has shown him that this is the right way. And so according to your form of truth, Oh he's wrong. He cannot be refuted. Well no. Because he's saying that the Holy Spirit has taught him. How would you refute him? If somebody says the spirit told me to kill somebody and and commit murder and do some terrible things, uh I mean the person may be deluded, but the spirit didn't tell him that. It he just A false witness. But the Bahahua the Baha'u'llah never never killed anybody. He's proclaiming peace and, you know, setting up all around the world, you know. Scriptures scriptures of the Bible are susceptible to various interpretations and that's why Peter said no no scripture is of any you know is nobody has the right to a private interpretation. It this this it means what the Spirit indicates it means. needs. This is where when I read Joseph Smith in in in your description of what happened, Joseph Smith lived in a time uh when there was clearly division between the denominations. And a major portion of his uh of his teaching seems to be a response to this. Um and he kind of revelation that um of of some spirit being that speaks to him and in the context of that when he shared it with believers the believers immediately rejected him And and this is my concern is that is that Joseph Smith ended up choosing to believe something because he felt so rejected, he hung on to it and wouldn't let it go. He clearly had some kind of experience. If I if he were to come to me today, I would say, Joseph, clearly you had a spiritual experience. I'm not convinced it's of God, and I would like to help you to work it through and to understand exactly what happened to you. The problem is that that spiritual experience told him to ignore every bit of teaching, everybody else. Don't join any of the other churches. Reject everything that they said. I'm going to tell you and you alone. Well, I d I And no prophet anywhere in the Old Testament or New Testament ever did that. They always built their their their belief along with the other believers on the foundation of the previous revelation. Joseph Smith Turns his back on everybody at the time. Oh w well y you didn't get that out of my book. No, no, because you talk clearly about how he was rejected and and the I mean in fact you quote directly from his stuff. No, I I am reading my own interpretation into it. I mean again it's if if you're rationally going to do this and and you're gonna say that the scriptures are only susceptible to one interpretation My eyebrows go up and say, how can you say that? I mean, there are many possible interpretations and and and to say that it's just we're just gonna g we're we can't let the spirit be the test for ultimate truth is to me that's that's a mistake. We every one of us must find the spirit and do what the spirit says And the spirit isn't gonna tell you one thing and me something else. Now there'll be people who you know Okay, well I I'd like to talk more about this, but Troy how are we doing time wise? We've got about, you know, ninety seconds. Yeah. So my my final thought thought is this then and then I'll let you have a final thought. I'll try to do mine in thirty seconds. My concern is that as soon as we make the Holy Spirit the standard, then that's exactly where the problem comes into play because we've lost a rational base. We've lost a logical base for the truth. The truth was always based on the testimony of those who saw exactly what had happened and and were able to pass it on to us, whether it's Moses, Abraham, David Isaiah, Jeremiah, you know, they prophesied in the midst of what happened and they saw it happen, and then they passed it on uh to the next generation and and And so it was logical. It was based on their eyewitness report. This is not true about Joseph Smith. He's given us this whole uh this whole uh theology that's based on stuff that he did not see, that's based on a book that he interprets I mean nobody uh no prophet ever did that kind of thing. If you if you I I will say He's the first ever to do that. I don't know if any prophet in the history of the world that has produced more revelations and and books than the Prophet Joseph Smith. I will agree with you on that. Sure, I'll agree with that. But that's going to make it true. Uh i yeah, this guy is this volume does not does not breed uh this guy i is something else. He d i if i i it's incre if it's true it's it's virtually incredible. But I I will not uh budge one inch From the concept that we really have to be in tune with the Spirit. Joseph Smith read a scripture in James that says, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God to give it to all men liberally. He asked and he got an answer from God Himself, the Spirit-bearing witness, and that is the base from which his message comes. Well we're gonna uh pick up there uh maybe next week's show and and continue because we're like in the middle of the discussion and we have to stop. It's gonna hate that part of the show. This is the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, Alderman Paul Smith representing the Mormon Church, and Jonathan Sweitzer representing Crossroads Valley Chapel Uh I'm Troy Skinner, thanks again to All Shred, Putman Flooming and Heating and Dynamic Living Solutions, and thank you for listening, God bless