This is the Frederick Sally. We didn't talk this morning. This is the Frederick. Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, the always pastorally sensitive. John Schweitzer is on the show again this week with Tom Sandy, who is sensitive, but not pastorally. Sensitive is like the new new touch word for the show. Sensitive. Anyway. You had to be here. Yes, yes. Anyway. So, the show is brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? And uh I usually say at the end of the show, let's say at the start, if you would like to uh comment on anything you ever hear on the show, feel free to send me an email. It's Troy. That's the easiest way to email me, Troy at WFMD. com. You can go to the website and check out the blog and you can access my email from there as well at WFMD. com or For those who still prefer it's www. wfmd. com. And uh from there there's lots of links. I do a daily blog, weekdays anyway, and then Jonathan Schweitzer does a blog. uh that uh he does about every other day on average and uh there's a link to that from that site so it's really easy to find just go to wfmd dot com No, somebody told me to click on the on-the-air part and there's a little drop-down menu and one of the one of the shows on that drop-down menu is the Frederick Faith Debate. Just click there and a whole new world will open up. Since you and I never talk outside of the show, I'll just go ahead and say this now. It apparently blogs are like more run like on a weekly basis, like you have a topic of the week. Uh and you pay attention to different things having to do with that topic as opposed to like a different thing a day. I change mine every day. Right, right. Because we are continuous partial fans. We have so many inside things going on right now. If you weren't listening to last week's show, you have no idea what we're talking about for half of today's show. Yes. Nevertheless, Troy is sensitive. So I will say this Yes. If you missed last week's show, we have to catch you up a little bit. All right. We ended the show talking about um Well I'll let John I'll let Tom lay it out. We we're talking about an issue that that Tom b uh feels passionately about. And he thinks is like way out there. And I don't think it is. And I'm willing to go there with him because I think Tom is pretty much way out there anyway. Right, right, right, right. I think we might get there. But Jonathan's not so sure. So we kind of set the stage in a preamble kind of a way, but as is often the case on this show, the guest, Tom, complained that Jonathan wouldn't let him get a word in edgewise. So Wasn't my exact words. I think the best way to respond to that is just to say nothing. And yet you said something. I can't respond to that, can I? So anyway. So yes. But seriously, to allow us to kind of know exactly what we're dealing with, we're going to give the floor to Tom and he's going to outline what it is that he wants the point that he wants to make, and then Jonathan will respond, and if Jonathan doesn't do a good job of ripping town to shreds, then I'll jump in and give it my best shot. I'm glad we have a goal. Unless Jonathan and I should both agree. Yes. In which case we will set up a hypothetical straw man and we'll rip that to shreds. Yeah. Just for fun. Because we're sensitive on this show. So what what what is the premise of your theological issue here? Well it's it's not an issue, it's just something I believe in. And and my belief is that acceptance by God, whether it be Old Testament or New Testament has never been based on whether one follows the law completely or not. And and the reason why I say that is because Obviously in in the New Testament there was many debates and a lot of post debates as to what role should the law play in Christian life And then but I think that's kind of missing I mean, I think it's obviously it's obviously important because we are Christians and and God calls us to that. But I think it's kind of missing the real question is not how does it play in our lives, but Should it have been the focus of the Old Testament? Now did you say I want to make sure I I'm clear on exactly because i it it always does come down to some hair screen. For the record you I don't want them to talk to him first. We're supposed to be letting him get it out there. I want to clarify what he started with. Yes, good. You said That God's salvation or God's chosen aren't God's acceptance. God's acceptance And then it'll go on but farther to that, but initially I want to start with God's acceptance. Has never been based on obedience to the law. Okay. Alright, continue. Okay. I'm making a note. And and the reason or a reason why I believe that is because One, God's acceptance happened prior to the law. Number two, uh the law itself allows for someone to repent, to make a sacrifice, so therefore it it knows, apart from Jesus, that it cannot be completely fulfilled. In fact, Hebrews chapter 7 verse 11 said that, you know, in the old law, and that's actually the only time the Greek word meaning absolute perfection is used. You can't be absolutely perfect according to the old law, see can't be accepted. And now through Christ, our acceptance through God is no longer dependent on the law. So I think that the law does serve its purpose. You know, Paul wrote that the you know the law brought us under the knowledge of sin. And he also said, therefore should we sin that grace may abound much? And he said, No, and I'm not saying we should just, you know, step completely aside from the law. But I'm saying that, you know, we need to, as as you were mentioning in the last show, focus on what's important. You know, and and and to me, that importance is is the cognitive decision. To go the way God is going and do the things God is doing. And and do you call that obedience? Well, I would say if if I followed through with it, it would be obedience. But I'm saying that and this goes into another topic we're going to discuss, but we're probably never going to get there, um, that as long as you make the decision to do that which is right in the sight of God Then you are part of God's chosen people. And I want to go back to the Old Testament to talk about that. And and basically where I get that is Is that so so is that that that's the nut of the whole thing is that is that acceptance as the people of God. Right. Meaning meaning you're no longer on the outside, you're on the inside of this Club that is the people of God. And what gets you uh in the door, your your membership card has never been obedience to the law, but has always been your your desire to please God. Whether it be has always been your desire or whether you chose a point in your life And then you know, I just wanted to clear that up a little bit. It could have gone either way. But, you know, yes, it's your desire to go in the way God is going and to accept and and make that decision. Now submission. Submission but not Muslim. No no no. You know, it it means one who submits. And and you're kind of arguing that that what makes you on the inside is your choice to be willing to submit to God's bigger purposes. That is correct. And So would you include Muslims? Well um in the group that are safe? Hmm. Tricky question. Why don't we come back to that shortly? Because I do I w do want I do want to answer that. I do want to answer that, but again I don't want to get too sidetracked and it's like a college football team deferring to the second half. Yeah, yeah. No, no, the whole point of this was I could get out my whole thing here and Okay, so get your old thing out. How much longer is it going to be for chronological? Yes. Well I don't know how many more questions you're going to ask in in the middle of it. Yeah, yeah. Okay, basically there's two each. Three, two each? Almost got away with that. No, go ahead, sorry. Um, God's acceptance happens two ways in the book of Exodus. In in chapter two, God says that uh he he sees the afflictions of the people, he hears their cry. And he decides that he's going to save them. That's in in verse 23. Chapter 3, God chooses Moses. So we kind of have a corporate salvation plan. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I think you guys stop for a second. God decides then and there he's going to save them That's the text says I'm sorry, I was that one of my few questions? Yes it was one of my still have two, so three total. Well actually, Exodus talks about prior into the microphone. Prior to this, Exodus talks about um the midwives that that, you know, saved the Hebrew children and Blah blah blah. So it does allude that God had a plan the whole time. Oh, okay. However, no, that's all right. I picked up my challenge flag. Move on. Oh. God heard their groaning and decided to deliver them up from the hands of Egypt. And then it says this and he remembered his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And he took notice upon them. So there there could be those who argued that he decided right then and there, but there was some preceding to that. So in any event, in chapter two, God decides to save his people. But then there he goes again. I'm sorry. He didn't decide there to save his people. Okay, according to verse two unf unfortunately It's true. Unfortunately, the the the nation of Israel at this stage of the ballgame is is already uh a you know, like at least in the into the you know, far into the first quarter or second you know, maybe into the second quarter of their existence, you know, and and God's plan to redeem the world through Abraham and his descendants and Jacob and the twelve nations, you know And so it is true that you can't quite say that God decided to rescue them at this point. Second chapter of Exodus shows God's salvation plan for his people in this current situation. Oh okay, so you're just gonna give in to us on that. Yes, I'm gonna remember that. Keep going. So But chapter two deals with the nation's salvation and then chapter three deals with the individual salvation and Moses and God And I don't want to say choosing because he chose them long before that, but the effects of God previously choosing Moses come to fruition in sort of a personal salvation story with Moses. Now Moses, all the Israelites are in Egypt, bad things are happening, God's seen, blah blah blah, and Passover occurs and the Israelites leave. Well, it says that uh in verse Chapter twelve verse thirty eight a mixed multitude leaves with them. And then basically What happens is later is is Solomon references that in First Kings eight fifty one, refers to God's people as the people who left Egypt. And then after we have all this wandering in the desert, and these generations go by, and and you would ask earlier what the percentages of the mixed multitude is, and I said that's irrelevant, and and here's why. Okay. It's because it's that combination of um country and or people salvation mix with God's individual salvation. So there could have been three people with them that were not Israelites, and had they and their head of household gone up to the top of the mountain with um with Joshua and they said as for me in my house, they would have been brought into the fold. Like Rahab, like Ruth, like all these different people down through the uh through the history of Israel that chose to throw in their lot with the election with the the God's predestined purposes for the nation of Israel. They they were like, you know what? Whatever God's doing with them, I like I wanna I want in on it. Exactly. You're saying that that that their choice to be a part of that was what made them holy as well. That is correct, and then it was confirmed by their confession of faith on the mountain with the rest of Israel. And again, whether it was whether it was five people or five thousand is really irrelevant. It just shows that God's acceptance is based on, first of all, one, Him, because salvation never happens without Him choosing so at some point in some time, seeing our afflictions, hearing our cries. Also interesting, there's no reference of any sort of uh gathering, there's no and certain pastors, priests, none of that, no worship, but God still hears their afflictions or sees their afflictions and hears their cry. But Uh you know, it's all based on the fact that they agree with him, they accept him, and they move forward with him. And so the point is The point is, is then while they are in the Exodus time period, God gives them the law. And what do we have? We have a group of people that every other minute they're saying, let's go back to Egypt. Every time Moses goes up to the top of the mountain, they're building golden idols, calves, what have you. They're doing everything they're not supposed to do. But one, there's still God chosen th God's chosen people. Though for the record God judges them pervasively, and many of them die Uh and don't and don't make it into the promised land. I understand that. and uh and and slew a whole bunch of them when they uh w had the golden calf at Mount Sinai. So clearly there was some pretty severe judgment in the context. Okay. That's true. However, they were still God's accepted people. Those that remained. Or those that died well. Okay, you're gonna have to prove that one. Okay. And I've got a in I'm not s I I go so far as to say that uh I would agree with you they were still God's chosen people. But I'm not so sure that um choose and accept as interchangeable words. Okay. Well that kind of ties into my next point is well, all this is going on Yeah. All this debauchery and all this, for lack of a better term, unholiness. Yeah, immorality. That too. God refers to them as his holy people. Well, they were not, by their actions, at all holy. Not even a little bit. But what does holy mean? Set apart. So they were set apart kinda like kind of like the nice china in your house. You know, you only use it for certain events, you know, they were holy, they were set apart only for God's purposes on the earth, specifically his righteous purposes. So they were cleansed from everything that was unholy. However, it's clear, uh it's clear even in the nation of Israel that Moses is more holy than Aaron and his sons. uh whom I call the Aaronites because they were the only ones that were the priests and the rest of the Levites uh were not priests, but the rest of the Levites were holier than the rest of the community because they carried parts of the temple, so much so that Korah led an entire rebellion because he was angry that the Levites uh no, no, he was angry um that uh that Aaron and Moses seemed to be more holy than the than the rest of the the whole group of people. And so uh this argument about who was holy and how holy were they added that was a very pervasive argument. You added how holy they they were My point was is that they were God's chosen people based on th God, their decision to follow him. Fredheim, a guy who wrote uh one of the more famous books about uh the Pentateuch, argued that um actually in reality what made the people of Israel holy was none of none of anything I mentioned, but the fact that God was there in his presence was the reality that made them holy. And I kind of buy into that theory a little bit. So God's presence made them holy. In fact, that was the whole point of the sacrificial system, that the people of Israel would know that their being in the presence of a holy God could only happen in the context of something covering their sin. And so the whole sacrificial system was drawing their attention to the fact that a holy God cannot interact with an unholy pe uh people unless there is some kind of extremely valuable cost that would be paid for sin. So all of which was pointing to Christ, and in Christ we have that covered, you know, so we don't have to do it anymore. But at the time more greater sacrifice, or whatever Melchizedek, yeah, yeah, yeah. God wouldn't allow himself to be with all these immoral people like you're saying unless he knew that they would be keenly aware of the fact that their sins uh would demean his glory if they were not called sin and exposed as such and then paid for with some kind of a sacrificial system. Meaning God is holy. Yeah, I I can't argue with that. However It's slightly irrelevant. And I don't I don't mean to say that what you said is wrong because obviously you know Christ isn't irrelevant. No, that's true. And God didn't choose to have a holy people until he had a people that were willing to, you know, engage in these kinds of sacrifices. He didn't choose to tabernacle in their midst. Until such a time as you set up the entire legal system, the entire law system including the sacrificial. What part of what he's saying do you think isn't tied to what you're trying to say? Well, I'm saying that basically you are and as you just said, you know, God didn't hang out there for lack of a better term until the whole system was established, which I would in theory sort of disagree with because he did hang out with Moses and Moses was the go-between for quite a while. But Moses almost died because his wife was unwilling to circumcise his son. There were still measures of holiness I mean actually in in the story doesn't his wife save him? Uh yeah, but it's uh the clearly the sense is that she was the one that was unwilling because after she circumcised that she Uh she m she mocks the very thing that she just did because she didn't like the idea. How does she mock it? Uh well I I could look it up for you. It says it says she touched his feet with it, right? Uh yeah, and she actually uses a phrase. She says, My son is a son of blood or something like that. Okay. Which is uh well, my sense and I think it it's it's uh It's a passage that is brief enough that, you know, I I don't know that I could build a doctrine off of it. But certainly but but my point is is that Moses being considered holy to God's purposes. You know, he had to take his uh feet off. He was standing on holy ground at the burning bush. You know, there's a there's a slew of things. that it was clear that he had he had at some level he had to show that he was willing to respond to God's purposes in God's way. Do it God's way. Okay. Well I guess th where we're which is submission, that's what you're saying anyway. First of all That whole uh you know Exodus chapter four thing we'd probably need to discuss later. However, in this case Nevertheless, yeah in this case What what I hear you saying is that for people to interact with God after they've made this decision to go with him There needs to be some sort of sacrifice. But God's there whether whether they're there or not. No, no, no, no. I'm s I'm saying that their ongoing interaction with God would be based on their their trust in him. But that God makes it abundantly clear from the very beginning that uh that the way that He's gonna do it, so that His holiness is honored is with sacrifices, sacrificial system, you know, the covenant, you know, that that he makes with Abraham, you know, the covenant of circumcision. That they didn't need to keep the whole law because they they were gonna fall anyway. But as long as as long as they have the mind to do what is right and to be with God, meaning if they failed at the law, which they would according to Hebrews seven eleven then all they needed to do was make the redemption, complete the sacrifice. They just needed to have the right inner desire To move forward. It wasn't based on the right. The right inner desire is not just to move forward, but to move forward God's way. With God. And I'm not going to separate the thing. His doctrine, but I'm what I'm saying is it's not completely dependent on you following the law. I would say that following the law comes inwardly and you have a desire to do that, but it's not required. It's not absolute. It always You know, see that's where I think Uh 'cause w w before this show was scheduled to to take place, you know, Tom and I were going back and forth and by the way I give 'em a hard time and stuff, but hopefully everybody listening if you're listening you know that That's all out of love. You know, uh I I think the world of Tom and I'm not sure what he thinks of me most of the time, but I'm sure that uh uh we have a good relationship and stuff and so I can I can play just like uh I do if you've been listening to the show for any length of time. I do with Jonathan all the time and he does with me, you know, it's just uh a playful thing. So I have a lot of respect for who he is and and and he's he's a deep thinker. But I I can't agree with where this thought line ends up taking us. Yeah, are you arguing that the law was was irrelevant to the to the status of their relationship with God? I am saying that complete adherence to the law was never any sort of way to have a relationship with the complete adherence to the law. Their willingness to recognize that the law to find that that God wanted things done a certain way and they they in their heart were committed to to submitting to the way that God wanted things done. Would you agree that the the The Christian walk For the record you didn't answer that question. I know. This is this is going to answer that. Sure. Go ahead. Would you agree that the Christian walk develops over time And your relationship with God at different points, you're called to do different things. Absolutely. Okay. So step one, they got on the boat and they left with Moses. Yeah. No boat. They walked through the water. Anyways, go ahead. So they responded to God. Okay. Number one. Right. Number two, now they're hopefully, you know, God has called them and in Exodus showed them what he wants. So hopefully they're now taking the next steps to try to fulfill that. However, my point is is wrong are you aware that it's only about a month period of time, you know, between when they left and when they arrived at Sinai? Roughly at most three months. I mean it's a very short period of time for a group that's out in the desert. It's a it's a virtual blink of an eye. Well, that that's one way, but they did spend the rest of the forty years wandering around the same place working it out. Because they rejected faith. They didn't trust God. And so as a result they didn't lose their standing as holy people, but they but that generation was lost. Okay. Okay. So I I agree with all that, but my point is is that as they move forward with God that hopefully they would want to start to follow his laws and what he had asked, as they did when they saw that he was leading them out of Egypt and they said, I want part of that. And so those guys never came around. I mean, even at the very end, it was clear right before they died, it was clear that they gave in to Balaam's um uh uh uh deceptions and uh into committing immorality with the with the Balamites, with the w with the the people of was it Moab? I believe. And and my point is is that in the context of that We're given the impression those guys never learned their lesson. Well, and and that's I would say that based on the fact that, you know, repeatedly they're always building idols, but God still refers to them as his holy people. Sure. But I guess my where I was trying to get to is that In that first step of them leaving with Moses, and then the second step of them trying to to go the right way, and the third step is them trying to accept this new set of rules that they're unfamiliar with. It doesn't matter Whether they fulfilled every one of 'em or whether they fulfilled none of them, as long as every morning when they got up and every conscious decision they could make They decided that they wanted to do what was best. Except for the guy that went out and uh gathered um manna on the Sabbath, they brought 'em to Moses and Moses said, Well, you gotta stone him to death. Right. They stoned him to death. I mean It kinda mattered. And there's another story when the covenant the Ark of the Covenant is about to fall and Uzzah Uzziah puts his hand out to Uzah right puts his hand out to stop it. From hitting the ground and he clearly his instructions was to be kind. But he didn't follow he didn't follow the rule. He didn't follow the law. So you're saying well first of all, you're saying the guy who went out to get manna on the Sabbath had his intent when he woke up that morning was to please God? Um, I'm saying that uh you well, you're saying that his intent was otherwise? That his intent was to rebel against God? Well, I mean if he knew the rules and he What about other Well but that's very interesting. So what you're saying is as long as we obey whatever God has told us, whatever as long as we're being being uh in our hearts willing to submit, even though we're not perfect with it, willing to submit to whatever God has told us to this point. Uh not even to this point. We can know it all. But if our desire and and Wesley, since I'll I'll just peek this, Wesley would call that the perfect Christian. That his desire was in the right place. That his desire and he was talking about Batsamore. The music's playing. Show's over. Uh round two is over and right now I've gotta say I'm winning. I'm definitely winning this Ludfast. That's all there is to it. There's something in that water. It's sugar water. Well then it would be a soft drink. Yes. Anyway, thank you, John Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossers Valley Chapel. Um Tom Sandy, whose wife is a pastor at uh Damascus Wesley and I'm Troy Skinner. The show's been brought to us by Putman Flooding and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks for listening. God bless