This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. AM930. Good morning. Jonathan Sweitzer is Jonathan Sweitzer is a pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Welcome. Sir. Welcome, thank you. Tom Sandy is the husband of the the past one of the pastors at Damascus Wesleyan. Her name's Kelly. His name's Tom. Welcome. Uh Tom has been involved in youth ministries, went to a uh Christian school, read lots of stuff, and is very confused and we're here to straighten him out. Uh if No, seriously you know what makes him confused is he thinks he's gonna straighten us out. He's got another thing coming. Yeah, yeah, that's the confusion right there. It's not that we aren't in need of straightening, but we refuse to be straightened to accept the me of all people. So anyway, for the last three weeks we've had uh Tom on uh with John going back and forth and I think we've finally begun to realize a little bit of what we're talking about. And it's I I blame me. It's been a long, slow, arduous journey But oh by the way, this show short of a law. I need to thank Putman Plumbing and Heating for sponsoring the show. Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? Uh here's the deal. We've been debate debating how important the law really is in the grand scheme of things, uh particularly when it comes to salvation. You know, it's all about God's choice and our accepting of his choice of us and the law to use uh Tom's words from previous show. Uh it doesn't really amount to a hill of beans. It's not really that important kind of thing. Well I mean I'm trying to paraphrase how I worded it, but we'll go with that Hilla beans and irrelevant are words that came out of your mouth, young man. Our fulfillment of what? You keep using that word fulfillment of the fulfillment of the law. Like whether we let's say if it were attacked And you know, statistically speaking, I'll I'll I'll say the the law is a test, and I'd be okay surprised if if most of us get over sixty percent on a daily basis. Right, but here's the point. And this is why and So you're saying if we get most of them wrong, that that doesn't really matter because God's chosen us, we need to accept his choice of us, and that's what really matters. I'm saying the fact that we would maybe get most of them wrong is the point. That's why we have the law to demonstrate our need for a holy and perfect God. And we've talked a little bit on the show the last couple of weeks about, you know, plan A, Plan B kind of thing. God I think has had one plan from the very beginning. There has it wasn't like, okay, Adam and Eve screwed it up and so now we need a fallback plan and he huddled up, All right, Holy Spirit, what do you think? All right, uh and uh Jesus steps up and says uh or the sun. It wasn't Jesus at that point, right? He was the Sun, the Word, steps up and says, I'm gonna go deep. Hit me with the long one and it'll score a gl a glorious touchdown in the end zone It wasn't like that at all. It wasn't like they had to, you know, have some sort of uh new revised game plan at halftime. From the very beginning, God is Perfect. We agree. Yeah, that's what I feel like you're arguing that somehow God made a mistake in in even giving a law. I will I will say that Troy made a mistake in understanding. We're saying the same thing. He's saying that the big part is the fact that we fall short and that's what I'm saying. I'm saying that you know what? We've already fallen short. It it happened. It happens every day, almost every moment, no matter What's going on at some level and that kind of stuff, you you cringe when I said most of us at best would finish at sixty percent of the law. You think you're like eighty five ninety or something No, no, no, no. Because I'm like ten, per se. I'd be thrilled that I was in the team. So I believe that that that is the strong point and that we are going to fall short. But my point is, and and I think where we're where we're having some frustration apart from what you just said and I'll get back to that, is that I'm saying you're saying that, you know, it's the fact that we fall short, and I'm saying, that's it. But it doesn't matter how far we fall short, whether we fall short and get a one percent, or whether we get a ninety eight, we still fall short. And that see I can't accept I just I cannot accept that. Okay, so So you're saying that uh Christ is only good enough for those people who score ten percent? No, I'm saying Christ is good enough to cover all of it. Okay. So I'm not saying that but but to to then extend the argument to the point that, well, you know I have sinned. You know, I I once lied to my second grade teacher uh about something and so I'm already guilty, so I'm just gonna go axe murder the next door neighbor because they're all basically the same. What's the difference? It's irrelevant, it doesn't matter Well he who did say thou shall not lie also said Um And if we've broken one aspect of the law we've broken all But uh in any event, that's obviously the opposite extreme. And and as I've already stated, um that, you know, Paul and I completely agree stated that we shouldn't s we shouldn't sin more so that we can just flaunt grace. Right. Notice how he put himself a up with Paul on that one? Paul and I agree on this one. No, I said Paul said. Paul said, I agreed with Paul, meaning that I should, he's in the Bible. That we shouldn't since of grace should abound. But To me it's all an intention thing. It's not a it's not an immediate uh results thing. It's about how did you what how did you decide that you were feeling like somebody overemphasized the law to you at some stage in life. Like I'm trying to get at the root of why this this 'cause 'cause I feel like what you're saying is Detroit. Stop talking about the law. I mean first of all This is true, but I know I didn't think that's a good thing. Yeah. Troy, stop that. Okay. I'm sorry. So where does that leave us? It leaves us in I Why are you so motivated to draw this distinction? Do you feel like the church at large does not make an effective distinction between uh what our salvation is based upon? Well, do you have an answer? Because I think I know the answer. Oh well well go ahead and speak up. I got I got another thought, but we'll see what you have to say, Troy. I think I think it's because he all we haven't gotten into this yet, but Tom, you know, ha has a high view of our ability to attain perfection. And if he changes the importance of the law and that change that takes a lot of the pressure off what your definition of perfection is. You remove the law, well, I've already sinned, so I've already perfection's out the window. But if you say, well, perfection doesn't the law isn't what's important here, all of a sudden perfection is attainable because you're measuring it by some standard other than the law. Is that am I getting close to the Well actually I'm arguing the the same the same thought. I mean Wesley would say that that is Christian perfection But I'm saying that that is all aspects of it. It's not about so much the results as that at the end of the day say I got a 25% But it's all about looking back and saying, you know what, today did I try to please God? Did I try to do did I try to get involved in what He was doing as best I could Yeah, but what's missing there then is having the repentance and sorrow for the where you have fallen short and then that bringing you to raise up Christ and magnify, you know, uh wasn't Jonathan, but another pastor that uh that I have high regard for said, you know, big sinner, big savior. Right. So the more you recognize your sin and your fall in this and the fact that you missed seventy five or more out of a hundred. Right. And emphasizing that emphasizing that you fall short elevates Christ and then you can celebrate that and I think that brings more joy than to say, well it really doesn't matter whether our I fulfill it or not, and I fell short, but I tried hard today or well, I think you end up with a small savior then because you minimize what he accomplished in his act of obedience throughout his entire life and then in his obedience unto death on the cross I I think there's for me, and maybe I'm overemphasizing the law, maybe I'm guilty of that, but for me that is so central to people really internalizing what it means to have a savior. Because then that will motivate you to want to do what you're talking about. It gives you that right motivation. Like the Apostle Paul at the end of his life writing First Timothy, he says I am the chief of sinners, you know, like we just we just read in Mother Teresa's, you know, uh uh letters that just came out recently that she um felt a great distance from God, you know, in her in her later years. I I I think that that that the weight of sin in terms of our acceptance with God is huge, you know, that he who is forgiven much loves much. Sure. You know, and and and my acceptance before God is defined by the extent to which he has shown me grace. Well I think it's uh it's a matter of timing based on what Troy said. I uh my argument, if you want to call it that, and not that I would disagree with what you said at all. Sure. But of course not. Is is to live in an in in an aspect or or celebrate prior to that God's already done this. I don't have to worry about it as much as The only part I have to worry about from this point on is worrying about making the decision to please him. So I'm celebrating before the fact. That God's already done it. And Troy's saying, Oh, and and I need to repent now. And I'm not saying don't repent. But I'm saying Repent as needed and as often as needed, but live in the victory that Christ has already done it And go forth from that point on to love people and love God. And anything Okay, and I have to tell you Uh fr from what you're telling me, it sounds to me like you've spent a significant portion of your life in Christ uh in an environment where you were left feeling like you just never measure up, you just never measure up, you just never measure up. And and the reason I say that is because because uh if if there's a pendulum swing and Christ is the Uh the what's the plumb line. The plum line. Thank you, Troy. Christ is the plumb line. You're swinging a direction in your emphasis that feels to me like you're trying to compensate for an overemphasis early in life. And I've even felt sometimes that those people that that are more likely to emphasize total depravity, you know, in and the need for us to have a big God oftentimes are reflecting a uh you know a certain life testimony, you know, that that is the case. N now, uh having gone subjective on the whole thing I think that what counts is faith expressing itself through love. I think I think yes, the intention is very important, but um but for a person that's grown up underneath of an environment that was overly legalistic and overly heavy and o overly law oriented or holiness oriented in such a way that that it left a sense of heaviness, you know, like, oh no, I'm not quite measuring up to God. Well well yeah, I mean uh be free. Celebrate the fact that at long last you know in your heart of hearts that God accepts you for who you are and are on the basis of of your desire to serve him. And man, you you never had to measure up. I would say absolutely. But I'd also say at the same time that that you know what If you've grown up in an environment where you just haven't known the love of God, you've been far from the love of God for whatever reason, you know, and you've just felt like your your life situation was falling apart. And you just needed God Himself to reach down and pull you out. Man celebrate that because he, you know, you know, that's what he's done. But but in Like you're saying, it's hard for us to get past our perspectives. I I'd say I'd say at some level I do see that coming into play because I know p I I know a guy uh that I'm always interacting with that makes the same exact uh clarification that you do and it makes sense to me only when I think of it in terms of his testimony, his personal testimony. But when he tries to explain it outside of his personal testimony I'm I'm like, you know what, you're overemphasizing things, you're underemphasizing things and and it's okay for you to do for yourself, but when you're preaching to the rest of the body of Christ, you gotta be very careful to not just preach out of w well, you gotta be careful to put your testimony and your theology together. It's gotta it's gotta be. And I of course would say that I I believe there should be a balance, okay? Um in it in its entirety. And yes, I have been emphasizing one aspect of it, and and I'll get to that in here just a second. But the other aspect of it is is is in my own defense, I have quoted scripture that validates what you have said Shall shall we s you know sin more than that? No, no, no. Yeah. I agree. No, no, I'm with you. So but the reason why Then unless you lean a certain direction. for s for whatever reason off Detroit and I in uh and so yeah I'm saying that I think probably it's likely that your testimony uh is uh would shed light on that. Possibly. And something that I wanted to to chime in to give you a sense of why I'm reacting is part of it, by the way, is, you know, we don't want to be boring anymore. We did three years of boring. We don't want to be boring anymore. So we gotta have a little bit of, you know, lightning But there's a lot of people out there that do not think that we've been boring for the last two years. Well, you've got a low standard. But it's it really I think, particularly given our our culture that we're in now, it's a really important point for us to make to be clear that yes We're free in Christ. We're set free from the bondage to sin because of his perfect obedience and obe obeying the law. Yep. Right? Which is all of what you're saying, and I agree with all that And then the next thing that you you have a couple of times going on to say, and then we then have this motivation to do the right thing. What is that right thing? The right thing is the law. Fulfill right. The law is summed up in love. That defines what the law is. So we need to love. But how do you love? If I love a same-sex partner, am I obeying the law? I wrote a thirteen page p page paper on love, so if we want to get into that some other week we can But but my disgust the the law is still there. Uh you've made the point earlier, Tom, that God doesn't change. He's the same you know yesterday, today, and tomorrow. His law what he considered righteous Yesterday he still considers righteous today. And so when somebody says, Well, I'm set free and you know I'm in a loving, committed relationship now So that's good enough 'cause my motivation is to love this person and you know, okay, you might say it's a sin in the Bible, but you know, I'm not sure I'm gonna agree with that. You know, it's really not about the law. Jesus fulfilled the law. And all of a sudden you get this watered down practical application in our the uh you know the theology gets watered down to a point that the practical application is you get this nation that Some would argue deserves God's judgment. You know what I mean? So I think it's an important point to make. The law is o ever present and always there. It has been fulfilled We are not saved by obeying the law. Right. Thank God, literally, that that's the case. Thank God, because we would all be damned to hell Literally. Yeah. All except for one person ever. Yeah. And Jesus Christ, who is God Himself. So the the point is Yes, we should celebrate Christ's victory and how he has set us free. I'm in complete agreement, and we should magnify that And on the score of one to ten, I would give that a ten. You've given everything a ten. But then on the question of the law but I get I get you to give everything a ten too. But then on the question of the law pastoral things, remember sensitive. how important is the law. It's a ten. It's not like one's a tens, the other has to be a zero or they both have to be fives. They're both tens. In fact, I I feel like it's all summed up in John 1, where it says, we have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. And I've said this time and time again that I run into people all the time. Some of whom are more naturally truth-oriented, some of whom are more naturally grace-oriented. And what I find the people that are more naturally grace-oriented need to learn to live according to the truth People that are naturally truth oriented need to learn to live by grace because the other part comes naturally to them. But the point is that we if we want to reflect the glory of God, we gotta be full. Ten tens on both of those You know, on both sides. And I agree and righteousness and mercy, justice and peace, kissing in public square kind of thing. And and that's the balance that I was I was kinda talking about. And actually what I was then gonna say about you know, about why I've been pressing this point. i i is kind of twofold. One is the fact that because I believe God is the same yesterday and t today and tomorrow, and we started out in the Old Testament, I wanted to To show, to see that God's ways even then weren't based on the law, but based on grace, that his ways hadn't changed. It was always a gift from him. Acceptance, salvation, was always primarily dependent on him. Yeah. And that way 'cause a lot of people I think see a a big difference between the two, uh the you know the old and the new testament and and obviously the Pharisees did. Yeah, I'm I'm more of a continuity guy. I I think that there's tremendous continuity and that the that the uh old testament Covenant, the old covenant was a covenant of grace from the beginning. It was all based on grace. Uh in fact, uh uh one of my teachers has has said that it all starts with God always and then man. And then comes the law, and after the vow com I mean after the law comes the vow that we're gonna follow it and all that then leads to that sense of of ongoing into the future, you know, the covenant, God first, then the man, then the law, you know, and so that that that relationship of salvation comes first, then the law comes. But the vow comes after the law. That's what the covenant is all about. A covenant is based on I'm going to do this for you, you're going to do this for me. That's the the law, the love. You know, the love covenant. And so yeah, the salvation came first, and we're saved by that, but the marriage of the of the of the bride and the lamb uh is based on, you know, the covenant and the law and so I I ag I agree with your theology on that, that that it was always by grace. Yeah, and that that's one of the reasons why I guess I've been harping on this so much. And based on you know your reference to uh first John And and Troy can probably tell you, but I'm a truth kind of guy. I love facts. I love statistics. You show me something. And I'm going to figure it out based on, you know, for instance, uh I love The Case for Christ by Lee Strobel, it's all very systematic, you know, logical and sequential and that kind of stuff. You know, that's what I'm into. So generally I'm more the the truth kind of guy than the grace kinda guy. I'm And so you're oh my my dad's this way, I feel like my dad uh his is you know, he he's like a bull in a china shop and he'll walk right into a situation and tell people exactly like it is and uh and his testimony publicly over and over again is that that the Lord has taught him grace, you know, and he jokes that his wife is the one that helped him to learn that. Well I'm I mean I'm obviously not going to be in disagreement with any of the last five minutes of the show and I think I agree it has always been about grace. But even Uh I don't want to say even more than Grace and Truth. Yeah. And now say what I want to say. Yeah. Go ahead. It's about relationship. God created man to be in relationship with him, and he sets out before us how we can have the right kind of relationship with him. If you want to have a relationship with me, here's what you do. But knowing full well from the beginning that no one other than God is capable of being perfect all of the time, he knew that he was going to have to provide a savior for us. It would perfectly fulfill those laws and then that would provide the covering for these people that God wants to have the relationship with. And so the grace was always there because the plan was always to have Jesus uh come as Savior, but the law was always there too because you can't have that relationship without having perfection before God. Yeah, I think at this point we'd be arguing which came first, the chicken or the egg. Well they came at the same time. Because well, if you're saying that you can't have a relationship with God apart from the law And I'm saying that the relationship with God is the beginning of the law. It's based on that that we would then even have a a want to start to fulfill these these desires that he has. Yeah, I mean it is true. If we're gonna go back and say say who started this thing, then we have to end up with we love him because he first loved us And that I think is your point. Yeah. Is that he loved us first. He he interacted with us according to righteousness, which brought salvation to us, even though we didn't deserve it. And therefore everything that happens in the relationship is you know, is precipitated from that. You know, that's the beginning. Right. And that's it's from that point that we then decide to want, to try to you know, and And then it goes back to where you were saying, you know, faith without works is is dead and I said works without faith is dead. You know, it it's just that which totally Which is And I and I and I have to say this, I think it's an ugly thing when somebody spends all his time in a relationship trying to earn your favor. I mean that that that drives me off the wall when I'm when I'm around somebody and it's obvious that they're just trying to, you know, be something so that you know, so that I like 'em or something like that. You know, I mean there's no relationship there, you know. It's it's a it's a it's a very uncomfortable thing. Whereas if you come into the relationship and there's a sense of honesty, you know, and truth You know, you're not trying to measure up, you realize that that you need forgiveness. You know, that's that's how relationship happens, grace and truth. Well we have time maybe for like a final thought. You have a final thought, something you haven't had a chance to share yet that you just wanted to say like thirty seconds or so? Sure. In response to your my ideal uh ideology about Christian perfection, sure it's easy to say it's easy to be a perfect Christian as long as your desires are good if there is no real effect of the law per se. But It also gets into Greek words about perfect that we can discuss at some other time. Alright. Any final thought or you you you pretty much done. You're out of gas? I'm I'm not out of gas. Yeah, yeah. I'm at the stop. Well we didn't get a chance to do we're gonna do uh a show or two uh in this series that we've done on uh Christian perfection. We haven't had a chance to get there at all. But you you kinda threw it out there at the end and so I almost have to in my last thirty seconds offer a retort Uh even our motivation is flawed. We can't even have a perfect motivation. So for even uh the law aside, even our righteousness is a filthy rags. And by the way, as I've recently learned, I didn't realize What's being talked about in that verse? It's taught the filthy rags that being talked about are the menstrual rags that the the women uh used to have to wear before they had modern conveniences that we have today. So we're talking about And they consider that to be a really shameful, gross, disgusting kind of a thing. And so we're talk our righteousness is that. So even the most righteous motivation that we would think is most righteous motivation still falls so far short of perfection that even our motivation needs to be covered by the slaving grace of Jesus Christ. So that's a short little two minute vignette of what might have been an hour's worth of faith debate programming. And you're wrong. Quite clearly I am not. Much much to discuss. And by the way, Tom, I will be back next week to amplify how right I was. And you're free to email me your response At Troy at WFMB. com. And you can check out uh the website, go to wfmb. com and uh find the faith debate page. It should be a simple enough thing for you to do, but if you tool around long enough you'll find it And uh I have a daily blog there. There's a link for Jonathan's blog that he does about every other day. Um his is usually like longer and and more pastoral than mine Mine Yeah, yours is more fun. Mine's like all over the place, you know. Whatever hits me in the moment is what you get on the blog. So check that out. Thanks to Putman Plumbing and Heating our sponsor, Putman of Loving and Heating, how Can We Make You Smile? And if you would like to su seriously, you know, all kidding aside, if you'd like to suggest a a religious leader in town to be on the show, maybe you're a religious leader in town and you'd like to be on the show email me or call the station. Uh we welcome all comers. Uh if you have a topic that we haven't tackled in our three years of doing this show yet, it's been three years now by the way. Three years. Three years officially I think actually this might have been our anniversary show. I'm not sure. Happy anniversary. And actually Troy was asking for uh for volunteers that way you guys don't have to have me on again. Yeah, please. It was actually a cry for mercy. That's right, that's right. So But seriously, no. Uh if you have a topic, a question, or whatever, if you uh we've had people send us mail, you can also do it that way. You can do it the old snail mail way, although the post office hates when you call it snail mail, apologize. Um anyway Thanks so much. Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Tom Sandy, the husband of the one of the pastors at Damascus, Wesleyan. Um and a a lay leader in the Christian community. Thank you. Overall troublemaker, if you will. There you go. And and thank you for listening. God bless.