Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Money. Should Christians have any? Money, money, money, money. That's what we're going to talk about on today's show, and to talk with us about that is Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And Yolanda Gamble with the Shure Fellowship in Frederick. And thank you for being on the show. You know uh long time ago, don't hear too much about it anymore, but a long time ago you see movies about it and stuff, these These monks would go off in the monastery and they would take vows of poverty and they would wear burlap and, you know, sandals. Sometimes, sometimes bare feet, and they would walk through towns and they would preach and they would live off of whatever people would give them and You don't hear a whole lot about that anymore. And what's more in vogue these days is more of a prosperity gospel. And we see a lot of uh pastors who are driving nice cars with You know, fancy clothes and and jewelry and those sorts of things. And some people say, Hey, what about that vow of poverty thing? Shouldn't you Christians be giving all your money away? So that's gonna be where we're starting, where we're gonna go as this as this unfolds, is we're gonna t end up talking you talk about money and you can't end up but talking about tithings, so we'll talk about that. Um And we'll talk about if you are going to have money, what you should be doing with it, uh whether it's appropriate to be investing for the future rather than worrying about just what's for today, those sorts of questions. So First of all, as a as a general question, is it okay for Christians to have money and live in nice houses and drive decent cars and That sort of thing. You're asking if it's okay to do that? Is that okay? As opposed to like like outright uh uh called a sin in scripture. I got like I don't think anywhere in scripture it's gonna say thou shalt not you know, have money. You know, you're not gonna find like an out and out rejection of it. The question is But Jesus is going to be a man. So should a Christian Is that a command that all Christians should follow? Well I think above all that he did say, God said I would have it that you prosper and be in health, even as your soul prosper. And using that example of the rich young ruler for Christ's sake, give all, he was actually saying, make a bigger investment that you've ever made in your life. that Christ will cause you to prosper or cause the rich young ruler to prosper beyond his prosperity at the time. And you have to understand that uh the kingdom of heaven has it all. And that we have once we've come in relationship with God, then now we've come into relationship with all the wealth of the kingdom of God And we have to understand that it's the the desire of the Lord's heart that we prosper and to do well in the earth. That's why it made it so possible for us to do well in uh let's go back to Genesis. The book of Genesis, Adam and Eve had everything. All of their needs were met. So God wants us. That didn't change. They were driving cars. Well they didn't have any cars. I mean we you know, they knew about where they need to go though. But we are told that the land of Havilah, that the gold of that land was uh was abundant and and very nice. There's definitely the sense that precious stones were a significant key part of uh the Garden of Eden. To answer your questi question directly, um I personally am not of the opinion that that Christ's command to the rich monk young ruler was was an automatic command to everybody, like say in the United States that lives much better off than than the majority of of those around the planet. I'm not of the opinion that it was a sweeping command that everybody should automatically sell everything, give it to the poor. I do, however uh think that that his warnings against the deceitfulness of wealth and his warnings about um uh using your money appropriately and or getting caught up in storing for the future and those kinds of things, I do think that those uh are more sweeping and applicable for today. And It's a question of, again, the heart, you know, in what are we living for? The problem with wealth is that it's inherently deceptive. Uh as soon as I have money, then I can be of the opinion that my life is secure and everything is fine because the money that I have. And this I think is is a a very common problem across the United States. And I think that even when we use the scripture, the love of money is the root of all evil. You must understand that the word of God does not contradict itself. Okay, what are you gonna what what is it saying? Meaning that there is other evil that is not related to the love of money. I agree with that. Not of all evil as one evil, but all kinds of evil. But the fact is is that the Word of God doesn't contradict itself and that that it it simply means to worship and to give yourself over to as uh and making money as an idol. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Because we do build empires to do that. And it can lead to evil in the in respect of of uh well I'm just gonna go after it at any means, at any cost and whatever, you know, I'm gonna I'm gonna get it whether I have to lie to get it or whether I have to cheat to get it That's where that evil begins to come. So I don't know answering your question. Like I feel like my thoughts on this topic are a little bit less than super organized. You know, and so I I feel like I'm jumping around a little bit. Well at least here's a topic that Jonathan will acknowledge if that's the case. Well let's flip it let's flip it around here. It wouldn't be so maybe it'll become more organized if we flip it in the other direction. Okay. All right. I mean some of the classic arguments uh against those who want to say that, you know, Christians uh are are hypocrites and that they're not really doing what they should be uh for the poor or whatever and they're living in big houses and big yards and and all that sort of stuff. And you say, well, Abraham was wealthy. David and Solomon certainly were wealthy. And then you read passages like in Proverbs chapter eleven, verse twenty-five, the generous man will be prosperous. He who waters will himself be watered. In Proverbs thirteen. Verse 21, Adversity pursues sinners, but the righteous will be rewarded with prosperity. So it talks about God making those who are righteous prosperous. That's right So does that mean that the person who is a monk and goes off and makes a vow of chastity is actually um Less scriptural than the person who's living for uh speaking. Absolutely not. Let's take an example of somebody who uh has been in the news again just recently. Mother Teresa. She takes a vow of of chastity and poverty Right, lives her life, you know, where all she has in a room is a bed, if that. Uh, you know, I I think at some points she just chose to go without a bed, you know, just literally slept on the floor. But the budget that she ended up commanding with the ministries that that she gave herself to was way beyond that of many Fortune 500 companies. She had a budget that was beyond what we can imagine. Why? Because she was blessed in what she did and she built whole orphanages, whole you know, hospitals, all these kinds of things. And the the reason she I think she was able to do that was because she gave herself to the kingdom and so all of the, you know, uh financial wealth that came to her, she just gave it right away to the kingdom, you know, which meant to the sick, to the poor, to the outcast. And so um is it wrong to take a vow of poverty? I don't think so, uh whatsoever. I think that um that it would be wrong to mishandle what resources if you take a vow of poverty that God chooses to bring in your direction. And I think that, you know, it's it's a question of of how you handle what you you know what what's brought your direction and and your heart behind it. I mean, how do you get away from the heart? It's you know, where where your treasure is there your heart will be also. And if and if I'm caught I I mean the problem for me is this. I see a guy drive by in a Mercedes and I don't have a Mercedes and I think to myself, hmm What would it be like, you know, when I let my imagination go just long enough, and the problem is not that there's something wrong with him, the problem is that I'm envying what he has. And so my covetousness and my envy ends up distracting me from, you know, the the things that God has for me. And so Proverbs says, don't wear yourself out to get rich. So definitely we're not supposed to make that like a goal and a focus of life. You know that uh Paul says time and again that each man is to retain the place in life that God has given him. So there's not this sense that we're supposed to be attempting to, you know, like like be be the wealthiest or the richest out there, but that we're simply to serve God and as He blesses us Like it says in Ecclesiastes that when he adds wealth, he doesn't add trouble to it, that whatever blessing he gives us, we can walk in that blessing without trouble and without a sense of being uh burdened by it. Sorry, I'm talking right. Well I think that you know, if uh using Mother Teresa. Yeah. Um and then the vow of poverty that so many do make, I think that if you are are reaching your personal goal or maybe your Godfelt assignment that you are prosperous at whatever level you choose to live. This is good, yeah. Meaning how do we define prospering? Right. Yes. How how do you find Because everybody's everybody's level of understanding, even desire is different. Some some are more extravagant than others. But it doesn't mean that we should judge, you know, because uh studying this today. Uh sixty-five thousand dollars is about the median income here in uh the Frederick County. That's right. There's a lot of people living over that, you know, at different levels, different different uh places of um uh feeling the stress and the anxiety of bills piling up and those kinds of things. And I do think that here in the United States there has been a an idolatry, as you said earlier. that is related to uh this American dream that you've made it if you have an apartment on Fifth Avenue in New York City or you've got, you know, a uh uh a a vacation home or something like that that is Uh unfortunately it's an idol and that that a lot of people worship at, you know, in order to feel good about themselves or to feel like they're successful. Mm-hmm. Alright, so we've established that someone who has nice things has scriptural support that would defend their right to have those nice things and w wouldn't be a sin to have to drive a Mercedes and live in a fancy house. Yeah. Um and it's also not a sin unless the reason for maybe taking a vow of poverty is to feel self-righteous and pride filled. That becomes a sin. It's definitely possible that there's certainly nothing wrong with taking a vow of poverty and going out and trying to do the work of the kingdom absent any change in your pocket kind of thing. So both sides would seem to be in line with what scripture teaches us. So now I'm an average everyday, you know well, I don't know if there's such a thing as an average everyday Christian, but I'm a regular old American who calls himself a Christian and has some money, what do I do with it? Do I give it away? Do I buy a fancy car? Do I invest it for the future? You know, what does a Christian do with their money? Well, you wanna you wanna you wanna see that Johnny goes to the biggest thing? Yeah, I got a couple thoughts, but you know they're still disorganized Again. Well, I think that that certainly if God has blessed you to prosper and do well, that there's there's always a level of giving. Uh John has his dynamic uh PC computer Bible here. He can go and find as a scripture here. But you know, the the Bible says sport isn't always gonna be with you and that we should share our alms with the poor and and you know, to take care of them. I don't think that we need to make an investment into the poor. I think we need to take the money that we do have and make very uh sensible life term or lifetime investments for our future. The Lord also said the word also talked about uh Setting up uh well for your children. Take care of your children. All of those areas are very, very important. So there is not one little channel for the Christians to give into that we need to be able to to divide the wealth. Now you made an interesting comment that we shouldn't make an investment into the poor. What do you mean by that? Well I I'm saying that to where we uh it if you think about the rich Most of most of the rich, they're gonna invest in something that's gonna cause a return. I assure you, if you have a poor person, they don't have any much much to return I'm talking about in return. Is that if I invest into I'm thinking in terms of a stock market, if I invest into a stock market it I'm looking to get a return on that, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But now if I invest within a month or two or you know usually but if I'm gonna make an investment, I'm gonna make the the wisest, most sensible investment that is going to cause a return Right. But the Lord said to give to the poor words not giving it to the top of the year. Right. So so when we give to the poor we're not looking at it like a like an immediate investment. We're giving to the poor uh freely because the Lord commands us to do so. Without obligation. You know, uh I I do think we we need to return to the numbers. It is true that uh that across the nation that some people give and other people don't give. It's also true around the world that uh that our our nation has a reputation for being one of the most giving nations ever. You know, in the history of the world and yet we have this, you know, uh the there's this idea out there that we're just rich and selfish. And um I'm not convinced that the numbers bear up the idea that that Americans are uh just selfish and just in it for themselves across the board. Now obviously I'm moving beyond just like Christianity Uh but i even here in the United States there's a there's a phenomenal amount of giving that goes on that uh I think I think is is uh ignored and overlooked by those that really aren't paying attention to the And so oftentimes people will say, Well those Christians, they're just rich and and and you know, uh they just in it for themselves and and they have no compassion for the poor and no compassion for those people that are hurting and I just honestly, if you're really looking honestly at the numbers, um there is some of that, without a doubt, but there's there's a lot more giving going on than I think uh most People are going to be able to do that. I'm Troy Skinner and you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. And we're talking about Money and Christians and I guess a little bit of uh chinguistic Americana ism stuff going on in there. Yeah. John didn't write the Lee Greenwood Proud to Be American song, but he wishes he did. Yes. Yes. And I'd sing it for you too, but it's early in the morning. So Uh if you're gonna give money, how much is enough to give to the poor? Meaning how do you how do you figure out how much popped into my head, Schindler's List. I don't know. Did you see the movie Schindler's List? And if you haven't seen the movie, it's it takes place, it's set uh it's based on a real story, as I understand it, and it's set in Nazi Germany. n during World War Two and the Holocaust is going on and this very successful businessman has an opportunity to help set some people free And if I remember the gist of this of the storyline correctly, by bribing certain individuals with with some of his wealth or whatever, and he keeps selling off more of his wealth and bribing people to To divert trains full of Holoca what would become victims of the Holocaust and he could set them free and and what kind of And the end of the movie is is it's very gut-wrenching. You know, he realizes he still had a a rather expensive, I guess, piece of jewelry, a ring. on his hand and car. Everybody's everybody's thank after the war's over and everything, everybody's thanking him and praising him for all that he did to save the people and he's weeping and feeling guilt ridden for not having sold that ring because he could have saved one more. Yeah. So how do you when is enough enough? I mean, uh I drive a nice car. I live I'm talking about me personally, Troy Skiner here. I I you know, I live in a nice house. How many poor people or how many, you know, disease ridden people or whatever, starving people would benefit if I were to downsize and Sell all my stuff. Okay, here's the complexity of the question that you asked. The the the question is, um if you give money to something Uh is there any guarantee that it's really going to make that big a difference in somebody's life? And so talking about investment, even though we're not looking for a return, we're still looking to to give in a way that that benefits people you know uh in a in a significant way. So the benefit is knowing that you benefited them. You know, that's your return. But you're still looking for uh for places like that. And so yeah, we give to the poor, those those that literally have no place to uh to s to sleep that night, they have no place to get food, uh those kinds of things, uh that that kind of alms giving, that aud you know, that that you're just helping them in the immediate situation. I think we we should give freely personally, you know, um I I I think you should just give freely to those kinds of people. I think also that we need to be paying attention to how often people like that maybe are using it on drugs and those kinds of things. And so we start identifying, you know, like I'm a pastor. People call regularly asking for money. And when they call to the church asking for money, it's not like I just walk by 'em on the street, you know, and they're like, hey, you know, can I have some money for some food? In which case maybe I buy 'em a hamburger or something. You know, you you hear about those kinds of things. But when somebody calls my congregation, we we take time and we screen them and we and we We talk through, you know, okay, well what's your situation, what's going on in your life right now? How did you get in the situation that you are? Are you involved in a church somewhere And we take the time to walk through because we don't want to just help them, you know, feed him for a day, but you know, teach a man to fish and feed him for a lifetime. We'd like to to invest in people, you know, and those that are really needy, you know, like Christ came, he said, for the sick and the hurting. We want to invest in those people in a way that's really going to help them in the long term. Uh however, uh then you gotta ask yourself, what's more important, to feed them or to give them the gospel? You know? So do I invest in monies that preach the gospel or do I do I invest in ministries that uh help poor people to know how to have job skills. Well, you know, at that point you you gotta start thinking through and praying through, okay, well well what is effective and what's important. And I personally think that if if I had to like percentage it out, I'd man, I'd I'd think I'd fall like fifty one percent gospel, forty-nine percent, you know, uh just giving, you know, charitably. You know, 'cause I feel like they're both really important, but the most important thing is the gospel. But man, if they're hurting and they got nothing, then then I want to help them, you know, in the midst of their situation as well. So It I think it gets a little bit comp complex and you really got to pray through well what is God you know God might call you to to just give to to start an orphanage somewhere. You know, that doesn't necessarily require people to be saved in order to, you know, to to come and be there. Well, I'd say, you know, if God's leading you to do that, then you gotta do that. Um and so I think you know that there's a little bit of complexity there that you gotta pray through. What do you think? I think that uh First Corinthians chapter nine, verse six through eleven says the purpose in your heart, what you're gonna give and when you give it, give it cheerfully. Amen. Okay. And I think that uh and then in giving it cheerfully, we must give it generously. Yeah. All right? Everybody's level of generosity is different. And uh but it has to be respected. At whatever level that they feel that they should give. And um I think that that will just kinda help us a little bit. But then let's look at John, let's look at um Jesus, what does he do when there was the multitude of people? The scripture talks about first natural then spiritual. When there was a hungry crowd of people, he fed them first. Yeah, right. Because I believe that Well did he feed him first? He fed them the fishes, the loaves. Right, but he preached to them first. Yeah. And then at the end of the day of preaching to them they didn't have anything to eat and then he fed 'em. So But they only well but see that's technical because we're not sure egg at what point that was. But we understood that he fed them first a natural food, a natural way so that they can continue to comprehend the spiritual. I believe you cannot a person cannot truly comprehend the spiritual things unless they first are fed and taken care of in the natural. It does seem like there's a Maslow's hierarchy of needs, even though Maslow was a humanist, you know, and and uh not a believer, you know, that that if if a person is not you know, healed, you know, or they're or they're suffering significantly that that um you know that that it seems harder for people though I will say that Um it's in the context of persecution and hardship that a lot of people come to Christ. And so I I don't know, I I guess I I get to feel like we can over analyze something like that. I mean what do they need first? Do they need to be fed of the gospel? I don't know. I think Like like you were saying, we just need to be led by the spirit. We you know, we need to give abundantly and we need to pay attention to both needs you know, as we're interacting with people 'cause 'cause it's all important. But in terms of trying to say w I I don't know. I I guess I started that discussion 'cause I said forty nine percent, fifty one percent, and the point is is that it's hard to know I think what I just think that that I really believe that we're supposed to take care of the natural needs of people. We're supposed to examine that. All right. Because I really don't believe we can successfully minister to a person if they're full of needs naturally, how are they positioned spiritually or naturally to comprehend or even receive the word of the Lord if we're not readily at the front of everything of the introduction of Jesus Christ to meet that that uh natural need. So they had this problem with China. Uh with uh Hudson Taylor, uh that people would come to the mission for the rice and they called them rice Christians because uh because when the rice would dry up the Christians would leave, you know, and and and they wouldn't uh they wouldn't stick around because they were only there for the food and um and so again uh uh even when we're giving in the midst of like Christ Christ gave fed them all and he said, Well, you're following me around because I gave you bread, you know, but then he would say things that are specifically geared to drive people away. if if they weren't really serious about following him and being disciples. And and I kind of feel like, you know, that's what we do. We want to feed people, we do want to give, but but then there's that balance of knowing when to say, you know what? If you don't eat Christ's blood, uh you eat his body and drink his blood, you know, say those things that that are hard for people to understand, then then uh oftentimes we end up creating these rice Christians where, you know, when push comes to shove, they're really not believers. But they were certainly around when the money was round. And I recently heard a motivational type speaker person who it wasn't a Christian message, although the person doing the motivational speaking was uh w it would come to pass I'd find out was a Christian. Yeah. But this person was talking about different levels of giving. There's obligatory giving, there's generous giving, and there's sacrificial. giving. And I I'm not sure if how that lines up with scripture. I haven't really studied it out to think about it. But the point is at one level there's the this is the absolute minimum. You have to do this. This is what's required. That's the obligatory. And then there's the generous, which is more than what you have to give, and maybe you're doing it out cheerfully and out of out of a uh uh out of an overabundantly flowing heart and full of the spirit or whatever, and then there's sacrificial. Mm-hmm. And the sacrificial giving is a schindler's list guy. Right. The sacrificial giving of course is Jesus Christ. Right. You know, how many of us are giving sacrificially? Yeah. Amen. Mm. I think coming back to uh to what you were saying uh uh earlier that that you gotta give abundantly, you gotta give cheerfully. And when you give cheerfully out of the abundant abundance of your heart, what ends up happening is you get you get turned on to this idea of giving. You get turned on to the to the to the to the abundance mentality. You know, give freely, freely you have received freely give, you know Uh generous man will prosper and when you get turned on to it. Yeah, it feels sacrificial sometimes when you're learning to do it, but but inevitably inevitably what ends up happening is your generosity ends up just being you know, coming back to you on every wave and and so uh I think there is a sacrificial level of giving but only when you're first getting started. I think I think You y you hit a place where you just give, you give, you give, you give, and it comes back and it comes back and you give and you give and and and so then you're in the economy you know, of God's economy that that is not worried about there's not going to be enough, but knows that there's plenty because he owns the cattle on a thousand hills. We're going to pause there because we're about out of time. We'll pick up on the money matters issue on next week's show as well. Certainly we've we've established that if you have wealth and prosperity that that doesn't mean you're an unrighteous person. There are numerous examples, mentioned a bunch of them. Job is another example of somebody who was righteous and and uh and also very wealthy. Uh but it's also nothing wrong with taking a vow of poverty either. And so we need to kind of find our own way and be be obedient to God in the way that He would have us be obedient. And I would agree with Jonathan it's at least fifty fifty one forty nine. I'm not sure what the percentage is, but it's at least fifty one forty nine, right? Does man shall not live by words. But on every word that comes from Anyway, thank you very much both of you for being on the show. Yolanda Gamble, Pastor of Sure Fellowship, Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Shepherd. Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner, and you're listening to the Freddie Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD brought to us by Putman Fleming Heating. How can we make you smile?