Welcome to the Frederick Bates debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by all of Shred, Mobile Doctor. Document disruption spreading today but go tomorrow. And putman plumbing and heating, how can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. On the panel this week, Bob Miller, host of the Morning News Express. Right here on WFMD. Hello there. Four years running. Frederick's most favorite radio personality, as voted by the readers of Frederick Magazine. And Pastor John Schweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel and I don't think he's ever been voted favored anything actually. My wife thinks I'm the favorite in her life. Well you gotta remember he was voted by the the the board, right, to be hired or by the Board of Education? Well no, I mean by I mean I don't know how you were hired. I mean did you start the church on your own or Right, my p my my people in my church, I mean to vote with me. Actually, the listeners have voted. Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Right. W S M D is The most listened to radio program on WFMD on Sundays is the Frederick Faith Debate. Golf Cloud. on Saturday. Other than those two shows, Frederick Faith Debate, according to Arbitron, has more listeners than any other show all weekend long on WFMD. Plain, we're coming after you. That's right, baby. Wait a minute. You're supposed to be a Christian. That's right. That's right. All right. He can't be competitive. Well he can heal Blaine. That's right, that's right. We bind up and we uh hurt. Every once in a while I like to clear out the email archives. and uh get caught up on some stuff um because we we haven't had the ability to do that online until just recently You can now check um WFMD. com and there is a link for the Frederick Faith Debate. Uh you can get to it two different ways. You can go to the weekend lineup and click on the Faith Debate and get to the page there, or you can click uh there's a little drop down menu on the homepage for programs and you can click on uh the faith debate there. You can also click on the link for Bob's blog. That's right. The Morning News Express page. And for your Bobcast. And the Bobcast. Anyway, so we're probably gonna get a face cast. A face cast. Yeah. That doesn't w work as well though. I didn't come up with it, so So we'll probably do some of this house cleaning kind of stuff on the website, but we're not quite up to speed on all that yet. So but I I would have done this on the air anyway Because somebody took the time to uh to send a a a nice, thoughtful, not lengthy, but uh you know there's there's a number of words there, right? That's a couple hundred words anyway. Yeah, like three or four paragraphs. All right Uh this is if you were listening to the show, I think it was in January, we did a a series of shows with a uh woman who is a professing atheist. And in doing the show, uh, we found out or it w it was d discovered that part of her spiritual background and part of what influences her spiritual worldview Isn't a pure absolute atheism. She's got a little Buddhism that's kind of yeah mixed in. Yeah. And so we ended up spending Which is kind of a natural connection. Yeah, one could argue. Yes. And we did on that show. Yes. Uh Others would probably disagree with you And it's a good idea. I don't actually I don't know anybody that would disagree with that. That Buddhism and atheism are the same thing? No, no, no, no. Most most atheists would say that they feel most comfortable with Buddhism as a spiritual approach uh to you know as their approach as a potential approach to spirituality and most Buddhists would would say that they feel like it's a very scientific you know, orientation. If they've thought about those kinds of things. If they haven't thought about it, then they won't make the connection. But those that are willing to think about connections between Faith and science tend to make that connection. Well since they're not here to challenge you, I'm gonna say well said. See I would have thought he would have done the opposite. If you've caught on to kind of a rhythm and a pattern on this show, you might have noticed that we have a tendency to do things in force. Yeah Uh we have a tendency to do a series of four on a topic with a guest or whatever. So anyway, after doing three shows with the uh our atheist guest, uh and you'll have to forgive me, I wish I could remember her name, but in the moment I'm it's It's eluding me. It'll come to me when the show's over, I'm sure, but right now it's eluding me. But we did three shows on her atheism and then thought, you know what, there's an awful lot of Buddhism that's popping its head up here and there and she seemed to want to talk about it. Yep. So we said let's do So anyway, in response to that show, somebody who uh listened and hopefully got an arbitron book number Wrote to me and said, Mr. Skinner, I heard it can never be good when it starts that way, right? Mr. Mr. Skinner. I heard your show the other day about Christianity and Buddhism, which sounded more like Christianity versus Buddhism, and I was a little disappointed I am a high school history teacher in Maryland, and my brother is a high school religious studies teacher in San Francisco. We were both raised Catholic, and though I have left the church for more Buddhist practice uh practices My brother is still a practicing Catholic, but also practices Buddhism as well. He has written many articles and is about to be published on topics such as walking a Christian path in Buddhist tradition. He would have been a much more qualified guest to have that discussion on both sides of the issue since sides were taken. Nothing you said really annoyed me. He's talking about me. The voice of reason. Nothing that I, Troy Skinner said, annoyed this person. You'll I want the record to be clear. Yes, it's clear. Not th uh although he did qualify it. Nothing you said really annoyed me as much as as the male guest. you had on the Christian side. And by the way, that male guest was Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. That's me. Without going into too much in this email, I felt two major things were wrong with the discussion. First The male guest, John Sweitzer, you had on, turned the discussion into a valid uh validity contest, which is laughable. And the female guest you had was constantly being interrupted and talked over like so many male dominated talk shows do to women already. Also I wonder if she was qualified enough to respond to some of the ridiculous comparisons and responses the male guest was making It was like listening to a high school argument about whose religion was better. A final point, I hope you would pass on to your male guest one major difference between a Christian and a Buddhist. A Buddhist would not one raise his voice or talk over someone so aggressively as he did, and two would not have been so judgmental about the whole discussion, but quite the opposite, having much respect for Jesus Jesus Christ, I feel he showed very little respect towards Sadahara Gautama. Siddhartha Getama. like Jesus who came six hundred years later. Thank you for your time. Now, do we want to go through these point by point? Do you have a general response you'd like to make? I have a general response I'd like to make. But maybe you want to go first. It's up to you. Um either way is fine, yeah. Um well I go ahead. Because he he really kind of uh goes after you. So I want to give you a chance to really respond the way that you think you should. But part of this is also a critique that's pointed at you, but should have been pointed at the show. If you're not a regular listener to the show, you wouldn't know this. And th this person probably tuned in the very first time, probably the first time, because he didn't know uh your name and and he wasn't clear on s on certain things we do on this show. Jonathan wasn't making it a Buddhism versus Christianity discussion. I was, because that's what the show is. Right. It's the Frederick Faith debate. You take up this point of view, the other person takes up that point of view, and you go at it and you have a debate. Uh and so if there's a flaw in that, then it's a flaw inherent in the design of the program because that's what we're supposed to be trying to do. Sure. Now if it comes down to a sounding like a high school argument over, well, my dad can bench press more than your dad, well then we're not doing our job very well. And I hope that it didn't come across that way. And I don't think that it did. I th uh I don't think we've ever had a show that's quite gone in that direction and and I hope that we never do. Um And the issue about talking over and all that sort of stuff, you know, that's something that's tough to do. Uh and and let me take a forty-five second aside here. People who don't do radio for a living have no idea how hard it is. When you're having a conversation with somebody, normally, not with microphones and it being broadcast to all the corners of the earth or whatever You're talking over each other all the time. You just don't realize it. You listen to particularly two women talk and it sounds to the male ear like they never neither one of them ever stopped They're just talk but they're catching everything they're saying, body language, eye contact. They're not being rude. That's just how people talk and it's doesn't translate well to radio, so it's a learned skill, a learned art, whatever that you ha that you had to get accustomed to. And Jonathan is a gifted pastor, a fantastic preacher, uh for my money, very godly, you know has all of the skills that make for a great pastor, and I think he has a lot of the inherent talents that would make for a good talk show personality. But he's learning some of the skills of the trade and one of them is how to communicate with a guest who's in the studio with body language so they know you're paying attention, so they know if you disagree or disagree or when you're ready to interject without actually needing to say anything. There's an art to that and I'm not perfect at it. You know, only Bob Miller who's in this room today, out of the three of us, has has has got disperfected. Well I you know, I controlled the microphone, so I can Well now and I just want to say ladies, uh his name is Troy Skinner. That's with a capital C and a capital S uh for him saying that women never shut up. Oh, oh. Now I qualify that by saying to the male ear. Okay. It might appear as though uh So anyway, all of that aside, and that's something that we're all working on. I'm trying to get better at, Jonathan's trying to get better at, you know. And then the other thing is it's human nature, it's it's frustrating sometimes when You ask a question, you make a point, and somebody totally ignores the point or ignores the qu or ignores the question or tries to twist it in such a way that changes the gist of the question or the point. And then you know that they're gonna ramble on for another two or three minutes in the wrong direction. And you're like, wait Instead of the right, that is not what I said. That's a tough line to try to cross. So I think that's part of its human nature, part of it is getting comfortable in in how to make a radio show sound like a good radio show and all of that. The other stuff I'll leave to you to respond to. Well it's interesting. Uh one of the things I was gonna say is precisely what you were saying there that I I definitely am learning this radio thing and I think it's very likely that I'm talking over people more than I should And um I think it's you know, it's good for me to hear that and to know that and to uh to you know, just openly acknowledge it. I uh Uh I don't wanna I don't wanna c you know try to browbeat people or be rude in the show, uh though I think we do with the show want there to be a passionate exchange of ideas, which at times, like you were saying, means that people might throw twists or or or comments in that if they're not addressed then you know, uh then you end up um you end up getting down the road in the debate and uh you're not clarifying things that needed to be clarified. And um so I mean I th I think that's probably the first thing and and that's a very important distinction for us to make with the show as a whole. The second thing just has to do with Buddhism. Um Sean uh the the writer of the email commented that uh he'd be that that his brother practices both Buddhism and Catholicism and you know what? I would love to have a show with somebody that does that. Because there are some distinctions that I think somebody like that would make, some of which I would agree with, some of which I would di I would uh significantly disagree with. Um the the difficulty with this particular writer of the email is that he's of the opinion, he he's a Buddhist himself, and he's of the opinion that Buddhism is uh, you know, the way to approach spirituality, or at least it is for him. And that's the pro the problem you and I had with uh we had a Zen Buddhist on the show And we couldn't pin the person down as to what they actually believed. We found ourselves very frustrated. They'd say on the one hand, oh well that's exactly like what Christianity is about. Buddhism and Christianity are just like each other. And then we'd try to build off of that and he'd say, no, Christianity and Buddhism are totally different from one another. And we found ourselves frustrated because You know, because we couldn't get our head around what exactly the Buddhist was trying to describe. And um so it inherent in in any discussion with a Buddhist is the fact that the Buddhist doesn't believe in reality. He doesn't believe that this table exists. He believes that this is, you know, uh immaterial and that once he's enlightened I don't even think that you're sitting there right across the table from me. I think that, you know, uh that everything doesn't exist and a truly enlightened person is released. from all of those things. And as a result, trying to define what exactly that table is or what theological argument somebody's making is extremely exasperating. in that context. And once again, we found that to be true with this lady. She was defining certain things, but as she was going along, it was important to cut in and to ask certain questions and to say, well, wait a second. You just said that and you just said that. Somehow we gotta, you know, either there's a conflict in what you just said or there's not. And so um I totally appreciate Sean what you're saying. Um As a i i if you're a Buddhist, I'm not surprised whatsoever that you thought that we were just fighting with one another like little kids. Uh no Buddhist would ever allow themselves to get into that conversation. And when we had a Zen Buddhist on it was very hard to uh to nail anything down. Um and you know if your brother is ever in town, I'd say send him over. We'd love to have the conversation with him uh, you know, and maybe he could enlighten us a little bit Now, Bob, until you know these last couple of shows, you haven't been on the show before, so you've had kind of an out of the yeah. Which is of course your mistake. But you have a bit of an outsider's perspective and you've listened to the show a few times I think, uh on your way to church or whatever. What do you make of the t of the tone? I I'm curious, I'm not trying to set you up. I'm curious do you think the tone is Were were too easy on people? Do you think that Jonathan and and maybe even myself are too hard on people or what you I I think that I can understand where as Jonathan just said at the end, where he might think that Jonathan was m maybe being more uh uh maybe in an attack mode. Or but I could s I could hear the passion in Jonathan's uh tone. I could hear what he was saying. I mean he's a he's a believer. So I and when when somebody um necessarily contradicts your beliefs He I think he's a little bit like me where he's like, Oh, I gotta defend my beliefs and what I see is what I believe is wrong, I gotta make I gotta bring that to light. And I think that somebody could say, Well, you know what, that's And we all have to, as Christians, we have to do that because somebody will say, Well, you're just brow beating Christianity into this lady, and and that's not necessarily the case. It's a passionate response to maybe a passive answer. In fact, we should say that that lady had had just told us that that most people in her life have felt that she was the arrogant know it all. Um and and she openly admitted that she tended because I mean she had like three or four PhDs, you know, she'd written a bunch of books. I mean she's basically her whole job in life is to be smart. and to know things better than most people around her. And uh she had openly acknowledged a couple of times to us that uh being so intellectually oriented, she often came across as arrogant to people. And so it's interesting Uh, you know that um that in that context, I think whenever you have people who are passionate. Who are passionate and think that they've thought something through and come to a conclusion there's the tendency for us to come across as arrogant and uh you know I think it's I think it's very valuable to openly admit and acknowledge that that's the case. One thing that I know like this. Let me uh let me interrupt, let me jump on top here. Uh get a word wording edgewise now. The fact that the one of the greatest things that I heard about this whole email was the fact that Somewhere in San Francisco they're having debates and religion classes in high schools in San Francisco. I'm sure they're not teaching what I want them to teach, but at least it will give somebody who is a believer in San Francisco. the opportunity to uh debate in high school and that to me and I don't know if it's a private school or not, but wha whatever it is, it's it's good to see. Yeah. Now to show that you can't please all the people all the time, you're somebody that sent an email Exact same show. Exact same show. And said, Troy, you notice it didn't start with Mr. Skinner. Uh oh, he likes you. Troy, I emailed Frank Mitchell, Program Director of FMD. Uh blah blah blah. Now I'm emailing you. I'm a listener to your program on Sunday mornings before attending my church Um he emailed asking, by the way, I'm paraphrasing parts of this, wanting to try to get a tape of uh of a program, which by the way shortly will become less of an issue for those who are dying to get a tape collection of the faith debate. Uh we're gonna start making uh previous shows of the Faith Debate available via podcast uh on the website. And so check uh check back to the website uh you know at least Well at least once a week Chaka will have had significant additions to the content. My goal is to have additional content added to the Faith of A page um every day, but in case I skip a day or two, I know that at least every week if you check in there'll be significant updates and changes on the website. Anyway, so he's talking about the program from Sunday, January twenty first, that had the Lady Atheist on. Uh he said, I believe she was on consecutive Sundays recently. She was. Uh he wanted to play the show. He w he wanted a table because he wants to play it and we're s working getting him a copy by the way. And if you're listening right now, hopefully you already have that copy in your hands. If not, you will have it very soon. Uh says I wanted to play it to a small discussion group that attends our church. We're studying the book Heaven written by Randy Alcorn, which I'm not familiar. Are you? I'm familiar with Randy Alcorn. I don't think I've uh seen that but Anyway, he says, I know our group would be impressed with Jonathan Schweitzer's response to the lady that more or less ended the program that particular Sunday. Um and then he has some contact information and that sort of thing. So there's somebody for the exact same show. Yeah, interesting. And was impressed by you. Sure. But this person's a Christian. No. They're going to appreciate more what you have to say. The other person is a Buddhist, not likely to appreciate what you have to say. Everybody I know that's ever talked about uh evangelism among Buddhists especially like Buddhist monks like people that really practice will say that it's very hard to have that discussion with a Buddhist monk precisely because they define respect as never disagreeing with somebody or telling somebody else that they're wrong. You know, that that would be the rudest thing that you could do. So, um to any Buddhist listening to a show like this that is designed to talk about, well, which one is more the truth, which one is better uh is gonna come away from the show deeply uh offended, you know, at every level because it's uh inherent in Buddhism. In fact I feel like the tolerance orientation in the United States uh uh gets some of its uh uh motivation from Buddhism that claims that all religions are okay. You know, it they're they're all a reflection of the same thing and you know, it's a tolerance orientation that that you're never allowed to tell anybody else that you're wrong. And that's precisely what Why we have the show is because we think that that orientation is poor and and bad for our society. We think that our society does better talking about our differences and talking passionately about 'em because, you know That's what America's all about. So the Frederick Faith Debate, that's the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Bob Miller on the panel this week, host of the Morning News Express. And uh And um what's the word? An outed Christian? An outed Christian. An outed Christian. Very public. He's out of the closet with his Christianity. And uh I'm Troy Skinner and we're we're going through At large. Yeah, at large. Troy Skinner at large. You know what's funny? Yeah. Why why did you say that by the way? Oh because this has nothing to do with anything but it boy My very first paying job in radio was as a disc jockey at a country and western radio. Not country, but country and western. We played stuff from the fifties and sixties, you know, I mean And uh my goal in life wasn't to be a country DJ or a DJ of any sort. I wanted to be uh a news uh a uh a sportscaster at the time. So I convinced the Glad that worked out for you. We'll be getting those scores for you at the end of today's program. Um so anyway, I convinced the general manager to let me do the sports in the morning. He paid me for being a disc jockey. He let me do the sports in the morning if you're catching my drift. Yes, yes, yes, yes. So anyway, I used to uh tag out my sports cast by saying, and I'm Troy Skinner at large with sports At Lord. At large. That came from God himself. You know, this is like clearly anointed prophecy here. And and then the uh the morning disc jockey used to uh introduce uh the sports by saying and here's our very large sports captain were you larger back then than you are now uh actually I was thinner. I'm about twenty twenty five times heavier now than I was then that's for sure. I put on fifteen Ten, fifteen pounds a first year of marriage. And I've never looked back. Yes. Um Good. Anyway, here's another email. I'm excited to be on the program this uh coming up week I'm going to be quoting from the book of Bob. There you go. Wait a minute. The Book of Bob. You can bobcast that book of Bob. Now you had a chance to hear at least one of the shows we did with Paul Alderman Paul Smith as he was representing uh his Mormon uh faith. Um we we have a couple of minutes left and I'm always fascinated to hear how other people think shows went. Because Jonathan and I comments afterwards and sometimes what we think how the show went. How do you think that came across Do you think that Jonathan came across even handed? Do you think he was he was too soft on him, too hard on him? Do you think that I gave Paul an equal amount of time? 'Cause we get Critiqued on this from various circles. But what I heard Seemed like you were fair. Uh I think Paul had enough time to to speak. I think he didn't hear the bad part of the show. But I you know, I I thought it was a healthy debate. Um Of course I don't agree with Paul, but I thought it was a healthy debate and and I didn't I don't see n it's exactly what the show's supposed to be. It's a round table discussion of faith issues. And you're and you have, you know, uh the book that that he gets a l gets a lot of his beliefs from that one sip simple he seemed to know a lot of scripture So I mean it and so for him to argue his point, he makes very good very very well uh very good point I was gonna try to say something, you know, that had like a fifty cent word to it, but um it's too early in the morning for that. Bob really only only knows ten dollar words and he didn't have changed the breakback at the time. So he was trying to dumb it down to a fifty cent word for us and he just couldn't quite do it. So Yeah, it it's a it's a it's a tough dynamic for us. We have those who are on the more evangelical side who sometimes are critical of the show that we're not hard enough. on the non-Christian guests. We even let the Christian guests on the show at all. Yeah, people give us hard times. Then you have those that are more of, you know, of either other faith traditions or even on the more uh I don't I I don't mean this pejoratively, but on the more liberal end of the Christian spectrum who are critical that we we browbeat or we're too tough and it's hard to figure out what that balance is We're just doing the best we can and Yeah, 'cause the point is if you're on the side of the ballgame that you're more committed to uh everybody everybody's religion is okay, you're gonna tend to think that anybody that's saying that somebody's wrong is brow beating or rude or or s you know self-righteous this kind of thing. So you know what I'm saying. The book of Bob. The book of Bob recording for the book of Bob. Thank you, Bob Miller, host of the Morning News Express. I'm WFMD. Is that Bob Alicious? John Sweitzer at uh Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thanks to our sponsors, All Shred, Mobile Document Destruction, and Putman Plumbing and Heating. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening. Be sure to check out our new webpage at WFMD. com. Search until you find the fake debate and click on it and you might even see a big old ugly picture of John Schweitzer on there. That's right, right next to Troy. But don't let that discourage you. Thanks for listening. God bless.