Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Club. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is on every week at this time. We talk about things that I think will be interesting to hear different people talk about. That's kind of the premise of the Of the show. Yeah, yeah. Might as well make it a nice selfish face. Yeah, that's right. And this we I think it'd be interesting to hear a couple of Christian pastors talk about something that nobody ever likes to hear sermons on. Oh yes. Tithing There is research that's been done. There's a a guy named Barna, some George Barna, whatever something. George, yeah. George. Uh famous in Christian well somewhat famous in Christian circles for his research and uh a lot of the megachurch um big uh gigantic mega churches that subscribe to his research put into practice some of the stuff that he comes comes up with and his research says that if you want to have a big congregation Don't talk about tithing. Really he actually says that? He says that you shouldn't take an offering, right? Because offering is a turn off and that you shouldn't uh and you shouldn't focus at If the purpose and this here's where the dr the the the the distinction might be in fairness to Barno, if the purpose of the service is to make it open to seekers, to make it open to those who might not be really committed Christians but are kind of checking it out or whatever that you shouldn't be speaking about that stuff, that you should save that for some time when you're speaking to a room of committed Christians. Now, there it might be the problem, I think, that if we're getting together to worship God on a Sunday morning, for example, that we should be there to worship God As committed Christians. And you can do your secret sensitive stuff maybe somewhere else, but that that's a s different topic for a completely different show. But tithing is a touchy, touchy subject. There's no doubt That the Old Testament teaches that we should tithe. There seems to be some doubt that the New Testament would continue that teaching. And those that reject the idea that um uh that tithe is a New Testament thing will argue that Um we're no longer under the law that we're free from the law. Yeah. I'll argue that no, no, no, that yeah, if that If they if they're arguing it's Old Testament but not New Testament hiding, uh they do it because they argue that we're no longer under the law. The the problem is that um all of Paul Paul's arguments for us going beyond the law go back to Abraham and Abraham is the first one to tithe and he's the one that taught us how to tithe. And so Tithing for those that that claim that it's a New Testament issue is an issue of faith, not an issue of the law. It's an issue of gratitude towards God. Romans one eighteen, uh the wrath of God is revealed because they no longer give thanks to God. They no longer glorify him as God and tithing has at its root this this gratitude that God gave me everything that He's already given me, so for me to give back ten percent is nothing in comparison with what He gives to me. And so Those are the kind of the two approaches. And let me jump in for a second because I realize now that I clumsily got us into this show. That's Jonathan Schweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, also on the show this week, Yolanda Gamble pastor at Fellowship and Snerdley has decided to join us this week. Sorry, are we not going to identify Snur Smart? Horse or or smurfat or job. But our our our secret, guess you would listen the last couple of weeks. Um Somebody who's been sitting very quietly and patiently that this week maybe will let her speak is my beautiful and talented wife, Dina Uh so before since she hasn't had a chance to speak on the last three shows we did about money and what Christians should do to manage their money, what the Bible says about that. Let me give you a chance to well yeah, you can use you can use mine. Uh let's take a second for you to say tithing, for or against Oh, I would say definitely four. Um, the question becomes how blessed do you want to be? How much do you truly seek God's kingdom first? How can you seek God's kingdom and then out of your heart of thankfulness choose to withhold the blessings that he's bestowed upon you. That that just doesn't make sense. So does a Christian have to tithe? I would say they cannot afford not to tithe. Amen. They should tithe. And just like Dina said, how How much do you want to prosper? It's up to you. Because if we do this as unto the Lord, as our reasonable service, our willing sacrifice unto him His word promises to give back to us abundantly. I believe that it it's not just it's just an old testament law and that it no longer applies in a New Testament It's the whole truth. When I look at the Bible, of course when you look at the Bible as a as as the Bible, the old and the new are parallel Together. They're they're together. They're cross interchanging together. Every the many of the New Testament scriptures is referencing back to the Old Testament. So I say that we cannot put away or take away from any part of the truth. It's the whole truth. And I believe that the blessings of Abraham are now upon every one of us and we can have the benefit of that through Jesus Christ. Thank God He made it possible for all of mankind to come into that blessing. And so I say we can't afford not to do it. You know what's interesting also is that you look at the story of Cain and Abel And even scripture says in Hebrews that by faith Abel offered to God a better sacrifice than Cain. But we don't know what the contents of the sacrifice was that's right. So I believe like you were talking about in earlier shows that it's a matter of the heart. That's right. So we as far as we're concerned, Abel might have been given something to God that was quote unquote less desirable in a m in a physical worldly sense. But because his heart re was right before God, it was obviously much more righteous, like the woman who put the coin in. That's right. And she said and they said Jesus said she will be remembered because she gave more than those who put more in. Good. I'm glad you went there. Uh that's the passage that I've had some people uh attempt to uh use to expla to to argue that that Tithing is not an absolute requirement. The question is did the widow who gave the might she gave all that she had, but but was it a tithe? Like like had she spent everything else that she had on on things to just barely survive? And so she gave or or is it you know you know what I'm saying? Like what exactly was the widow's might and it And anyways, what I've heard argued is that with really, really poor people, you know, oftentimes they're not giving a tithe, but they're giving their last might. And for them to feel like like uh at all condemned that they can't give ten percent would be would be the wrong message of tithing. And You know, there's a compassionate side to me that says that, you know, for the for people that are really, really poor, you know, e each one should give in their heart, you know, what what they've what they've decided to give and give abundantly, you know, give give out of the you know, joy and uh that I wouldn't necessarily uh push the tithe message though in the context of anybody that's making um r regular money, uh, you know, even if even if they're at their lower end. You know, so I so I'm a little bit split because 'cause I heard that argument and I I have to agree that that condemning somebody for not tithing is the wrong way to use the tithe message. And unfortunately, like a lot of people that that maybe are giving to televangelists and this kind of thing You know, they're they're they're giving themselves into poverty and and the sheep are being fleeced and it's not necessarily the right way to go. And so um Again, if I'm interacting with somebody that's poor, I'm gonna say get a job. And as soon as they got money that's coming in, you know, that's that that that's effective, I'm gonna I'm gonna say, you know, w so so Are you tithing on that? You know, are you giving to the Lord? I am going to lead them in that direction. But if they're not yet, uh I'm going to be very slow to leave an impression that uh that, you know, they should feel guilty for not tithing. And I guess my point is that that we need to apply the tithe message in the context of grace and not legalism and I think that's where people get off is like, you're not tithing? Well shame on you. You shouldn't have even you know, I and you almost leave this impression like they shouldn't have even come to church that Sunday, you know, like they're just you know what I'm saying? And so So I guess that's the balance that I'm trying to get at. And it certainly I I'm not gonna argue for condemning somebody at all, I hope. Ever. However. In the Old Testament, you know, we're told that what a tithe is. It's not, you know, after you've spent ninety percent, come bring your ten percent that's left over. or go find, you know, the sheep that has the blemish and bring that. It's you bring the best of what you have and the first of your fruits. And Proverbs three, nine and ten, honor the Lord from your wealth and from the first of all your produce So your barns will be filled with plenty and your baths will overflow with new wine. So shouldn't those who are poor Even more so, give the first ten percent rather than their last might so that they can have their vats overflow and be blessed? Shouldn't the principal be more not in a condemning way, but in an encouraging way, say, look Maybe what you need to do is I know you've only got four dollars to your name. So give forty cents. Give forty cents. I think that we should we should teach people how to give I certainly the poor should be encouraged to give the tithe And just when we l you said the widow who had the mic who came and gave all that she had, her confidence as a daughter Of Zion or of God was in God that if I put this last in, that it would be blessed by the priest Which is very scriptural. And then God will cause an abundance and overflow. So she did that by faith, believing and knowing And being very confident in the word of God, which she knew, and so she was found in this in the temple worshiping, and she gave the might And she knew that God was going to cause an increase to come in her life. I believe the woman gave in confidence in the word of God and knowing in her relationship with the Lord that he would not let her down, he would do that. And that's how I believe we should preach to the poor. And if a person came and said, you know what, I just don't have any money. I have no money at all. All I have is maybe a pension and that's spent out on on my mortgage or whatever it's spent out on, and I have nothing. Then I think that they should at least give some time. Give something. Mm-hmm. Give your service. Give your talent Give your skill. Give something to the Lord. As He began as you begin to willingly do that from your heart, increase begins to come. And then eventually, somehow, God I I seen him do it, but somehow he makes a way for that person to increase financially, and then we continue to encourage them Give if it's four dollars, then give forty cents from that that four dollars and God will increase you as you can see. Men he will cause men to give your bos give to your bosom. All sorts of supernatural things can begin to happen for you. And one thing you you s what you said actually happened in our in our lives When we were going through financial difficulty, the Lord said, You need to give me a Lord, we have nothing. We had bills coming out of our ears. We had all this debt. I said, Lord, I don't know. And the Lord showed me I had a a talent of of having my cosmetology license and he said, You do haircuts as a ministry. Look at that. And the Lord I'm telling you, we had a Christmas where people gave us things. I didn't even know how we got gifts. We had no money for gifts and then we had gifts to give to our children. It's a matter of seeking the Lord. Yes. And it and it's your heart You're right. It doesn't have to necessarily be money, but it has to be out of thankfulness. This is what I have to offer. This is all I have. And sometimes all you have to offer is filthy rags. As a matter of fact, that's very scriptural. And he who has much, much is it is expected. That's right. That's also in scripture. And he who has l you know it's it's just it's a matter of God's grace is so much bigger than anything that we have in our lives that he makes us abound in all things. That's so true. God does that. God does that. Well then what do we do with a guy you might be familiar with the name, George Carlin Yeah. Comedian. He was very famous in the seventies and eighties, not quite so much anymore, but he had a a bit that he did once where he plays the character of Jesus. He's being interviewed as Jesus, a a modern day incarnation of Jesus. And at one point in this bit, uh I think it's actually if I remember the bit correctly, the interviewer says, So Jesus, you know, any last word, our interview's coming to a close. Any last thoughts for us before you go back to heaven or whatever? And he says, Yes. Don't give your money to the church. They should be giving their money to you. Oh. So what do you say to somebody like that? Um yeah, well uh obviously George Carlin is at least then is desiring he was blasphemous. Uh yeah, I've heard some stories that maybe he's possibly become a Christian. But I'm not I'm not sure about that. Let me ask this question. Um if you want if you want as a society to be a society that has a fear of God at its heart Um it requires a certain amount of of work, of teaching, of ministry, of knowing the word of God, of the word of God being preached. You know, that there's a certain amount of of responsibility. The fact of the matter is is that um school systems can't survive without without the funds that come in. Why? Because we believe that there's a certain amount of education would be good for kids. Right. And so they actually take it you know, they take a tithe, if they will, right out of your uh your your taxes uh every year. And uh the point is is that is that the tithe is a way scripturally to do two things. One to give to the spiritually poor and one to give secondly to give to the physically poor. All tithes in the in the um in scripture go to ministering to our spiritual poverty or ministering to our physical poverty. And if we are truly impoverished, spiritually and or physically, then it simply makes sense that that a tithe would would be the least we could do to invest and that kind of thing in in uh in a a nation or or wherever it is that we live. But so often people like George Carlin and people in the world say, oh, all the church wants is your money. That's it, man. They're they're just trying to get their money out of you. And yet that same person, every time they do anything in their job, expects to get paid. To get paid. And that that same exact person will recognize that everything that they m I mean, think about lawyers. How much money does a lawyer get to sit and listen to you for one hour and to give you a little bit of advice. Or or a psychologist or a psychiatrist and and so my sense is that is that the world has been very effective at mocking the church for recognizing that if it's gonna do a good job at serving us as a nation and us as people and knowing the Word of God and being called to account then then there simply will have to be some kind of a of a uh money stream to provide for that. And God's command is that He will abundantly bless those people uh that give in that kind of direction. Why? Because they'll be seeking first the kingdom of God. They'll be giving to the kingdom and then the kingdom actually gives back through the ministry and uh and so what is it uh a couple of years ago some people calculated if uh if Every Christian in the United States tithed a full ten percent that Christians could take care of all welfare uh uh payments and all health care payments that are necessary across the nation that literally the church would be able to to to if everybody fully tithe you know, at at a ten percent rate. And I believe that that is a biblical approach. That we not look to government to to provide health care. We not look to government to provide for the poor, but we look to the church to do that kind of thing out of the abundance of their heart. You know, how much better for a poor person to be ministered to people who are doing it out of the love of their heart instead of having to deal with some kind of a bureaucratic you know, institution that is impersonal and and uh, you know, tries to act like they care and and I'm convinced that tithing is God's approach to both spiritual poverty and physical poverty and that it works. if a nation chooses it. But more than that, that the principle is that we give to God because He's just so abundantly given to us. Why would we not just give back, you know, a simple ten percent just to say, God, thank you so much. You've been so good to us Next, Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossworth Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. Also on the panel this week, my wife Dina, and Yolanda Gamble, the pastor at Sure Fellowship in Frederick. This is the Faith Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. If somebody doesn't give ten percent, let's say somebody makes a hundred thousand dollars a year, if they don't give ten thousand dollars of that to their church during that year, are they sinning? I think that they have made a dis a decision to not see that all things come from God. You said that in one of our shows, John. They they have failed to see that all things come from God and that this would abundantly bless them, much like the rich young ruler that we brought up in in past conversations. He walked away shamefully because he thought he was going to lose something. God is trying to get something to you, not take something from you. The Church of Jesus Christ, which we call the church at large is trying to get something to you people and not take something from you. It's very, very important that if we present the word of God that you must understand if you become a worshiper of Christ and worshiper then and you do those good services and we learn to to do that through studying the word of God as to what God requires of us, then he is bringing something to you to so that you can live a whole life, a blessed life, a fulfilled life. And there's nothing wrong with blessing. Right. I mean, look at you know, I you look at Job, you look at David, you look at all these uh men in the Bible who are just overflowing with The abundance of God's goodness in their life and how they did set that example of giving to the poor and of and of giving out of abundance. I mean, um You talk about gifts, you know, what is your position about if someone gives you a gift, whether it be monetary, whether it be um, you know, clothes or whatever, what do you how do you tithe on that? You know You know, I've felt led that you tithe, that you get a monetary gift. You still tithe on that gift. God graciously gave you that gift. How much Wow, this is above and beyond what I've just received from just working. Now you're giving me a gift on top of that? Well, praise the Lord You get an inheritance from your family, from a member who's passed and has done good diligence of of doing a good job of of having money set aside that can pass on to you. How could you not be thankful and give out of that abundance again to bless the kingdom and to bless those who are uh not quite as blessed as you are. There's nothing wrong with blessing. If anything, it's God's mark on your life. Now, that does not to say that if you don't have blessing, that that means that you don't have God's mark on your life. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But I want I don't want people to think who are hearing The show think that um and we t you you all touched on this on an earlier show that because you are rich it means that you aren't taking care of the poor or that you're less godly or you're less righteous because the righteous are the ones who are supposed to sell everything and give to the poor. There's nothing wrong with blessing. No. Yeah, um again a study was done at one point that, you know, about who gives and who doesn't and w what was noticed is that those people that are for smaller government tend to uh tend to give like up to twenty, thirty percent of their income, you know, away whereas those people who are for bigger government don't give anything. You know, and they ex they're just looking to the government to do it. Um, but coming back to the uh uh again the question, you know, i are is a person sinning if they don't give ten percent? Um I the the way that I'm gonna approach that is to say that that uh we need to live up to what the Lord has taught us in our heart. And if a person's been in the Lord and the Lord has taught them about tithing and they've been living the tithe, but then they choose to stop. I I do think that that the Lord that they'll sense distance in their relationship with God and that that they're going to experience uh a measure of uh famine in their business and different things. I I think that it's very likely that that God would uh would specifically call them on it. But if a person has never tithed before and they give two percent And that's it. And and it's a step of faith and and they're giving abundantly, then uh I think probably God's going to begin to bless them for that. Uh but uh like I I heard it said one time that that you shouldn't give more than ten percent that that a guy had in his congregation somebody that was very wealthy. that wanted to tithe like twenty, thirty percent and he said to the guy, he said, No, I don't want you to do that. I want you to take that extra money and reinvest it in your business because if you'll do that, you know, uh, a year from now, you're gonna be tithing more You know, just because your your your business would have been blessed. I thought that was an interesting perspective. I know some I know some pastors uh who like Rick Warren right now. He lives off ten percent of his income and he gives ninety percent of it away. I know some other pastors that had benefited phenomenally from, you know, uh national ministries who have done similar kinds of things and said, I'm gonna live off of eighty thousand a year salary and that's it and give everything else away and as a result they've like s they they've they've built orphanages and hospitals and and all these other kinds of things because they invest the money in the kingdom and so um Again, I I think it does have to do with your heart. And uh it's hard to just call it a sin, but I think if a person is growing in the Lord, then they're definitely growing in the direction of giving a full tithe to the Lord and and giving it freely and abundantly and that as a result that they're experiencing in their life uh the promise of God where he says Which is different from you know, from from a rebuke. He's calling us. He's throwing down the gauntlet. He's saying, look, try it out. See what I'm gonna do for you. And uh my experience is that those that have tried it have liked it. So that's right And that scripture reference is Malachi three ten. If somebody wants to look up where God says to test him, you can look that up. And if you didn't recognize the reference to who who's this Rick Warren guy He's the author of The Purpose Driven Church and The Purpose Driven Life. Both of those books have done very well and so he's very wealthy and I think his church is Saddlebrook. Yeah. In Southern California. That's right. One of the largest churches as far as cong number of congregants uh in the United States. Uh actually one of the largest in the world, but uh may I just say something real quickly? I think that you can certainly give more than ten percent. I give more than than ten percent and I I don't boast in myself. I do that because God has blessed me abundantly. And he's caused me to to prosper. I was at a point to where as a single parent, struggling, didn't have any money. My children and I were abandoned by our my our my husband And for a long time I didn't have very much. I started the concept of just giving and and giving from what I had. And sometimes even having to just give 'em my service, my talent and everything like that. And God continued to increase me as he increased, increased I said, My Lord, you're worthy of more than ten percent And I just started giving and just started giving in abundance and you know what? Abundance just keeps on coming. And so I don't think that there's you you you just stop at the ten percent, but he did say give ten percent And I think just according to your faith, let it be to you. And that's where my faith level is and that's where so many faith levels, as you John mentioned, um, that that some other pastors are are b abundantly blessed because now they're only living from ten percent of their And they're giving another, you know, ninety percent. But um I think that according to our faith that God is gonna bless us at that level And I don't think that there's a certain number we need to put on it. Oh, go ahead. I was gonna I was just gonna say I I I've heard it also taught that Um that that's one reason to not teach on the tithe, uh, but to teach for people to give out of the abundance of the heart, 'cause oftentimes if you just teach people to give out of the abundance of their heart, they do that. They don't stop at ten percent, but they just keep giving, they keep giving. because soon it's gonna come back to you on every wave. And so, you know, the tithe teaching the tithe could go both ways. Well I give my ten percent, you know, and that's all I'm ever gonna give, you know, and and you could be like stingy with the tithe if that's possible. But, you know, so the point is is Again, it's about the heart and about being giving people in everything that we do, and if we do that I think God bless us abundantly. Two pastors maybe can't say, but I feel like I can say 'cause I'm not a pastor. Oh, okay. Sinning is missing the mark. If you miss the mark, you're sinning. And it seems to me God has set the mark. He asks you to give the first fruits a tithe a full ten percent, and if you miss that mark, you are in sin, it seems to me. And so I would encourage you, listener, if you're not giving ten percent, you are missing the mark. Not that you're set at ten. If you want to give eleven, eleven and three quarters, twelve and a half, you go ahead. But if you're not giving what the mark is, it's my opinion that you're sinning. Have a nice day. Thanks for listening to the Christian Faith Debate. Thank you, Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Yolanda Gamble, Pastor of Sure Fellowship Dina Skinner, my wife, I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks for listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD.