Welcome to the thread of Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile on this Eve before Christmas Eve? What do you call it? Is that what you call it? Hold on a second. Now I'm I'm uh I'm technically challenged here for a second, so hold on, let me pull down the music. Okay. Keep talking, say count like to five, I'm gonna figure out which mic you're on. One Two. Okay, that's the one. Oh good. I turned off the right one. Yeah, just like that. See that? Double Eve. Double Eve. Yeah, yeah, that that's like a new uh uh uh concept. You know, there's a first atom and a second atom. There should be a second eve anyways, right? You know, like biblically? Is that like too deep? You're like the only one that would even understand that. Yeah, well most people in the give me too much credit, you know. Wow. Maybe maybe you know, maybe the Catholics are right. Maybe Mary is the second Eve. Wow. You know? Well I don't think the Catholics say that. They just you know call her the mother of God. So anyway. Yes. Alright, so all of which has nothing to do with where we're going to be able to do it. It's December twenty-third because we don't know where we're going to be of course today we're going to talk about something other than the nativity story. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh Kwanza. Now seriously Annika, we had uh what I like to think was a string of pretty nice shows uh in a row recently. We just had a number of shows that we did with the uh Amadia group community. I felt like they shoot str shot straight with us and and they and they allowed us to shoot straight back and didn't take offense and I think that that was great. But there was something that Jonathan said by the way Jonathan sweitzer pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Troy Skinner, moderator of the show today. Thank you very much. If you'd like to email me, it's Troy at WFMD. com Check out the website WFMD W dot WFMD dot com and go to the Faith Debate page and uh I update my blog every weekday. Jonathan updates his blog which you can link to from uh the Faith Debate page. Yes. Uh pretty darn regularly now. I've I've I've shamed him. My goal is that there'll be at least seven a week. Okay. And uh that being the case, then you can go on and and read like at least one a day. Okay. So you can pace yourself. Yeah, right. You can pace yourself. Or you could read them all in one day and take the rest of the week off. Whereas you with yours you you know, you have to come back every day. Every day. Although it stays up there so you could come back You know, read a week's worth of a time. Yeah, you could, yeah. Anyway, that there's a new feature well to me I think it's a new feature. Yeah. There is an audio vault portion of the website. Okay. And there have been some old shows kinda hard to find, weren't sure what they were uh available of the Faith Debate on the audio. Not so many of them, just a few. Right. Well now there are, I don't know, maybe uh a a couple of dozen shows. Yeah in fact I was listening to the one the other day with the rabbi on there. Sure, okay I pulled it up like that. Daniel Sekowicz from Colombia. We uh who by the way we're hoping to have back on. Yeah. So anyway, the The audio vault is there. There's about two dozen previous faith debate shows. And if you should happen to like anything you hear or have a question about anything you hear in today's show You'll be able to hear it on the website as soon as tomorrow, so I'm told. Although with the holiday, maybe they won't be quite as as diligent in getting it done. But normally within twenty four hours, so I'm told, the Faith Debate Show will be available online as well. And so international babies, they can listen to us over. That's right, that's right. And then you could uh you could if you felt like it was a specifically particularly, you know, phenomenal show or good show or interesting show, you could link to it and you could send it to any and everybody that you wanted to. So then they could, you know, they could hear what's going on in Frederick in terms of faith. Enough about that. I want to d dive into something that came up in the show. I think it was the last show we did with the Amadia community the Imam and and the doctor who were on. Jonathan was responding to a question about salvation from a Christian perspective. Yeah. And he was asked the question, Jonathan was, by the Imam, Can a person make it into heaven? if they've never heard about Jesus. Right, okay, right, right. And Jonathan answered the question, yes And I could hear the gas, the huge sucking sound throughout Frederick County. What did he say I thought he was a Christian pastor. I thought he was a fundy. What's the matter with this guy? So, let's unpack that a little bit. I think there are an awful lot of Christians. Yeah. who are confused about that and have no idea how you could say that and and mean it. Yeah. So explain how somebody can be uh can have salvation yeah and not have ever heard the name Jesus Christ. Yeah. Um a couple of things. It's it's abundantly clear in Scripture, so let me lay this as a foundation that we cannot be saved but for the name of Jesus Christ. There is no other name under heaven by which we must be saved. The question is, what is it about naming the name of Christ that uh that is so important. What it is about naming the name of Christ that is so important is that by naming the name of Christ, by believing in our heart that God raised him from the dead and confessing that he is Lord, we're recognizing s uh several very important things uh theological things. You know, we're we're not calling them theological things. We're just saying, well that's what Jesus did. But, you know, th they have to do with our beliefs about God. Number one, that you and I could never reach him on our own. You know, we can't. We need his grace. Two, that that being the case, that somebody needs to pay for our sin. You know, that's the classic Romans. The wages of sin is death. but the gift of God is eternal life. So we're recognizing that God has to redeem us somehow. Three, we're recognizing that that redemption has to come through some kind of a uh the the death of someone holy, that that our lives couldn't be uh my my life couldn't be redeemed by the sacrifice of a lamb or by the sacrifice of a of a cow. You know, in the Old Testament they that's why they had to re sacrifice and re sacrifice and re sacrifice Because it didn't actually redeem our lives. It wasn't effective enough to redeem our lives. And so by naming the name of Christ, what we're saying is that we recognize that that we needed the sacrifice, that we needed to be redeemed, and that we couldn't do it on our own, that God had to do it for us. And so the quest the the point is is that I believe that somebody that dies without ever having been preached the name of Jesus Christ, preached to about Christ, but who knows from creation itself in their heart of hearts that God is in heaven And that w there's no way that we can get to him and that somehow God has to find a way to cover my lying, cheating, stealing, murderous anger, covetousness, lust. all those things, you know, that somehow God has to cover that and that we don't need the preaching of Christ to actually come to that revelation that creation itself proclaims that. Is that you think clear enough? So I think what so what you're saying, okay a person is saved by Jesus Christ, the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Yep. Whether they recognize that it was specifically Jesus Christ that was sacrificed, they know that God's going to provide a sacrifice, and they are saved by that sacrifice. But they don't have to actually know that that's how God did it. They just have to trust that God either has done it or will do it and they're resting on him and his provision. I know my Redeemer lives and that I will see his face on the earth. You know, he he knew that his Redeemer lives, that he needed a Redeemer And uh we're told that Christ, when he died, that he went to um to what we call Abraham's womb, he went to this place and preached to Abraham, Jacob, Isaac. Joseph, David, all those that had died without knowing the name of Christ, but they had already died. But we're told it's given to a man once to die and then the judgment. opportunity because they had never had the gospel preached to them. Christ went and preached to the to the spirits that were in prison as we're told. And uh and as a result we're led to believe that Abraham, David, that all those guys are in heaven now because they knew that they needed to have a redeemer. They knew that they needed a savior. And when Christ came, they were like, this is what we were longing for all those years. This is the one And I believe the same thing's true with you know somebody that lives way out in the middle of Aboriginal um uh Australia or up in the mountain Himalayan mountains, uh Nepal or, you know, somewhere in the way out in the Russian Siberian uh wilderness. That strikes this must strike some people. as holy cow, I never really understood that. Yeah. And some people probably are having a hard time even digesting and accepting. Sure. So go read your Bible. Right. The point is read Romans 118 You know, uh read about um you know Christ Christ's interaction, the men of faith from the Old Testament that never had Christ preach to them. That's the perfect example. Yeah. You know, if you well it's i i it's gotta be because of Jesus. They got you gotta know Jesus Well, Abraham didn't know Jesus sp sp specifically. He knew that God would provide a sacrifice, but he didn't know that it would that it would be this individual named Jesus. Now, some might say, well since Jesus has come, now we need to know. But I don't know. It that borders on Gnosticism, for those who know what that means. It's you know salvation through knowledge. Uh you have to know who You have to know the exact means by which God saves you. And I don't think that you do have to know the exact means. You just have to trust by faith that God will save you. Right. And easier for us because God has shown us how He's done it. And so it's an easier kind of position to hold. Well, I think I think we have to um honestly balance off our uh our belief that God saves on the basis of our knowing that there must be a Christ figure to come that that would bear the sacrifice. We have to add to that a recognition that that the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ around the world is is a tool that God is using to disperse uh the the evil spiritual forces of wickedness that around the world and that it is it is true that there are many that are under the power of Satan whose minds have been blinded that the preaching of Christ will actually rip the blinders off their eyes that they that they can receive the salvation. So I think it is true that uh that there's power in the preaching of the of the gospel of Jesus Christ in addition to uh the you know what people would call prevenient grace for those that never hear the preaching of Christ but you know live wherever that that can come to a knowledge of the Savior. And the point is God isn't going to hold us accountable for what we don't know. He's going to hold us accountable for what has come to us. and how much we've responded to what's come to us. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. If all creation proclaims the Word of God then those that have never heard the preaching of Christ, but have only heard the preaching of creation, well they'll be held accountable for responding to the preaching of creation. But for those that have heard the preaching of Christ, they'll be held accountable for for hearing the preaching of Christ. And that's kind of the modes of how the gospel is shared, right? You talk to somebody and you say, You are a sinner sinner in need of a savior Yeah. And they're like, Oh my goodness, I'm a sinner and I need a savior. God, please save me. And then you follow that up with good news. God has saved you in the person of Jesus Christ, who was the perfect you know, sacrifice. So it's not I don't know. I think that's a an important distinction. It's probably something that is lost uh to most people in the modern church. that for some of them it's true that that that might be the first time that they've said to themselves, Man, I'm a sinner. Wow. I guess I do need a Savior But for many, and I don't know percentages, I'm not going to try to, you know, speak to percentages, but I think for many they're like, yeah, I know I'm a saved uh a sinner, so who's this Christ guy? Because I need help You know, I think there there are many, even, you know, that are, you know, in some African jungle or, you know, Aboriginal, you know, wilderness that that they already know that they're There's something wrong and that they need help. And so it's not like that's the first time they've ever thought to themselves, wow, I guess I am a sinner You know, and so it's hard to I I I think it's hard to know how much there's the different variations, but I'm sure that there's uh, you know, people in different places on that. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. John Sweitzer is the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and ever affable moderator. And uh our sponsor Amiable, affable. Yeah, all those A words. Adorable. Oh, well gee, I never need cared. Our sponsor is Put my plumbing and heating, how can we make you smile? Uh all right, that's fine. Yeah, we can't we can't ignore it. Okay, it is December twenty-third. So when was Jesus born? Uh he was born probably sometime uh back in September. So sorry, we missed it. All bets are off, no presents for today. And if not September probably sometime in like April or May, right? No, I was thinking about this the other day and I don't know, I've never heard it taught, but you know how he he died on Passover? and rose again and then the spirit was poured out on Pentecost and many people believe that he will return on the Day of Atonement. I've wondered if it's possible that he was actually born uh during the Feast of Tabernacles where God makes his tabernacle among men, you know, or something like that. Though I've never heard anybody Teach on anything like that is just kind of a random thought that I had it. What year do you think he was born Uh two thousand um three I think is what? Is like I mean two uh sorry sorry two thousand No no no no I think it's like around the year three. Like it wasn't actually at the year zero. Right? Yeah, three Three B C yeah. Yeah. He got it off just a little bit. Whoever set the Roman calendar thought that he got the year of birth right that he was off by. Some people say it's maybe six years. Yeah. From what I've read. Yep. So So Figure that one out. How many wise men were there? What is this? A Christmas. Um uh number seven. How many wise men were there? Uh I don't know, probably I don't know, ten. Uh you'd think there'd be a bunch, right? 'Cause they're all coming together. The Magi? Yeah, well there were w we don't uh I'll be willing to bet you there were not three. Do you think there were more or less? I think there were probably more. Okay. But there were three gifts that were recorded in Scripture for us, so that's where you get the three from. But we So we need somebody to write an email to us and give us a a uh explanation for how many they think there actually were based on scripture. Where do you think they were from? Um, I think they're probably from uh the east. See? I'm good. But not from the Orient, right? No, the Orient is the East, right? And they weren't well that's the Far East. Uh was it back then though? Oh I don't know. Yeah, yeah. And they weren't kings as far as we know, right? Well it depends on what a definition of king is. The word there for for king uh or for nobleman You know, it's likely that they were wealthy, uh magi that that gave themselves to the study of the stars and magical stuff and that kind of thing. That's what magi isn't that interesting. Magician. That's where we get the word magician. Because the wise men of old, you know, like in Pharaoh's court, remember when when they uh they duplicated Moses' trick of of uh the His rod turning into a snake and then theirs did too. Right. Well the point is that they knew m they knew magic tricks. You know, they were like the m the uh contemporary magicians of the day. And so the magi w knew the stars, knew the eclipses, all those kinds of things. And uh and in the context of that then They could tell all the people that you know that we're true because there's going to be an eclipse in one week, you know, and then everybody like, oh, you know, and there's this aura of you know, mystical power because they were able to make the sun disappear or something like that. And that reminds me, we didn't really get to get into it. Maybe we'll do a show on it at some point if we get the imam back on. Okay. But the Ahmadiyya uh community believes that uh the messiah or I don't f I'm not sure how they define the messiah, but a messiah figure uh arrived about a hundred and some odd years ago. Uh and prophecy was pointing to that because of some eclipses or something, lunar and solar eclipses. Yeah, yeah. During the month of Ramadan, uh Muhammad prophesied that when During the month of Muhammadan uh month of Ramadan, sorry, there's aren't so many Amahama I'm just getting it off. You have to forgive me. Sorry, Ralph Grammy. Yeah, yeah. Unintentional. Uh during the month of Ramadan that there would be a it would start out with a lunar eclipse and then that later on there would be a solar eclipse during the same month of Ramadan because the two would be like fourteen, fifteen days apart. then that would be the sign of the coming Messiah. And it's exactly for that reason that it can't be the Messiah. Because you're gonna argue this when they're not here Well I'm just gonna point it out and you can look it up. And then we'll you guys will be ready when you're listening later. That's right. When we have them on. Yes. In Matthew twenty-four, Mark thirteen, and I believe Luke twenty-one. Are those the three chapters I have those right? Yeah, yeah. You must be a Bible scholar. I just happen to know those two chapters. That's right. No others. I don't even know Psalm 23, but I know those, babies. So but it says that you know you're not going to be looking at the signs in the sky to to have any clue as to when the Messiah is going to return. Right. We're told we're told in fact that there will be signs in the skies, but that we're not to think that that's it Right. So we know that that can't be from a Christian's point of view, that can't be the Messiah. So anyway. So we have less than ten minutes left. Okay. Yes. So two little things we're going to touch on. Uh-oh. What kind of tradition do you have at your family on Christmas? And we're probably not going to have time to do a New Year's themed show, I don't think, because of some other things we're going to have on our agenda. Yep So some things that you're looking forward to in two thousand eight. Wow. So start with the tradition thing first. Okay, tradition. Um Yes. I know you have tradition. We actually did a tradition with you last year about uh around New Year's Eve. We did. Yeah. Yeah. We kinda botched it. We we didn't have as good of one as we've had in the past. I apologize. Well I was there that time, so that'll you know, explain things for you. The the Christmas traditions though that Schweitzers do uh through the years is um let's see, first of all we would do New Year's Eve, a kind of a candlelight New Year's Eve service uh that tends to be rather short. Um, you know, and at some point during the evening we everybody in the room has a candle and they all light the candles and And um uh is this New Year's Eve or Christmas Eve? Uh Christmas Eve. Okay. Um and then uh that night, Christmas night, we'll open one gift to everybody. Uh and then we wake up the next morning and uh mom always would have the stocking out ready to go And she would pack 'em into this day she does it for all the grandkids and everything. It's like her thing. She won't even let any of us help her out. You know, it's like mom's thing to do. You know, and there's always a uh orange in it. Always in orange. Always in orange. Okay. And uh candy, you know, and just other things, right? And then uh we wait for mom and dad to wake up and then we do we read a s you know, the story of the nativity. uh all the way through and then we'll pray together uh for one another and then we go around and and open one gift at a time. I'll open a gift and my brother open a gift and the next and mom, you know, all the way around the a room and then we'll go the next round, then we'll go the next round, all the way to the end. And we stop and we be patient. We look at you know now these sound like your childhood memories for the tradition. You carry these over into the Schweitzer household today? We do. We try to. Yeah. Now do you have a Santa Mouse or a uh any sort of tradition like that? A Santa Mouse? Yeah, you familiar with that story? There's some children's book about a Santa Mouse that comes and hides a small, you know, mouse sized gift, you know, probably like a two inch box kind of gift in the tree among the ornaments. Oh And it's like a hidden extra secret gift kind of thing. So you don't do the sanamatic. No, do you? My mom used to do it with my sister. Right You know, but never did it with me. I was gypped out of the Santa Mouse thing. Of course my kids have been really gypped 'cause we don't even do Santa Claus at my house. Oh we don't do Santa Claus. So I mean uh do you catch grief for that? I don't know. My kids don't even know to give you a chance. Ah you're robbing Christmas from your kids. No. No? Oh no. I've heard some of that over the years. Have you really? Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, yeah. All right. Two thousand and eight. Two thousand eight. Um let's see. Well, uh we're hoping to go to uh Israel for a uh missions trip to uh some uh churches in the um uh Palestinian areas, uh Nazareth in that area. Uh we're also going to be um Uh we're hoping in the new year. I don't know. I I I honestly I'm like uh it's like a head of the ball game. What about you? Do you have Yeah, well first you know, on on the the tradition thing, I mean I think everybody in in this day and age has the tradition of opening a gift on Christmas Eve because we're such an inpatient society. We just can't wait So, you know. The little teaser. Yes, you gotta have one. And usually I don't know if you but for us that gift uh is typically one that we select. For the children to over. As opposed to letting the kids go pick one. No no no, we'll pick. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right. Yeah, otherwise the next morning is kind of boring. One of our uh one of our traditions is to put up all the Christmas decorations on Thanksgiving weekend. Oh, okay. And uh and take them down on my birthday. Okay or the weekend closest to my birthday, which is January nineteenth. So they stay up for like two months. Yeah. Good two months. At our house. Yeah. And the thinking behind that is if I work that hard putting that stuff up, it's staying there for a while, baby. I think my lights that I put along the edge of the roof of my house stayed up to like uh summertime this past year. They just you know You're one of those you're one of those tacky neighbors. I just turned them off and you couldn't tell that they were there. I at least I couldn't tell they were there. Yeah, the neighbors could tell. You're the one there complaining about it. I wasn't sure who it was. Kinda loses some of its specialness. I think so. So two thousand eight. What do you what what are you doing? Well, you know, one of the things I don't know if it's very well known, probably not. People listen to the show. But you know, I work at the radio station full time. Yeah. By the way. Um on the sales team and Yeah, we have some uh some goals for 2008 that I've laid out before the team and uh that that we're gonna pursue. It's gonna be a year of service to the community. I really feel like in my heart that we have a powerhouse, you know, radio station and our sister station. Yep. Uh, you know, we really have a strong voice in the community and it puts us in a position to, I think, kind of uniquely serve this community and meet its needs in a way that I'm not saying we've fallen down on the job in that regard. I think that we do a have done a good job on the job. In fact I think probably a lot of people would would feel like you guys have been like stepping it up and keep stepping it up a long time. seeking those kinds of opportunities. Uh yes, you know, making money as a as a you know uh publicly traded company, you know, the decisions have to make money. That's important. um personal gratification as far as, you know, growing in your career or those sorts of things, those are important. But really what it all comes down to is how much can you serve others? How much of a relationship can we as a radio station have with our neighbors in the community kind of thing. Um, you know, one person I was talking to on the staff, I was sharing with with uh him my ideas for how two thousand and eight can really be great. And he said, you know, yeah, I've always did you intend that to rhyme? Yes I did. Oh. Uh 'cause it does. For the record, yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh a and he pointed out, he said, Yeah, I've always felt like, you know, our radio station uh you know can be and is to some degree, but maybe could even be better, a beacon for the Frederick community. Very much so, yeah. And so I I expect I expect us to do more of that sort of stuff. Very interesting. Can you share any ideas about what that might look like? Well, you know, I I think it's important to guard your spirit at some level and you know to make sure that uh you know y y y you don't lose your edge by by talking about things prematurely. Yep. I will say that two thousand seven has been a year of transition and challenge. Yeah. It has been one of the more hectic, busy uh and in many ways difficult years, but having made it through the year and having accomplished some things in spite of all those transitions and obstacles has made it a very rewarding year. Mm-hmm. Uh and I feel like it's really set the table and staged nice for nicely for two thousand and eight to be just as an exceptionally good year. Whether or not we make tons of money and accomplish all the things that we're putting out there as goals for ourselves to accomplish, I can't say that all of those things will necessarily Right will almost be reward enough in itself. Totally And I know that your church cross is like is entering a year of rest. Yeah, yeah. We uh based off of the idea of the Sabbath year, uh we actually we've been going for about seven years, though public only about three maybe going on four now and um we just felt like we too had a very busy year. There was a lot of crises and different things going on. And we just felt like, you know, in general Uh rest is something that we just don't understand, we don't know. And yet uh it's abundantly clear in Scripture, you know, uh in Hebrews that we're supposed to labor to enter God's rest. So we were like, okay, well what would it look like if we were to take a Sabbath year as a whole church, as opposed to, you know, like the pastor takes a sabbatical and he leaves But like the whole church says, okay, for a year we're gonna we're gonna rest and we're gonna kinda have a Sabbath year and a big idea behind that, uh, whenever you study the Sabbath in Scripture is that you would do things for the poor, kinda similar to what you're talking about you know, with the radio station that you do things for the community and that it's a year of really where where the community is enriched Together because you're not just living for um profit and to grow whatever your particular thing is But you're you're looking to go above and beyond that, you know, to uh to just kind of give out of the abundance of what God has given you. And so we're we're excited about that particular thing. We don't know exactly what it would look like Uh but it's it's been amazing how the idea that, oh, we're gonna take a year of rest has has spawned all kinds of creative ideas in different people about how that would apply to them personally and then to us as a congregation. So Um, you know, in that sense we're really hoping as well to just give a lot to the community to the poor, you know, to help out in whatever way that we can At least for this year. We should do that every year, but you know, to really take a year and to magnify that. Yeah. Well that's that's a wonderful way to end the show and kind of in a sense almost end the year even though there's one more show before the year is completely out. Anyway, Merry Christmas and may the Lord bless you with a year of rest in two thousand eight. Thanks for putting plumbing and heating. How can we make you smile for sponsoring the show? Thank you, Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor Crossroads Valley Chapel, and thank you for listening. God bless