Welcome to Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio. 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Futman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? This week we have a panel of three, which is quite a rarity for us because lately we've had a panel of one. It's just been Jonathan and I uh doing the show. And I can only take so much of Jonathan, just me by my lonesome. So I got a couple of guys coming here and gang up on Jonathan today. Uh Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here in Frederick. Imam Zaki Kowser, the uh Southeast Region um of the southeast region of the Ahmadiyya, a Muslim community, and uh Dr. Khaled Ahmad Atta the national secretary or a national secretary for the Amadia community. And if this name Ahmadiyya rings any bells, you've been paying any attention at all to the news Uh I'm going to tell you what the show is not about, but first I'm going to pontificate for a moment about uh a couple of things that occurred to me with the whole Walkersville land issue. Um there is some farmland in Walkersville, 200 and some odd acres. Uh the Ahmadiyya are are looking to buy that land and uh turn it into a retreat. There are some people that are opposed to that for various reasons This is not a political show. I don't really have much of a political opinion. You know, those who are anti-growth and don't want anything to come whatsoever, I can respect that. Those that are pro-growth and think it'll be important for business and that sort of thing. I can respect that opinion. I I don't have a uh a particular dog in that fight, at least not in this context, but I do want to say I had a chance to listen to the Frederick Forum show with Blaine Young that airs on Saturdays a couple of weeks back and he addressed this issue. He had Khalil Shazli from the Frederick Islam Society on the show. We've had him on the show, I don't know, a dozen times. Yep And I thought he represented well uh you know at least a Muslim perspective on that issue. Um but there were some callers to that show that troubled me because I I don't know that they would call themselves Christian. But if they call themselves Christian, they should be ashamed. So I just want to say if you want to be uh discriminatory, you want to be bigoted, you want to be uh intolerant of having somebody as your neighbor, somebody that doesn't see eye to eye on every single point that you have. then you need to go back to the scriptures and see what the word of God tells you on how you're supposed to live your life. That is not what the Christian behavior is supposed to be. If you're truly anti-growth and you don't want anybody to come no matter what, that's cool. That's a political issue and Christians can hold that view. Sure. But if you are using that as a shield to hide some sort of you know archiebunker bigotry or something, I don't have any p patience for that. That is not Christian And you should be ashamed of yourself. Yeah, you know, that's the thing that I I feel like uh has been so important is is in terms of our definition of what is American Uh however Christian our our roots were, we certainly weren't into uh just shutting down points of view just just because we disagreed with them. Um I I'm of the opinion and I think that's the point of the whole show that w you know, let's bring the debate right out in the public and let everybody hear what everybody has to say and decide for themselves. And I think when people do that kind of thing Um well, it's the sound of freedom, Thomas Jefferson says. Now that's I'd like to hear that sound. I believe that all Muslims, you know, tha Mahdiyyah, whoever, I don't care, you know, all Muslims, all those who aren't Christians are wrong. Okay? I think they're theologically wrong and I think there are eternal consequences for that. And so we will talk about those things. So I'm not saying that we can't have disagreements, but how are you gonna have a conversation with somebody if you're not gonna allow them to come into your community? Yeah, let's disagree, let's do it publicly and let's let's have at it. So that's what this show is about. So today we're gonna talk about and there's a couple of things with this that we need to clarify. Okay Because you hear Muslim, you hear Islam, and you think, Oh, I know what that means And I don't think we really know what that means. And usually the the public debate, the public discourse that we hear is falls along two lines. You've got the good, peaceful Muslims, and you've got the wacko radical fundamentalist terrorist who fly planes into buildings Muslims. And it's as simple as that. And you guys aren't actually either of them. And it's not as simple as that. Exactly. Exactly. It's not as simple as that. The Ahmadiyya as I understand it. you know, f fill in the details, but as I understand it, you're a real significant minority in Islam. There are one point something billion uh professing Muslims around the globe and well, I don't know, was it maybe a million of them are Still what is that? I don't know. A percent? Couple of percent maybe? Very low percentage. Really it in it's a really s uh very small minority group within. Now you have the the the faith has its roots in Pakistan, but is now right as I understand it, but is now I don't know if outlawed is the right word, but is really horribly It's persecuted in Pakistan. In fact isn't that true that they're persecuted literally in every Islamic nation around the world? Almost every they're getting there. Yeah. We're trying to fight that off, but uh the intelligent Islamic nations don't do that, but it did start and it's kind of spreading, so we're trying to fight that out. Um yeah, especially in Pakistan and they kind of And in fact it kind of was was birthed in Pakistan right now. It was. It was. The uh community was founded in India in a town called Kadyan. And that was year eighteen hundred and eighty nine. Eighteen eighty nine, correct. And since the partition of subcontent took place in nineteen forty seven The uh headquarters moved uh to Pakistan in a town called Rabwa. So Okay, so it originally was birthed actually is it in India? That's correct. Which is in the Kashmir Mountains area, which is the border with Pakistan, kinda kinda close. Yeah. That's an American geographical uh uh you know blunder. Well Cadiana is not too far from uh Kashmir. Gotcha. Pretty close. Yeah, sure. By the way, to help our listener uh Uh the the the first non-regular guest on the show's voice that you heard was that of uh Imam Zaki Kowser and then uh the most recent voice you heard that wasn't John Sweitzer's was that of Dr. Khaled Ahmad. So that you can try to figure out who's talking. Uh like you'll remember that. One's an imam and one's the doctor. The imam is a young man about as you put it, um Christianity started out very small as well and it took a a big change for it to spread. Sure. But we believe we're we're very similar to Christians. We believe just as the first Messiah came, Christ, and he guided the people and they were called Christians, we believe in the Messiah who's come. And very similarly, we are a small minority right now, but we believe there will come a time. When just as Christianity spread across, our faith will also spread in a very peaceful Nice manner, but then we will be also in majority. Sure. peaceful Muslims and then there are violent Muslims. Right. The first point I'll make is as soon as you turn to violence, you're not a Muslim anymore. So those people aren't Muslims. They claim and they're trying to hijack the religion of Islam and trying to use it. Because it's really easy to get somebody emotional about the religion So that's why it's a But you would agree that there's a significant amount of people out there that have ignorant people out there who are using this kind of religion. people and try to get their political agendas across. Sure. And they are not Muslims. Sure. As soon as you turn to violence, you're not a Muslim anymore. Okay, now there's a couple distinctions um uh that come to my mind. I've I I spoke with uh Dr. Atah about these You know, I I. e. um every Orthodox um uh Orthodox interpretation of Islam, the major uh schools of orthodox interpretation will agree that if a Muslim converts away from Islam to another religion, then he forfeits his life. In fact, I know a guy, uh I've spoken with a guy personally who who was uh was speaking with Prince Charles and all of the leaders of the uh Islamic community in uh in Great Britain at the time. And uh and he said this to Prince Charles. Prince Charles looked at all the Muslim guys that were there and uh and he said, Is this true? And they all kinda shrugged their shoulders and said, Yeah, it's true. That's very sad if they did, because that is not in any way can they they cannot prove that from the Quran in any way. Nevertheless, you would agree that there's there's many that do uh believe that's one way they're trying to keep their faith safe, they think, but they're not. They're actually you know scaring people away because they feel oh if I convert and if I change my mind I can't even go back. Sure. It's not true in any way because the Quran itself says if somebody converts and he converts back You know, preach to him and if he converts back, preach to him again. And so this is one of the major distinctions between what the Ahmadis believe and what many that call themselves Orthodox believe. I'm I'm thinking most Muslims agree with this Agree with the fact that there is no death penalty for an apostate. Okay, well wan okay, but I don't understand then why so many of them Um would would agree, like say, you know, I don't know what kind of group he had uh with him over there, but if you go to a normal Muslim and ask him, I'm pretty sure they're gonna say no, it should not be. That it wouldn't be humane, it wouldn't make sense Well I would agree that it's not the Quran itself it says there's no compulsion in religion. And I'll call that compulsion. Okay. Exactly. So how can you say there's no compulsion in religion, but if you convert out Islam, you're dead That would make no sense. Now the more to go so far as to say that the the Ahmadiyya community is pacifist or you don't or you're not quite that anti Uh violence sounds like a few years. No, we're we're very anti-violence. Our founder, our imam, he told us clearly that this is not the day and age for violence. That's it. Violence is over. Now the way you refute somebody is by the pen, by education, by knowledge, by proofs. That's how you're gonna this is uh the time for discussion for knowledge and education. The time for fighting and stuff is over. So can however Can the Amadi community uh can members of the Amadi community join military forces? Of course. We have people in the American Union. We do hold the fact that if a time comes When you do need to defend yourself, of course you have to defend yourself. You have to defend your religion, your family, your country, of course. So we do have people in the US Army, actually in Iraq right now. Sure. There's a there's a gentleman in Frederick whose son is in the army right now. Okay. So we stand by that. Yeah. However, we do not believe that you should be against your own country. If you're living in America, you should not be thinking against your country. And if you really are that way, then you should leave. Simple as that. Okay. It means peace. Physically, in in every essence of the fact. So violence is completely indication of what Islam stands for. So there is no room for violence at all. Okay now I I was under the understanding that either Muslim or Islam was the word for uh submission. Absolutely. You know the word Islam has several meanings. Oh oh. And one of them is peace. Oh okay. It's a message of the side. What are the other meanings? Yeah yeah. It means to give yourself over to someone. And we're referring to God here. So the first is give yourself over to God. And then it's peace and submission. So submission to the will of God is the real translation, but another understanding of the word is peace through submission to the will of the will of God. And this is not just talking about physical peace in the world. This is talking about f peace with yourself. Sure. Peace of mind. Peace with your family. Peace in society. Peace with God. So all of those are only possible when you have You know, God with you. And actually I I wouldn't call myself a Muslim, but I would agree uh from a Christian perspective that uh that peace stems from submission to the will of God and participation in the will of God. And so in that sense Um I think I would agree with the with the big idea behind peace that you talk about, uh though of course I would add Christ in that whole scenario. Absolutely. Okay. Now what else what are the other things that separate us? Yeah, you kept it. No, this is good. Exactly. Why do they hate us? The reason is we uh are a new community in the sense that we're a hundred and some years old. Okay. And that's when we were started. And our history shows of complete nonviolence. Very, very peaceful. It backs that up, right. Even though we were persecuted in Pakistan, we didn't fight back. We moved. A lot of us moved. That's how most of us came to the United States. And we believe that violence is not the answer. That's the major thing is that you want to swear off violence in the name of religion. Right. Uncalled for violence. Uncalled for violence. We don't have violence defense, those are fine. But those only in the situation where there's an imam who says, Yes, now it is the time because you're almost gonna die and you have to defend yourself. So that's similar to the Christian just war idea. Exactly. Just war is defensive. You know, and it's never against innocent people. Exactly. The major distinction between the other Muslims and obviously that we believe the Messiah of this day and he can come has come. And he has come and he's taught us all of the true understandings we believe, obviously, of the Quran. would say that apostates should not be killed and this kind of violence is not called for this in this day and age and all of these other points. So the the greatest distinction between us and the other Muslims is the fact that we believe in a Messiah Who has guided us rightly in every aspect of our life? And actually you believe that that Messiah was not the return of Jesus Christ, because you basically Jesus Christ actually You believe he died in 120 somewhere in the mountains of Kashmir or somewhere, right? Right. Uh as uh but you believe then that that the term Messiah would return was more of an allegorical description of a figure that would you know arrive at the same time. what the Messiah has done for the Ahmadi community has taken them from being more law oriented to being a little bit more grace oriented in their approach to both the extension of the religion and in their approach to um even you know basic law. Like for example, do you guys approach Sharia law differently? Sharia law being, you know, Muslim law Right. This word has been taken out of context a lot. Okay. So Sharia law in this day and age means oh, do all the the really bad stuff that Islam says. No, Sharia law is between you and God, first of all. But you're talking about according to an Ahmadi perspective. Obviously, I want to make that clear. This is out necessarily the Orthodox. Sharia law tells you be righteous Pray to God, give charity, be kind to your neighbor. That's the first part of Sharia. And that's between you and God. So we stand by all of that. You have to do all of these things. Okay. Okay. So the Muslim law is for you And it teaches you how to live your life, how to be a righteous man. Okay, whereas and so the classic idea in the Western mind is that Sharia law means that you stone the adulterer, you know, and we hear these stories of stoning adulterers or that uh eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth, you know. So if you go to a Muslim country you're you're gonna you're gonna see all these people with hands cut off, you know, and You know, and eyes gows out or something like that. Yeah, go ahead. Yeah. You know, like I was talking to the other day. Sharia is something not really coined up lately. It's been there for a while. Whatever the God's commandment or law like uh they've been they've been told in the Old Testament, yeah. They were also Sharia. Sharia means God's law. So y okay, so again your point is is you apply and and actually Khalil did this when we had him on. You apply the I the the idea of Sharia law to uh Shadia as you guys uh pronounce it, rolling the ark. Shadia is is something that is applied that that say Moses and Abraham, all the way back to Adam and Eve, everybody that ever has done anything right is actually submitting in their heart to Sharia law, God's law. And so in your mind that's what it entails. Uh and and there's definitely some very legalistic elements of that that we in the West you know, have developed this this caricature of Muslims, you know, that that it means all these harsh things, you know, the women have to wear you know, all the certain kind of dress and that kind of thing. How much is that true for the Amadis you know versus uh not so true in in like what So some Ahmadis would would actually wear that. No, most Ahmadis do wear that. Living in the United States, I can tell you myself, my wife, she wears it. And it's her choice. Okay. I don't force her, the government doesn't force her. It's her choice. So whether God, in the sense, does tell her. So we do tell them to do it Uh, do they all do it? We f we hope they do. But if someone does not do it, we don't say, Oh, you're not an Ahmadiyya anymore. That's between them and God. What about like multiple wives? Multiple wise again, that is a permission given by God under the circumstances where there are too many me women and not enough men after wars, after a fashion through all the way around the world. So the Quran also says, but only do it if you can be completely fair with both of them And then a few verses later it says, But trust me, it'll be impossible for you to be completely fair with both of them. But it's saying it's an option which is available In extreme circumstances. It's not a good thing. So like here in the United States you wouldn't necessarily every Muslim in the world can have up to four wives. That's an option. I can legally do that in my faith. How many Muslims actually do have more than one wife? Okay is less than point one percent. So even those who do have it, you'll see there's a need. There's a reason why they have it. Maybe their wife the first wife can't have children. So instead of divorcing her and leaving her to die, right, not taking care of her, they have an agreement where, okay We'll have two wives and we'll have children and we live together. So she has to agree. uh approach to law uh sharia uh a very pragmatic orientation that I don't know that I necessarily have picked up in my discussions with others. You know you're a little bit more inclined to rationalize that out. than to just say, well, this is what it says, so therefore we have to, you know, there's a little bit more of a, you know, well let's apply it to each situation as is reasonable or common sense. Because we have a living imam who tells us that okay in this day and age this is kind of what it means. This is what it this is the understanding of it. And they have a 1400 year old understanding of it and most of the stuff that we have today it didn't exist at that time Right? Right, right. Very uh d very clear to me is that is that Ahmad who who's the original uh promise from size. Mizabullah Mahmad. I know you're not gonna repeat that one. Okay. The original Ahmad. Um he seemed to have this this uh clear perspective that that societal change had happened, you know, that that there was a modern world and so law and ethics and society and economics and all that had changed significantly enough that there needed to be some kind of a adaptation of, you know, what used to be ancient Islam for the last fourteen hundred years to a more modern approach to Islam, which seems to be uh characterized by, you know, more rational, a little bit more scientific. Like don't you guys believe in evolution? Oh we do, clearly in those kinds of things that the Quran is stuck and it cannot change. Quran is such a wonderful book that it's ever changing. It's evolving. Meaning the understandings of it changes your needs. Whereas some of these more fundamentalists are and in fact you get the sense with with you know the all the majority of Muslims that I've interacted with that they're trying to live in seventh century Arabia wherever they live around the world. You would agree that that it seems like that's the case whereas what the the Ahmadis are trying to say something totally different. Let's adapt and grow. See the that's the beauty, that that's the blessing that we have the Imam who has uh brought us out of a lot of ignorance and the stuff. For example, just to give you, you know, hint of it Eating of pig, for example, is forbidden, according to Sharia to Muslims. Okay. But within the Quran it permits that if it's to save a life If there are circumstances attending that you must have starving to death or you have to take your landing. Okay. For example, fasting in the month of Ramadan is prescribed to all Muslims. But for the sick and the elderly and the pregnant women for example, it is permitted. You know, they can have uh they can do it after afterwards if they recover from illness or after the pregnancy or whatever So there's a little bit of flexibility based on what's going on as opposed to different aspirations. Whether you're pregnant or sick, even dying you must fast. Sure. But the Imam of the Sage has enlightened us on this aspect. But look, Shawiah permits you to do it. He was having a hard time with that, you know. Basically he played was religion isn't there to make your life miserable. It's there to make your life beautiful give you a connection with God. So religion isn't there to make it so tough that no one can do it. Okay. Let me let me jump in for a second because I want to reset just a little bit. We uh want to announ explain what's going on. Jonathan Sweitzer is a pastor across Israeli Chapel. uh back on the show again this week and joined by Imam Zaki Kowzer with the Southeast region of the Ahmadiyya community and Dr. Khaled Ahmad Atta a national secretary secretary for the Ahmadiyya community. The Ahmadiyya Muslims are um a I don't know if you call it a sect, is that the right term a sa are a very minority sect within Islam. And one question I want to clarify, it seems like I think I know what your answer is going to be. I'm wondering if you could answer four others. Others in Islam Orthodox. You call them Muslims? Of course we do. Do they call you Muslims? Most of them do, some choose not to, but that's their choice. We believe, you know, you can't say someone is not a Muslim. Uh everybody has the right to claim to be a Muslim or not. That's for God to decide. Would they actually throw you in prison for that? Yeah, it would be. But I I lived there for seven years. Sure. Uh and I grew up in the States. So I went back there And if you go to an average person and you say, you know, I'm a Muslim, he's got no issue with you. Sure. It's m usually those fanatics and those people who have some personal, you know, benefit from it, that's the ones who are going out and making all this noise. But I I hope Uh what I felt was an average Pakistani doesn't really uh care about that. This is the classic liberal conservative debate, right? Just in a different context. In the States we don't have this problem. I mean I'll walk up to any Muslim hug him and he'll call me a Muslim brother too And that shows that inside internally they don't have an issue. As soon as they step out of the borders of Pakistan, they're perfectly fine. Sure. So I think it's more within Pakistan the fundamentalists are in there. who are trying to mind wash the people. Well then I think this brings us to another major distinction uh between uh uh the Amadi community and uh the rest of the Muslim community. It has to do with s the separation of church and state and the freedom of conscience. You know, to speak to that a little bit. What do they believe and what do you believe? Well again, I don't think we know. Before you do because we're we're gonna have an unsatisfactory amount of time to try to get into that. We've only got a few minutes. And we hope they respect us as well. We love all Muslims and we love you know all Christians and everybody in the world. But I don't want to get come across as oh yeah, all other Muslims are wrong and we are right. I don't want to say that or they're all bad and we're good. No Uh it's for everyone to decide. Uh between them and God. Um there are again these uh these caricatures that I think are are in in many Americans' minds that uh in uh distinguishing theologically why you guys are different or how you're different, I think I it's very helpful to me because then I can come away and say, oh, they're not that. Oh, they're not that. You know, it's kind of like a checklist. They're not that. They're not, you know, and and as a result, I can say, okay Hm. Maybe there's not as much danger there as I might have thought that there was. Well I think we'll let Jonathan if you're willing to to do next week's show with us. Uh we'll we'll do the church and state thing uh on next week's show and then if time allows at some point it might be nice to talk about the whole messiah issue. So those might be directions. So if you uh want to mark your calendars and listen uh next week. Now, by the way, mark your calendar for tomorrow We've got uh some improvements on WFMD. com. I have been promised that tomorrow, today's show, we'll be listening to but will you be able to listen to it as a podcast. on the website. So if you miss part of the show early or you want to relive this really dynamic conversation that we've had, uh tell or you have a friend or neighbor who might have you think would be interested in making it. You miss Troy's voice in the morning So with I've been told that within twenty-four hours that every show will then be on the uh the website to be listened to. So that's pretty cool. And there are a number of shows already archived up there. Um And I think all of them by now should be labeled. If not, they will be shortly all labeled to easily identify what the topics are and who the guests are and that sort of thing. So tell a friend, wake the neighbors All that sort of stuff. Uh if you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. It's been brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you, John Sweitzer from Crosswood Valley Chapel. And from the uh Ahmadiyya, Imam Zaki Kelzer and Dr. Khalid Ahmed Atta, I'm Froy Skinner. Thanks for listening. God bless