Welcome once again to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, host and moderator, joined by Tonto. Jonathan Swipesur? Yeah! That's not Tanto. What does Tanto says? Yes, chimosab. And uh Aldrin Paul said and again for the record, Paul is not here representing the city in any official capacity or unofficial capacity for that matter. He is here uh to share his view of uh of uh how do I want to say this? Because I said it last week and I got yelled at. His view of Mormonism, but he's not here officially representing the Mormon church either. He's here as a Mormon in good standing who uh served for uh Uh was it a hand half a dozen years? Uh six years as bishop. As bishop? And I I hope that what I say is correct, but they haven't sent me. John uh does speak for the entire Christian uh traditional Christian church. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The Pope, you know, and I just you know a few minutes ago got off the phone. Anyway, we have now this is this is show number four and I think we've covered some good ground. We haven't done it exactly according to plan, but we never do. Uh but we've ended the last couple of shows in a very uh Yeah. Hopefully by the end of today's show we won't have covered everything, that's for sure, but we will end up in a place that feels like All right. We ended a chapter. Chapter one is now done. You know, not we'll have covered the whole book or the volume of encyclopedic things that we could get into, but we'll feel like we've accomplished Something. Yes. Well it's been kind of intense, but I don't know that in a bad sense. Yeah. Hopefully the audience uh enjoys it. Yeah, and hopefully well that's the goal, you know, is for us to be honest. There's going to be a natural intensity I think that is there. And uh yeah, I th I think that we've all maintained friends friendship so far. Yes. Yeah, that's right. That's right. Don't worry. That will take care of that. Now, toward the end of the show last week we were talking about um uh revelation through messengers, God sending messengers, and whether or not God does that only through angels or if he'll send uh former humans who are now saints uh to come and uh and and share his message. Jonathan was saying that uh there's a precedent uh uh being claimed by the Mormons in that uh Joseph Smith was uh delivered a message by something other than an angel. Correct Peter, James, and John or some of those guys Elijah different ones. Right. Well my my uh simple response is uh uh first of all, Joseph Smith uh testified that he had multiple visitations from from people. I mean uh I I acknowledge this is it's almost incredible. Uh the Savior appeared, Peter, James, John. Uh John the Baptist and uh Moses and Elijah and Elias appeared. So there was a lot of them. Yeah, Elijah and Elias in Mormon doctrine are two different people in Christian doctrine. Elias refers to Elijah. And my contention is that no other prophet Got revelations from other people. They got revelations only and always from from God through an angel Or uh Jesus Christ, you know, spoke with Moses and Elijah, but Jesus Christ would have would would have been God himself. So, you know, he didn't need a revelation from God. He was just talking with us. response to that is they were angels. And that an angel can be uh can be a can be a resurrected being, can be Uh in the case of mo Moses and uh Elias who appeared on the Mount of Transfiguration, the resurrection had not taken place. So I don't suppose they were resurrected, but they were prophets of another era who returned and and were there for Peter, James, and John to see Except that it says in Psalms uh that that you made us a little lower than the angels and crowned us with glory and honor. There's a sense that that angels are a distinct body of people and that that humanity is a is a is another distinct body of people and that in fact we have made been made lower than the angels, but that we're made in the image of God, whereas angels are not, given that you you know, in in classic Christian Traditional Christian theology, there's a separation between the two, and never the twain shall meet. And uh in and Mm I guess my point is is that is that again it's just a a significant area of divergence that Joseph Smith for the first time in the history of the world and uh w without precedent anywhere else in the Bible claims that a an angel was also a man and that a man who who had lived and gone to live in heaven came back as the messenger. There's just no precedence for that anywhere in Scripture. Well let me just say two things. I I know the script where uh man was created a little lower than the angels, but but I think uh angels really are their personages, their people, whether they have yet to come to earth or whether they have s come to earth and left and Well why is it that no other prophet ever receives uh a message from a human as opposed to I mean in fact the one time that it happens it happens with Saul when he tries to call up Samuel and Samuel's like, What are you doing? You're evil for you to call me up. You I I think you're wicked well uh that that one of course is un that's an unusual one. That's that was uh someone using uh you know, some sorcery or whatever, I forget what they call that, but but uh but of all the visitations that people have had, uh all these angels, I I believe they were all all beings. Well well let's come back to this. There's there's a couple angels that when the human prophet Goes to bow down before them and worship, the angel says, Stop that. You get up right now. You will not worship me. You will worship only God. And yet these angels that are coming uh are actually claiming to be gods See see this is the thing. Either uh m uh Mormonism is um is this revelation that changes all of the revelation that we have to this point, or else it is It sounds a lot to me I pardon me for saying this. I say it with a smile on my face because I like you. Um uh it sounds a lot to me like Satan in heaven saying, You c I can be like God. That's why he was kicked out of heaven in the first place. And now there's this whole relig religion that says we can all be like God. And we can all attain to this to this level, which is the exact uh reason why the angels were kicked out of heaven in the first place. I love you. You know that, right? I I think you do. You have made the implication that the angels that appeared were not human. And uh it is my belief that they are Human uh you know in essence. And can you argue that from scripture or can you is it just from Joseph Smith's writings? I don't think I don't think there's eviden except for that one scripture that you heard, I've I'm not sure how you would uh s substantiate your position that they're not human. uh winds of fire as servants uh where where he never says that about humanity. You know, angels uh there there's a whole study of the angelology in L let me let me just say this. We'll have you back on. We'll see. But I believe that uh though men at one point were lower than the angels, they have the potential, as you said, to be like God and to become above the angels And uh and and but in in another sense, angels really they're just they're people. Now uh they're they're typically uh prophets or other great people. Um you I think you So are they well for clarification, are they people then that well somehow didn't attain to Godhood and they're caught in some middle ground? who have yet to come to earth and and get a body. Or they could be messengers. They could be they could be people who actually lived on the earth, maybe just uh a another person. The people that visited Abraham and Lot on the plain, I'm not sure but what they may have I don't know what they were. They may they may have been actual men, just other that came from another place This is an interesting conversation because in pop culture, you know, a lot of people and a lot of movies and TV shows and stuff uh you know put forth the idea that when people die they get their angels' wings. So it's a wonderful life, for example. You get your angel's wings and uh and that's what angels are is people who become angels when they die. Yeah. But uh But the the m the more profound part of what you just said I think is really worth identify uh addressing and that is it Uh the Apostle John said, I think it's one John three, two, because I memorized this when I went on my mission to France thirty some years ago. Okay. Although I memorized it in French, but it it said something like uh we are all the sons of God, and when he appears, meaning Jesus Christ, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Therefore we should become pure as he is pure. And and and there are other scriptures that the we mentioned the one a few weeks ago about uh Romans, uh that you're heirs of heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ. I don't think it is wrong to want to acquire the attributes uh that God has. I think that is the purpose of life for us to try to be as courageous, as pure, uh as godly godly as we can in in every respect. And and as we said on another show, I do believe that we ultimately, if we pass these tests, can become like him. As it says I think it's first Corinthians chapter two, the very last verse, Paul says, We have the mind of Christ. That's what I would like to have. I'd like to think like him and be like him. And I think that's a potential. So so I don't The problem is that we define differently what the mind of Christ is. common things we're fighting for. The family is under a lot of people. And and I would say for the most part, you know, we really are united in in the U. Uh there's a lot of Christians, evangelical Christians, uh traditional Christians that will that will think that he best represents their values. I don't doubt. uh that there's a whole slew of those guys that are out there. And it is true that when it comes to, you know, uh things like traditional morality in society, that you and I are in in a lot of agreement. And I uh I'm I'm very quick to to celebrate that fact Um I I I don't feel like um I don't feel like that is an area of disagreement between us and and I certainly wouldn't want to hide it. Sooner or later, you know, I'll p the to the extent I'm in error, I I will change and and I think you likewise for errors you've got, you'll change. I mean if we are united in our commitment to serve God. And to to do the right thing and and have the strength to to do what's right. This this general approach and teach our kids to be good and polite and all that. I mean, I think we're eventually going to converge. Uh but yeah, you know, we right now I I do believe that we can become like our Father in heaven and I d I don't believe that is blasphemous or Or I don't think that is the the problem that caused caused the third of the hosts of heaven to be cast out. They wanted all the glory uh is one of the things that was there and and y this usurpation uh attitude i is wrong. You know, it it's important for us to exert our influence to be good, but you have to always be subject to what God wants. In Ezekiel twenty-eight, uh the prophet is is warning, saying, Will you then say I am a God? You will be but a man, not a god, in the in the hands of those who slay you will die the death of the uncircumcised Abraham is actually called at one point Elohim by um by uh one of the kings in uh in Genesis. And what I notice is that the word Elohim is used as an adjective in many places. And so they came to Abraham and they said, You are as Elohim in our midst. Uh they came to uh different leaders and said, You are like El Elohim or they would say like that thunder was like Elohim thunder. It was God sized thunder. Or is God-sized lightning or is God-sized storm, this kind of thing, Elohim. And when he says ye are gods, ye are Elohim, he's not saying that that that uh that you are actually a God or going to become a God Uh in and the reason that that that's so clear is because so many other times in Scripture, whenever anybody, that's why they stoned Christ, because he was claiming to be a God. And if Christ wasn't who he claimed to be, but was actually claiming to be a God, but was just a human, like I feel like what Joseph Smith is is is recommending. then jo then Christ should have been stoned for it. It was blasphemy. And it was clear to all of the writers of the Old Testament and the New Testament that anybody claiming to be God uh was was speaking blasphemy or to be a god, you know, and and that it was uh that it was the wrong thing to do. And and again my my concern is that is that we build this mentality. We haven't even talked about salvation, like what does it take to come to salvation, and and there's some differences. uh along those lines uh between Mormons and Christians. But but specifically angels and gods and humans. Um According to tr traditional Christian theology, God is God. Angels are angels and humans are humans. And never the twain shall meet. We'll be like God. Well well but but again it's interpretation that follows, you know, stro clearly follows traditional Christian theology. Oh I it may be traditional, but I I differ and I th and I think my interpretation is supported in the scripture. That ye are gods. Yeah. Jesus says, and the word cannot be broken. In other words, you can't take it back. He did say it. But but we do not say that we are gods now. We say that that is the potential. And and again when uh I'd like to talk about that that passage in Psalm thirty-three uh because there are a lot of people listening. I encourage you guys to go look at it. Psalm eighty-two verse two six is where it says And what it says, it's uh that he starts out the passage and it says that God presides in the great assembly. He gives judgment among the gods. And it's actually Elohim presides in the Great Assembly. He gives judgment among the Elohim. Well you've y again you ver I've got the King James Version with the wording's a little different, but the uh And he says and the whole gist of the whole passage is this. that we need to defend the just, uh not show partiality to the wicked, uh defend the cause of the weak and the fatherless, maintain the rights of the poor and the oppressed, west rescue the weak and the needy. And this is how he's the how he's judging the gods. That that's the whole context is that he's judging the gods a certain way. Right? And he's he's saying he gives judgment among the gods. Well, I mean he's he's he's clarifying what a true God should act like and what a true God shouldn't And then he said, I said you are God, you are all sons of the Most High, but you will die like mere men and fall like every other ruler. So Jesus when Jesus refers to that passage, he's referring to it in the context of the Jews saying that he is not a God. And he's saying, wait a second, the one passage in all of Scripture that refers to how a God should be judged, apply it to me already. I'm claiming to be a God I'm claiming to be the Son of God. Apply that passage, Psalm eighty two to me. Am I not defending the cause of the of the of the needy and the the oppressed? Am I not standing up for these guys and bringing healing and and and providing food? Am I not doing what is righteous? But they wanna they wanna kill him and he's saying, Look, I am I am God's own son. Do not believe me unless I do what my father does. And so he's saying, Look, if you're gonna judge me Because I'm claiming to be God, then judge me according to how Scripture would judge me for being a God. He's not saying that all of you guys are gods as well. He's saying, look, your own scripture talks about this passage and he's drawing their attention to it. I think the key here is uh is John where Where the Lord again, as you said, they were about to stone him because he said he was the Son of God. Didn't the psalmist say uh if he called that he says that the law that ye are gods? He didn't go into the rest of it. He he pooped it plucked out that one part of it to make the point that if many people are gods, what is so bad about me saying I'm the son of God A very I I think a much more simple point. Yeah, which um w well I don't feel like it's more simple. I feel like uh I feel like that's the rendering that uh That that's precisely the point that he was drawing their attention to. He's saying, look, your own passages of scripture give a judgment for how you judge who is a god and not a god. In and in the context, that's why they're about to stone him, because they're claiming that he uh that his claim to be God is without merit. He's saying, Look, judge me on the basis of what I'm claiming to be. Judge me for whether I'm a god or not. Am I not doing what a god should do? Well he doesn't didn't say that, but I guess we'll they picked up stones to stone 'em. Many good works I've shown you, for which of these do you stone me? For good work I mean they're judging him. For good work we do not stone you, but for blasphemy because you being a mere a man make yourself to be God. And then he gives them uh a clear uh definition, a clear uh answer that says, Look, your own scripture uh is written in your law it said you are gods. If he called them gods to whom the word of God came, do you say of him whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world you are blaspheming because I said I'm the Son of God. If you do n if if you if I do not do the works of my Father, do not believe me. The point is, is he saying, judge me according to whether or not I look like God the Father. That's the basis upon which I want you to judge me. And so anyways, I feel like he's well. Well some disagreement on that point. You are listening to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, Alderman Paul Smith, representing the Mormon point of view, and Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel representing the traditional of that's the label we've decided to give it anyway traditional uh point of view. Uh there are some things that I uh and we're not gonna have a lot of time, but you know with what time we have left, I know there are some things that you wanted to be able to try to share Uh I don't know if you want to bullet point them or if you want to pick the most important one and we'll talk about it for ten or fifteen minutes. Uh at least talk about is is uh Uh we started out and focused a lot of this about whether Mormons are Christian and I I certainly am. And um but We ought to talk about what the Book of Mormon is because I've had a number of people that say uh well you guys don't believe in the Bible. You have your own Mormon Bible. But uh we believe in the Book of Mormon. We believe it is a book of scripture that was prepared and written by prophets who came from Palestine, Israel, and by boat uh were directed by the Lord to the Americas, or they had a civilization for about a thousand years from six hundred BC to about four twenty-one AD. And their prophets, as they brought with them the Bible up to that point, and then they continued to make a record of of what happened there. They had prophecies and teachings. And the most important part of this book is it gives the account of a visit of the resurrected Savior to a group of them about thirty-four BC. And so the subtitle of the book, Mormon, is Another Testament of Jesus Christ. And so it is it is a witness with the Bible from our perspective that confirms that the testimony of the Bible is true, that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world. world. And and our sake of argument, let's say that I accepted that as at face value and s because I mean honestly I've got to be honest to myself, I I I don't accept it, but for the sake of argument, let's say it's true. For those people who wouldn't have had uh the New Testament available to them because it would be quite a number of years before Columbus would discover the Americas and all that sort of stuff, and so they wouldn't have the New Testament. So for that period of time, uh these uh new scriptures would have been helpful. But by the time Joseph Smith came along, what was the important value of finding these gold plates and translating them uh at that point because by that point North America did have the New Testament. So what was the important part of Well uh a couple of parts. One is uh the divine law of witnesses that God will send two witnesses And we have we have two witnesses. One of the prophecies I talk about in my book is the prophecy of Ezekiel, Ezekiel chapter thirty-seven, where he talks about what I believe are two books of scripture. that will be held together in one hand and play a role in the gathering of Israel. And in my uh opinion, the gathering of Israel is basically being accomplished today by the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ because uh the ancient Israel, that was their religion. But is there something that's different in the Book of Mormon that we wouldn't glean from the New Testament? Well, we've talked about differences, so you're going to be able to come up with what people think. But a lot of those are are from The Pearl of Uh Pearl of the Great Price or Doctrines and Covenants or some of the other writings and revelations or things that prophets from the church have shared that have c created a lot of additional doctrinal differences. But just the Book of Mormon. Are there things in the Book of Mormon that would contradict or be different or or correct from a maybe a Mormon point of view, correct things that we have in the in the old and new testament? the gospel and they had baptism and they believed in Jesus Christ and understood the atonement for the 600-year period before Jesus came. And you know in the in the Old Testament they don't they don't talk about some of the you don't talk about baptism that much And it's interesting that they did have a baptism for for years before that. And uh but then how does that change our perspective? Why is it so important that I mean obviously I I'm of the opinion that that it wasn't true, but but why would why would that be so important that we know that now? I think the interesting thing that God would need to send a whole new prophet and with all the controversy and and the persecution. ha knew about Jesus Christ, that Adam too was baptized, and and the atonement had not taken place, but the people practiced it. Right, this is part of the thing that they're actually doing now at the uh tabernacle and that that you guys do uh is is you baptize for the dead. In fact at some level, if I understand correctly, you guys are attempting to baptize you know, for all humanity. You know, uh you know, kind of little by little just just keep doing the baptism and we we believe the words of Jesus literally that that that to be saved a man must be born of the water and of the spirit and And um and but the fact is everybody has not had the opportunity and we believe that that it will be afforded people eventually. There I only know of one scripture in the Bible that refers to baptisms for the dead, although there is one uh in Corinthians. And uh the to me the reason is that as it's I mentioned earlier verse somewhere in Peter that people will be judged according to what they did in the in the flesh, but God will not deny people the blessings of salvation if they didn't have the opportunity in this life. So there's a lot that will yet happen after. Yeah, again, I feel like what uh W w with a bunch of these things. Joseph Smith looked at the things that that that uh seemed to divide the body of Christ and he looked at some of the uh the rational arguments for people that rejected that there was anything such a god such as God at all, kinda like You know, what if a person never heard about the gospel? And I feel like he said, well, let's make sure we have a doctrine for that. Let's make sure we have a doctrine for that. You know, kind of like he's trying to answer all these, you know, potential problems. And um, you know, again, I uh if if we had some kind of way to verify that there was ever any um civilization uh you know or to to verify any any of his prophecies. It's easy to have a bunch of prophecies if they you know don't come to pass. to to witness whether or not it's I cannot accept that because you know we're right back where we started. Muslims think that everybody thinks that uh I've got about thirty seconds left so let me just wrap up the show. Uh Alderman uh Paul Smith Thank you so much for being on the show. It's been good being with Detroit and Sweitzer. Thank you so much for being on the show. Thanks again to All Shred, Putman Plumbing and Heating and Dynamic Living Solutions for sponsoring the Frederick Faith Debate. And I want to say one thing, if the I I don't know if it's an apology exactly, but I made a great assumption and if it was a wrong assumption then um then my apologies I made an assumption that everybody would acknowledge intuitively and off the bat without us having to spend a lot of time covering it that there's a lot of common ground. Nobody denies the great family values, the great moral integrity uh of of those that are faithful to the Mormon religion. Um conservative, evangelical, Protestant Christians and the Mormon Church have an awful lot of common alliances and uh can do great work together. There was an assumption there. If you weren't aware of of those sorts of things, and my apologies for not drawing more attention to them on this show. We are certainly aware of that. But this show is is called the Frederick Faith Debate and we i we debate issues of faith and uh particularly those things that tie to eternal consequence. So That was the focus. Hopefully you found it uh intriguing and interesting, and maybe you'll do some of your own studying uh on your own. Thanks so much for listening and God bless.