Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for local faith community leaders to come in and arm wrestle over the things I want them to arm wrestle with. I like to just flex my muscle every once in a while on the show. Yes. Uh Joe D'Mazzo, pastor at Frederick's uh Seventh day Venice Church is uh back on the panel this week as we're gonna continue uh on last week's discussion about dietary laws in the Bible, and Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, is on And let me start with a a a a pretty generic kind of a question and then we'll you know we'll we'll be off and running uh with where we were last week, I'm sure, on the show. If I Eat meat. Let's be more specific. If I eat pork, am I sinning? Jonathan, I think I know your answer. Are you sinning? But eat pork, am I in sin? Am I is it a sin to eat pork? I don't know if I can answer that question. Wow. Okay. No, no, no, no, no. Um it is if you eat pork, it is clearly in violation of the Old Testament law. However, in the New Testament, we're not under the Old Testament law, and so I would argue that uh that we are that it is not a sin uh something for for you know to which that we we should feel guilty about. I'm thinking that Joe might give me a different answer. Maybe not. He's taking notes of it. Actually when you think about it, the only Bible that Jesus had was the Old Testament. Except that he kinda is the word. He was the Bible. It is. He but he it's the only Bible he had, and he quoted from here it Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, the records of the gospel, his three and a half year ministry on this earth, of course, teaching truth, principles of heaven, divine things. And so we have to uh uh make no particular separation. Uh in 2 Timothy it says in 316, all scripture is inspired. And it's profitable for things. It's profitable, God says. The whole scripture, it's all profitable. For instruction, you know, and righteousness and correction and and all of this and doctrine So, um it's true that there is the Old Testament, there's the New Testament, but it's still God's holy word, and the New Testament is not going to challenge the Old, nor the Old Challenge the New. But there's a place for each and yet a continuity that we have to just allow it to continue. What's the the famous passage on this issue, Paul? Now that faith has come, we are no longer under the supervision of the law. Galatians 3, verses 25. I feel like this discussion about our relationship to the law is key. uh to all of this because um if if we meditate on the law and uh we are led by the spirit, he says that the spirit will guide us into all wisdom then uh do we find ourselves following the letter of the law or do we find ourselves following the spirit of the law, which uh which would be health meaning which um which we we might uh actually find ourselves not necessarily following the letter in terms of you know no pork and and you know none of this and none of that but but instead would find ourselves pursuing health, you know, in general. You know what I'm saying? Uh the the question is is what what is our relationship to the law? Clearly we have been set free from the law. We're no longer under the supervision of the law. You know, it says that the law, we know that the law is good if one uses it prop properly, but it's for the it's not for the righteous, it's for the unrighteous. And we have been made righteous in Christ by the blood of Christ. Absolutely. And so the law is made for, you know, the unholy and irreligious, but that's not us. And so my point is is that is that there's a little bit of a distinction here in the way that the Adventist approaches the law that leads in a direction uh to to argue for the law's continued application today that that is just different enough from where uh where I approach the law and I think most uh Orthodox Christians that um that I think is part of the reason why we find ourselves in different places on this. Yeah, you uh it's very interesting you said we're free from the law. We're no longer under its supervision is the phrase. Yeah, and you added to that, but the thing is Uh Galatians 5. 18 says you're if you're led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. the law cannot be done away with any more that if we destroy the law or put it aside, then there's no more Second Corinthians on your computer. Uh no my c I mean can my Bible doesn't have that Can you quickly go to Second Corinthians chapter three? Because I think that that talks about how it actually uses the word done away with, isn't that Yeah, well that's the ceremonial law. That's not the that's not the moral law. That has nothing to do with the moral law. It says um it was nailed to the clause. It has uh says we're not like Moses who would put a veil over his face. Is that the passage to keep the Israelites? Yeah. Yeah, keep reading. Like uh what was it? Well the letter kills, but the spirit gives life, you know, five fourteen. Their minds were made dull to this day the same veil remains. When the old covenant is read, it has not been removed, because only in Christ is it taken away. Even to this day, when Moses has read, a veil covers their hearts. But when anyone turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. And so he we who with unveiled faces all reflect the Lord's glory are being transformed into his likeness with ever increasing glory. So it doesn't actually say we're free from the law, but it does say that that where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. And it's clearly referring to that in the context of the law, uh in the way that they approached the law previously being What was not freedom? Yeah, well that's the whole point, Jonathan. The uh it's talking against those who are exalting the law above the Messiah, the Savior, salvation. It is not righteousness. It is not talking against the law. It's talking against their use of the law. The clubbing the law. That's all they could see. They had so many laws that God, Christ was getting a hold of that all the way through. Um Okay, and it's interesting also that we we have to be very careful as we read the Bible. in regard to the law because there are four, five, six different laws that's the Bible is talking about. There's the health laws There's the moral how do you know in the New Testament when it's referring to the health law or the moral laws? Well, it's easy to find that out. It is? Yeah, the health law is from is in both testaments. The uh ceremonial law is all in the Old Testament and that's what And was your foundation for for arguing that Does it say somewhere the does it does it somewhere in the New Testament specifically delineate that the ceremonial law is done away with, the health law is not done away with? Oh yes. Where? Well, right offhand I would like to take time out and Have a whole study about that, get out a few texts, but we don't have the time right now. But the thing I d I don't think there's a passage that says that Well I think there are passages that that if you interpret them a certain way, uh you you might be able to start moving in the direction of that kind of interpretation. But um I mean that's that's pretty central to your whole argument. Yeah. Um you know a and obviously I'm claiming I'm I'm practically following the old testament health laws right now. But but Uh in terms of our approach to the Old Testament law, this is pretty central. You think you might have found it might have found it here? Um Yeah, you take the ceremonial law. in Ephesians is called is called the law contained in ordinances. Contained in ordinances? Ephesians three? Ephesians two fifteen. That's uh That's talking about the ceremonial law and if people just reading that and want to apply the moral law to that. I have never heard that called just the ceremonial law Well the law of commandments and ordinances. So you're saying that that he only that in that passage it's only saying that he abolished in his flesh The ceremonial law, not the moral law or the health law. Absolutely Neither one of you. Okay, what else? Let's go to Colossian uh two uh Leviticus one. But that same passage is this is the passage that talks about let no man judge you in in in meat or drink or special holiday. It's this exact same passage. Exploring that he was just talking about. In Colossians Colossians two fourteen. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. You're right. Sorry, you're you were faster than I was. I thought you were Colossians two fourteen. Yes. Yeah. And and you're saying what law is it talking about there? Well it tells you right there what law it is. It's very clear it's written right there and same in the past. that was against us, which was contrary to us, having taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. Uh he disarmed the principality's powers. I mean uh, goes on it says, so let no one judge you in food or in drink or regarding a festival or new moon or sabbaths. And Sabbath is not is ceremonial or are you saying that's not the kind of no no that's the She's claiming that that's the festival Sabbath not the weekly Sabbath. Those were the things against hey, all the ceremonial laws were given specifically to the Jews. And it was all So you're saying that we're still under the law, i. e. the Ten Commandments and And the health laws. We're under the moral law of God. And the health laws. Yeah, the health laws are still continuing, but the health laws are general laws. They're not great Uh minuti. It's just the general principle of hell. So how come they didn't say that when Paul says, look, they're trying to circumcise you? Um that's a health law, not a ceremonial law. No, that was a ceremonial thing. Well well we're finding out in these days that that circumcision that that circumcision does have health consequences. Hey, the latest medical No no no the latest medical reports is that AIDS is uh significant de the decreases when you're circumcised. And so it's actually gone the other way. They're they're proving uh and the whole medical community has been turned on its head about specifically circumcision because uh it's been proven, you know, to have a health consequence now. And uh so was that a health or a circum or you know, or a uh um But it's the other law. But it's thrown out anyway at that uh council that they had And they were just dealing with the residual of the thing. So you're saying that Acts was only dealing with the ceremonial law, Acts fifteen. That's correct. This was the They were trying to still impose listen, Peter They just call it the the law of Moses. They don't call it the ceremonial law, they don't call it the health law, they call it they call it the law of Moses. Yeah Colossians 2. 14 says the handwriting of ordinances. And Corinthians it says 35. 12. It was written by Moses in the book. So that's not the moral law. The moral law was written by the finger of God on stone. Actually there's another passage I want to jump but let me reintroduce real quick. Um, brought to you with Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Joe D'Amazzo, pastor at Frederick Seventh Day Adventist Church. And this is and I didn't have my Bible, so I was able to find a computer and and look it up. Shame on me for not bringing my Bible to the show, but I finally found it. And this is what I wanted to uh was looking for before. This is the ESV uh translation of the Bible. This is 2 Corinthians chapter 3, beginning in verse 7. Now if the ministry of death, carved in letters on stone, clearly talking about Uh the Ten Commandments. Clearly talking about came with such glory that the Israelites could not gaze at Moses' face because of its glory, which was being brought to an end. Will not the ministry of the Spirit have more glory? For if there was glory in the ministry of condemnation, the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it in glory. Indeed, in this case, what once had glory has come to have no glory at all, because of the glory that surpasses it. For if what was being brought to an end came with glory, much more would what is permanent have glory. That that's uh going through to chap uh verse eleven Three different times in those four verses it talks about it coming to an end. Yes. And it's talking about the law that was on stone. I think it's a little bit of a stretch For me, I don't feel like uh I mean obviously you do, but I don't feel like you're I I don't feel like you're quite proving the case that those laws are referring to the ceremonial laws only. It would take time to explain the thing and we can't wait for two minutes. But uh when we talk about the moral law of the Ten Commandments, for instance Uh let's turn to uh the text that says uh uh in Exodus forty twenty And this is said in the New Testament as well as the Old Testament, but just that one text gives us an idea about the law written by God's own hand, Exodus forty twenty. It says it was placed in the ark. Right? Yep, but he took the testimony, put it in the ark. All right. Now you go to the Which that's what the what the passage Troy was just referring to refers to that. Yes. And the passage Troy was referring to was talking about that law passing away. Yeah. But no, it didn't say that. Now let's go to Deuteronomy. I feel I feel like it says that, but what what passage was that that you read? That was in Corinthians? No, it's that um let me go back here Let me see if I can find it. 2 Corinthians chapter 3. And what I started reading was uh ch uh verse 7 I read verses 7 through 11. Yeah, and actually it it starts in in verse three where it says, Uh, you are an epistle of Christ, ministered not by us, written not with ink, by the Spirit of the Living God, not on tablets of stone. So y you know, this whole passage he's he's dealing with what was written on the tablets of stone, and he's saying, Not that we are sufficient in ourselves, sufficiency is from God, the letter kills, spirit gives life, ministry of death written and engraved on stones, was glorious But that glory is passing away. If what is passing away was glorious, what remains is much more glorious. And what remains is the spirit, not the the law that was written on the stones. And so the moral law is passed away according to that. The Christ is super se uh supersedes the law. Okay. All right. What other passage do you have? Let's go to uh Deuteronomy 31. Okay. Verse 24 to 26. Deuteronomy 31, verse 24. Okay. So it was when Moses had completing writing the words of this law in a book, when they were finished, that Moses commanded the Levites who bore the Ark of the Covenant, saying, Take this book of the law, put it beside the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God, that it may be there as a witness against you. So what you're saying is that the tablets were put in the ark, the book of the law was put beside the ark. Is that what you're saying? The what the Bible is saying is that Moses' writing, which was the ceremonial laws, was placed on the side outside the ark. The Ten Commandment Law, the Bible says, was placed inside the ark. Okay, but but the ceremonial law would then would include all the health laws. It didn't include all the health laws. Well well I mean the the moral law is the Ten Commandments Yeah. And none of the health laws are okay, keep going. There's several categories of laws that are health laws. So w let's not mix one in into the other. The moral law is not dealing with the health laws and vice versa, even though it all comes Now let's take a text for instance like this that uh Romans uh let's say uh let's see A psalm. Psalm. Psalm 11, 111, 7 and 8. And here it says that the law of God stands forever and ever. And here the mur ceremonial law, it's uh was nailed to the cross. It ended. It's its function. So the interesting the passage you just quoted, the law lasts forever and ever. Which which law uh are are are you are you saying that there should Or suggesting or do you believe that that verse is speaking of the spirit law, the health law, the moral law, all of the law, the entire Old Testament? No, the moral law. The Ten Commandments. Okay. That's what it's speaking of. Now here's another text. Romans 7. 12. Says the Ten Commandments are holy, they're just and they're good. You go with a ceremonial law, and it says here that uh one of the texts uh in Hebrews 7. 19, the New Testament, says it could make nothing perfect And here the others, holy, just, and good. It's to stand forever and ever. It was not destroyed. It's to be magnified by Christ. It is spiritual. It says there's a I feel like I'm learning quite a bit about uh how the Adventists approach this particular issue and I and uh uh it's giving me insight as to why they believe what they believe. though um though I don't feel like it's convincing. I know. Nevertheless, you know it so so they're they're claiming that uh that whenever the word of God says that the law of God will stand forever, it's referring to the moral law. not the ceremonial law. And whenever it in the New Testament talks about law that is passed away, it's only referring to the ceremonial law. Well. Which is a which is a hair split that Uh I don't think that's the thing. What do Seventh day Adventists do with Second Corinthians chapter three then? Because I I can't get past that being pretty clearly the moral law. It talks about it about it talks about death. You know, the condemnation of death. It talks about being chiseled in stone. It talks about Moses need to be in be needing to be veiled, his face being veiled after he received that law. It's very clearly talking about the moral law. And it says three may four times in in in that passage that it has passed away because it's been superseded by By Christ in the Spirit. It is. Right? So I don't know how how does that fit together? Paul was saying the same thing the whole Bible and the Old Testament and the New Testament is saying about the law. that it's never been designed to be that that most important factor which is The salvation of Christ which supersedes the law. And this is where we agree that that salvation is based in Christ, not based in the law. That the law, there's no way The law is worth nothing, the moral law, the Ten Commandment Law, is worth nothing in saving a person. And so too, and Paul, he's gone, he's the he's the apostle to the Gentiles, and he's confronting this Jewish tradition and teaching. Even Peter, Christ had to give Peter a vision, you know, in that and to go to Cornelius house who was a Gentile, but he went there, gave him a a a vision and he saw a sheet with all kind of animals, unclean and clean. And what did the Meshis say to him? Eat. Kill and eat. Right. And he says, Oh, you know what he said there. Yeah, he refuses. He said He's sticking to the law But what is he yeah and he says, I can't eat this. There's unclean there and there's all kind of animals. But he says God is talking to him. God is ordering him to eat it. And he says he can't do it But then you get him when he goes to Cornelius house and what does he say? That you're not even gonna eat that you can eat anything because God showed it to me? He says, No. He says, I have seen now that God is no respect of persons. Right right. And that the Jews are calling the others unclean and they're the clean ones. Yeah. There's no respect of person and Peter of all people was a leader and needed to have this vision, and he's the one that gave the problem there in even in the fifteenth chapter of Acts. where they're going over it again, Paul had to come in and face the whole thing. And they he was demanding, and then even after they settled it, you read further in the book of Acts Here's Peter going out there again where Paul is, and he's compromising. He's saying one thing and doing another. Right. And Paul is confronting him face to face right there. So yes, uh the law is being, Paul is meeting the law squarely because of these legalists, these law people, and they're the ones these law people are the ones that finally have to bring Jesus. I think where I get confused on this whole thing is that is that our relationship to the law has changed in that we're no longer under the law but we're now under the spirit. And and that that the spirit has has transcended the law and and that in being led by the Spirit, maybe we might meditate on Old Testament law, but we're not under that You know, we're we're we're caught up in the spirit of the law. As we meditate on on the law, it magnifies our sinfulness and our need for a savior, so it magnifies the work of Christ But Christ, as again, as as I've been taught, Christ has perfectly fulfilled the law, not just by his death on the cross, but by his act of obedience in his life. He lived a sinless perfect life. He obeyed the letter of the law. Right. And the spirit of the law. Yes. And therefore was a suitable, perfect sacrifice for our sin. And as a result of that finished work on the cross Paul can write in Romans fourteen that everything is clean. Eat what you want, because it's been fulfilled in Christ. That there's a change that the laws the moral law is done away with We are no longer bound by the law. So I can steal. We are under the law of love. So we can steal this equipment here Love the Lord your God. We are under the law of love. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Love your neighbor as yourself as you have too. Grace abounds as I sin, then let's sin more so there can be more grace. And Paul says no. That's right. So you still should live in the U. So we come back to to this question of what is our relationship to the law? And it's not to the letter Because the letter kills. Of course. But it's to the spirit of the law. And the spirit of the law is that you would have life and have it more abundantly. The spirit of the of the health laws that you would that that you would have abundant life. The spirit of the of the moral law is that I would love my neighbor as myself. The spirit of the ceremonial law is that I would understand the holiness of God and what Christ has done to bring us into the holiness of God. And so And and so I meditate on the Old Testament law, I meditate on the on all these things, but in meditating on them, I don't f I I don't find myself brought to the place where I say, okay, I'm gonna absolutely follow, you know, the letter of it, but I'm gonna follow the spirit of it. Yeah, the spirit is no question about it, but that does not uh throw the law out at all. The law is still standing there. And here in the book of James it says, if ye fulfill the royal law according to the scripture, thou shalt love thy neighbours thyself, ye do well. But if ye respect But if you have respect to persons you commit sin and are convinced of the law as transgressors. For whosoever shall keep the whole law and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all. Which again brings us back to Christ. And what law is he talking about For he that said, do not commit adultery, said also, do not kill. Now if thou commit adultery, yet thou kill, thou art become a transgressor of the law. Well we certainly can't do any better than ending the show by having read the Word of God. Amen. John Sweitzer, Pastor of Cross Ellie Chapel, thank you. Joe D'Amazzo, Pastor at Frederick Seventh Day Adventist Church, thank you very much Thank you to Equipment Plumbing and Heating Smile for sponsoring the show. I'm Troy Skinner, and you've been listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD.