Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanking our sponsors as always, Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Dynamic Living Solutions You don't own a purifier, you are a purifier. And all shred mobile document destruction shredding today for growth tomorrow. The Frederick Faith Debate is a forum where local rel religious leaders or those who have a significant uh uh worldview viewpoint on uh of on issues of religion uh come on and and discourse, what they believe and why. Last week if you were listening, or perhaps last week on Sunday afternoon, if you happened to buy the Frederick Public library. You heard Dr. Karen Gray speak uh about non-theistic religiousness. Uh some would call it uh an atheist viewpoint. She doesn't like that label, so I'm gonna try to call it what she wanted me to call it, nontheistic religiousness. And uh John Sweitzer was on the show, of course, and they're both back this week. John Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here uh in Frederick. Um We started the show last week with uh me introducing uh the two guests and then about twenty minutes later I asked a question. Yes. Uh we're going to approach it differently this time. We're going to do it a little bit different that I'm going to try to get at least two questions in this week. So I'm gonna ask one up front early. Maybe I'll ask two of them so that you can answer them in tandem and I'll feel good about the show. Um it was good because last week you gave uh people who if you missed last week's show, you know, uh my condolences. You got a real good feel for the kind of interaction, the two people that are willing to be intellectually honest and open and uh forthright and freewheeling, the kind of really energetic good spirited, good natured dialogue, debate that people can have. Uh sometimes there was you know, like there is in such circumstances, there's some talking over or there's some back and forth and you go off on these little tangents and rabbit trails and you come back around and It's all very bizarre at some level, but it's all I think very uh encouraging at another. And then after all that wild freewheeling, I asked a question to try to get a basis of, you know where Jonathan arrived at where he is now, what his childhood experiences were, why he uh is now a uh a Christian believing in God, and uh and asked the same question of Karen to get a sense of where you guys are coming from. Now throughout all of that I wrote to myself, let's see, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. I wrote eleven questions. Now between last week. Uh well yeah. I I was only smart enough to think of eleven questions. So I didn't mean it that way, but the brain only works at a certain speed, unfortunately. And it's actually pretty slow unless you're caffeinated. I was thinking more questions than I could write. So anyway, I'm gonna start with what I think is a basic question but could be a really long answer, I don't know. Alright? I'm gonna ask it of both of you at the same time. Okay. And whoever wants to jump in can. If nobody jumps in then I'll direct it to somebody particularly, okay? Have you, Karen and John, absolutely, do you feel anyway, do you believe, that you've absolutely made up your mind on the question of whether or not there's a God? For example, is there anything, Jonathan, that could convince you ever that there's not a God? And Karen, is there anything that you could imagine that could convince you that there is a God? No. I can't I can't imagine anything. And I have to say that uh as I'm sure is true for Jonathan, that my understanding is uh life confirmed and living confirmed. so that as I live and I have experiences and I learn and study and talk to people and whatnot, uh the way that I have come to understand the world actually makes more and more sense. One of the great tests for me occurred about 12 years after I accepted that I was a non-theist. Uh and I just prefer non-theist because if I say atheist people think Madeleine Murray O'Hare and imagine somebody wild out there with all sorts of incredible things they want to do to this country, etc. And I love religion. I've spent my life studying human religiousness and human spirituality and I love it and and I don't fit into that box. So non relig non at non-theist is the only a way of sort of tricking people away from boxing me up too quickly and giving me a little space there, sort of thing, you know But um uh twelve years after I realized that I was a non-theist, I was diagnosed with breast cancer. And I came home after that diagnosis and I wrote an email. That was before the internet guys That was when CompuServe was an information service with forms. And I was on the religion forum and I wrote an email and I titled it. I wrote it a posting on the form to be technically correct. And I titled it An Atheist in a Foxhole. And I explained how, unlike the previous crisis in my life that had happened when I was still still trying I'm lucky I've only had two crises in my life, still trying to be a theist, this time my belief system worked This time there was strength coming from it. There was comfort. There was certainty. There was a sense of being at home in whatever situation I was facing, life or death. illness or wellness kind of thing. And I ha I have continued to experience that. And I'm sure that you would say the same is true for your life experience. That life confirms, living confirms your faith. Yeah, no, I again I as I did some reading um I described last week um of atheists that have had um experiences like your own. Uh it's been uh very interesting to me to hear their descriptions of peace and joy and and uh, you know, being at rest and those kinds of things. And um uh it is true that I do feel like my faith um uh produces those kinds of things in my life. Um even though I um And your life experience even though even though even though I uh do um uh feel very strongly that uh that th those atheists that, you know, are describing those things are uh in a place that is going to be less than desirable for eternity. Now if um As far as the risk factor here, um, you have a uh Karen, you have a riskier position. If Jonathan's wrong Right? Oh yes, of course that's a great wager. And actually that wager is is uh is faulty in its logic. Because in fact he has everything to lose. Uh I have nothing to lose because in fact if I'm right Okay, uh and there is not a God, then I am really living a truthful, honest life. I am and that's and as I said before, and I want to repeat it because that's a core part of who and what I am religiously and as a human being is self-honesty, is not playing games with myself, not trying to make myself believe something. that deep within just doesn't make sense and can't be true. And as I read and study and learn and and come to fuller understandings of reality, especially increasingly cannot be true You know. Now let's say that I'm wrong and there is that kind of a God out there, uh, who is going to punish me or isolate me from him in such a way that I will be extremely uncomfortable and happy and suffering for all of eternity. Uh that to me is such a reprehensible reality that deep within myself that's uh even thinking about that is to me rather like thinking about pornography. It is so morally objectionable that such a being I would not want to have any relationship with. In any case, I would want to be as isolated from it as I possibly could I just you know I've heard quite a few people d uh uh well I've read quite a few people describing these kinds of things. Yeah. Even though obviously I uh um there's a my sense is is that is that is that you have missed Of course. The revelation of the love of God. Of course. And um, you know, for anybody that's ever raised kids For any length of time. But then clearly you clearly know that for them to e i d di i in in lieu of everything that you've done on their behalf to reach out to them, if they one totally reject living according to uh ways that you recommend living and their life ends up, you know, being less than than what you knew know that it could be. Or two, if they just turn and they decide that that they want to reject who you are completely and just r rej uh uh uh resist all interaction with you um the the pervasive um uh vileness of that kind of an activity. Uh breeds a a definite uh appropriate response that that the one the parent would refuse uh to not keep reaching out. That kind of a concept of God that always amazes me is that It is the eternal parent. The child can never grow up. The child can never be independent and find his or her own way. One of the beautiful things about my mother and with whom she shared the most and we had a profound friendship. And when I had to tell her that I really had decided that uh things made a lot more sense to me when I gave up the whole concept of God and I came at it from a whole different direction. Uh I know that that caused her enormous pain and whatnot At no point did she reject me. At no point was there a turning of me out. At no point did I cease to be her child uh that sort of thing. Uh she represents to me that inclusive love and also a kind of again the humility, the understanding that at any point One may have missed it. One of the things that I believe very strongly is that the the reality, the universe is is so incredibly beyond the human mind that we all have more wrong than we have right. And I would say that that is true of all of us, myself included, have more wrong than we have right. So it it it it begs for uh not in fact saying that there is only one way and boy the universe is gonna chew you in if you can't make peace with this particular belief If there were a God, okay, one of the things that I believe is that that that entity, that reality, let's let's because I find the Christian God to be a very anthropomorphic God. He gets angry, has vengeance, he wants people to believe certain things. He He wants obedience, you know, these sorts of things. Very, very anthropomorphic. And I realize that there are Christian theologies that are far more sophisticated than that and far richer and and and they're very interesting. Uh and you know, mm but anyway to go on, you know. Um, if for me, if and I looked at this issue, well w how might I redefine God so that I could understand him. Well, if there were such a being, more than anything it would want someone to do what I have done and that is to follow my its mind. I'm a compulsive learner. Every day I need my knowledge fixed Okay. So I'm always reading, I'm always thinking, I'm always talking, I'm always studying. Um I'm always trying to figure out because Buddhism Mm, how's this intensive questioning yourself, looking at your own mind. Why am I doing this? Why does this give me a kick? Why do I like it or not like it? Let me let me jump in for a second 'cause I wanna uh last week and and and so far in this week's show Are we on a um going in a direction is is it is it a fair characterization of of your view of things that in uh 'cause you've used phrases like, you know, it worked for me, it was comforting to me in my moment of crisis, that sort of thing uh and your non-theistic worldview uh works for you and that's part of why you think it's a good thing for you. Uh Jonathan's th uh theistic worldview one could argue works for him. So are we having one of those, well if it works for you, great, but this is what works for me. Is that is I mean it's kind of a simple way of putting it. Jonathan would like us all to find the truth. as he has found it. Right, but I'm not I'm not selling anything. I really do believe people are very different. I really believe if anything that I want to sell to people it is that you need to feel free to go out there and find your path. I ru I you know, I hate to put it in such a simple kind of saccharine way, but fundamentally I very much trust people who dare to question themselves to be humble about their certainties, to uh and you said, can you ever imagine accepting God? One of the things I've learned in life is Never say never, you know. And there's a certain humility in that too. Uh, you know. I don't believe in ghosts. I had an experience once that other people consider a ghost experience, but that doesn't convince me But would something else convince me? Well, you stay open. You have to do that. There has to be a willingness to at any point have your something fundamental in your life turned over. And I've gone through that. I went through that when I went from theism or trying to be a theist to non theism. Now in the in the idea of you know having the sense of there being a truth, because you said Jonathan wants this you know people to believe and I think you At some level you're probably right. Jonathan is a Christian pastor, wants people to know what he believes to be the truth, a a biblical belief of of truth. Um How do I want to say this? If I ask it too directly, I'm afraid it'll come across as crass and rude, and I don't want to do that, but if I beat around the bushes, that'll be really weird. Jonathan or uh I don't want to speak for you, but I'm going to. Is that okay? Sure. I think Jonathan would say that he says it's the truth because the Bible says it's the truth. It's not really so much him saying it as it's this written revelation that he's pointing to as a foundation for what he's proclaiming as the truth. What is the foundation for what you believe to be the truth? Uh I have a number of foundations. That's really a good question. A basic question is what are your authorities and why do you assign them the position of authority? And I think a fundamental question is why do you assign the Bible a position of an authority as an ultimate authority And not just the Bible, because there are many people who follow the Bible and there's much in the Bible that I myself enjoy and love and have spent much of my lifetime studying. But uh a literalistic interpretation of the Bible as sort of rather than as representing a a very early period in the development of a movement uh that then you read back in from later theological points of view. You read the Bible then from those later points of view. Okay So uh I do see you scholastically, academically, in terms of uh archaeology, linguistics, textual studies. the the actual text that we have the Bible are s are such that arguing for infallibility is very, very difficult because we have no consistent text. All of the texts are flawed Well are you arguing that we can't be sure of just about anything then? No, not at all. No, there's a lot we can be sure of and and what's interesting to study is uh how the variations that we have in text because all the materials are 400, 500, the oldest materials 400, 500, 600 years. after the time of Christ copied many, many times. Wait the earliest ones or the latest ones? The earliest ones are within forty forty, fifty years. No, we're not the earliest one that we have is from the second century and it's a fragment. Oh you're talking about hard tech that we have right now. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I'm talking about that. The second century is within forty years of when the original people were alive. Yeah, sometimes in that's a good thing. I mean they they they would have spoken s personally with Paul, uh you know, John, Peter. sort of things. The fragments are not going to be a very difficult time. It's very possible from that period. By the time you begin to get to whole books you do do get to some some very interesting dramatic differences like the Endemark, which is classic. But you also find a an enormous amount of consistency And that's enormous amount that's important. Yeah, an enormous amount of information. Well let's let's talk about my foundation Okay. Um obviously I accept a great deal of contemporary science. I I believe in evolution, I believe in basic quantum physics. Uh what what intrigues me is what we don't know yet, how many holes there are. And one of the things that I believe is that when you have holes in your knowledge and you have things you can't explain As you don't plug in God, that's that's known as the making God a filler of gaps, the God of the gaps understanding And there's a very good thing. Yeah, let me stop and give you a chance to do that. No, no, no, no, no. I'll let Troy whenever he thinks keep going. Okay. But so, you know, I accept uh uh I I r love science just as I love human religiousness and I love cosmology, you know, li reading about string theory and things like that. How how we try to uh respond scientifically to questions like Why is there something rather than nothing? Uh, you know, the issues of of how did we get the universe we have, how did life evolve, sort of things. And I don't believe in plugging in uh oh here be a divine being, you know, at this point sort of thing. So I'm willing to live with a lot of uncertainties. I guess that's one of my core platforms. is that you live with a lot of holes in your knowledge and rather than being frightened or disturbed or upset by those, my gosh, I I really love those Okay. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. That's the voice of Dr. Karen Gray. And now about to speak is Pastor John Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh you probably have a a number of things you might want to respond to. There's a couple of things I'd like to hear you respond to if you're one, uh is it fair to characterize your theology as a God of the gaps And are you comfortable having mysteries and things that you're doing? I d I didn't characterize his theology as that. I said there is a strong tendency to do that and I was speaking in the abstract and not the specifically. of his. I don't want to attack Jonathan's faith in any way, shape or form. That's but that's a basic fundamental thing of mine. I'm as intrigued by his faith as I might be with anyone else's And with my appreciate that, but you but you have to admit that that your phraseology and even using language like God of the Gaps um uh that uh God used as a filler of the gaps. Um that that sort of thing is clearly a um Uh it's it's it's a label that is going to hit a whole slew of people. And And I'm not saying that you're attacking my faith, but you gotta be honest with yourself that you're clearly attacking certain things that that You know, in a sweepingly inadequate generalization kind of a way. Yeah, actually it is. No, I'm I mean, just 'cause you smile about it doesn't mean that it's so gracious. I mean it's it's it's a slap in the face. Okay. Which is fine because I'm uh because I'll say a bunch of things that I'm sure it will be a staff in the face. And I find that condescending. That everything's just an experience and you know, oh well I understand you're experiencing that way. You know, because because see this this is probab precisely the problem. Uh like you said, God wants us to be an eternal child, you know, and we never quite grow up kind of a thing. Uh which I think is the farthest thing from the truth. The point is that God has called us in the Bible to subdue the earth and fill it, to rule as co-heirs with Christ. to rule as kings and queens on the earth. That's his intention, and that's what he's leading us into. However, the problem, the reason why we're not there yet is because sin is so pervasive, like you say, that um uh that there's more wrong about uh things than we could ever know. You know, and specifically you're talking about more wrong about what we think about those things. Well I totally agree with that and that's the point is there's so much sin out there that I can't trust you. I can't trust myself. with running the planet at this point. We are children yet. And I think you would actually agree with that. So this idea that somehow God keeps us as eternal children, I think, is a is dishonest with yourself more than you're letting on. Furthermore, you're talking about God just being anthropomorphic, and that would be fine, except for the fact that the record of God taking the Israelites out of Egypt The record of God uh uh deciding to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah outright, just like the archaeological dig shows that that there's a whole layer of Sodom and Gomorrah. that was annihilated and there's there's uh uh layers of uh uh black dust that clearly came from a nearby volcano which is fine. I don't I don't mind God using a volcano to do it and that the houses burned from the inside out. They didn't burn from the outside in like would happen if there was a fire, but the fire clearly came from above such that the house is burned from the inside out, like the biblical story uh describes. And archaeology has yet to disprove any part of Scripture. In fact it's so pervasive uh how much scripture how much scripture lines up with archaeology. I'd I'd be happy to argue different parts of it. But David has shown up again. Uh that they they found uh Mount Sinai Uh they found the place where they where they crossed uh the uh the Red Sea. They have found uh Jericho and funny thing, the walls at that layer of archaeology seemed to fall straight into the ground. You might disagree and interpret it differently. But I feel but but but but when I when I read the archaeological and I and I hear it described, it's clear that this happened in history. Furthermore Josephus himself historically refers to a man named Christ who lived and walked, claimed to be God, and who did phenomenal miracles. And so it's not just the Bible that refers to it, but Josephus, who's considered probably the first ever credible historian. So this idea that God is just anthropomorphic as opposed to a God who has revealed himself to mankind And and and see this is the thing. Um you y you you talk about being humble about our doctrine but being confident of ourselves. I think that's the ultimate arrogance. I think humility says that we are confident about our doctrine, what God has given to us, and we're humble about myself. I don't think too much of myself. I think very little about myself, but the but what I know about Christ and his death on the cross and what he's accomplished is not an experience as you would so condescendingly uh uh smile sweetly and and and and appreciate. It's not just an experience, but it's a reality. It's the truth that God has sent his son to connect with mankind. And he's not just a g just a gap filler. The fact of the matter is is that the Western world with its Faith that God wants to reveal Himself to us is the first part of the world to ever come up with things like a uh uh two animals. walking side by side in front of a cart, and then you could put two more in front of that and two more in front of that. That was a a major technological advance. Or the idea that we could uh that we could use water uh to to a as a as a uh a power tool, you know, instead of using slaves, which every other uh uh group on the face of the planet, or the idea that um that people had had intrinsic rights and that we could create a system of uh banking where we lend money to each other based on future profits. All of these things come from this idea, not that that the world is static. and that we're stuck, but that God is revealing more and more and more of the world to us. In fact, uh the uh discovering that the earth is not at the center of the world. That had to come from uh from a whole line of thinking that backed up this idea that, oh, we're not at the center of the world. But that in fact God is at the center of the world and that we can't think uh anthropomorphically, we can't think man centered, but we got to think bigger than that. That reality is what created for us for the first time on the planet this idea that science could be released and we could discover things. And that's a Western thing that doesn't come out of Buddhist background, but comes out of a Christian background. Well, if you like that, you can get more just like it later on today at Crestwood Middle School where Crossroads Valley Chapel meets assuming that Jonathan's preaching today. That's right. Um wow, well it has to end there. We are um I've got ten seconds. You're listening to the Frederick Fate debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Thank you to all Shred, Putman Plumbing and Heating and Dynamic Living Solutions, and thank you for listening. God bless