Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heather. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. He's Jonathan Sweitzer and he's Edward Ambush. Now a little more detail. Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And Edward Ambush is uh pastor and bishop at the uh Bread of Life Church in downtown Frederick, uh, and he is Troy Skinner, father of Tyler and Danny Joe and uh he plays basketball though I can't for the life of me get him to come out and play ever He's too busy. He's always studying his Bible. Cheats? No, no, no, no, no. I don't cheat. I'm rough. I actually have a debate going on with my brothers about uh how uh how much you should be allowed to foul without it be c being considered a flagrant foul. And so uh that'll give you a little bit of a hint as to how uh nice we play when we tend to play. And yours is as long as they're still breathing it's not fl flagrant? No blood, no foul, baby. What more need be said? What we're talking about on today's show is kind of a carryover from the last few weeks of shows because this is uh a big dividing line. in Christianity. It might not be for the average Christian who's not paying a lot of attention, but um for those who make their living uh as pastors or seminary professors or uh you know have that sort of responsibility to really dive into the deep nitty-gritty, they end up debating this issue um within themselves, with others, whatever. This is a huge issue. Um is is God in absolute full control of my salvation or do I have some role to play in it? Yeah, and I would argue that every person out there, I don't care what you do for a living or how um you know, educated as you might happen to be, you know, you have an opinion about whether or not uh God has total control or whether or not you have freedom to make certain choices you know, uh that is, you know, in you personally and and I'd say that that, yeah, uh people that think themselves a bit more educated would tend to uh you know use big words to try to you know split all the hairs in that particular uh issue but everybody's grappling with it at some level or other. Um I don't know if I'm if we're gonna have a little mini debate here. I don't know that I can agree that people are grappling with it. I think that most people are ambivalent about it. Like let me give you an example. When I when I interact with somebody that's struggling to get off the addiction of drugs They want to know whether or not they have a choice, or whether or not they've been destined for their life to be a wreck And just about everybody that I know at some le at some level or another struggles with feeling like there's some area of their life that they just can't win over. and they think that they're just destined as a result to be a failure and to never be able to to get by and I feel like this issue plays on some of those. So then what ends up being your answer in those situations? Uh my answer in those situations is that He whom Christ has set free is free indeed. And that you shall know the truth, and the truth shall set us free, and that there is no way that we can be changed outside of Jesus Christ. So choose him is what I tell him. the final say as to what's going to take place. So if a quest if a person asks the question, well, why am I addicted? How come I can't get out of this right now Um yes, uh God set the circumstances. Uh He created us in in the way He created us and we're subject to certain things. I I believe that But at the same time, the second part is also true. We, by free will and by choice, can do what is necessary to make the change. So we can but see, we actually go through the experience of Making the choice, doing what's necessary, and changing history, changing our circumstances. We have the ability to do that. In fact, I would argue this, Troy, that predestination as a um uh doctrine has been most promoted by those people at the power centers of history. Augustine wrote from the highest levels of power in uh in Rome. Calvin and Luther wrote from the highest centers of power in their uh in in uh Geneva and in um uh Germany. And uh that it's those people that have always been on the outside of the power centers that have tended to argue that that there's a choice that can be made against the great powers that be uh in the nation and uh and they live and die by that, that we can choose to resist Rome, we can choose to resist Germany, we can choose to resist you know, the great beast that has been trying to run our lives. And they they they live and die by that kind of thing. And I'd I'd argue that uh that that's a big part of the reason why that doctrine comes down to us today in such a crystallized form. Now of course when when we make a choice, uh that's part one. Uh part two is whether or not we succeed or not. So then when we make a choice to receive salvation Uh or we make a choice to reject salvation. Uh we obviously have the power to make choices. Uh the second question is, well, do we have the power to actually carry out the choice, to bring that choice to pass? And In the in the question of salvation, if we choose to do something or we ask God for something that is already his will, And then our will and our request is lining up with what he already wills, then you have the two. You have God and the individual uh more or less working together to change history, to change the circumstance, to to to bring about something that was not before. I'm in agreement with that. The key being are we going to choose to be in alignment with his will or are we going to try to resist his will But nobody can resist it. the the human free agency, human free will aspect of things than the sovereignty of God things. So let me ask you a a question, how you try to split that hair in your own mind and navigate through the difficulties there. You said a couple of minutes ago that somebody's in a bad place in their life or addicted to something or whatever. You would tell them, you know what, you can change your future. You can make choices that will Positively impact your personal history. Uh but if God foreknew knew beforehand that somebody was going to die uh homeless and addicted to heroin Mm. Do they really have the ability to make that choice to change? Can they change their history? You know, uh that's a good question. I I think that the uh the primary point the the most important point is the decision. Now whether or not they're able to carry it out whether they have the power to bring it to pass, only God has the power to to actually speak and it's absolutely guaranteed that what he says, you know, will actually take place or will come to pass. We as creatures don't have we don't possess that absolute power. But what we do possess is the free will. to make a decision of what we want, what we don't want. We we could decide that uh we don't want to give in to something and we could be swrolling down the drain and and as we're swrolling down, losing every step of the way, we could still be saying, No, I don't want this So when we get to heaven, it's not a question of did we have the power to make a change? When we get to heaven the question would be did we decide or did we will to make a change does God know in advance what that decision's gonna be? He does know all things, so he knows in advance But I think he purposely So how could someone choose otherwise? If God knows your answer is going to be yes, how could you possibly choose no? He's God and he knows you're gonna say yes. So what power does the individual have to choose otherwise Well that that would sort of imply excuse me that that God is willfully uh willing one thing and then we're willing something against the will of God. Uh but of course that wouldn't work because his will would, you know, would would prevail. Uh but we are here to in this li life or in this one life and then the judgment to take the opportunity to make decisions. for or against Jesus primarily. We make our millions of decisions, but the main decision is what will we do with Jesus Christ? So when we make the decision to live for God, for example, uh we know that that's also in agreement with God's will, because it's God's will that all men be saved. Uh Having said that it's God's will that all men be saved, those who choose to go against the will of God uh they still haven't changed God. They've just kind of logged in where they are. And and that's that's the whole purpose of life. That's one of the main purposes of life, I believe. Not not just so much to have enjoy life and have fun. I mean that's all good. But uh the one of the really bottom line main priority purposes of life is the scripture that says one life and then the judgment. What decision will we make during this lifetime, whether it be you know Ten years, twenty years, fifty years, hundred and twenty maybe max. During this lifetime, what decision do we make? No, I really have to answer that question. Okay. Uh first of all I'd I I'd say that to split the hair, what what do we control? I believe the only thing we control is attitude and that one hundred percent of everything else is is God. You know, and so if we if we choose the right attitude, then God may strengthen us, you know, and and may um uh renew our s our spirits and he may uh uh help us to to uh read the word of God so that we're transformed by renewing our minds, but that attitude is the only is the only string upon which we have to play. Are you equating attitude with decision? For or against Christ? Or attitude towards Christ, attitude against Christ? I would say attitude is the heart of the wise inclines to the right, the heart of the fool inclines to the left. It's an attitudinal choice. Am I going to lean away from God? But to answer your question as to what was your last question? Well I was about to ask it that he was answering. I'm not even sure what that question was anymore I don't know. I I no my next question is going to be a good. Well maybe it'll c it'll come back up. So someone will swing back around. Who knows? We'll listen back to the tape and uh see if we can answer it in a future show if we don't get to it in this show Okay, let's use your attitude uh example. Okay. Or or if it as the one thing. Does God know in advance, in your opinion, what attitude someone will hold? Oh, this is the question that you're asking. What does God know ahead of time and what doesn't he know ahead of time? And specifically then does that mean that God chose for us? I feel like uh Job answers this question. Um God knows ahead of time That he's gonna put that that he's gonna allow Satan to put Job into a scenario where Job will have absolutely no power whatsoever, be 100% totally powerless to change anything. But Job in that scenario does what God knew that Job would be capable of doing. And that's choosing to have the right attitude towards God. He says, I know that my Redeemer lives and I will see his face on the earth. He says uh he cries out and he says he says, My intercessor is my friend, you know, which is clearly a uh uh an anticipation, if not a prophecy, of Christ to come. And my point is is that is that yes, there are situations that God allows where you and I will be one hundred percent powerless. to make any change whatsoever. Powerless. Incapable by our will, pulling ourselves up by our bootstraps, totally powerless. And in that in that situation, God allows us that one string to play on. And that's our attitude. So let's use Job as as a positive example. God uh uh you're saying that God knew that Job was gonna choose godly things choose to not dishonor he was not going to dishonor God from the circumstances. And in God You're s suggesting that God knew that? Yeah, well we're told God knows the end from the beginning. We're told that that God knows all of our days before one of them came to be. The Egyptian pharaoh. Yes. you know, f uh who was in charge during the Exodus. Yeah. You know, God hardens his heart. Yeah. Did God foreknow did he know beforehand that Pharaoh was gonna be this bad mean guy who was thinking. How did he know that unless he created him that way? Well he he said that Pharaoh's heart was always far. But that that that line of reasoning that you just gave is not a line of reasoning that you find anywhere in Scripture. Well if he knew that that God made certain people to sin and to go to hell, you don't find that anywhere in Scripture. Well if he if he knew that Pharaoh was going to to choose badly. Yeah. When did he know that? Did he know it before the creation? Uh I'd say that what Scripture says about God knowing about our lives and what we do with our lives comes from I believe Psalm 139 where it says, you know all my days before one of them came to be. You wrote them down in your book That passage in Psalm 139 would leave me with the impression that God knew before Pharaoh was born. I don't know that it means that God knew exactly from before the creation of the world. I don't I don't have a passage of scripture that that leads me to believe that God knew exactly what everybody's life was going to be like before the creation of the world. So before he was born, did Pharaoh exist? Before he was conceived, did Pharaoh exist? Uh you're saying that maybe uh that's an interesting twist on Psalm 139, because you knit me together in my mother's womb. You knew all my days before one of them came to be. So uh so based on that you could argue