Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WF Online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. Show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? On the panel again this week repeats panel from the last couple of weeks, Jonathan Sweisser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and the Overseer at New Dimension Worship Center, Alexander Hardy. We're talking about what the church's role The Christian Church's role uh is or should be in serving the community and we've been focusing primarily on uh physical needs, a little bit on spiritual needs as it's come up, but uh usually when you talk about serving the community, it's natural to start talking about physical needs. And something that's come up over the last couple of shows is uh at least once, the idea of uh in meeting those physical needs, partnering at some level with the government And so I'm going to ask kind of a general question first, uh and then maybe I'll I have some specific questions, but I don't want to start quite so specifically. Let's start a little broad and we'll narrow it down. Um why Is it appropriate for the church and the government to work together? Why is it appropriate for them to work together? Um I would say that I'm not completely convinced that it is appropriate Um but my rationale for that is not so much that I think that um government is evil as my sense is that uh You know, in the last yeah, no the yeah, yeah. He says with a big smile on his face. Wouldn't you like to tell us right now which ones you think are evil and are not? Uh But the question is to me is whether or not government has the ability to solve those problems and what government's role in trying to solve those problems should be. And um it's possible that um that Alex and I are in disagreement on this particular issue because that comes, you know, kind of into politics in general. I would say this. I believe that it is a society's responsibility to care for the poor that are in their midst. That however, I would make the distinction, I don't necessarily think that it's the government's responsibility And that being the case, I think that the church should be the leaders in caring for the poor that are in their midst people that are in the church should be the leaders. But again, uh I make the distinction that I don't necessarily think that the government should be the one that is responsible for that. There's a couple of reasons I think the government does poorly at anything that it does Bureaucracy kicks in, everybody becomes a number. Uh in science, in the name of science, everybody is is dehumanized and turned into something less than what they should be. And so in that sense, I personally don't like the government involved, but I do think that society has a responsibility to care for the poor that are in it in their midst. I agree with uh Jonathan, but I also think that the government could be um helpful. And I say that because you have some programs right here now they call the Faith Face. Yes. Uh which are which are very, very valid, I think, you know, because they can help you to uh get grants meet the needs of some of the people financially because a lot of times As a church we we're all not we're not financially able to come up with the funds that we need all the time, based on our ties in our office and based on the size of our congregations. So some of the programs that the government have limited at the fair pace, I think, are very, very helpful. Uh because they can they can come into your ministry And they can set up programs for them to help you do that program. So actually you're improving your community. You're getting kissed off the streets because some of the programs that that they provide for you. Now I don't think they should take total control of it You know, I think it should be a partnership where we can work together and mostly face they have their rules and regulations to go by, but yet you're still leading the the the uh the program yourself Um I think I think it it can work together in some sense of the yeah, I think I I guess that's where um where things end up not being black and white but but there ends up being like this gray area there because Uh government um has a long uh enrich history, detailed history of uh um not being able to keep its hands off something and and once their money is involved in it, I feel like They want to start telling us how to spend that money and what to do with that money. You know, like for example, the public school system. You know, uh the public school system started out a government program you know, that that we could uh work together. Uh you know, the the the Christians and the the government could work together, government would pri provide the funds. You know, but you can have, you know, uh prayer in schools and you could talk about all that stuff. And here we get, you know, uh about well, it was probably about sixty years after the beginning of the public school movement in the United States the church got kicked out. And the same thing is true in charities right now, you know, if you're uh i i I mean uh adoption agencies, the Catholic Church Up in Massachusetts refused to uh help gay uh homosexual couples uh adopt children and as a result they have been uh denied any further opportunity or freedom to help uh with any adoptions and they were the largest adoption agency, the most effective one in Massachusetts. And here in Maryland in particular, you know, we tend kind of in that direction, uh, unfortunately, and Uh so my concern is that once the government gets involved, um what's kinda like I don't know, there's a whole slew of stories I think I could give right now. Let me just say that I feel like the government has a whole bunch of ties uh that that bind and um I've yet to see them restrain themselves from uh you know y manipulating what they can away from uh the gospel. What do you think about that in response, Alex? Well, I agree some job uh well, I think I think you have a valid point there But I think you can take the good part, you know, that that's gonna be helpful to us and use that part. You know, that that's been an advantage to us because some of the things you said they're kinda tied on. But I then in some instances all this thing I want you accountable I want you to be accountable if we come in and help you, you know, because you let's let's be realistic here. Right. You can have the government coming in and helping churches to implement their program So they come in and give you money to do a a boys' home, just for instance, right? And a lot of people take that money and then misuse it So they'll come back and say, Okay guys, we gave you the money to implement statistics. What are you doing with the money that we gave you? How are you improving the livelihood of this person? How's this being affected from your community So I can understand and come back and say you gotta be accountable and and that answers because I think everything that we do we have to be accountable, even our church ourselves as stewards and the money that we that we handle in our church we have to be accountable to our to our sheep, you know, to see how's been spent and what we're doing with it. So on that aspect of it I can see, you know, accountability because you have a lot of people out there to actually take the money, right, and then misuse it. Then misuse it. And I think I think now that's why you're having some of these investigations of some of these megal churches. And they want to know what you're doing with your money. You know And we come and give you a faith face program, what are you actually doing with your money now? How are you spending that money? Are you doing it for personal use? Are you are you being accountable? to implement in your in your in your church the programs that you say you're gonna implement that's really helping your community to develop your community to get you guys off of drugs or to find proper places to put your your young men in the schools and and teach 'em how to do these things. Are you using the money you know, the way you were supposed to? So I I think accountability is still plays the key in it. And and I I would agree that you gotta be accountable. The question is then does the church wanna put it itself in a place where it would need to be accountable to the government? Yeah, the govern the church should be accountable obviously to God. Yeah. But in terms of making itself accountable to the government. And I don't know if all the strings are always attached, but you know, we were talking last week about, you know, when you help somebody meet a need, they call the church or and you meet them somewhere and you talk to them and they have this physical need, you know, they can't pay their rent or whatever. You know, I'm gonna help you out this time and part of that conversation is you both said that you do this, you share the gospel. A lot of times there are strings attached to money where you're not allowed to then share the gospel, you know, and um it's not just the faith based initiatives the government does, a lot of it's the private sector. And my understanding is United Way. You know, th they give money to some religious organizations, but those religious organizations have to then segment segment their ministry. to have a secular ministry and a religious ministry, and they can only use that United Way money for the secular part of it. They can't use it for anything that's gospel focused. True Right. So all of a sudden you have these y you have a segmented ministry. Well that's weird. Like why are why are you in ministry if not to share the gospel? True. If all you're gonna meet is the physical need, you know what? You know, you neither way keep your money Right. It should oh I think should maybe be the attitude. At least that's my attitude. It's easy for me to say I'm not the one who needs the money. Again the Boy Scouts the Boy Scouts are a good example um in the United States, the Boy Scouts have obviously done phenomenal things for helping kids all across the nation, you know, uh oftentimes kids coming out of tough situations, you know, to uh to uh get mentoring. you know, to be trained up, those kinds of things. But unfortunately the Boy Scouts, uh, in this day and age are being um refused the funding from the government and refuse funding from a lot of government agencies because of their stance on homosexuality and uh these kinds of things. Unfortunately it's interesting that a homosexuality issue uh in s is several of my um uh illustrations has been the issue that made the difference. But that's the point is that if the government can tell us you can only use these funds if you don't say this. Or if you say that, then what happens is that their resources are tied to an agenda that hobbles us as the church and I I think that that phrase selling our soul is very key. We we have to be careful not to sell our soul. Uh let me let me tell the story of Uganda. Uganda came up with the ABC approach to uh fighting AIDS and the ABC approach in Uganda was the most effective in the entire world for stopping AIDS. They had significantly reduced the uh the uh number of people getting AIDS and the ABC stood for abstinence, be faithful in Christ all across Uganda and it was very effective. The UN came in and said, wow, you've got this great program. Can we work with you? We're we'll give you some money and help you do it, but but we want to take it, we want to duplicate it around the world Alright, so there the government comes in working with you know with Uganda that that had a very faith-based organization. The government comes in with all their funding. And then after a little while the the UN starts saying, you know, some people aren't so comfortable about the Christ thing. Uh do you mind if we change the C to something else? I mean you're doing such a great job. We've got such a great program We don't want to limit its impact, you know, we want to take it everywhere in the world. You know, can't what what can we do? Can we change that sea to something else? And they took the sea and changed the sea from Christ to condom of all things to condom. Yeah. Well abstinence, be faithful, or well if you're not gonna be abstinent and be faithful, go ahead and use the condom. You know, which which sends a double message, you know, and uh and so now Uganda itself is no longer so effective at fighting AIDS because they've changed the message in Uganda and I've spoken with some of the pastors in Uganda. In fact Are you are you're headed there later on this year? Yes. September. I've I've spoken with some of the pastors in Uganda and they've told me that they've sold their soul And now they can't get it back because nobody wants to let go of all the money that the UN brought into the situation. And that's my concern is that is that the same thing is going to happen with the faith based Obama's talking about he's w he wants to expand the faith based faith based programs and it's clear that Obama's approach to faith uh is you know, he's come out very honestly and said that his approach to faith uh denies the deity of Christ. You know, that that Christ, you know, he he's um uh theologically he's very close to where uh uh Jeremiah Wright is even though even if he may not be as as hateful in the way that he presents his message, theologically he's in the same place. And the point is is that then Again, we're we it it's just a matter of time until the government's agenda is able to, you know, by having that money tie, then we're sucked right in and then we lose our soul It's so tough we gotta be careful we don't get s you know into that you know it's a cliche, but the slippery slope. Yeah. And uh it goes way back, we've talked about this in the past on the show, um but Maybe you weren't listening that day. Uh going back to you know, three hundred years after Christ when uh Emperor Constantine uh changed the laws so that Christianity was no longer illegal and then shortly after that it actually became the official religion of the Roman Empire. Uh at that point the church underwent a a a shift. The church meaning the body of believers underwent a shift, went from being a persecuted martyr driven kind of growth church to a um a not only accepted but celebrated and official capacity, which then gave rise to all sorts of problems that the church is still figuring out how to work through even today. Right. And what happened there is in my opinion, the church and the government the lines got blurred. I'm not sure exactly how quickly that happened, but you know, four hundred, five hundred, six hundred A D, you know, somewhere in there it gets blurred where you couldn't really tell the difference between the government and the church so much. They were so in block step in partnership with each other. And people became people are dependent on the church about it. We should be. We should be able to depend on each other. Right. You know, we should be d able to depend on Christ And we are to love one another, we should depend one another. Then you bring in this foreign agent, the government, into that. All of a sudden they become part of the mix. and our dependency is now a shared dependency. And then when those split apart, you gotta choose sides. You choose your church or you choose your government. And now we find ourselves in a place where people are trying to be dependent on both somehow again in a weird way. It's it is very scary to me. 'Cause you end up having uh a dependence on the millions of dollars the government might might send to churches Yeah. Programs will be put in place. People will get used to having that money. And then all of a sudden strings will get attached. And that is like, ooh, well we don't want to end that program because people will starve Right. Families will follow the truth. We need that money. And then you sell out the gospel to meet the physical need. And we do this oftentimes uh you know, you you hear uh I'm willing to bet that uh even the the two fine pastors that are on the panel today on rare occasion would fall prey to this mistake from the pulpit. And if if you're a churchgoer listening to this show Your pastor has probably fallen prey to this. I think it's it's human nature, it happens. Where the pastor I don't know how long you you preach when you preach on Sundays, Alex. But I don't know if you do a fifteen minute message, an hour and a half message or somewhere in between, but or longer. At least thirty. But I've I've heard a number of pastors that they'll be up there, they'll talk for, you know, thirty, forty, fifty m uh sixty minutes, and the gospel didn't get preached. Mm-hmm. It's all practical application. It's all about how you can live your life better, how you can get out of debt, and how you can have a better marriage. All really important cool stuff. But it's not the gospel. It's not really what preaching is all about. It might be what teaching is about at some level, but it's certainly not what preaching is about. And w our tendency is to lose that focus anyway. Well when there's money involved, how much more so? Yeah, totally. True. Totally. So I now But you, uh uh, Alex, are more in favor of mo well in favor, I don't want to put put words in your mouth. You're less concerned about that maybe than than uh than I am and Jonathan is what gives you hope like what is the what is it you hang on to when you think in terms of yeah I think the government can play an important role and the church is Well yeah, what gives you the hope to have confidence in that? Prayer. You pray for your government. Mm-hmm. You know, we pray. Amen. You know, ca prayer is strong, prayer is effective. And the Bible teaches to pray for those leadership or the government. So my key thing is prayer. I I believe God I can change anything Even the even the White House, even our leaders here in the city, you know, prayer is the key. You know, I really believe that. Prayer works and then we because the more you pray them then of course John to my faith level too. Yeah. My faith is believing in God You know, I both I believe as long as I do things right, you know, that God's gonna bless me. You know, and if I pray for the government, you know, I believe prayer can change the way that I you know, I I'm I'm in prayer every every Wednesday night at midnight you know, praying for our city, praying for our governments, you know, that they would that God will lead them in the right direction so that they do will do the right thing. So I think prayer is the key in this in this in this season, that prayer, everything we need to do has to be based on prayer We have examples over the last couple of years. We've t touched on it on some shows, the Faith Debate in the past. Uh not I don't think we've ever done a series of shows or really in-depth uh episode of the show on this, but you know the fear that the government might crack down in this country about what pastors can preach from the pulpit. Right And the Like they do in Canada. And some other markets, right. And Germany. And one of the ham there's two basic hammers that get wielded in threat If this were to happen. One is jail time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right? But the other one isn't jail time, it's you're gonna lose your tax exempt status. Yeah. Yeah. So there's already an example where there are people in the church that are worried Well gee, you me you mean I might not be able to preach the gospel? No, you can still preach the gospel, you just have to pay taxes. Right. That's a no brainer. Yeah. If the government tells me, look, you got a choice to make, you just stop preaching the gospel or you start paying taxes, guess what? I'm gonna start paying taxes. Oh. But that's but we're so used to as a as a church. Yeah. You're right. Uh c um speaking collectively, all the Christian denominations there of not having to pay those taxes, what a hardship it would be Because your budget is your budget based on certain things. If all of a sudden you had to pay taxes that you don't have to pay now, how does that change your ministry? How does that change the life of those that are in your congregation? You know, we we've allowed ourselves to get You know, we're back to lazy Americans. In fact, the uh the law against preaching uh either for or against certain uh political candidates, you know, based on, you know, what your uh personal uh what no, no, what what what you believe the Bible teaches about what they believe. Um I uh personally I feel like it's it's already um at some level emasculated uh the the preaching, you know, that that should be happening in churches, that churches should have the freedom, you know, to to address more directly you know, hey, what this guy says and what he believes, I've been listening to him and and there's no way that we can reconcile that with the we you know with what Scripture says. You know, I I I think we should be way more open to doing those kinds of things, you know, to to helping people to apply to their everyday lives, but because of the five oh one C three, you know, which says that you're not allowed to do any electioneering, you know, uh uh uh campaigning, you know, on behalf of of uh certain candidates. Unfortunately, what it does is it it chills our message and it already shuts us down. Not now I'm not saying that I think that churches should be more political. I just think that churches need to be prophetic. And they need to be free to speak prophetically to whatever's going on politically or whatever's going on in the nation, whatever's going on in the lives of people. And that's one of those things that shuts down our willingness to be prophetic because we're always thinking, okay, well uh am I allowed to say that? Am I not allowed to say that? Yeah but shame on us for thinking that way, right? I mean that's not the law's not the problem there. I mean if you go back two thousand years the law said you couldn't criticize the king And John the Baptist got beheaded because he criticized the king. So the law was in place. It doesn't stop you from speaking the truth. You just gotta be willing to take the consequences. That's the that's the issue. Nobody wants to take the consequences. We all have physical needs. True. And we forget that we all have needs. True. Even the wealthiest person in the world has needs. No, they're gonna be physical 'cause we all get old and our bodies start but everybody has a spiritual need. I don't care how wealthy you are. You know, and it's not just a financial question. If my church were to lose its five oh one C three. You know, like word might get out on the street, oh, that church lost its five oh one C three. You know, there's even a reputational thing that I think unfortunately applies a certain amount of pressure to ministers to say, oh no, my reputation, you know, our reputation's gonna be, you know, that that we're that we speak too much about politics, you know, if you just say one or two things. And then that reputational thing ends up making well, you know, I don't want that kind of reputation, you know. And instead of just saying, No, I'm gonna do what God calls me to do. And if He calls me to do that, even if it means that my reputation's you know, gonna be taken a certain way, I'm gonna do it anyways, and I'm gonna let God work out the details. And that's an issue. How does that get in force? Like did they send spies around to the different churches to hear what you guys are preaching about? How how do they know if you're preaching a political message? You know, and if you have somebody there, the part of your congregation, especially these little cell phones now. The cell phones. Yeah, I mean uh any church that records the messages, the IRS comes in and says, Look, I want to listen to your messages. You know? And so they've got they they've got whatever proof they need, you know, it's your message, you recorded it, you know, what are you gonna deny? You know, or say that somebody switched the tapes. You know, it's it's uh uh and at that point if there's uh somebody has to complain. And if somebody puts a complaint out there or the word gets out, say in the neighborhood that your church is too political or something like that Then they complain to the IRS, you know, and the IRS decides at some point, you know, okay, this is a complaint that we're going to check, you know, check out and look into. Right? I mean that's what it comes down to. That's true. I I've never read it out of problem yet. Not to say it's not possible. Do you know any pastors or churches that have had that happen? There's a whole uh slew of churches across the nation right now that are actively fighting that and and purposefully preaching from the pulpit about political things and they've got lawyers behind them to take this all the way to the Supreme Court right now to uh to fight for the freedom for pastors to uh to be uh fully free again. I know a whole slew of churches that the uh uh Michael Newdao uh sends out a letter and uh around election time that that warns pastors blatantly say, dear pastor Schweitzer You know, y I just want to remind you that that you need to be very careful to not come anywhere close to blah blah blah blah, you know, saying certain things about political things 'Cause if you do, you might lose your five you know, and and it's this this intimidation letter that he sends out um, you know, uh to practically every pastor in the United States. I've gotten several of them and uh he does it around election time just to keep us from from thinking we might be free as citizens or pastors in the United States to say anything about uh you know prophetically about the political process. Well, that might be uh in a backwards way kind of a good thing. Right? I mean pastors shouldn't be up there talking politics really anyway, right? Right. Well so if it's a decentive if it's a disincentive to not talk about something you shouldn't be talking about so much anyway, then it might be a good thing. It might be God's backhanded way of keeping the church in check. Yeah, the well there's a difference between being prophetic about politics and about every area of life and being political and So there's certainly a a balance there between us. That's the trick is is doing what God calls you to do And we don't have a lot of time. We have like ninety seconds, but Jonathan's congregation, uh, I I don't really know for sure, but I'd be willing to bet that uh almost everybody in the congregation would would uh Seventy-five percent anyway would identify with some sort of a conservative political ideology and and probably if they're registered to vote might register Republican. I don't know if that's I think that would tend to probably be the case. I'm wondering in your congregation, which is mostly a minority congregation, Hispanics and African Americans, uh is it seventy five percent more of liberal politically and and uh um registered democrat Uh no I I won't say that we are Republicans too, you know um so Because you're pretty fifty-fifty? Probably around fifty-fifty. Because you're a pretty conservative church theologically, right? I mean very fundamentalist kind of in in a in a big way So it's interesting how I mean it's has nothing to do with the faith debate exactly, but it is interesting how, you know, culturally, uh, you know, suburbanite whites uh vote Republicans so often and uh African Americans, no matter where they live, vote Democrat so often. You know, th s so it's not necessarily uh has nothing to do with the church. It'd be interesting for you to preach about politics, wouldn't it? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I warn ya. Don't do it. I won't do it. Well, actually on on those giggle notes we're gonna have to end. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Thanks to Alex Hardy, the overseer at New Dimension Worship Center. And Jonathan Sweitzer, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. You've been listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Check us out online, WFMD. com Um, keyword phrase, Calwashi