Welcome to Critic Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to you by Putman, Flooming and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Bernie Beale, founder of Great Commission Families, and Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and in a couple of days A decision has to be made. It's Decision two thousand eight. Bum bum bum bum. That's pretty good. Do you like you know can can you do like the cymbals classing and the trumpets and the Well Sybil's clashing reminds me that the uh sound of freedom is uh a clash of ideas. Yes it is. Thomas Jefferson was the one that said that. And This past election cycle, which I believe started in nineteen sixty four, right? Or there by the way. It's been going on forever. Yes. Um now I'm not old enough to uh have experienced it, but I did learn about it in school back in nineteen sixty. Religion was a pretty big deal in that at least comparatively speaking, a pretty big deal. um in that election. John Kennedy was the first Roman Catholic elected the president and there's a lot of people think that there was this great, you know, bias that was overcome uh in that. People were afraid, I guess, that the President would take his direction from the Pope. And wouldn't uh would have more of more of the best interests of the uh Roman Catholic Church at heart as opposed to the the interests of the nation. I don't know. And then throughout my lifetime, yeah, religious issues are are front and center. I mean I think abortion is a religious issue. Uh civil rights uh certainly has an element of being a religious issue. Um there's a little bit of the religious issue with uh with Ronald Reagan, uh divorced president, uh his wife you know, seeking guidance from uh astrologers and palm readers and that sort of thing. So we've always had little tastes of it here and there. And of course the the uh indiscretion, the finger wagging uh indiscretion of I never once did anything bad with that woman. Right. Monica Lewinsky. So we've had morality questions and some religious issues. But in this last cycle Uh we had uh Mike Huckabee, a a pastor, run for the office and make a pretty good run uh for the office. Almost shocked the world, I think. Uh coming from out of nowhere had no money. Yeah. And still uh had a nice showing. And then you had the other guy who had all the money With uh Romney, who um some say didn't win the nomination on the Republican side because he's a Mormon Uh and then Barack Obama and his pastor, Jeremiah Wright, saying all these uh interesting things that uh black liberation theologians apparently think and and preach on. Um man. Lots of like religion going on here. In fact, the Democratic National Convention was opened uh with a significant uh uh faith uh prayer meeting, you know, that uh that had people from many different faiths at it. And by the way, I didn't I I realize now I left out George Bush, when he the you know the now outgoing uh president, uh faith a big part of his identity for good or for bad. Apparently Nietzsche was wrong. Not yet. Nietzsche is. So, in a in uh a couple of days, I'm not sure how we're doing it anymore. Are we pulling levers, pushing buttons, uh logging on, I'm not sure what we're doing and hopefully Chad will not be present. Yeah, I'm not sure how votes are cast anymore. But when votes are cast, decisions have to be made. And how much of that decision should be a religious one? And this year do you think it will be more of an issue than maybe historically it generally has been I'll let uh Bernie maybe have the first swing at those couple of questions. Wow, what interesting questions. Um obviously for a Christian. Uh if if Christ is important to you in the center of your life, then everything about your life uh will be uh done through the grid of W what would God have me do? And uh you know, the the famous quote uh when Jesus was asked about tax money and he makes this really interesting response Uh he looks at the coin, whose name and face is on this, and he says, Render unto Caesar that which is Caesar's, and unto God that which is God's. And you quoted that uh a week or two ago on this program, Troy. And the w one of the reasons that's so interesting if you think about it, what does God own? Oh. Oh, just w just about everything. Yeah, just about everything. So so I yeah. I you know I I can't go into the mind of Christ there, but I I wonder if that was just one of his incredibly brilliant answers render unto Caesar that which is Caesar, and unto God that which is God. Uh you know, the Europeans look at us and, you know, w why you talk about religion so much in the public. Uh but it's it's very part and parcel of of who we are as a people historically. Um of all kinds of uh denominations. Um I did a study once in Isaiah, uh in uh Isaiah chapter five. There's five times when Isaiah says, Woe to those who and he describes a collapsing culture and it really looks like Europe And like like like us. Um materialism, narcissism, uh then i i the whole thing slides down to uh an elitism that gains power and totalitarianism. So what do we do in the meantime? As Christians, as any any American, we have the the great honor to vote. and to vote uh for the person who best represents who we believe should lead this country. Now we have what's called the two party system, which isn't intrinsic to the Constitution. It isn't uh it's it's where we've we've landed and from time to time a third party will arise when when the two neither of the two major parties are satisfying enough. Um And uh I I tell you for the first time in my life, that's what I'm looking at. It's like what person is really uh representing uh who I am and what I believe? And then as a Christian, I'm further thinking Um 'cause the thought is often said, don't vote for a third party, you waste your vote. Well, um what about the sovereignty of God? What about still being faithful no matter what? Uh it goes back to the early days of Christianity in a very different setting and venue, but that's what martyrdom was about. Uh you're willing to do what's right, even if it cost me my life Now, I I live in a free country. You know, my vote is even a private vote. Uh our votes are uh you know the the secret ballot. So that's certainly no long ways from martyrdom to simply being willing to do uh what uh uh what is consistent with uh God's call on my life. No uh and I can completely respect where you are, and I think anybody listening would would be compelled to respect your position. But somebody who might have a different view might be wondering Well, I don't know. Is my position respectable? Is it okay for uh a strong Christian believer to vote practically? To factor in the the way in. Okay. I doubt that Maryland's gonna swing one way or the other based on my vote. But if it did swing on my vote and there's a person running that I really don't want to see as president and I know that he could be defeated if I voted for this lesser of the two evils kind of a thing Is that an okay stance for a Christian to take, or is that a a sinful, untrusting God stance to take? That that's an that's an incremental decision of of uh how much I'm going to trust the sovereignty of God uh and the responsibility God has placed in my hands and that really goes to a personal level, hard to answer. Let me ask you, Jonathan, do you think that it's okay for a Christian to not to to vote for somebody who's not a Christian? Martin Luther said that a uh uh better a uh Turk, non Christian Turk who is wise than a uh foolish Christian. I think I would tend to agree that uh that wisdom is a very important part of the decision, somebody that I think is going to uh make decisions that are wise. And of course, interestingly enough, I would uh decide, discern whether or not I thought the guy would make wise decisions based on how much his decisions lined up with things I you know would feel it would be godly decisions. But you know, it could be somebody that was would not be a believer. And and uh I I definitely think that voting for somebody like that is not somehow uh contrary to being a Christian. There's one thing that uh that I think all Christians should obviously be praying for and considering therefore in their voting. And I I look at uh 2 Timothy, I'm sorry, 1 Timothy chapter 2. Uh when it says, uh first of all then I urge that entreaties and prayers, petitions and thanksgivings be made on behalf of all men for kings and all who are in authority, so that here's the reason. so that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity. I put in the margin of my Bible there the acronym SAFE. I love uh acronyms and this is my acronym for SAFE. What should we pray for leaders, our government leaders? First of all, S, salvation. Everyone needs the Lord. This is my conviction as a follower of Jesus Christ. So S A uh actually A and F together Access and Favor because we have a representative Republic um that uh we can have access and favor as Christians bringing influence, uh people um of of of uh followers of God. Seeking to bring a positive influence on our culture. So salvation, access, favor, and then the E just to make the word safe complete uh eternity. Uh trying to make decisions in the present in light of eternity, which is an infinite question to ask yourself, but it's worth asking. How will what I decide today affect eternity? The most frequent prayer I have in the morning when my feet hit the floor is, Lord, I pray that what happens today will affect the makeup of eternity. I live in time, but we can touch eternity. So we need to pray for our leaders and pray for our involvement in the leadership because every s every citizen is part of the leadership of the country in that infinitesimal yet the little bit that we have, you know, the the vote. You know, if if you were listening to the last couple of weeks we were talking about the uh the state of the nation. Uh as compared to um at the time of its founding and whether or not we were more or less Christian in a better or worse place than we were before. And the thought ran through my head and I didn't mention it then, but listening to Bernie just now talking about eternity, uh the thought popped back into my head. I think th the idea of you know we need to get back to being a Christian nation again. That idea with the quotation marks around aga again. And if you were listening the last couple of weeks you heard us talk about this. One of the dangerous parts of that mentality is it's looking backwards, you know, to the good old days. Things were so much better back then. Well the truth of the matter is there's been sin in the world. Um since just about the very beginning, since the fall. There's you know, from from a Christian biblical perspective, um From the from the very first man and woman there's been sin. And so the good old days couldn't have been all that good. Where things are really going to be good is where um, you know, i in the et in the eternal. Where where glorification comes. You know, you ask the the question when is uh when is a Christian saved? Yeah, well I've I've been saved, I'm being saved, I will be saved, you know, well the will be saved is the glorification part. Uh and that's when things are perfect. So we're looking back to the to the past. We can be instructed by that. We can learn from the history. We should know our history and I'm certainly not telling Bernie anything he doesn't believe. He's, you know, he he's obviously studies uh a lot about history and reads a lot and knows a lot. One of the uh one of the most bright, well informed men I think I've ever met. Well, in the sh in the short time. We look to the future, but we l only live in the present. If you mix it up, you try to live in the past, and so that's maybe what you're kinda alluding to and you say get a uh a Christian nation again. Um you know there's always been been sin. We have a foundation as I suggested uh last time. Um but it's the people that need the Lord. Uh and then that will affect the nation overall. Uh so that's the kind of the vision of our ministry, Great Commission Families, is to uh as the old saying goes. uh shine our candle as a family to seek to influence other people around us, other families around us. He's Bernie Beale, founder of the Great Commission families, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner and this is the Frederick Faye. debate on 930 WFMD. Um I just had a a question slip out of my mind. I had it two seconds ago. Oh I know what it is now. All right. So looking at the eternal What's gonna what's gonna what would God have me do? What would yeah, get a bracelet. Get my bracelet out. I don't wear one of those. Let's imagine. What would Jesus do? Well how would Jesus vote? So let's uh what what's gonna bring the most benefit from a kingdom perspective? What's gonna have what's gonna draw most people into a positive eternal situation? You got Um something like a Barack Obama who wants to uh affe according to his platform anyway, right? Wants to affect social change, wants to help those who uh are without Wants to help the poor, you know, take care of a lot of social situations. He wants there to be peace in the world. He he wants America to be an agent of that kind of change in the world. Um certainly a Christian could get behind some of those concepts. You got a guy like uh John McCain who uh says that he's pro-life, anti-abortion. Um you know, wants people to uh earn what they have and keep what they've earned. Uh And and thinks that, you know, one of his prime objectives as president would be to defend and protect the the people that have put under his care as commander in chief Yeah, of course you can get behind those those ideas. And then you have, you know, some third party people that might be even stronger on some of the morality issues and uh small government issues or whatever might be attractive to somebody who's uh you know, reading their Bible and and praying earnestly. Um could a Christian or anybody of faith, but particularly since everybody in this room doing this show is a Christian, from a pr Christian perspective Could you make a compelling case from a faith-based reason that anybody, any of the significant candidates running for office Um meaning the two major parties and maybe a couple of the third party. I'll even throw Ralph Nader and some of those guys in there. You know, you could make some some compelling Christian based reason. I don't know for that guy for that reason. I mean, is that Is that fair? You're asking us to do that right now? Well, to to speak to somebody who's thinking along those lines. Well, I'm a Christian and I'm voting for John McCain, or I'm a Christian, I'm voting for Barack Obama, and it's totally consistent with my faith. to do so because of some of the, you know, general reasons I just gave them a game. I'd say in general, uh the abortion issue is a is a very, very important issue uh in terms of whether or not we're going to continue to kill babies. you know, and uh whether or not that should be done right up until the time when they're actually born alive. You know, whether or not uh babies should have rights, you know, whether or not uh partial birth abortion should be an issue. And uh it seems to me like that's a very clear issue in this particular um uh debate uh uh election uh process. Uh another one I think has to do with from a Christian perspective whether or not Uh homosexual marriage is going to be uh encouraged and magnified or whether or not it's uh it's going to be um kept at bay for uh another election cycle or election period, I think that that issue comes into play in a significant way. Um I'd say uh questions of of what kind of judges are going to be brought uh uh appointed by the president are very important. Are you gonna appoint people that are gonna make law from The bench, or are you going to uh appoint people that are strict uh constructionists and that will tend to want to uh interpret the constitution according to how people uh you know originally wrote it. From an eternal salvation standpoint, is that the scariest issue? The the the judges? Eternal salvation Because the you know, there's concerns in Christian circles that, you know, the the the bench is gonna legislate telling preachers what they can and can't preach. Oh right. Uh w you know, the Bible could be deemed hate speech. Or whatever. Is that the scariest thing as far as what really matters and that is preaching the gospel? I mean the morality question, the abortion issue Uh trust me, horrifying, mortifying. I I can't even believe I live in this country, my tax dollars go to pay for some of that sort of stuff. It's yeah it's shocking shockingly horrible. Yeah. But at the end of the day uh to what Bernie was talking about, the most important thing is how we bring people to the Lord and salvation. So is a more important consideration what kind of judges will be appointed by the president? I feel like that's a very big issue. Yeah, I I do too. Um I I would say this though, as a essentially as a Christian evangelist Um in the scope of history we're in a s you know, we our our lifetimes are so short and uh I hadn't thought of this in a while, but when you said, you know, what would bring the most people to the Lord or something like that. Um actually probably what would bring most people to the Lord is some kind of utter catastrophes that would be horrific for us to consider. And so I don't want you know for that. So so to ask the question what will bring the most people over, boy, that's that's just so hard to know. Um Uh but I I do think of something that relates to this uh life question, one of the most um uh uh uh famous passages in the Bible about the issue of life Psalm 139, verse 13 says, For you formed my inward parts, you wove me in my mother's womb. I will give thanks to you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Uh a few verses before that, there's a verse that may have been the verse that the first people who came to Maryland from Europe to live here uh may have claimed as their verse because they chose they named their ships the Ark and the Dove, that's historically known. But uh verses nine and ten says this if I take the wings of the dawn, you know, like a dove, if I take the wings of the dawn, if I dwell in the remotest part of the sea, you know, coming to Maryland from England. Even there your hand will lead me and your right hand will will lay hold of me. So whatever uh we do uh as Christians, uh the issue is going to be is how is what I do point other people to Jesus? And our responsibility uh to to vote, you know, th uh that's why you've got to be on your knees and uh you've got to be willing to look at these issues. Uh I want to talk about some other things, but I think you had a question. Well nobody's gonna know how we vote. So that's interesting. So how is our vote gonna point anywhere? Well we talk about it. Oh I see. The the impact of the thing. As long as we vote a certain way You know, maybe then we've done our Christian duty and that kind of thing. You know, and a and I think there's a danger in thinking that somehow voting is this this, you know, the massive major way to, you know, to show that I'm a good Christian. And and while it's very important, I I I would say that uh it's not likely that my vote's gonna be what, you know, brings a lot of people to Christ or not to Christ, though talking to people about why I vote the way that I vote and the things that are important to me, if you're allowed to talk politics in polite company anymore, uh is uh I think definitely has potential to you know be very influential. The the man uh who years ago was my boss's, bosses, bosses, bosses, bosses boss was a man named Bill Bright, uh who was the founder and president of Campus Crusade for Christ, and he was asked once, you know, who who should lead our country And um at least this is a story as as I heard him tell it. Uh he said a child could lead our country if there were enough people. who were righteous people, uh who were Christians, is how he was he was putting it. I think of uh The government of the people, by the people, for the people. Galatians five one it says, uh for freedom Uh crisis sets you free. There's a lot of talk about uh freedom in Galatians and other places. And in um in my older Bible, I got recently got a large print edition Bible. So I haven't got all my notes in here yet, but in my older uh Bible in Galatians I wrote uh above the heading I said, uh the gospel of grace brings true freedom. Then under that I wrote, True freedom isn't permission to do whatever you want to do. True freedom is the ability to do what's right. So as Christians, if we're seeking to lovingly communicate the freedom in Christ that comes by reconciliation with God through Jesus then there will be more people willing and able to do what's right. So these these other uh moral issues of our day will begin to take care of themselves. Or, well, the country could go in a in a direction that's worse and worse. I mean the Christians in the Roman world, you know, before uh Constantine, you know, I'm I'm sure they weren't thinking, let's see how we can run this government. Uh they were thinking, uh, you know, how how's my life going to be expended for my Lord? You know, it's interesting to talk about freedom I was reminded of Maryland is the Free state. No. Okay. Well it's goofy, so you're ready. I love the way that he knows this stuff. You guys gotta meet this guy. He's the smartest guy in the world. V during the Prohibition era. Um uh you know it was uh Uh constitutional amendment ratified so even if your state didn't vote for the amendment, enough states did that the whole country had to go for it, you know Um uh I don't remember how Maryland voted, but there was some uh groussing about the whole thing, the prohibition era And uh and somebody um in Georgia wrote uh or somewhere down south was writing about, you know, was chastising Maryland for the government not uh you know, enforcing the law, you know, the li the laws of the nation and a editor of like the Baltimore Sun or some paper in Baltimore, uh said, well we're a free state because uh you know we we're you can get alcohol here, uh kind of a thing. And so he wrote that editorial and then did not publish it. Uh but a lot of enough people talked about it and then eventually it just became this very common thing. Uh what the the actual motto or um nickname for Maryland is the old line state. Which uh I'll try to briefly tell you. You would think it's the Civil War. I thought the Free State was a Civil War too. It has to do with slavery. It could run to freedom in America. Uh and then the old line isn't has nothing to do with the Mason Dixon line either. It was uh a nickname that George Washington, General George Washington, gave to uh the Maryland troops because uh w especially when they were retreating out of New York City and being chased, They had he had Maryland as the rear guard to hold the line because if they got overtaken, his whole army would have been decimated. And through the whole war, you know, the years of the war, Maryland w gave him faithful troops. Actually, interestingly enough, Frederick County Frederick which included Carroll County at the time, there's only one county, um, or much of Carroll County, was the breadbasket and George Washington just loved Maryland. Uh I could tell you stories about George Washington coming to Frederick City here. But uh I think we're getting off the election time. Yes, yes. Yeah, it's funny you say that. When uh I told you about the Chinese last week, about uh the Chinese guys saying it was because America's geography, because America's climate, all that a couple weeks ago, yeah. Yeah, I well I told I told um Yeah, these guys just answer that you know God blessed America, the people came to uh seeking as uh to a certain measure to honor God and uh they said, Oh, you should run for Congress Well, I don't I don't know. Just like that, just like that, right? Yeah, that's really yeah, I'm I'm I don't mean to mock them. That's it's it's really it's just it's uh it's endearing to me. I spent a lot of time with my friends from China. Um I asked the question before that you allowed me to ask and your mind, but in what you just had to share over these last few minutes, did you Have a chance to give voice to what you were thinking? Do you even remember what it was? Uh y yes. The the other thing I wanted to talk about is the I is the idea of the responsibility of the Christian parent uh with the primary mission field they have, their children Remember, render under Caesar that which is Caesar's, render under God that which is God's. It's it is a horrific sin in America that as parents Our culture persuades us to give our children away to the culture of the pop culture, media, entertainment. training in a worldview that is anathetical to a biblical uh theology. So that's which is why so many Christian families homeschool and if you don't homeschool it's why one of the most important uh decisions you're gonna make when you vote is that for the school board. You know, it really is. It gets almost no attention. Yeah. But it's uh one of the most important votes you're gonna cast. It really is a a vote for the future. We we have uh five voters in our home and we pour over that stuff and that's actually the one we look at really closely is the school board, even though we're a homeschool family. We we're aware This is our community being affected and we look very closely at those things. Sixty seven cents out of every dollar that you spend in county taxes goes to the School board. All right, on that depressing note, uh that's the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Jonathan Sweitzer from CrossFit Valley Chapel, Bernie Beal from Great Commission Families, thank you. I'm Troy Skinner. You've been listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930W.