Welcome to the Frederick's Eighth Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Imran Raz Razvi, who grew up a Muslim. a Shia Muslim and is now a reformed Protestant Christian. Uh the last two weeks we we laid a lot of background. We might touch on a little bit of that now, but I think we're about ready to transition into uh his transition in his life, which took place uh sixteen, eighteen years ago. By the way, I want to thank our sponsor for once again being loyal to the show, Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? All right, so we've talked about uh some of the differences between Sunni and and and Shia uh history anyway. I'm not sure that we spent a lot of time on on any real strong differences of of opinion on some theology. Uh is there I mean you talked about um uh Shia pray with their hands at their side, I think you said, and the Sunnis pray with their hands clasped. So that's pretty incidental kind of thing. Are are there any major theological differences uh that would divide them. 'Cause I'm trying to correlate in this my in this in my mind with the Eastern and Western church for Christianity. You know, there are some theological differences there that we've spent some time talking about on this show, and Roman Catholics versus Protestants. There are some theological issues that drive ledges too. Are the ledges that are drawn uh between uh uh Shia Muslims and Sunni Muslims Really this this history and this this real politic kind of a thing or you know, or is it or or are there some strong differences on who God is and how we're to live our lives and that sort of thing. My understanding is mostly it is um historical and political more than anything else. I could be wrong. I mean I didn't do the studying of the Sunni religion. I knew what the Shias believed and I know that the Sunnis have their own imams and had their own hadiths, hadiths are the sayings of the mu imams and and which way the religion is gonna go. And a lot of them are very similar as far as I know. Uh again, we as if as a Muslim Shia family we actually worshipped with some Sunnis when I was growing up. There wasn't that many mosques. Now there's a lot more Muslims than there were when we first came Um, there's been a huge influx of Muslims. But at that point there wasn't that many and Shias and and Sunnis in this country got along fairly well. Uh so I don't really know if there's any major theological differences except for who the Imams were. Okay, what about basic sh Sharia law? Uh was there is there a uh a sense that that you all believe that, you know Uh, women should dress a certain way. You know, like is one of 'em gonna tend to be a little bit more uh precise in exacting about applying the Shia law? I don't think it's one or the other that's I mean Sharia law, yeah, yeah. There there's plenty of uh Sunnis that are very devout and uh follow Sharia law very very much very stringently and there's plenty of Shias that do the same thing. Um I grew up in a family that And when they do so, so a devout Shia and a devout Sunni are gonna look very similar. Very similar in terms of the way they live their lives, correct how they dress, how they apply law, they're gonna cut off hands and those kinds of things, you know, when it comes to stealing and And and all that. And that's why a lot of Muslims say even though there's Sunnis and Shias main mainly, there's a couple of other sects, but mainly Shun Sunnis and Shias, it's still the same religion. When they look at the Christianity you got all these different flavors and there's so many theological differences and they're saying you're getting all this from the same Bible, but the Bible is wrong. Right. Islam is the same thing. see us as being divided but not them as being divided. And this helps for me to understand that a little bit more clearly because if it's just a historical thing that has to do with, you know, uh how you pick the top you know, current Muslim leader, uh, you know, one being by blood, the other one being by, you know, whoever is should be elected to it. Uh then, you know It really isn't that big a difference in the end. from my experiences growing up in the Muslim household. Nevertheless, I do feel like you express yourself very uh very well, very strongly though. Uh for the record, I don't know that I've met a Muslim that does not. Uh it seems to be an Arabic quality that they uh enjoy a good uh head to head debate. Arabic, maybe Arabic's not right, because you're not Arabic, I'm Middle Eastern. Middle Eastern. Yeah, that they're intense They they want to have the discussions and they're able to express themselves clearly. Well that's something we're taught in the mosques and the growing up in the Sunday school how to defend our faith, how to talk religion and politics. In this country, unfortunately so many Christians don't anymore, at least here in the States. Because it's it's frowned upon. I mean when you go to a party th they they tell you Avoid politics and religion. Talk about everything. Politics and religion. Yeah. That's one of the big hit of parties. That's the first thing I bring up. But that's what you can't practice. So if you go over the wrong way if you don't practice it, then how can you be So here's a question. How long then after you became a Christian did you figure out that there's a whole group of Christians that are moral and really living by uh the the teachings of Christ. It took my wife and I a long time to find them. Really? Uh we went when we became when we after we got married, we went to the big like at the time you thought you were like the only one? Almost. Almost. Just you and Her. Yeah, we after we got married we went church hunting. Yeah. And we'd ask for you know a couple questions, just two questions. And we'll go to the pastor and say, Hey, um we just have to answer two questions. Do you preach from the Bible, number one. Number two, what is your stance on abortion? And we would get all these wild answers Oh yeah, we'll um read from the Bible sometimes. So no no no and then also about abortion Well that's a very complicated and in depth uh situation. We need to sit down and discuss and we can set up an appointment. So point is everybody was afraid to just come out and say abortion is wrong and if you're not comfortable with believing that you're not gonna be comfortable here. Exactly. Nobody would tell you. say that because they wanted us to come join their church. Sure. But they wanted to be open and friendly to everybody. And so we kinda jump the gun here. Yeah, but I'm way off track. Yeah, but I do want to throw in a personal observation that goes right along with this. And Jonathan has heard me talk about this before because we've talked a little bit. Right. Whether it be uh you know, church hunting myself for my family or going on these little excursions, these little research operations I do for the show to kind of see what's going on in the community and and see who might make for a good guest on the show or just getting a sense and the flavor of the different uh theological points of view uh that are out there within the Christian community in Frederick County. Uh I've shared this before and I think I might have shared it on the show but I'm not positive. It's distressing and saddening to me how few Christian churches in Frederick County preach from the Bible and preach the gospel. It's a significant percent tops. In my experience it has been a minuscule minority. It's not like it's Forty nine fifty one percent. You know, it's like ten, fifteen, maybe I hope I'm wrong. I hope that I just happen to visit all of the non biblical Christian churches and that there's a huge majority of Christian churches out there that somehow I just didn't go visit. But uh uh it doesn't surprise me. And there's a couple directions that that goes. Some of them just don't preach the Bible because they they're trying to teach messages uh messages that are route Relevant. I can't even say it. Relevant to people's lives. You know, how to have a good marriage, you know, these kinds of things, which is kind of a Christianity light. But then you've got a whole group of churches that that literally preach um not out of the scriptures because they're not sure that they even really believe the scriptures for themselves fully. So y you know you ga h you do have some pretty uh And then I so I don't understand why you wonder why Muslims believe it's a very important thing. Christians that proclaim to be Christians, that proclaim to be churches. Oh definitely He'd rather interact with conservative Christians than with any other training because it it is much more closely to what I believe God wants us to be. Very interesting. And my brother brought out uh You gotta like it man. My brother brought out he's he was he was saying he said Yeah, I don't understand you Christians. And I said, Well what do you mean you Christians? And and he said, Well, look at this guy that is a actively practicing homosexual and he's a bishop of a Christian church. Of the Episcopal Church. Yeah. How How is that not a sin? And the same thing going on you know even it' forget forget being you know being homosexuality. But he's living in adultery. So why isn't everybody able to live in adultery? Right. Well obviously right And and yeah, w which which is Troy and I is beef, we get into many of these discussions with uh we've had a couple of those people on the show uh that that would believe that way, not necessarily that are living that way. And uh and that's a big part of the discussions that we have is You know, if if they're not living any different from the world, then how can their Christianity mean anything to them? Right. If both of us are called Christians, then it's very hard to differentiate from the outside what makes us different. I was just reading a survey today that just came out in uh Christianity Today. Uh it was a Pew survey that uh that was addressing all the percentages of people that c call themselves Christian, and then what percentage of those people uh really adhere to certain doctrines, and then what percentage of those people actually live by those doctrines And it was talking about this very thing, how difficult it is to really perceive and to parse through who's really a Christian and who's living by you know, the teachings of Christ, you know, both moral and social and who's not. And can I give an insight on that? There's not many. I wanna like to uh give a little bit aside. One of the reasons why the Muslims are very, very upset right now about this culture is the exact same thing the Christians should have been upset and they weren't. And that's why the Christians have lost this country. I thought this was the case for some time. I've been waiting for somebody to tell me this. Because this culture has eroded family. See the Muslims, it's a very family oriented culture. And when this culture has taken away the daughters and the sons It's disrupted the family structure, it's disrupted the religion. Yeah. And then the Muslim faith starts breaking down. Yes. And that's what happened in this country with Christians And it's because now the family structure's not there. And that's another reason why I'm a reformed Christian, because I feel family integrated churches are the best way to build up a family and I think the the the the fastest way to get back to God and save this country is to save the families. It's to save the fathers as the head of the household. I'm sorry all those feminists out there, I d I apologize. But God's plan was for uh was for the father to be the head of the household. When you give up that, the rest of the family breaks down. His blessings come down through the father. His curses come down through the father. You know, just this week I um uh I've gotten back into some discussions about the uh the educational environment here in the United here in Frederick County. And did do you know just last week They voted to s teach last tape, by the way. Yeah, yeah, sorry. Yeah, just a few weeks ago. Uh they voted to teach ninth graders about um uh a certain kind of sex, should I say it? Um um It uh anyways, and then inappropriate type uh sodomy type sex. Yes, sodomy type sex, yes, thank you. Um and uh and they decided to teach seventh and eighth graders about oral stuff. And uh if you can believe it, uh here in Frederick now, seventh and eighth graders and ninth graders are being taught about this stuff in the school system. That's what I'm saying. And I'm convinced that the the number one though and uh Christian parents need to exercise that right to opt your children out of this. That's why we opt out completely in homeschool. But this this is my point and I've been saying it for some time is that is that if there's hope for this nation it's that we free the parents to start choosing where they send their kids and how they educate their kids. There's gotta be a reintroduction of choice and that's a little bit off topic. And maybe John will hit your board of education. No, I'm not gonna do it again. But I I I I'm I'm worse than you now. There are some running I've I believe totally different from you in that we don't need choice in public school. We need choice in parents teaching their children. God gave us our children for us to teach They're our responsibility. When we give up that right to somebody else, then we allow them to teach the teach their children whatever they want to teach them. Yeah, there's a whole other discussion. But again, what the way it applies here is that uh is that You noticed, and this this is something that you bring with you from your Muslim background, that there is a major uh breakdown of the family in the United States and that this is one of the things that most angers the Muslim world And it's one of those things that most angers many of us Christians. Now this gets me to to getting us back on track a little bit. First of all, you're you're listening to the Frederick Fate debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Speaking just before me was Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and also on the panel is Raz, Imran Razveh, who uh grew up a Shia Muslim and is now a Reformed Protestant Christian. And so the first twenty years you're you're you're born in Pakistan. You're four years old, your family moves over here, you're raised in an American context but within a Muslim uh uh training ground and you're taught th things by your family or those around you that you know Christians are corrupt. Look at the way they're living their lives. You've got these these uh these adulterous or homosexual uh you know leaders of Christian community. Well that wasn't there when I was growing up. It's Okay. But the point is they're pointing at a lot of things that they where Western culture and Christian culture the lines get blurred maybe in the in the mind of the Muslims. in the mind of the Muslim is the Christian church corrupt, but their scriptures are corrupt because the Bible can't be trusted, it's been translated too many times, whatever. The Quran is the original. So you got all of this, and then you talk about the importance of family And you are the eldest son of an eldest son, so there's huge pressure on you to carry forth that Muslim Shia torch And yet here you are, now you're twenty years old. You're apparently I guess dating a woman who isn't at the time, no. Wasn't at the time a Christian. Okay, okay. So you you meet a woman who is a Christian, she starts to share the gospel of Christ with you, and Campus Crusade comes along and they share the gospel with you and somehow you break with that twenty years of background and training to go in a different direction. Like what happened there? What what was that? When the campus crusader and I and uh forgive me, I don't remember his name and I uh I I wish I did and be able to contact him. But at any rate He got me thinking and once he got me to think, um wanted to ask some questions, I didn't know where to go. So I asked my wife, uh, who at that time was just a friend. In fact she was you know we weren't dating at all, but I knew she was a Christian And uh she sat down with me, said, Tell you what, I'll read the Quran with you if you read the Bible with me. Now that made it very easy. I mean I I was getting somebody else to read the Quran, so that that was good. And it it didn't conflict with what uh my upbringing was. And then she said, I'll go to the masjid with you if you go to the church with me. We went to the masjid twice and kept going to church. And uh it's just there was a huge difference. I felt joy I felt peace. It was it was in in the masjid I didn't feel any what what's that word that you're masjid or mosque. Oh it's a mosque. Uh we call it Masjid or Mosque. It's either way. Sure. Okay. I've never heard the other one before. It's a mosque, and we went there twice and it was so depressing. Um it was not a And I wouldn't say it wasn't friendly, it just wasn't um uplifting. Um and when I went to church it was joyful. It was music, there was uh people smiling and and friendly and and that's one of the things that attracted my father to this country. was people were so friendly. They were so open and friendly. It was upstate New York, so I mean there was a Yeah, go figure he uh yeah yeah it wasn't it wasn't New York City wasn't New York City, right. But They were it was very clean, it was r it was upstate New York and the people were so friendly and he loved it here because of that reason. And it's closed off in a lot of the places w where I mean in Pakistan our houses we have fences that are eight foot tall You don't see your neighbors unless you go specifically visit them. Uh you don't see anybody else. I mean you're in your own little compounds. And even in Pakistan. Yeah, uh the rich have their compounds and they're and they're surrounded by fences and our family is wealthy there, so our house was surrounded by, you know, eight foot fence. Uh I mean But do you feel like this is something of a uh of a you know, natural fruit of Islam? That that there's a uh you know, less of a desire to be with one another? I I don't I don't really know. I all I know is that it was for you. It was and it was uh I mean we got along f famously with a lot of Muslims and we visited a lot. In fact the the Muslim culture is very much a visiting culture. We would um my my wife would laugh. My wife would laugh. We go to my uncle's house for, you know, a little snack or tea, whatever. And then um somebody would get up and leave and then we'd all get up and go to that person's house, even though he was just there visiting with us. And then we'd be over there and then we'd get up and leave and they'd all come to our house It was that was the pastime and that built the family structure. It built that. And that's one of the other things that is very different, I don't know if we have time to go into it too much today is honor and shame. Okay? Sure. There is a huge difference. In this culture, in this country, there is no honor and shame. Over in the Islamic country, it's built on honor and shame. In fact, it's much more um Uh much better to have honor than to even tell the truth. In fact you could lie and save honor, save face and and and uh build up your family and it's okay. It's forgivable. Okay? So lying is more forgivable than than shame is. Shame being anything. Um if I stole something, yeah, I brought shame not on me, but my father. And on the oldest living member in our family, because our family was our family. Oh. Okay. M sort of like the mafia. Okay, but if you lied about it, then that wouldn't bring shame. Even if everybody knew that you lied. Uh what you lied about. Oh. If you lied about to save face or to save honor, then it's okay. Hm. But if you lied about it something to uh hurt somebody or or that would bring bring shame, then it wasn't okay. So when Bill Clinton wagged his finger to save the honor of the office of president, he would say he was defending the honor of the president, so that's forgivable. Yes. Interesting. Hm So very interesting. Okay. People in this country really don't understand honor and shame. Okay, but like we we we got into this part of the discussion asking you what you know, like what it was that was attracting you towards Christianity. You like the joy. So but But now we've gotten to you but you're saying you don't necessarily like the fact that there's no honor and shame. Oh right. I didn't realize that until much later. And that's why um Uh I think reformed Christians have a much more very much so a much more And I'm not actually Reformed Christian, but I'm profoundly in the same places where you are. In fact if you d If you'd have come to my church, I think you would have gotten i well, I was I'm trying to think it through whether or not I would have come right out about the uh abortion thing or not, but you definitely would have found a group of people that are very serious about The word of God and honor and shame and those kinds of things. It's interesting to me because I I agree that the f reformed tend to be very strong that way. And and some of them are not. I mean just like any any split of group is going to be that way. But So I was going to church and um uh started singing but every time there was Jesus Day I would insert God I wouldn't sing Jesus. I wouldn't sing to Jesus because I still felt that Jesus was a prophet, a man. Okay. And I can't give you an a time that there was an epiphany and I've realized this is it and I mean a lot of Christians say, you know, at eight twenty six on Thursday nineteen seventy six I knew and I got saved. I couldn't do that. Um so little by little I was singing and I was feeling that and I was feeling the presence of the Lord. I really was. And eventually it just started making sense. Everything started fitting in place and I was still fighting it because it it was it was like cheating on my family. Um because if I became a Christian I lost my identity. I lost whoever I was. It's not like where you grow up in a Christian house and you could be you could eventually make a decision to become Christian. In Islam you're born a Muslim. You can't make a choice about being a Muslim or not. It used to be that way in the Christian world, but that's what the United States was all about, was the attempt to break that So that everybody could choose for themselves. Whereas, you know, if you you know, it used to be in England everybody was Anglican, you know, and in uh uh uh Switzerland everybody was was Calvinist, was reformed, you know. That kind of thing. And so it's really only been in the last hundred fifty years that there's been a shift away from that. Nevertheless the point is you grew up I grew up. That's your whole identity. That's my identity. So it's like if I gave that up, I would lose everything Yeah. Okay, and I would be floundering in this in this world and I didn't have anybody else. Yeah. Okay, all my friends most of my friends were Muslims. All my family was Muslim. I had a few American friends, but it was mostly professional. So you're fighting You're you're starting to feel like you want to accept Christ and you want to accept the teaching of Christians because you're going to the church on a regular basis, you're substituting the name of God, and somewhere along the way, as you're fighting, you quit fighting. Yeah, I just finally realized that it wasn't worth the fight, that I needed to make a confession of faith. I needed to make that decision and just What do you mean that you needed to? That's an interesting phrase. Like why why did you need to? I needed to for myself because of honor. Because if I didn't do that, I was bringing shame to Jesus, to the Lord. Wow And you y you picked up so it was your in the end it was your sense of honor that made you willing to turn your back on the rest of your family. Think about it. If you're a good Christian and you do something bad, where does the shame go? It goes to Jesus. It goes to Christ. He is the most important thing, and if you don't acknowledge him, you are shaming him. How can you How can you accept of his bounty and not acknowledge him? You probably heard that preached a couple times if you cannot, you know uh confess me before men, then how can I confess you before the father or I probably heard that and I don't but I don't think it was the guilt. I think it was more of honor. I just felt honor bound that I had to acknowledge that he was my Lord and Saviour. What's the difference between the guilt and the and the the sense of honor there? 'Cause it was intri you just split a hair there that's very interesting to me. Um Well guilt you wanted to honor God and to honor Christ. Right. But guilt means it's more my feeling for doing the wrong thing. My feeling. Yeah. I'm I'm feeling guilty. Right. Honor is I don't want God to have any. Which again this is so uh um Americans just don't seem to have this kind of a split. Americans don't get it about honor. And so everything turns into this guilt orientation, this self-centered thing, this emotional thing. We need to get back to, you know, honoring God and and being about God. Which again is is uh uh a reason why you might be have been attracted to reformed because they certainly are profoundly committed to that kind of thing. Well you're listening to Frederick Fate debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and uh Imran Raz Razvi, who grew up a Shia Muslim, is now a Reformed Protestant uh Christian. And I and I gotta say, uh and I have the same situation when I you know, people say, What's your testimony? Uh, how'd you become a Christian? And uh I don't have that epiphenal moment either where I can say on eight twenty six on Thursday in nineteen seventy-six I don't have one of those stories. And it's it's less about that it seems to me. The question we should ask people when we ask them for the testimony It shouldn't be when did you become a Christian? It should be something along the lines of how's your walk with the Lord? That should be the testimony. It's n when you became the Christian isn't the thing. It's how you're living your life for the kingdom that's the thing But I've heard a couple of good answers to to that question. If you haven't used these before, you can use either one. One of them is, you know, hey, when can you become a Christian? Oh about two thousand years ago when Jesus died on the cross. And from a reformed perspective and this is one you will like When did you become a Christian? Before the beginning of time when God elected me. Yes. So anyway, thanks for listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick Super Radio 930. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? And don't forget to check us out on the web at WFMD dot com. Just find the Faith Debate page there. You update the blog. I update my blog weekdays. Jonathan updates uh his blog which is linked to from the Faith Debate page uh pretty darn regularly as well. Again, thanks for listening. God bless.