Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Football. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator, joined this week again by my lovely wife Dina and Jonathan Sweitzer, my lovely cohort. Hey, hey, can I say something about that? I started last week with this question about whether or not uh you know you should call the the little boy saying the way that marriages work is when you tell your wife she's pretty, even when she looks like a truck You know, and I just got to thinking at that moment that uh that, you know, you're not Troy Skinner, you're truck skinner. You know, the point is we men are the ones that look like the trucks Do I look like a truck, honey? No, you're quite charming. Yes, see? That was so kind. Come on, when he wakes up in the morning and his hair is all over the place. But not a truck. Or and sometimes when you're walking through the kitchen and he's not looking and you He walks right over you and you get knocked over. He feels like a truck. Truck Skinner. If I believed in such things, this is my penance. Yes, me? Yeah. Oh yes. Yes. I'm making you pay one way or another. So you were saying The last several weeks we've been talking on the show about uh a variety of of topics and working through. I c I keep a a folder of just random tidbits, news articles, emails, stories, sometimes cute, sometimes serious, whatever. And we're kind of working through those and seeing where they take us. And I think it's gone reasonably well. I think we've gone in some interesting directions these last uh few weeks. Here's a news story that we have talked about this issue uh repetitively on the show. Uh it's hard not to. It's over almost four years. Yeah. But you know, for some reason I s I had saved this particular uh story. It's like two or three pages of it's from the New York Times and I'm not going to get into reading all of it, but the gist of it here is about the uh Uh the the number of of openly homosexual pastors and the rift that's creating in churches and the evangelical community. We've got the Episcopal Church that's experienced a split. uh over the issue and now you've got a problem where you've got uh one group of episcopalians uh suing another group of episcopalians over who owns the property and I mean it's really unraveled into where both sides are just making a mockery of everything at this point. It's really sad. Um and then where there's all sorts of Continuing ongoing stories in the news and judgments that are being made by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals or or the Supreme Court in California or the you know, whatever, uh, we can't seem to wrest ourselves away from the same sex marriage issue. the tolerance issue, the hate speech uh uh rules that are coming up. Every time you you turn around it seems, there's a story somewhere that has something to do with homosexuality, uh what those on the right would call the the homosexual or gay agenda. Um it's it's becoming defining for this era in our history. Uh you know, the hippie movement defined the sixties and it seems l uh uh oh and the uh And the civil rights movement defined the sixties and now it seems like we have this homosexual gay pride, gay acceptance movement, uh that is defining This first decade of the two thousands. of the sixties having to do with e equality and uh fairness in terms of society and uh blacks being you know full members of society. You know, well the Bible totally supports that uh and if arguing that the bible totally supports homosexuality, y you know, y you have to you have to really stretch you know, your theological uh interpretation of scripture in order to get to that place. And yet there are websites that do that very thing. in effort to try and have apologetics, you know, I've I've gone on and read such things and and I'm aghast at how they can be so blinded by the truth and misled by the truth and and it just it's it's a lot of people. of science, the society has lost the ability to believe that you can find anything true when it comes to spirituality, when it comes to religion And because you can't apply the scientific method to it, therefore everybody assumes that you can't find absolute truth. Uh and so as a result, then anything that you find in any religious uh uh scriptures, whether it's a Sanskrit, whether it's a Quran, whether it's the Torah, whether it's the Bible, you know, whichever set of uh scriptures that you look to Uh you you can't trust any of them according to this now I'm not opposed to science, but it's a scientific naturalism. It's the it's the religion of science that says that science is the only Uh is the only thing that can tell us what's absolute truth out there, even though after thirty years we're finding out that all that salt isn't as bad for us as science claimed that it was so many years ago, you know, and and there's so many things that science, you know, is constantly uh changing what it what it said was true. thirty years ago is no longer true today. You mean the world's not flat? But yeah. So even though science keeps changing, uh people still argue that that's the only place that we can find absolute truth. And as a result, nobody's willing to accept You know, that you can find you know that there's a moral absolute like thou shalt not lie or thou shalt not commit murder or you know, do not commit adultery. you know, somebody listening to the show would know what uh apologetics means 'cause I know when I first heard that word, you know, years ago, I was like, what the heck is that about? You know, my wife Dina used apol apologetics is uh uh has to do with giving a defense uh for your faith and an explanation for what you believe and why you believe it. It's is is a larger than that for people uh giving an apologetic for whatever they believe. You know, and so you could you could actually be a m um you know, a a a Muslim and give an apologetic for why you think Islam, you know, is the right. So anyway, I didn't In case you didn't know that word, it's your word of the day. Yes. Uh the one sphere is the the public domain kind of sphere, the the government issue and s as as important as it is for us to wrestle through uh and do the right thing for our society there I'm more concerned about the other sphere, which is the church. And we can't we can't forget, I mean, getting the uh Democrats and Republicans to agree on the issue, we can't even get Christians to agree on the issue. That question is why? And that's very concerning to me. Yeah, and why do you think that is? Because we want to please man and we want to sow our flesh. It's a very I th well I think that that's probably part of it, but I think it's uh somewhere along the line about, you know, I don't know, 150, 200 years ago, uh uh it became embarrassing to not what you're talking about to not embrace science. Science was on a roll then there were new things happening all the time. The technological advances were crazy. And then you have Darwin come along with his uh theory of the evolution of the species, the origin of species and and all of a sudden you feel like a backwater hick to believe in this old book that was written, you know uh the the the most recent part of it written a couple of thousand years ago almost at that point. Yeah. Uh and some of it a couple of thousand years before that even, you know, so you're gonna believe that over these new discoveries and you feel like a bat So you start to give a little bit of ground. Well, and you try to find some compromise, some common ground where you can still have some intellectual uh authority in conversations with people. You don't want to surrender your intellect at the door Um so there was this critical mistake that was made then. What should have happened is really heady intellectual Christian thinkers uh should have been and a lot of them were, but uh not maybe not enough or weren't forceful enough or people didn't defer to them enough and say, look, it's it's not a religion for idiots Some of the most unbelievable stuff, most difficult, challenging stuff, material that I've ever come across and read, struggled to read and understand. is from really deep, godly, orthodox, biblical believing Christians. So you don't have to be an idiot to be a Christian. Yeah. Uh it is uh it is a blind faith in the sense that uh you you can't prove your faith. I mean you come into salvation by faith. You can't prove but you can't disprove it either. But to say that it's a blind faith doesn't mean it's it's an undefensible faith. It can be defended intellectually. But we surrendered that game two hundred years ago And we're paying the price for it today. Totally. We we we've accepted this idea that science alone can define what's right and wrong for us. And in fact, science has created for us all of the tyrannies of the day. You know, the the uh i if you if you're fond of the Dilbert cartoons, uh you're you're you're Keenly aware of how business has been turned into this way, you got to do what the experts say to do and we're gonna you know we're gonna do it this way and you're stuck in your cubicle And you feel like you're just a cog in the machine and it doesn't really matter what you do or what you know because we're just kind of stuck in this thing. Well the point is that's the result of science being applied to economics And science basically created this tyranny that now we all feel like we have to do, you know, whatever we're told to do in the business world by the experts, whoever the experts are. And the real problem is it seeped in at the uh It's it's the upper level of the training ground for what would become the leaders of of the church, universities the universities and seminaries. Uh and in the early part of the last century in the early nineteen hundreds, I mean uh one right after the other, the seminaries were turning what uh is and I don't mean this pejoratively, it's a label that they would assign themselves I think too. They they turned liberal. Uh which meant that when they look at scripture, they don't look at scripture and say, oh, it says that there was a miracle there. Praise God. Jesus did a miracle. Or it says that God led them through the Red Sea on dry ground. Praise God, it's a miracle. But instead they looked at that and they said, Well, we know science has taught us that that could never happen, so that must just be a myth That must just be a story and we can't take it seriously. And so they quit believing that the Bible was really true. In the name of science is when they quit believing that the Bible was really true. And at that point they started to believe that, well It's not so important that you believe the Bible Bible is true, but that you get the moral lessons that are in it. And so it all became about the moral lessons, you know, that you don't lie, cheat, and steal, and that you're inspired to think that that God is helping us to throw off our oppressors or whatever it is. And the point is is that i instead of believing that no, there's a personal God that does do miracles and that still interacts with mankind, they started believing that, well uh it's not so important, you know, that we believe that God's really interacting with us so much as we just kind of are inspired to do good things for one another. What a form of And so science emptied the Bible uh in the name of science they emptied the Bible of all of its power No, I just think it's a form of bondage. Yeah. It it's sad. And you can see it play out through history. By the nineteen thirties, you know, there was a th i it the the war had been lost. Totally. For the conservative Christians, you know, at this at the uh major university seminary level. The war had been lost. So now in the nineteen thirties you have these uh these young, mostly men. uh being trained up in how to lead t congregations and and uh would become denominational, not just congregation leaders. They would be c become the leaders. Well they're in their twenties in the nineteen thirties By the nineteen fifties and sixties, they're in their forties and fifties. They become the seniors. Yeah. Uh uh they become the eldership, if you will. And so they become responsible for that next whole generation and that next whole generation comes of age in the eighties. And bang, look at what's happened. It's it's you could just see it, the whole domino effect takes place. And so that comes into play, this whole transformation of how we view scripture comes into play uh about the hot issues of the day. Abortion. Well, you know, you can't say that scripture really, you know, claims that that Bible you know, that that uh life begins a conception, you know, that would be taking the Bible too seriously, you know, and reading it too firmly, you know, but then you come to um, you know, something like uh marriage, you know, and and and divorce. Oh well you can't really say that the Bible's against you know divorce and and that doesn't really work for society and then it comes, you know, down to like uh you know, homosexuality and this kind of stuff. And at that point you've already emptied the Bible of all of its moral demands except for this this very undefined, unclear, well you just gotta love one another You know, you just gotta be kind to one another. And it unfortunately at that point that that kind of love can actually become a tyranny. And it is becoming a tyranny in a lot of places where people are being uh thrown in jail, you know, in different places for preaching the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. You were gonna say something. No, I just think that you become a slave to science then. We're always a slave to something. Are we a slave to to science or are we a slave to God? And well what's amazing to me is that in the name of science, they claim that the church is what has held us in bondage. And the church is keeping us from being free to live our lives when in fact science is the thing that has us all bound up in legalism. We have to do what the experts say. Exactly. We have to do this and we have to do that. And that's not That's not the gospel. That's not the church that's well, problem is it it is many parts of the church, but they're saying those kinds of things in the name of science as well. So the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. He's John Sweither and she's Dina Skinner, my wife. Um In addition to all of that stuff about you know what's happened where the liberalism has crept into the church and uh and a has caused, I think, a lot of damage. uh for the cause of the kingdom. In addition to that going on, there are a lot of people like yourself who would not mean I don't mean to be like yourself, who would agree with your uh would consider your views orthodox and would agree with your orthodoxy and they would be conservative minded and that sort of thing. Okay. That school and and myself, I'll put myself in that group. There are a lot of people like us Who then have allow we've allowed ourselves to take our eye off the ball and instead of addressing the issues that have to do with the kingdom, not of this world. This is good, yes. We get focused on the things of the kingdom of this world. Yeah And we become political activists. Yeah. And we get concerned about again, I'm not saying we shouldn't be concerned, but here's another s uh story that somebody had emailed to me. It's about You know, uh well here I'll read it. Federal judge must decide whether officials at a New Jersey school went too far when they banned an eight year old girl from singing a hymn in a talent show. The girl wanted to perform Awesome God. Officials in Frenchtown uh a blue collar town in Delaware River, uh somewhere around Trenton told the Christian Science Monitor that the problem was not the song. was not that the song is religious, but they found some of the lyrics like his return is very close and so you better be believing that our God is an awesome God, too graphic and evangelizing for a developmentary school audience. And It talks about tolerance, political correctness and all that sort of stuff and the ACLU getting involved. The point is that is important. We should be Concerned about that at some point. But it seems like when you talk to other conservative evangel conservative evangelical Christians So much of the conversation centers on, can you believe what that federal judge did? Can you believe what that school system did? Can you believe what that teacher's doing to my child Those are things of this world. Why don't we worry a little bit more about what's happening within the the body of Christ itself? A little more. In in Really at the root of that discussion is this belief that our nation was formulated as a Christian nation, and recently I've uh I've taken a little bit of a moderated view on that The reality is that all of our founding fathers were of the opinion that science was going to teach us the best political solution to to society. That s political science was going to lead us into a better political future. That science was going to was going to uh give us a better economic solution. And all of our founding fathers were in agreement about that What they weren't in agreement about was whether or not the Bible could be trusted in you know to be the Word of God. Thomas Jefferson cut out whole portions of it. Benjamin Franklin was more of a deist, you know, George Washington was was uh uh more firm uh in in following the scripture. Uh uh John Adams was very firm in following the scriptures. And so so we it was really the heart of the nation was not Christian, but it was political science, that political science was going to teach us the future and we all just happened to be Christian at the time, at different levels, some more liberal, some more conservative. And the reality is that is that the same thing's true today and in the name of science, every decision that's ever made anymore is made on the basis of a sociological dec uh study psychological survey, everything you have to appeal to some kind of a scientific study. Nobody is allowed to appeal to scripture in order uh you know to get a law passed anymore. In the the reality is that the heart of our nation has always been that. And we Christians have been slow to acknowledge that all of our founding fathers had a political science worldview at the s heart of who they w who they were. Not to say that many of them didn't want to see biblical laws passed, but they were still arguing that scientifically that you could prove that those laws were better for society. And that is what's reigning today is political science. That science is the thing that's showing us what to do. Part of my my my concern is I think that the Christian community who feels that way and wants to argue Uh I I agree with you a little misguidedly that you know our founding fathers were Christians. I think that it's fair to say I think that our founding fathers, uh pretty much all of them uh believed in God. Yep And uh most of them were at least nominally uh in name anyway Christian. Absolutely. Uh But that doesn't necessarily mean that they founded a Christian nation per se. And I think that we're going back a little bit earlier in history and we're we're we're buying into I have a a lot of regard for for the the Puritans. I'm not one of those who uses Purit you know, you're Puritanical as some sort of pejorative thing. I think the Puritans uh had an awful lot of good things to be said about them. But I think they were misguided in their in the Puritan ideal. They came here to try to establish a a society and a government that was going to be ruled by Christian principle. They they really did want a Christian government, a Christian society. And I think again there's this blending of ideas there of the kingdom of this world and the kingdom not of this world. that I I think is difficult to support scripture. I think on that particular issue the Puritans were misguided and when we modern day Christians want to utilize that Puritan ideal as our argument for what should be going on correctly in this co in this country, we're missing it too. Yeah. Yeah, we're maybe a little closer to being appropriate just because the the morality and the other things that'll be healthy for society are at least in play at that point. But th the real important issue is still lost in the mix there. And I think it's dangerous for us. I think we need to agree. We need to keep the two separate at some level in our minds. I'm not saying that cr like some Christians shouldn't vote, they shouldn't serve in the military. I don't agree with that. I I I can respect those who do, I'll you know, respectfully disagree with them on those issues. But but I'm I'm not saying that I go that far. But at least in our minds we need to be thinking first about the kingdom of God. second about the kingdom of man and not first and second together. Yeah. Does that make sense? Yeah, and and I feel like that's part of where from the beginning, uh, we kinda got got sucked into it 'cause as as soon as we were a democracy where everybody could vote, then that kinda gave this impression that I should know what I'm voting about. you know, which means that I gotta study it out, which means I gotta pay attention. And unfortunately, like Alex de Tocqueville said, uh, that when he came to the United States, the great French philosopher, that when he went to find a politician He he would find a preacher and when he went to find a preacher, he would find a politician. He couldn't understand it. And the re the reality is that unfortunately in the name of wanting to be uh good stewards that vote wisely, uh we can end up spending all of our energy on trying to figure out what the right political solution is, all of which sucks us right into that political science orientation away from a kingdom mentality. This is sloved. Sharpton. Democrats should remove Alabama candidates. This is a story that's a l a little bit dated too, but the point is is relevant to what we're talking about. Alabama Democrats should get rid of a candidate who denies the Holocaust and another who has advocated killing illegal immigrants, activist Al Sharpton said Monday. While State Party officials say they are powerless to remove the pair from the ballot because The primary is so close. Sharpton said there's no room for these two men in our big tent. And it goes on to talk about uh other people in the party saying this or that. And then it ends with Sharpton, a New York minister and a former presidential candidate, said the party's response was inadequate That's the perfect example of what I'm talking about with the confusion that comes by blending the two ideas of the kingdom of this world and the kingdom not of this world. Is is uh the Reverend L. Sharpton, a Reverend Or a presidential candidate. You know what I'm saying? Not that he can't be both, you know what I'm saying? But is he should he be looking at political solutions for for social ills? Uh or should he be looking for you know, religious answers. Well this is the difficulty. Daniel Webster uh was called the great uh expositor of the American Constitution and he was He was as Christian as you could come. He was practically an evangelist. And in the name of God, he would exposit the Constitution. What you know, what the right laws would be, what the wrong laws And the reality is that our nation it's very it it's very American and our nation for us to have reverence in the place of uh, you know, presidents and to have politicians in the i you know in the pulpit. The point is is that is that at the root of our entire nation is this difficulty of of d discerning between the two. And so in the eighties when the religious right started pushing for all these moral laws, uh and everybody said they're trying to create a theocracy. They're trying to create a theocracy. The reality is that It feels like that to other people who believe, you know, what our founding fathers believe, like Obama. Obama is firmly uh in the Jeffersonian tradition, you know, of politics in the United States, firmly so. Uh I disagree profoundly with a lot of what he espouses and I think it it'll be bad for the country personally, you know, but that being the case Can you can you argue that he's you know that that he's somehow not uh American in his approach? Unfortunately you can't because he buys right into that political science orientation. You know, and his faith basically his faith is there to do one thing, to inspire him to do good, but then he turns to science and sociology to give him the solutions and the wisdom. He doesn't turn to the Bible, he turns to sociology and to scientific solutions. And that's why that's why I don't think that he's the best thing for our nation because he's looking to man, not to God for for uh you know, his conscience. And from a Christian's perspective, you know, we're gonna have to kind of wrap up the show here in a second, so I'll c maybe we'll kinda end with this thought. Uh unfortunately it'll probably be my thought we'll end the show with forgive me. Uh we turn to the New Testament. Jesus is living in the context of an oppressive world domineering government that the Jews resented and they want wanted thrown off. They wanted to see changes. Jesus didn't spend his time worrying about throwing off the government or changing the government. And then the most famous evangelist of all follows in the footsteps, you know, the Apostle Paul, and he travels the in you know, practically the entire empire. planting churches and building believers, making disciples in the context of that same, you know, uh in modern parlance we'd call it the evil empire. And he didn't address the Empire and how the Emperor should do this differently or they should change that law or they should make life easier for us Christians. That wasn't the focus at all. It was it was the focus was on who Jesus is, who we are in relation to him, and what that means and how we should live our lives, not how the government should live their life. Again, I'm not saying that we shouldn't have any voice in the government, particularly in this country where it's a government of the people, by the people, for the people We are the government, so we have a voice whether we want to or not. The question is how we use it. But we have to be very careful how we blend and blur the two. got himself in political trouble everywhere he went. Meaning that the the political powers, you know, whether it was Galatia, whether it was Thessalonica, whether it was uh down in Corinth, whether it was Ephesus, you know, Jerusalem, everywhere that he went, he got in trouble with the political power. So uh so even though his emphasis wasn't politics it was clear that whatever his emphasis was was majorly upsetting the cultural balance that so many of the business people of the day were uh reaping such major benefits from. So Uh I th you know I I I think that there's a little bit of a balance, you know, in terms of understanding, you know the interplay. Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, my wife, Dina Skinner. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks for listening. Check us out online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. God bless.