Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Show brought to us again by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? On the panel this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor Cr uh Crossroads Valley Chapel. That's it that's still the name of the church, right? You haven't changed it. Yes, it is. That's the wrong name. I need to come up with a you know more succinct easy. He And uh Denny Dixon, the executive director of the CareNet Pregnancy Center of Frederick. Thank you for being on the show again. Last couple of weeks we had John Armstrong. uh from Faith Before and Presbyterian. He's a board member with uh Karenetta Frederick, but uh he's not on this week's show so Jonathan, you'll you'll have to uh hang on uh to all the theological issues I'm gonna throw at you today on your own. She's a hard thing to do, 'cause you're gonna be the devil again? I I am. Yeah. I I mean I wanted to encourage you, but I don't know what am I supposed to say. You're good at it, you know? I mean. Anyway, when the last couple of weeks we kinda laid the well, first show uh that we did together kinda laid the groundwork of uh w what's going on with the issue. The issue of course being abortion. Um and in in a former life I used to be the director of programming for a talk station and w and Whenever a talk show host was struggling, you know, to to to kind of finish out a show, they they had a four hour, you know, live calling show and they're, you know, two and a half hours in and the phone lines are dead and their guests sit 'em up and they didn't prepare well for their show. and they're just dying, they have nothing left to talk about. You know, the old standby was, abortion, what do you think? And the phone lines would light up Wow, finish the show. Wait, you literally like like that was like indust industry wide people knew that uh that to get a talk show going you just bring up abortion or other hot topic. It's so easy that after a while you purposely try to avoid it, even when you should be talking about it because it's in the new News. It's like too easy. Right. So you stay away from it. So we're talking about topic. Can I just say something about that? I feel like uh the whole culture class uh thing uh just in general across the nation that that's part of it it bothers me that that's the way it ends up happening because the fact of the matter is that if you're a Christian and you have strong uh opinions that you feel like apply to society. Everything's turned into a culture class. We're no longer allowed to even have these kinds of discussions. In fact I feel like I feel like so often on this show, Troy, that we end up having discussions uh, you know, at a much more um uh respectful, you know, in uh kind you know, non-argumentative, non-angry kind of a tone. And it seems like people are unwilling to do that every anymore. Everything's a caricature of the enemy. And there's no longer the ability for us to sit down, look eye to eye, and I wonder where that comes from, you know, what creates that. Uh but then at the end of the day then nobody pays attention to the issues because it's just Fight, fight, fight, fight, fight. And everybody's confused and and and the truth is is lost in the cloud of the fight instead of there being you know, like at the beginning of our country, the clash of ideas was the sound of freedom where people could disagree and everybody could Listen to the disagreement and come away and say, you know, I liked what he said or I liked what he said, you know, and and things would be helped, the conversation would be helped instead of hurt by the process of communication, but that doesn't seem to happen anymore. Well there are those who would blame people like you. I think so. Right? I mean here in fact that came up in the last show, didn't it? I didn't really answer that. Here's a here's a basic argument. Yeah. And And then either one of you can try to feel to this argument, right? You know, to the answer this question. If you believe that you shouldn't have an abortion. Having an abortion is wrong, some sort of sin against God or what have you. Okay, fine. Don't have an abortion If I'm convinced that to not have an abortion would be a sin against God or a sin against myself or whatever, then I should be allowed to have an abortion. And you're trying to impose your morality on me by outlawing something that should be free to me to choose. I mean after all as a woman pretending we're woman here, me as a woman, I should be able to do what I want with you know it it's my body, my rules, you shouldn't be able to tell me what to do. I'm not feeling very good at trying to imagine you as a woman. Nevertheless, I got your point. I I my my the basic response to that has to be You live in a democratic republic. And in a democratic republic, you vote for people that will make laws But the abortion laws were not uh were not developed. There is no abortion law. It's only a judicial fiat that was handed down by unelected judges at the Supreme Court uh w we didn't have the chance to vote on it and everywhere that it's ever been voted on in the United States abortion has been uh uh profoundly outlawed. If i uh all in all the polls, if they were to literally allow there to be a just a straight vote that the Supreme Court wouldn't knock down that the vote would say that abortion should be outlawed, and so this idea that somehow in the penumbras of the of the uh ghosts of of you know some law from the past that they find this this uh right to privacy that guarantees that people can you know, uh commit a commit abortion is this uh this facade that uh that has nothing to do with the Constitution of the United States, has nothing to do with the w w with the democratic process of the United States, and so that's fine if you want to If you want to have an abortion, then uh l let's vote on it and let's let's decide, you know, what kind of laws we're gonna have in the nation. Well also I just want to add to that, you know, abortion f affects society. Forty-three percent of all women in the United States have had or will have an abortion by the time they're forty years old. That is a phenomenal statistic. So you look at our nation and you find behind every woman there's a man, there's a family, there's a decision And that's why it's so close to the heart of every American, I do believe. But morality, uh we look at morality and and morality is also our ethics. It's our innate nature saying what's right and what's wrong People don't feel good about abortion. They don't talk about abortion over coffee. They don't announce their abortions to relatives. It is very secret, even among people who would consider themselves pro choice. That's something else to consider. And I think another point, Troy, that you said is my own body. It's not your own body. And and that's where the tension comes. I mean, from the moment of conception, a human being is created with a completely new set of DNA. I mean from the moment of conception, the color of your hair, um, the color of your eyes, how tall you'll be, if you'll get diabetes when you're 45, is all determined at that moment. That is phenomenal. At twenty two days, the heartbeat begins to beat in an unborn baby. So it isn't a woman's body, and I think she's very cognizant of that. Yes, she can make that decision, but that baby is different than he has. Now it's interesting the two responses I got. One was a political response from Jonathan, which I've come to expect, and one was a medical response from somebody involved at CareNet Pregnancy Center. Go figure. But let me, you know, challenge both of those a little bit. Let me start with uh Jonathan with the the governmental structure. We don't live in a democracy. We live in a democratic republic that has a separation of powers. Yep. And are you suggesting that we do away with the judicial system and just have an executive and legislative branch? That's a very good question. No, I think I think that the judges and actually the the current uh court leans back in this direction. I'm very pleased with uh uh with uh Justice Roberts um court is John Roberts, right? Um uh because he's inclined to not read into the Constitution but to to let the Constitution speak for itself. Whereas we've had a whole slew of judges that are very activist and have have uh legislated from the bench. Um in fact Oliver Wendell Wendell Holmes uh just a few years back was was as as much a eugenicist as possible and he actually argued that we should uh that we should do this this whole racial um uh development thing that that the best thing to do was to uh make sure that the outcasts and and that the the low members of society didn't reproduce. He was a judge on the Supreme Court with as racist uh views as you could imagine, I mean literally Hitler esque. As as Germanic as you could imagine uh he held those kinds of views. And the problem was was in in ruling along those lines. He was not ruling according to a Bill of Rights. He was ruling according to a fascist approach. to structuring society and somehow developing this this new society where we're with a race that would be uh better than all the other previous races that were evolving into the future. My point is is that is that No, I don't think we should do away with the judicial branch, but I do think that there are many judges that should have been impeached for not uh ruling according to the Constitution, but for ruling according to their own conscience. Now you talk about a vote uh you know, forty three percent of the women under the age of forty have voted for. So we were not that far from uh if we were to put it to a vote to a to a victory for the pro-choice side of things. And many of those wouldn't actually vote for it because that's the point that we've been making that they're actually uh sad in they mourn over what they did. But let's say it were put up for a vote. Okay. And let's say by either a huge or a narrow margin, doesn't matter, maybe a even a plurality for that matter, um, it passes. Then all of a sudden it's okay. Uh, it would not still be okay. It would simply be a reflection of a society that has lost a genuine uh appreciation for life. and that is moving down the road because, you know, it's a slippery slope abortion then leads to, you know, assisted suicide which then leads to uh in a uh saying that if somebody is is a mouth that's being fed but is not producing for society then we need to do away with with uh with those people and and where we're already starting to pay attention to in the womb, uh kids that that we know have certain diseases. You know, my wife was offered a a certain test. to see whether or not one of our boys might have a disease that would recommend that we would have an abortion. We said, no, we don't want the test. We don't even want to know Because we want to have the baby. We don't we don't want to be picking and choosing, you know, just because the kid's gonna have blu uh blonde hair and blue eyes and and is gonna have a higher IQ. I mean, look at you and I You know, we don't have the gr highest IQs out there. You know, we're just average everyday guys. If we if we start looking for a superhuman race then we are no better than uh the fascists that have gone on before and we are simply uh losing our appreciation for life. We have uh because of moral relativism, because of selfishness, because of wanting to live our own free lives, we've lost the ability to be a community and to care about one another. I just uh that's just unacceptable at every level. So it's clear from your answer to this it's not just some sort of political issue or is it is it a political issue really at all? It becomes a political issue only because those that that are currently advocating for it advocate for it from what I feel like is more of a statist, state control orientation that that is exactly the opposite of what our Democratic Republic was supposed to be about. And many of the judges that have been the activist judges along those lines have uh ha have also been of that kind of mentality. And uh I I I it it is it they they literally argued early on Swanger and Oliver Wendell Holmes and many of these guys argued that a liberal democracy in the early nineteen hundreds was old and decaying and needed to be replaced by like what Mussolini was doing in Italy. Literally all of the all of the uh top the New York Times editorial page, uh um uh Roosevelt, FDR, Franklin Donald Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, all these guys We're advocating that we do away with our Constitution, that we set up this state where the state would would lead us into the future and make this, you know, this great future. And I'm glad that they failed then And I hope that they'll fail now as well. I'm going to switch back to the medical side here in a second. Before I do, let me remind everyone, all three of you who are listening. Just kidding. Three? There's only two. My wife listens. Okay, cool. Uh if you're listening to the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930, WFMD, I'm Froy Skinner. He's John Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. She's Jenny Dixon, the executive director of the CareNet Pregnancy Center in Frederick. And uh a moment ago you're talking about DNA and it's not the woman's body, it's some other body. You know, I've heard an awful lot, read an awful lot about people who would argue that it's not a body at all It's a massive cells, you know, sure it has DNA, but does that make it, you know, some sort of thing that's viable for life? I mean a a corpse has DNA, it's not viable for life. So you know how strong is the medical argument really? I used to like you, Troy, but I'm I'm sorry to begin though. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, I you can find debate on both sides, but I I think you have to have to look at it and realize it it it's full of human chromosomes. It's it is a human, it's not just a mass of cells. It is particularly human massive cells. It is a living organism. It does have DNA. It has you know, it it's not um just a potential life, but it's life with potential. And I think that's the way you have to view it. Um i personality traits. The more we find, the more we discover scientifically goes way, way back at the moment. And that's what I find interesting. I mean even National Geographic have has put out Video after video on fetal development and early fetal development. They even did one on animals. It's fascinating But I think how can you look at those stages of embryonic development and say that it's not a life, that it's not a human life? I mean the heartbeat at twenty-two weeks. That's amazing. And that's the first thing you can see on ultrasound. I want to say that too. When we have clients come in, um, it may be really early, but you can see that pinpoint of light, that beating heart Which is very unique. Now in some cases though, l you know, let's say that I want to try to meet you halfway and say that there's life with potential or potential life or whatever, maybe you know, past the sec second trimester, maybe I'll meet you there. Like I'll you know, everybody's gotta have some line in the sand that they're gonna draw. Like nobody's gonna say Well, I decided I want to be a parent, so I'm gonna kill my, you know, four year old and my two month olds. Like n nobody's advocating for that. So everybody has a line they're willing to draw where it's no longer okay to kill either life with potential or potential life. So where are you heading to like the stem cell debate? Is that where you're headed to? No. Okay, but you could go there. Yeah, yeah. But before we go there, okay, this is kind of the question Yeah. Okay, let's talk about life. Let's talk about quality of life. What kind of life you know talk about the test that uh the the the doctors wanted your wife to have, Jonathan. Yes. What if it was gonna be some horribly impacted uh You know, child with no limbs, uh an IQ of twelve. And I'd like to speak to that because I actually have a nephew who's very handicapped and will have to be taken care of the rest of his life. And My sister really had a perfect life growing up. She was not suspecting that and she has had to care. But I can tell you, um, having this child in her family has brought um great compassion, um unconditional love. It has taught our family lessons we would have never learned in our entire life. Is it easy? No. Do we love him? Yes If we had a chance to say, could he be born again or not? We would definitely say yes, because we are madly in love with this child. Even though he cannot reciprocate that love. And I'd like to recommend the book. I think it's interesting that we talked about amniocentesis and the testing that they do. Flashing Towards Gomorrah by Robert Bork, and he really does talk about the search and destroy mission of children with Down syndrome. And I think it's interesting because through the years we're going to see less and less of our little Down syndrome babies. And yet they are the most affectionate, the most loving children you can possibly Um You know, uh Devil's Advocate, I have a friend by the name of uh Troy Skinner who has a young child who is uh I believe thirteen, twelve, thirteen in there, somewhere that range and uh who is uh profoundly uh mentally retarded. He has autism and the opposite of autism, which is William syndrome. William syndrome. And uh and my experience is that for them as a couple, for uh for their daughter and for the entire community of people that know them and surround them that they are profoundly uh uh inspired and lifted up and edified by seeing the love that is given to this young man. I mean uh it's everywhere that we go and and as soon as you argue that okay the quality of life Uh well if you if you're gonna go away from mental re retardation then you're gonna go to what? You're gonna go to whether or not there's drugs and alcohol and and abuse and those kinds of things. And the bottom line is then you've chosen a line of reasoning that assumes despair instead of assuming hope. And if you want to go that direction, I'm saying I cannot follow you there. I can't live in that place. If that's the s if that's where your scientific worldview has led you, then then you're right. We have parted ways, and I'm not going to come anywhere close to following you. 'Cause I gotta believe in hope. One, I gotta believe in hope because there are kids already alive that are in those situations. And two, that there are people that want to have kids but can't seem to get out of their situation. Am I I'm saying that that what we should just uh emasculate them or we should just uh uh sterilize them? No way. I'm saying that I want them to know that they too can have hope and that's what Christ was all about You know, he didn't he didn't he didn't stone the adulterous woman. You know, he bro he came so that the sick would be healed and the Hippocratic Oath for that matter. You know? Uh in fact I just read something the other day that that when it comes to uh this eugenic approach uh that that cares more about a race that's being developed than about the individuals that you're dealing with, the Hippocratic oath oath becomes uh nothing but hypocrisy and nothing but a fraud You know that we care about every individual. And if and if I have to make a decision between that individual and and a society being better, then you know what? The only proper response to that is that I would sacrifice my life instead of taking another life. Who cares about society? The individual is the most em you know, is way more important and as soon as we sacrifice that than than than the slippery slope toward Stalin, Mao Sae Tongue, Pol Pot, you know, not to mention Hitler and and uh Mussolini and the others. You know, it's it's inevitable and why would we even want to go that direction? We can't do that. I'd rather fight the fight for whether or not stem cells are worth uh being given the dignity than to allow myself to go down the slippery slope and say, oh well maybe eight months pregnant. Oh well maybe twelve months pregnant. Oh well maybe you know, uh m maybe right before the born, you know, and uh and we'll s you know, stick 'em in the head with w with uh with scissors, you know, and kill them. You know, m m the slippery slope is just outrageous. I mean, do we even realize how cl where we are when we're arguing that way? Let's let's fight for life, not how long we can get away with killing life. You made the argument earlier, I don't know if it was I think it was an earlier show, I don't think it was this show, about the a slippery slope argument and uh assisted suicide. Yeah. Yeah. Well okay. Let's let's just for a minute, because this isn't about assisted suicide, it's about abortion, I understand, but the whole slippery slope idea sure kinda ties it together. What's wrong with that? Assisted suicide? I mean, you know, if you've got a a sick dog, you put you you put it down, a horse breaks its leg in a in a uh stakes race, they put it down. Yeah, because do you see what they're being mean? They're doing it because you know what? The compassionate thing to do, I'm gonna miss that dog. That dog meant so much to me. It's gonna cause me great pain to keep that to uh to not keep that dog. But the loving, compassionate thing to do is to put the dog or the horse or the whatever out of its minus uh um misery. Uh two things. The first thing is that uh is that your argument automatically started appealing to somehow humans are are on a on a par morally uh the death of a human is on a par morally with animals and who says that they're not uh well well again that would be like three or four shows worth of material and I'd be very happy to go there with you. Um but for now I'm just gonna I'm I'm just gonna say that that it If again, if you're going that direction, then uh then we're going a very ugly direction. But then secondly, the the point is if it's a human being Uh they're not they're not valuable based on what they can produce for society. They're valuable because they are a human being, because because they are who they are. And as soon as we advocate for assisted suicide Pretty soon it's not assisted suicide, it's mandatory suicide. And the point is is that as soon as there's a little bit of a sense in somebody's mind that, oh man, I don't feel like I'm I'm helpful to society anymore, you know, and I don't feel like anybody really cares about me anymore. I'm just gonna give up, you know, and I'm gonna I'm gonna commit suicide. As soon as you go down that road then then there's going to be a subtle social pressure for anybody that feels the least bit like they're a dragon society to as quickly as possible remove themselves from the picture. You know, kind of like uh you can almost uh view the the ancient Chinese, you know, where they have pictures uh commit Harry Carey, you know, because somehow they're not valuable to society anymore. And the point is is that assisted suicide becomes mandatory suicide Uh it's just sli it's a slippery slope that's right around the corner. It's the toilet green go there. Right, the movie from the seventies. I mean that's that's what you're talking about there. Okay, let's go where you thought I was going before Sem cell research. All right. You have to admit there's lots of debate. It rages. You you have taken a position. There are others who have taken out of the position. There is um Globally, it would appear that on a in a big scale, there is some sort of a shadow of a doubt as to when life begins. And so now you have somebody whose life has clearly begun. They've been born, they're alive, but now they're severely impacted by something, and their life could be improved. Nay, let's say their life could be saved. if we could do some tests on these embryotic s stem cells on something that were not even uh we can't even come to any sort of consensus on whether or not that's life or not. So doesn't it make sense to make use of these embryonic stem cells to do the research to help the people that we can without a doubt. We have consensus. They are alive. Well I I think it's interesting because you know we use the the term embryonic stem cell or fetal stem cells. But Actually, science has proven that adult stem cells are just as effective. So it's so basic. I mean it's it's a no-brainer. It's like, why do we have to use unborn babies? We can just use adult stem cells Yes, it's clear to me that there's a bigger agenda than just embryonic stem cells because we have found so many uh positive medical breakthroughs from the adult stem cells. Exactly. That this idea that there might be benefit from embryonic stem cells if we just did research long enough Uh the the the nature of that particular argument is uh it's not based in science. It's based in this this hope, this fantasy, this faith that if we if we just tapped into, you know, this this um uh youthful spring, the you know, the fountain of youth, you know, like like somehow the embryonic s stem cell because it's so young and it's in the embryo, maybe that's a that's a fountain of youth. That's that's more myth and fantasy than it is there's no science there except for when they start actually doing the experimentation, which has produced nothing. But what if it What if it were true? Uh okay, the point is is that so far it's not, and the fact that we have to make all that that we have to set aside the moral argument to even go that direction tells me that You know, why would we even bother? If it were true look, there's all kinds of things that could be true. If we're gonna set morals aside in order to start making uh decisions about what we can experiment with medically We can set all kinds of morals aside. Well let me spin it then. Let's go situation where we know that there could be a life saved. Let's say the the mother's life is in jeopardy and the only way the mother's life could be saved would be to abort uh the the uh fetus, would that be an okay time to have an abortion? Well let me put myself in this situation. If my life was the one and it was between me and the other, I would say, you know what? It's better to sacrifice your own life than to sacrifice your moral ethics and your character. Cause as soon as as soon as you have made that one step then then the the entire rest of your life is is uh been um how do I put it, you know, corrupted and you'll know it the rest of your life that that you that that you you're on this slippery slope that you're more important than everybody else and you feel like you have to prove that you're more important instead of just being important for who you are as an individual. And uh I'd say it'd be better just to just to give your own life. That's Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, also on the panel this week. Jenny Dixon, Executive Director of Care Net Pregnancy Center of Frederick I'm Troy Skinner, today playing the Devil's Advocate on the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Check us out online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith Debate. Thanks for listening. God bless.