Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, host and moderator, joined this week by the founder of Great Commission Families, Bernie Beale, and of course the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Sweitzer. And I want to remind you to check us out online, wfmd. com keyword faith. You'll find a weekday, daily blog from me, an occasional blog from Jonathan. You can get to his blog by linking uh from the Faith Debate page. If you like this show or you hate it so much you want to listen to it again to challenge something we said, you can listen to it on the podcast in the audio vault section of the website as well. Tell your friends. You can download it into your uh MP3 player. Whatever brand, iPod, whatever brand of MP3 player you have. I'm sure many people do just that. Yes, I know. I can only imagine how many people are listening over and over again. Yeah. Like what I'm saying right now, if you're listening to over and over again, that's like cool. Yes, yes. Yes, we think way too much of ourselves. So what we're Well, uh how do we want to f yeah parse that? Because you think a lot about Yourself. Oh, oh. And I think a lot of myself. So between us. But do we really think a lot of ourselves? Like do you really think that much of me and me of you? I don't know. Yeah, yeah. It depends on whether or not you're wearing a suit on a given day Yeah, right before the show, John's gave me a hard time 'cause I'm I am wearing a tie. Yes, you are. But no suit. And he and he thinks that you, the listener, are disappointed that I'm not wearing a suit jacket. Yes, 'cause you can tell, right? My apologies. Just like you can tell if somebody's smiling or not when they talk, yeah. Yeah, well you can tell that. Yes, that you can tell. Yes. Anyway, w today we're gonna talk about um how we got to where we are in America. We have talked about this um in passing uh on the show before. But what's in fact I think If I'm remembering correctly, the very last show that we did, uh maybe it was two shows ago, uh, we talked about uh Um America heading down the path. uh of Europe. Was it last week? Yeah, yeah, just a couple of weeks ago. I forget which. So uh so we're gonna expand on that a little bit. And there's been much debate over the last sev well, over the lot of years, but certainly over the last several years um more debate on whether or not we have a Christian foundation for the nation. For this nation, whether or not our founding fathers were Christian believers or not and that sort of thing. And so we uh decided to bring on an expert in such matters. Oh no pressure or anything. Someone who enjoys the topic. There you go. But Bernie Beal, uh I mentioned he's the founder of Great Commission Families and part of what they do anyway is conduct tours at area attractions really. Like the battlefields. Right, like the in Gettysburg or or Antietam or Harper's Ferry or Well. You know, in Frederick. And talk about the history there from a a Christian's perspective, I guess, right? Like what what a Christian might want to know about what happened there. Yes. You know, the true history, what honestly happened, you know, that anybody could say straight up, but looking back at it from today as a Christian, what can we learn and w to live out my life today, live out our lives as as families, Christian families No, I don't know if we're going to get into this uh in the in the meat of the show or not. So before we we get into the the topic, subject matter Uh before the show you were explaining to me about the Maryland flag and I thought that was kind of cool. So as an example, to demonstrate Bernie's expertise, talk about the Maryland flag and its connection to Christian worldview. Alright, well George Calvert was the first Lord Baltimore. And how he got to be Lord Baltimore is kinda interesting. In sixteen twenty-five he went to his king, King James the First of England. and said, I have become a Roman Catholic. And at that time in the uh English government, that meant you could not be in the government. So he had to be removed from the government, but the king liked him so much, he said, here's what I'm gonna do for you I'm gonna I'm gonna knight you, I'm gonna give you lands, a title and lands. Lord Baltimore is now your new title. You get a castle over there in Ireland, Castle Baltimore Um and you have the rights of heraldry. And so uh George Calvert chose his uh father's family colors, uh black and gold, and he chose the imagery of uh of a palisade with a sash going across. So if you think of the Maryland flag, think of the black and gold part, it kind of looks like a a checkered flag. Well what it's actually emblematic of is uh someone who had fought for his king. The sash going across the Palisades, black and gold, and then the red and white were his mother's family color, and his mother's name was Crossland, mother's maiden name And so uh he put a cross right there in it, and it's a very special cross. It's called a botany cross, meaning it has this like three buttons on the ends of the four arms. And the three buttons represent the Trinity, and the four arms represent the four gospels, are to go to the four corners of the earth. So he put that together in a family crest. But it was never a flag here in Maryland. It was just a an old family crest. It is in the Maryland State uh uh seal, but it became a flag after the American Civil War. Because the black and gold part, the Baltimore colors, were associated with people who were sympathetic to the North. The red and white, the uh crossland colors, were associated with people who were sympathetic with the South And after the Civil War, Civil War veterans felt the great need for reconciliation. In fact, this is the great need of the universe. That's why I I look at the Maryland flag and I see eternal truth in the Maryland flag. And they fly them and they're all over the place around here Uh well, the conf the veterans put together the the flag that uh that is emblematic of the family crest, but indeed was put together for the purposes of show to show reconciliation north and south here in the state of Maryland It resonated with the people of Maryland and was was spread around and became the official flag, I think, in nineteen oh four. Yeah, you could see why it would uh it would be uh it would resonate so well with the people of Maryland 'cause we were right in the middle. Yeah. You know, we didn't know whether we were for the South or we were for the north. You know, it was kind of confusing to us at the time, even though the uh you know, the Mason Dixon line was north of us, there still was that sense of you know, where exactly do we fit in this big picture? And so for our flag to be one that represents that reconciliation is uh makes total sense. And it's the only um uh uh flag of the states in America that's actually uh correct halder heraldry. You know, all the other state flags have US origins, but the the Maryland flag, interestingly enough has uh English heraldic origins. And and we as a ministry, I wrote this gospel flyer here and my my son is a really good graphics designer, made it very colorful. And uh then we transition to how the gospel message is embedded in that 'cause reconciliation ultimately needs to be not just between people, but ultimately between God and people, God and the individual. So that's that flyer Explains about it and we pass them out all over. So how long before somebody decides to uh outlaw the Maryland flag because it's got you know Christian symbolism in it? Yeah, yeah, now we've let the cut out the bag. Here we go. Well it gets it gets worse, Troy, because uh Maryland is the only state that has an official uh flagstaff ornament. The U United States does. It's an eagle on top of the of a flagpole. If you want to put an ornament on there, that's what it's to be. For Maryland, the only state with an official flagstaff ornament, it's indeed the Gold Cross botany. And so if you see every place, every public school was supposed to put on the top of their flagpole, if it only has the Maryland flag on it, you know, separate one for the US and separate one for Maryland, they're supposed to put the gold cross botany, which goes back to the Crusades And it became the official ornament for Maryland in nineteen forty seven, uh or forty-five, somewhere along in there. It was is dur it was when the Cold War was just beginning to show the distinction between an atheistic system And a system founded on faith in God. That's today's topic, so back to you, Joy. Yeah, this is uh it really is a perfect s segue transition into what we're talking. How do we get from there? Yeah. Where we're using overtly using Christian imagery in a state flag and requiring that a a a a cross with Christian uh messages behind it is to sit atop the pole that carries that flag. How do we get from that to separation of church and state? You can't have the Ten Commandments on display in a in a public space in Frederick and You can't have uh anything overtly uh Christian or religious other than in a mythological sense in public schools. How do you get there? And I guess that's what we're gonna talk about uh on this show. But before we get into how we got there, uh Let's you mentioned it became the flag in nineteen oh four, but it has its its roots going back to the Civil War. Let let's go back a little bit further. Let's go back to the uh sixteen hundreds, seventeen hundreds. Right. Okay. Okay. Uh well I say okay like yeah sure I knew that I know these things. But let's go back um four hundred three hundred, four hundred years. All right. And in just a couple of m you know moments. Alright. We don't want to make this a big long history lesson, but a couple of moments. Given your your understanding of history, your love of history, what you've read, what you know to be, you know, true about the people who lived here. in what would become the United States of America. Uh you know, what was what was that like? What were people like back then? That's a very interesting question. I'll I'll use a story. uh from about uh ten or twelve years ago. At the University of Maryland we we were doing a uh a Fourth of July weekend picnic kind of a thing and we had a discussion ahead of time. with graduate students who were mostly from China. And we had this little discussion. We were talking about the Christian heritage of America. And around my little discussion table there was a guy who was a geography uh department person, another was sociology, uh different ones and 'cause there was a question w we were kind of interacting on, which is what has made America great? And um and what we were trying to bring them to is because of God's uh God's blessed America. That's why that's was kind of where I wanted to help them see that. Uh but the the geography guy said, Oh, America's great because It's a large country with two oceans on each side and two countries north and south that have never been, you know, aggressive towards it. So that's why. And the sociology person said, Oh, it's because Um uh the the best and the brightest from the world, because they're thinking, you know, how did they get there? This is because they were allowed to come to America to study because they were bright Uh that that's why we've come here. Uh so the best advice is come to America. That's why America is great. Another guy was uh an agronomy person and he said, Oh the the climate, the temperate the temperate climate is perfect for great agricultural production. That's why America is great. So I suggested to them this. Look at a map of the world, North and South America, or the globe. Look at North and South America. People came to North America, people came to South America. Today what do we have? If you look at a map, South America, many different countries and none of them world powers, shall we say. You know, that there's you know, there's the joke in that Central America is particularly about the banana republics. Well North America, what do we have? Well I would suggest, and this goes directly to your question, those who came to South America predominantly, not exclusively, but predominantly came, and I did this on a chalkboard with them, G O L D Gold. Those who came to North America, they came predominantly for G O D. Forgot the L. They forgot the L, yeah. They they came for God. Uh religious freedom is what's often pointed to. Um though the pilgrims didn't actually come for religious freedom, interestingly enough. Um they came thirteen years after Jamestown, sixteen oh seven Jamestown, sixteen twenty, the pilgrims all arrived um uh providentially in uh in Cape Cod area. They were supposed to go to Jamestown, but this storm kept throwing them off. But they came uh uh most recently from England, but just before that they'd been in the Netherlands. They left England earlier, went to the Netherlands for religious freedom. But while in the Netherlands, they had a problem. The problem was, uh, the Netherlands was there was freedom for everything. So there was there was kind of a culture that was basically licentious. And the pilgrims saw we're losing our kids We need to go somewhere where we can raise them in the fear and admission of the Lord so that we can be a stepping stone for them to take the gospel to the world. if that you know perchance in God's providence. So they came to the pilgrims came, you've heard the phrase, city on a hill. That was the phrase that uh that they they saw Plymouth as to set up a city that would be ultimately I mean they couldn't see the end from the beginning, but they were just stepping out in faith to trust God. So the pilgrims came for that person uh purpose. The uh the Puritans came pretty much after them, pretty much overwhelmed them. Um and uh the way to think of the difference between the pilgrims and the Puritans, and this is very significant for us as Christians today The pilgrims separated from the state church, the established church, the uh or institutional church, to be different and be faithful to God. The Puritans, they wanted to stay in the Church of England, in the state church. uh the established church and purify uh the church. So there was always a a tension there. And I see that down through today. Uh sometimes I talk to Christians and they're in a a certain church setting and you know there's they're f uh essentially kind of fighting and struggling to get the church back to its purpose and roots and and spiritual heritage and and then others are saying well you know I'm not gonna sit around for that I'm gonna leave So that's the difference between a pilgrim and a puritan, um, in in in a simple way. But both are needed. Uh if if the pilgrims didn't exist the Puritans would have had a hard time. 'Cause with the p pilgrims out there, the Puritans could say, You see, that's what it looks like to be faithful to the Lord. That's what we want to do here. And so we both need each other. So why did the first people come to America? Uh there was a lot I'm talking about the people with uh the most spiritual motives, but you know, there were of course adventurers and uh Jamestown was set up as a business Um but uh it was in all the documents, always. It was they would have uh and often put it first because they um uh even if they uh no matter where they stood personally, spiritually, they'd always put first. This is to advance the gospel of Jesus Christ. That was the reason they came. So we start with uh s some Puritans and other very religious, God seeking people coming. And then over time, uh, you have the Enlightenment uh sweeps through uh Europe and uh and arrives on our shores as well. And then you have people, you know, cutting the miraculous out of their Bible and And uh science becomes a little bit more uh prominent uh over uh faith matters. Start having deism uh rise in a a strong way in this country. Um And of course there's the evil of slavery and and and uh big big problem. And what that does to evil. What that does to the spiritual uh climate uh of the nation at that time. People get a little bit confused, you start to apologize for an evil at undercut your your credibility and then the morality cuts you off at the knees. So you have that going on. And then um on the heels of all of that or in the midst of all of that you have a great awakening. But then you have a civil war that tears the country apart. You have another great awakening, but in the midst of that you have uh Charles Darwin put his theory out. And then we have the turn of the century and Freudianism comes along and you combine Freudianism with Darwinism and you get uh modern day liberalism. And the seminaries fall apart. By the early nineteen hundreds, the seminaries are no longer conservative, but they're liberal institutions theologically, most of them. And those seminary students come of age in the uh fifties and sixties and um we see what happens to this country, the moral fabric of this country in the nineteen sixties, and before you know it The Puritans who started the whole darn thing are it's used as a pejorative thing. Oh, you're puritanical. Is that too simplistic of a of a of a quick run through American history? The Puritans start out as the good guys and they end up as the bad guys. Uh I think I think you would have to argue though that the Puritans were not necessarily um as uh idealistic to all Americans, meaning not all Americans thought the Puritans were you know, the best representation or ideal for the nation. In fact, the Puritans uh kind of struggled themselves to to figure out what the proper balance should be between you know, a secular government and a religious institution struggling, you know, at one point they said you had to be a member of the church in order to vote, the Puritans did. uh but then a lot of their children weren't getting saved and so they said, well you have to at least be the son of somebody that that was a was a believer in order to vote, you know, but then you know pr pretty soon uh that wasn't working any longer. And so the Puritan uh f foundations, the earliest, you know, pilgrims, uh colonists of the nation, uh really gave way to a a much broader uh group of uh intellectual thinkers, you know, that included a Ben Franklin and Thomas Jefferson and those guys. And the question was, like most people would argue that that it's a it's a balance between the founding of the nation was a balance between uh Judeo Christian values and the Enlightenment and that that because we had the Judeo Christian with the Enlightenment that it was a healthy balance to create a society that could be um moving into the future and progressive, moving beyond feudalism, be mo moving beyond all the old structures of the uh the old world while at the same time maintaining your Christian foundation. The question that I have to ask these days is whether or not uh well Now, let me let me say this before I ask the question. It seems to me that that many of the founding fathers, meaning those that wrote the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, uh had a Christian core that that kind of was cloaked with the Enlightenment But there are others that clearly, meaning some of our founding fathers, that had an enlightenment core that was simply cloaked with Christianity. And the point is that we had some of both. And so Uh I mean based along those lines I'd say that somebody like Obama fits, you know, in a very, very strong way with a Jeffersonian uh American religious tradition. He you know, he he's got the the core of what he believes is a scientific uh orientation. This this uh sociology and political science is gonna tell us how b how to form a more perfect union. But he cloaks that with a faith that has kind of uh cut all of the you know, a lot of things out of the Bible. And you know, that's very Jeffersonian for him to do that. And so um the question is You know, where exactly is our nation today? Uh, you know, have we really fallen that far, or does it just happen that we have a view of the past that is way more Christian than it ever really was? Before uh Bernie has a chance to answer that question, let me uh reintroduce. As Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD And now about to speak, Bernie Beal, founder of the Great Uh Commission Families. Um yeah, how about that question? Are we really worse off now than we had been? Or it's just we're we're looking at it through a different lens and we think it's worse than it was. Um the short answer, yes, I think it's worse than it was, and it's probably uh worse than we realize, uh but uh God's still on his throne. I I would say that um you know the founding fathers, you know, the the fifty or fifty two of the fifty five who signed the Declaration of Independence uh had an overt faith. um they're members of a an established church from their state. But by the way, the Puritans were mainly or mostly in New England. So I don't want to misunderstand that they were the founders of the whole country. It's very important of the thirteen colonies. Um and then those writers of the Constitution or the Dr the Constitution Convention, overwhelmingly uh Christian. Um Now the Constitution itself. Can I ask a question along those lines? Sure. I mean, can't we say that's true of of the large majority of people that are in Congress now? There they're still oh you know, they would they would claim to have some kind of faith, either Methodist or Presbyterian or or whatever. Yeah, I was gonna comment on that based on the fath founding fathers. Church membership, you know, when you get to the gates of heaven as the story goes, or or stand in front of God, he's not gonna say, Let me check your membership You know? He's he's looking at a heart. He's not looking at a right and the point is is that certainly Jefferson and Franklin and those guys, um, they would not fit in the in the kind of church that you would want to attend. Uh in fact they would probably fit very firmly in in in a church that uh that you would tend to preach against uh at some level. And uh it's likely that many of the deists we you know were very similar along those lines. So um the question is if that's the case, then Uh are we really that far off? Because there's quite a few, I think, senators and congressmen today that would also go to churches that I would preach against. Well, the the uh foundational principles of our government um have not changed. And uh they're rooted in Christian scripture. In fact, um uh I like pointing out to people when I give tours down in DC uh where you can see the three branches of government. You know, there's the Supreme Court building, there's the White House, there's the uh the Capitol building, legislative branch. I point out, you know, the Founding Fathers, they had a keen sense of of very important Christian doctrine the doctrine of sin. It's very much out of favor today. You know, man's basically good is kind of what's often thought. Um no, we we're self-centered. Now we have capacity for good, and that's a really good thing. Uh or you know we'd really be in a mess in this world Uh but uh we tend to be self-centered and they had just the founding fathers they had just come out from under a king who was a person who to them, if you read the Declaration of Independence, about eighty percent of it is a listing out of why this king is a tyrant So they saw you can't trust a man, a person, to be your government. And that's why the phrase got very popular. We have no king but Jesus. That was a very popular phrase in that day. Um so they thought, okay, we're gonna form a government, we're gonna create a new kind of government, what should it be? And uh I like to point out that if you think about it, um We have the oldest government in the world today, not the oldest culture, but the oldest government. Uh every four years, without exception, we have inaugurated a new president since George Washington first took the oath of office Without exception. No world war, no depression, nothing has ever interrupted it. Except for the couple times that we inaugurated the same guy. But the point is that we did it without there being a revolution. Yes. Yeah, yeah. Um you know when a foreigner cu uh comes, you know, f uh y I used the term earlier, banana republic, which is not a real polite term, but uh you know when someone from other parts of the world see our change of government, what they don't see is standing armies enforcing the inauguration. Um but here's So that you see that at certain conventions. Trying to keep people from Oh yes. No, they just bust them to the zoo. No, they do anymore. But if you think about it, we have a three branch government. Three branches. That's very interesting. There's the a verse in the Bible, Isaiah 33, 22, which says The Lord is our judge, the Lord is our lawgiver, the Lord is our King. He will save us. This is a picture of God Himself. The most stable thing in the universe is God Himself. So if you pattern a government after God Himself, it will have inherent stability. The way I like to describe it is it's like a three-legged chair. A three-legged chair won't wobble. A four-legged chair, you've always got to make sure each leg is exactly the same length or it will wobble Three legged has inherent stability, as long as no individual leg is too long. Um so that verse is describing God. God is our judge, as he gives discernment, God the Holy Spirit, God is our lawgiver, God the Father gave a law God is our King in the sense that Jesus is is King, King Jesus, and we have an executive branch that can be a good thing. Where do you find the Bill of Rights in the Bible? There were many um Christians at the time of the founding of our nation that were of the opinion uh that the Bill of Rights, which was a uniquely uh drawn uniquely from uh the uh French Revolution and things that were going on there, uh found the idea of a Bill of Rights to be offensive to uh biblical Christianity because it it turned things from uh from there being a sense in scripture that you and I have a responsibility to live a certain way and it turned it into a more self-centered. We often talk in our nation how uh how individualism is the reigning world view in the United States. You know, I do what's good for me and my family, I d you know, and and y you know, you take care of yourself. And and and it's been to the detriment of a sense of community and the in the in a sense of of uh of um working together. Even even strong churches are uh not so strong because they there's They struggled to build a sense of community instead of just people coming as individuals and leaving as individuals and not really interacting with one another. My point is is that Many would argue that the Bill of Rights was the uh was the beginning of that particular breakdown or lead in the direction of uh an overt individualism that is uh inherently non-Christian. So Before Bernie has a chance to answer the question of where we can find the Bill of Rights in the Bible, we're going to have to pause for uh 167 and a half hours. That's all. That's all. Stay tuned. That's shift. Enjoy your rest. Don't leave your radio for the next one hundred and sixty seven hours and thirty minutes Uh we've reached the conclusion of this episode of the Frederick Faith Debate. Thank you, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you, Bernie Beale, founder of Great Commission Families. Thank you for listening. And thank you to our sponsor Putman Fleming and Heating, How can you make you smile? I'm Froy Skinner. You can email me a thought, a question, a concern. Um fodder for my blog, fodder for this show. Simple enough, Troy T-R-O-Y at WFMD. com. Again, please visit us online, WFMD. com keyword faith. Um you can find my daily blog, weekdays there, links to Jonathan's blog, which I don't visit often enough, but when I do I end up getting sucked in for a while because, well, he's kinda long-winded. So uh what's what we love about him Yes, yes, yes, yes. We love it. I mean he's not he's not good looking so he makes up for it with volume of words. Yes, maybe next week you'll wear your uh suit jacket so that everybody will uh like you better. Anyway, thank you so much for listening. Till next week. God bless.