She would feel less than real, and she would feel what is clearer than her mirror. Take a look around her, magazine splendid. I am a queen with flying dreams in her diary, so inspiring. Nobody told her that little girl just left to have a little bit. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. We're opening the show a little bit differently than usual. you would hear an instrumental uh version of uh of a track from the rock group journey playing right now that's what we usually open the show with. But today we open with some Nicole Nordman because it's The holiday time and everybody who listens to their holiday music and uh you know I I don't think it's any secret. Anybody listens to the Frederick Faith debate knows. that uh that I am a a professing Christian and so for me a good Christmas song would be any Christian song. And my wife is uh on the panel uh again this week. Hello. Good morning. And I don't know how many years ago it is now. Five, ten years ago in that window when we started to pay attention to what was going on on the contemporary Christian music scene. Yeah, about f more of five, I think. And, you know It gets a bad rap, contemporary Christian music does by a lot of people in a lot of circles, and I think rightfully so in a lot of cases. Yeah. It's not always real good stuff. Um and a lot of it sounds very much the same. A little cheesy. You know, overproduced sometimes, uh very repetitive, uh, you know, not always the most thoughtful lyrics or whatever, that sort of thing. Those Those are critiques and criticisms you'll hear, and I think that uh there's some merit to those sorts of things. But not all quote-unquote Christian music is the same. And uh some of it's good, some of it's bad, some of it's jazzy, some of it's rock, some of it's country, some of its blues, some of it's uh hip hop. You know, there's all sorts of some of it's fun Some of it's very serious, some of it's tear-jerking, whatever. So we're going to give you a sampler on the show today on the Frederick Faith debate. And I guess the debate part will be whether or not you like the music and think that uh it's good or not A different topic for a different show, by the way. We've we've addressed this in the slightest of ways, but never done a whole show on on how appropriate it is to have contemporary Christian music that sounds very much like the pop music scene. You know, is that something that the church should be active um in producing? Should we be you know, is that something we want to be doing as a church? Are we becoming too much like the world? But that's not what we're talking about so much today, but It's something to keep in the back of your mind. What you started out the hearing is the beginning of the show as Nicole Nicole Nortiman. Uh that song was Uh Isn't Any Wonder from Wide Eyed, in case you're interested in checking out that uh compact disc, that album that she has out. Very jazzy. She's not always jazzy, don't want to give you the wrong idea. She's got some stuff that's a little more pop oriented, but uh she a lot of her stuff is very jazzy. Mm-hmm. Um who does she remind who would be a Is um what's that, uh Norah Jones? Yeah, a little bit like Nora Jones. Not not exactly like Nora Jones. No, she doesn't have that smoky voice like Nora Jones has. But the style of music I would say has a little bit of that with the piano and Yeah, that's that's fair Now if you listen to regular music radio from time to time, you might be familiar with the name of this band, Mercy Me, because they've had some qu quote unquote crossover. Right. Which is not here's a little story for you. There's a uh Uh I forget the website I was on now, darn it, but it was some website that was talking about music. And it wasn't a Christian music uh website. It was just talking about all sorts of different music. And um Mercy Me came up in conversation on one of these blog sites with these people going back and forth chatting online with each other. And Mercy Me came up and somebody said that they kinda liked Mercy Me and somebody else came on and said, Yeah, I like Mercy Me too. They're they're not so bad except They're so darn Christian. All their songs are Jesus this, Jesus that, you know, they'd be pretty good if it weren't for that. And it kind of tells you where some people are uh on these issues. Anyway, it it took me a while to warm to Mercy Me for whatever reason. Oh, I love them. My my wife fell in love with Mercy Me really quickly And it took me a little while to to grow to appreciate them, but now that I appreciate them, they're one of my favorite bands. I'm not sure why I was so slow on the book. Well I saw him in concert and he has such a heart for the Lord And that's really what warmed me to him more w more than anything, just that instant fellowship of the spirit when he was up there and just sharing his life story and pouring his heart out and p and really bringing glory to God in every way possible and of course his gifting is music and he writes almost everything and his primary purpose is to allow God to turn any of his ashes into beauty, which is of course very scriptural. He truly wants God to get all the glory in every area of his life, even his pain. That's Awesome. So here's an example of Mercy Me for you to listen to right now. Hope you enjoy this song. Why is it not playing? Here we go. Let's try that again. Uh oh technically. That was uh blow your ears out. Here we go. This is so long self from their CD coming up to breathe. Mercy me on 930 WFMD. So I think a rock DJ now, right? Not quite. Live by Come across a little bit this time It's just because I am Things just seem to feel a little bit different You wanna see it a lot of life But I haven't been the one who isn't worthy for let me say So long still Nobody is still still but you though you are gonna have no room Still I still can take this one that you are one for me Well goodbye, don't cry. Now if you were really enjoying that, I'm sorry to jump in and cut it off, but we we'll try to give you a taste of the different kinds of music that are out there right now on the contemporary Christian uh music scene. And there you know, all these are going to be things that play to the tastes of my wife and I, so you have to understand that this is from our personal music collection so uh hopefully you'll you'll like but you'll see that there's some diversity I would hope in what we're gonna play with. That was Mercy Me. Um very fun song, so so long south very up. Mm-hmm. Their songs aren't always. Some of them are really heart-wrenching, exposing the soul kind of songs. And they tell the strong stories and uh and um If in fact that's probably why it took me a while to warm up to Mercy Me. Their first few albums that they put out were very soul searching, deep Uh almost melancholy, uh, to me and it took me a while to appreciate that, but then they blended some of that melancholy with some more up tempo uh songs and I came to appreciate uh the the melancholy stuff in the context of being surrounded by some stuff that wasn't all melancholy. Anyway, very good stuff. Coming up to Reed's my favorite C D by then, by the way. Speaking of good stories Probably my favorite storyteller. I know who you're gonna say. Who am I gonna say? Mark Schultz. Mark Schultz is a tremendous storyteller. I think that if you weren't a contemporary uh Christian artist. He'd probably be a country. I believe a crossover is letters from war. I believe that that was a crossover. Oh really? And played uh in mainstream radio, especially s with the war in Iraq. Well that wasn't the one I was gonna play, but maybe I'll see if I can find that one on this because it is actually on here somewhere. Uh see if I can jump it ahead. See, you threw me all off now. I'm sorry. It's just I know that that might be some uh a song that perhaps the audience has already heard just because it has been played on both Well let's see if this is something that sounds familiar to anybody. Well, you listen to enough for you to see if you've heard it before, all right? So here. Letters from home uh letters from war, rather, by Mark Schultz. The first maybe thirty seconds or so we'll listen to. On that bright summer, found a letter from her son in a walk far away. So come the weather and good friends that he takes That I've been thinking about that and the line that he ever came to be Then it bec said you always have batting for it was the first of his letters from war. Now if it sounds a little different, if you have heard it before, it's gonna sound a little different because a live version, so the l you know, it's a l uh not quite as heavily produced. If there is a charge you made against Mark Schultz, he does have a tendency sometimes to overthink the production of his songs And they can on occasion come across as overproduced. When he has a weak song, that's the reason is typically weak. When he guards against doing that, he has some of my very favorite songs and he has songs that are Think of a movie that makes you weep. Um, Beaches. Okay, Beaches. It's a really old one, I'm dating myself. Terms of Endearment is another old one, right? The notebook. Oh, love the notebook. Right. I mean there are s there are movies like that that capture you and you they stay with you. Mm-hmm. Well there are songs that Mark Schultz has that are like that. They they they they capture you and then they they stay with you. And let me see I gotta find the right word. The champ is another movie, by the way. Total tear joker jerker. Now there's a story for us in this song, I guess. You wanna s uh tell us there's a song that uh he's written called uh Mark Schultz we're talking about He's My Son And we're probably gonna play this one maybe all the way through. This might be the one exception, because you almost have to hear the whole song to really appreciate the storytelling abilities of Marsh Schultz. beforehand say anything because you might not be able to afterwards. It makes us cry every time we hear it. This is a real special song, just a very brief testimony. Um I'm sure you've heard us talk that we have a son with special needs and he was born with liver and heart failure among many other um medical issues and there was a season in his life not too recent ago, um or not too far ago, uh maybe five years ago, where his health had deteriorated to the point where he was um uh critical, but I don't know that we knew that. I mean we did know that but kinda we're taking it day by day and he was in school so it's not like we had a He wasn't homebound or in a hospital bed or anything. But God was really doing a work in my heart during that season. And the nuts and the bolts of it is um I really came to a point in my faith where I had to completely and solely trust God with one of my children for the first time ever. I realized that there was nothing else that I could do in my power that was going to heal him. Absolutely nothing. And I was crying out to God one day in my prayer and I was just saying to the Lord, I love you so much, Lord, and I love my son so much and I just I can't bear to watch him go through this anymore. So if you'll Take him from me. I know he'll be far better off with you. He'll be healed when he's in heaven. He won't have tears any more. There were times when he would just cry because he was in pain and and as a mother you can't fix those wounds sometimes and it's It's hard. I'm sorry I can't emotional but that's your We waited till we didn't wait until after the song for exactly this reason. Well, but I there was this one prayer that I had where I would get on my knees and I'd say to the Lord, gosh, Lord, He's not just anyone. He's my son. And I would just pour out my heart to God and and that and in that season of time I felt the presence of God so strong in my life and it was if God came alongside of me and said, I know what that's like 'cause I I watched my son on the cross. die for everybody's sin. I know what it's like to watch your son in pain and I empathize with you. And so then I'm driving in my car and on comes this song and It was my prayer. It was almost to a T the words that I had uttered to the Lord in my secret place. And I thought to myself, How did Mark Schultz know that I said that to the Lord? And I knew that it was God speaking to me through Mark Schultz in that moment And here's the song. Here we go. Mark Schultz on Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner with my wife Gina Skinner sitting in on the panel this week. Down on my knees again tonight. Hope and this prayer will turn out right. There is a boy that needs your help. Done all that I can do myself. She knight as these things She goes no Tries not to cry as the tears fill eyes. Can you hear me? Am I getting through tonight? Can you behave? Can you make it feel alright? Get him let me take his place up now. She's not just anyone is my Sometimes late night I watch you sleep. Dream of the boy he likes to be Try to be strong and see through Who we need right now is you let him grow more live life without What would I be? Living without me, he's so tired that he's scared that he'll know that you'll be. Can you hear me? Am I gay through? Can you see him? Can you make it feel all right? You can hear me. Let me take his place up now. These not just there. Anyone is my son. Can you hear me? Am I? Getting rooting. Can you see him? Can you make it feel alright? You get me. Me take his place around the Can you hear me? Can you see me Please don't leave Please. Mark Schultz live. Of a night of stories and songs is the name of the C D. Um He's My Son is the name of the Song. And you know, we told uh our personal story going into that Mark Schultz on uh in that concert tells the story behind that song. There was somebody that he knew that had leukemia and he was telling the story from the eyes of the parents Turns out that that leukemia went into full remission and that young boy is now an adult and is fully healthy and and happy and uh uh you know, blessing from the Lord. So Yeah, it's so interesting. You know, there were times when that song first came out, they played it a lot on the radio and every time I would fall and I'd be driving And I I'm I'm telling you people will look at me and probably think I was, you know, some crazy lady just tears flooding tears like runny nose trying to find tissues with It's just embarrassing. So if that if you happen to see some crazy lady crying it was me. I'm okay though. And actually the wonderful thing is that Tyler too, um, who was in severe heart failure at that season of his life also went into full recovery and and the Lord did heal him. So we do praise God for that. He still has other issues. Um God's completed healing will be done in heaven, I'm sure, but for now we're just thankful for every day that we have with him. Alright, after that uh tear jerker episode, we're gonna have to fix something a little more up tempo. Here's um somebody that you can't find in the record stores anymore. You know, Aaron O'Donnell, very talented. She's had a a few CDs come out. We've liked them all and for whatever reason she's disappeared from the scene. But uh here's an example of something else we like, something that gives you a a a round well-rounded feel of some of the things that are out there. If you look hard for them that uh are Christian oriented songs, but not necessarily the kinds of stuff you hear on Christian radio. Right. This song is called uh Janie's Garden. The dream you've got a few garden It's representing it for you And when the world gets requesting her, she hides away when the cat thinks she weary Where she can't be good really And when she plonging for reflection She fall down to me No one can know, no one can do that you can get for everyone know everyone We all like enjoy. Yes, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Might not sound like it, but because of the holidays and the new year that's uh approaching and stuff, we thought we'd do something a little bit different. And yes, we're playing holiday music of a sort. It's you know, the Christmas season is the you might not want to hear this if you're not a Christian, but it's the Christian season. You know, Christmas is a Christian holiday And we play lots of stuff about, you know, Rudolph and Santa Claus and Frosty and those sorts of things and you know, uh Jack Frost nipping at people's noses and that sort of thing, and it seems like we've kind of forgotten what what it's really kind of all about. So these are songs that you can listen all year long that are what it's all about, uh, from my perspective. Uh that again was Aaron O'Donnell, my favorite band right now. Oh, is that right? Huh? I see the C D. Oh. So I know who you're going to but I didn't realize they were your favorite at this moment. Oh, who'd you think was? I Newsboys. That's what this is. Oh I thought it was Monk and Eagle. No, no, no, no, no. Um, jumping the gun. Yeah, you're jumping with the gun. My favorite band has been for the last few years now, ever since they've been around longer than that, but it I didn't discover them until a few years ago. They're awesome in concert too. We've seen 'em two, three times, at least twice. Three. I believe three now. And I got okay. I wasn't gonna get bogged down on a whole bunch of storytelling, but I gotta tell you my my uh Favorite concert experience. I know what you're gonna say. I think it was the second time we saw them? Yes. At King's Fest? Yeah. Oh They end the concert with a song that is really focused on God. It's a God focused song. I mean all this they're Christians, so all their songs are are religious and Christ centered in a sense But this one is overtly a worship, praise and worship kind of a song. Phenomenal. And it had been a popular song, so the the people in the audience know it. There's I don't know, maybe fifteen thousand people there. Maybe I don't know how many. I'm guessing fifteen thousand. Probably And it's it's nighttime, it's outside, it's it's very feels very intimate. Mm-hmm. And uh they have such a regal presence on stage, which is which is kind of cool. And they end the concert with this praise and worship song and you don't realize they're ending the concert. Everybody's singing along and everybody's got their Their eyes closed, their hands up, singing as loud as they can. The presence of the Holy Spirit was so overwhelming it was I don't even know how to explain it. It was just a flood. You were from head to toe engulfed by the Holy in by the presence of the Holy Spirit. So anyway the music kind of goes away and the singing continues. And so everybody's still kind of in that moment in singing. And and all you hear is a drum beat. And then the drumbeat goes away and everybody realize oh, okay, they're done playing that song. And so they everybody kind of stops and looks to the stage and the band is gone. And that was a statement I think that they were making, like, hey, we've brought you to a place of worship. We've magnified the Lord. Our work here is done. They didn't come out for an encore. Nope. They didn't come out for a bow. Nothing. Nothing. That was the end. And you know what? Everybody was satisfied with that. Everybody just w felt fulfilled and usually at the end of a big concert you're you're clapping, Yeah, come on out, give me one more. None of that. Nope. Everybody felt like, yeah If they came out again, it would spoil it somehow. Like, let's end. Anyway, the song they sang was not this one, but this is probably my favorite Newsboys song. Newsboys are from a variety of places. A couple of the guys are from Australia, one's from New Zealand One guy's from Detroit, they currently live in Nashville, so I'm not sure what country they call home anymore these days. But anyway, this is uh uh arguably my favorite newsboys song, which the newsboys are arguably my favorite band. He Rains. You'll get a little bit of an insight into who I am. No, my wife guessed wrong. I love that song too, but Anyway, here it is. It's called Thrive. Ah, you're not going to be able to do that. Down here in the Valley, every shadow you see as it comes story down here in your valley, every puddle of mud comes from I cannot believe that I didn't pay closer attention to the clock. We're gonna have to start next week's show with this song. That's what we're gonna have to do. We're gonna have to. Oh my goodness, I can't even believe I did that. You didn't get to the chorus. You don't get a chance to really feel this song. Oh, bummer. All right, something to look forward to for next week. Thank you to my wife, Dina Skinner. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. Help We Make You Smile. Thank you for listening Merry Christmas, Happy New Year, God bless