Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate at Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator of Froy Skinner. Today I'll be taking on the weight of being a devil's advocate once again. I'm feeling like I'm getting a little too much practice at this, I don't know. Yeah, you know, the devil's actually apparently in the Bible supposed to be like an angel of light and really beautiful. So again I'm just having a hard time. Thank you so much for that. He's Jonathan's wife, I love you. Senior pastor across the Valley Chapel. Yes, that was a pastoral moment, wasn't it? Jenny Dixon is on the panel today also. She's the executive director of The CureNet Pregnancy Center of Frederick online at FrederickPregnancy. com. We're online at WFMD. com keyword faith. And our sponsor is Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? The last few shows we've been talking about the issue of abortion and there's so much. I mean, we could probably do the abortion issue every day. that we do the show. So we've got some pretty key stuff that we still feel like we want to touch on and so uh we won't exhaust the topic for sure, but there are a couple anybody Anybody who's listened to last well, I guess we have four weeks, this is week five now, is probably horribly frustrated at my inadequacy at representing their point of view if they are agreeing with the devil's advocate point of view. No, you're doing pretty good. But I you know you're doing pretty good. But I'm I'm doing the best for me. Yeah, you devil. You're gonna say that. Uh yells above. I'm doing the best I can, but there are some recurring arguments that come up Over and over again. We've covered an awful lot of those uh in previous shows, but there are a few recurring arguments that haven't come up yet, so we want to address those. Yep. Well for the record, those of you that are concerned that he'd do a good job playing the devil out there today He's done his homework as the devil. Alright, so he's not just like d winging his devil advocacy, but he has like done his homework and uh and really researched this. But you know, in fairness uh to that or not fairness is the wrong word exactly, but I think something that's illuminating about that. We're gonna take a slight detour, pardon me. I think it is important for everyone, you know, particularly maybe for Christians. among whom I would count myself as one, uh, to do a better job of understanding and measuring the arguments of those who disagree with us. Well said. In fact I think we should know their arguments so well that we can help them argue it Yes. Help them to clarify their point. Uh if only to come back and dash it later. But I think that we need to ha know it so well that they feel like, you know It's not that he's an idiot. It's not that he's being obstinate or whatever. He recognizes, by the way, the uh uh there's a short there. Every time you grab the mic we hear extra curricular noises and So there's many little demons in there, not just the ones. The the the the Legion advocate, not just the devil's advocate. It takes it to a whole new level. I just you know, I want you to know that. So I think we should try to understand and so shame on me that I had to spend some time doing some homework. I should recognize and understand the arguments. better and I should be able to wing it at some level I think better than I normally would be capable of. Uh and that said um and h and then the second step is even help them to formulate their own argument because they don't even know what they're talking about most. I agree. I don't even know what I'm talking about most of the time. I appreciate it when somebody can help me formulate my own argument. And then the and then the last step is then everybody's a fair fight And then it's the class of ideas that sound of the true class of ideas. And let the ideas speak for themselves and and I certainly don't think we Christians have anything to fear alone as well. So we we don't want to build a straw man just to knock it down. We want to try to build an edifice that is worthy of the challenge, you know, kind of thing. So that's what we're Hoping to accomplish the case. So you're my straw man for the day? Straw man for the day. Okay, let's knock him down, ladies and gentlemen. We didn't get in any any specific Bible verses last week. Oh well, you read one in defense of when life starts. You read from Psalm thirty. Matthew 18. Okay, that's right. So we got into two. Uh that we're talking about the sanctity of life and when life begins and supporting a pro-life position. By the way, remind me to get into the pro-life pro-choice thing. I don't want to forget to recover that. Okay. Make a note, somebody. Okay. Write that down. Okay. Gotcha. If you want to just write down the word semantics, that'll help me. Um But we did get into these specific arguments from the Bible, from biblical text that would support a pro-choice point of view, is really what I was meaning to say. Gotcha. And there are numerous. There are some examples uh in Job Where Job talks about it would have been better if he had never been born. Yes. And that J Job's a great example. Can we hit that one? Go ahead, Job. Yeah. Talk about Job. Alright, I'm gonna give it first and then Jenny's Jenny's gonna come in behind me. The thing is about Job is that this man was righteous. One hundred percent. And yet he still experienced the worst imaginable Sickness, illness, tragedy against his family. And so for any of us to try to compare ourselves to Job, I mean I think that's the point of the book of Job is that we would all look at Job and we would say, Oh, you know what? If it could happen to Job and we're still given the clear impression that God is in control and that He's still bringing his righteous and good purposes to pass, then if it happens to me, then I too can believe that God's going to take care of me as well. I agree. And here's a scripture from Joe that would completely argue Against that because he talks about it's Job ten, eight through twelve, and it says, Thy hands fashioned and made me altogether. And thou wouldst destroy me, remember now that thou hast made me as clay, that thou would turn me into dust again? Did thou not pour me out like milk and curdle me like cheese and clothe me with skin, flesh, and knit me together with bones? Thou hast granted me life and loving kindness, and thy care has preserved my spirit. And that is the the hope that we've been referring to for the last five weeks. that you can give in to despair and say, well what about Job? Doesn't life just really stink, you know? It's such a such a tragedy. And and Job, who was Arguably one of the worst tragedies because he was such a righteous man and all this happened to him, still had hope in in Christ We're given the impression that all of us then have hope that God redeems our life from the pit. He pulls us out of the muddy and the mud and the muck and the mire and sets our feet on a rock. And so Uh Job to me is is hope. It's not despair. Exactly. And he also acknowledged God as his creator. Yeah. From the womb. You knit me together. You knit my bones together. So are you satisfied with that? Are you okay with that? There are other verses that would seem to indicate a similar thread and and see what you think about that. For example, in Ecclesiastes chapter four, the first three verses. Yes. And I looked again and at all the acts of oppression which were being done under the sun and behold I saw the tears of the oppressed, and that they had no one to comfort them, and on the side of their oppressors was power, but they had no one to comfort them. So I congratulated the dead who are already dead, more than the living who are still living. Better off. then both of them is the one who has never existed, who has never seen the evil activity that is done under the sun. The person who wasn't even born, according to this Bible passage, person never born is in a better situation than those who have been born. Aren't we doing somebody a favor by aborting them? Yeah, he's he's going even farther than that and he's saying that uh that the dead that have already died that it's better for them as well. He's talking about the nature of oppression on the face of the planet. And that he sees oppression everywhere and that he's very concerned about it. And he he uh the the summation of Ecclesiastes is not Let's all quit living. But the summation of Ecclesiastes is, you know what, here's the end of the matter. To fear God and obey his commands. To eat drink and to be merry and to enjoy your life that God has given you onto the earth. And so to to take this passage out of everything else, he's saying, look, oftentimes From the perspective of mankind, when we see the oppression and the sickness and the ugliness that is out there in the world, uh we ha it's very easy for us to say, Man, life is meaningless, it's a waste and to just want to give up and the the writer of Ecclesiastes does not give He says he he says he says going after money is meaningless. He says uh just living for Uh family is meaningless. He says living for power and for uh um uh ruling over other people is meaningless. He says the one thing that I've found that is not meaningless is to choose to live to obeying God, to live for God. And so he's not by this argument saying that we should just give up and give in to despair, i. e. , you know, it'd be better for us just to not be alive, but he's saying that look He has felt that and he saw the tears of the oppressed and he was inclined to go that way. And so after he added up and summed everything up about all of his arguments, he came up with with a with a conclusion. Fear God and obey his commandments and be happy with the life that God has given you under the sun, not try to die and get away from it all. So is Job an example of that, I guess. Job was feeling the the the pressures of his situation and said, Man, why was he even born? By the way, if you want to try to do it. I'll look that up later. It's uh uh primarily you can pull from Job chapter 3, chapter uh, I guess it's 10. Chapter three and chapter ten are the are the are the are the two biggies where he's like starts to question why he was even born and why God would put him through all of this. But I guess what you're saying is that in Ecclesiastes Um he's mirroring that emotion only to swing back around at the end and say, in the end it's all about let's just trust God, which is the same conclusion that Job comes to at the end. Exactly. Is that what you're saying? I think that's what I I would agree with. Mr. Pastorman? I know, Mr. Pasterman. John, but I think those are just acclamations of personal despair. It doesn't necessarily mean that they are pro-choice. Yeah, yeah, we have to be very careful to to not make doctrine out of an expression of of an emotion. Well how about this one then? Uh well let me say this too about about Job. Job said, Why don't you just curse God and die? And it seems to me that that is the the basic um a eugenic approach to life. Just curse God and die. Just give up. Just give in to despair. And even when Job then starts out and he says, May the day of my birth perish, you know, he's he's he's feeling the despair But ultimately he doesn't give in to despair, and he says, you know, I know my Redeemer lives, and that I shall see, you know, his his face on the earth. And so the point is that we can't give in to despair. We must never give in to despair. Well here's a um a quote from the NAS version of the Bible, English translation. And if men struggle, and s this is Exodus chapter twenty-one, verses twenty-two through twenty-five. If you're reading along at home. If men struggle and strike a woman with child so that she has a miscarriage, yet there is no further injury, he shall be fined as the woman's husband may demand of him And he shall pay as the judges decide. But if there is any further injury, then you shall appoint as a penalty life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound Bruise for bruise. Now we know that um in the Old Testament, in in the nation of Israel, you know murder was not a good thing. Bad things happen to you. If you murder somebody, I believe you were stoned to death. Yeah. So here you have you cause somebody to l uh have a miscarriage, lose her child, and yet the the penalty isn't that you're stoned to death The penalty is that you have to do uh pay whatever fine the woman's husband may demand of him. Sounds like there's a difference, a differential being made there that would separate the life of a person who's been born from the potential life of a person yet to be born. Jenny, do you want to hit that first? Well, I mean my take on it is it says two men are struggling and a woman obviously intervened, so it's an accident. So it'd just be like today if we would equate it to somebody on the highway that has a car accident and an unborn child dies in the womb, it doesn't necessarily mean that that child was murdered purposely or that life was taken purposely. And so when you view it in the context of an accident, it makes more sense in the script. Wasn't there a law recently in the United States that was the Unborn Violence Victims Act? Yeah, and in that situation it's somebody that that is What is killing the newborn purposefully yes, like um it would address that with her baby. Um it stemmed from that situation. So it would be like if a husband a boyfriend, somebody murdered the child. Purposeful. Uh purposely. Well it was Meaning like uh meaning I I'm the um drowning the mother Stabbing the mother in the womb. I mean killing the biggest thing. killing the baby. If somebody went up and gave a huge blow to that woman's abdominum that would kill that child, they could still be persecuted under the unborn um silence. translations do not translate that word for miscarriage. They translate uh that that that she gives birth prematurely and uh it it it's there's every reason to think that that the baby is born prematurely but there's no serious injury to the baby either. And if that's the case, then we're not we're w then this this may not even be dealing with a miscarriage situation. So if it if it's dealing with a miscarriage situation It's clearly an inadvertent killing and and if I inadvertently kill you, it's not it's uh I I don't get the death penalty. You know, if if it's an accident, it's manslaughter, I might get you know, a certain amount of time in prison, you know, but I don't get the death penalty. The same thing's true if you inadvertently kill a child, you don't get the death penalty. So to try to argue that somehow this is saying that abortion isn't as bad as uh that intentional abortion isn't as bad as intentional murder is a major stress. It tortures uh the logic of the verse that I think is there It's a tortured logic. He's Jonathan Schweitzer and she's Jenny Dixon, and we're talking about abortion. And they're trying to swat away the uh Trying. Try trying to have a ballpark. What are you talking about? Well, I don't know. foul at the last minute. Oh man. Oh man. You're just being legion. He got the meat and the bat on the ball, but you didn't quite drive it into fair territory out of the park. If you weren't being the devil, I'd ask you to do a better job. All right, uh you have your uh your Bible uh ready and handy. Uh-huh. Numbers chapter five. Numbers chapter five. All right, verses eleven through twenty-one. I'm not going to read them, but what is described there is if a woman is suspected of adultery right and she's and uh they think that she might be pregnant with somebody else's child, they have some ritual set up that if she is guilty of of she has to drink some sort of a potion. Mm-hmm. And if she's uh that is indeed guilty of adultery, she will basically have an abortion. She will the the baby will be uh stillborn or or or born prematurely and die. Uh isn't that an example of God advocating Uh have you read this verse before in this context? Yeah. Um No, I've not read this verse before. The the thing is about this verse is that clearly it gives the impression that the woman herself is going to waste it way as well. It's it's a curse that's that's not just on on the baby uh and and her being pregnant But the curse that says that your abdomen will swell and your thigh will waste away. I mean this is a curse that's going to bring an illness to this woman that that sounds like it's going to be a uh, you know, like a uh literally a a uh life and death judgment upon the woman that uh that God himself will have imposed. It's a death penalty for her and uh it and and and actually it doesn't say that that he suspects that she's pregnant. In fact there it there's no mention of any pregnancy in the in the whole thing. uh the the the mention is that her husband thinks she might have been unfaithful and so then she goes through this process that we're led to believe that the process itself uh will be led by God and if she's guilty then she's going to get this disease and her abdomen and her thigh will waste away. She'll be under the curse and she's going to come come under a death penalty. But if not then God Himself will protect her and she's not going to come under the curse. And so trying to argue that this is somehow a pregnancy passage, again, it's a it's a it's a tortured logic that if you sat around long enough you could make it believe that. I mean you could make it mean that. But man you really got to twist hard. Let's try one more. Alright, Hosea chapter thirteen verse. Did I knock that one out of the park? That was better Really? That was better. Man, you're like you're like really bugging me today, man. All right, no, go ahead. Alright, Hosea thirteen. Okay. Verse sixteen. Alright, this is where uh God promises to dash to uh to pieces the infants of Samaria and uh and their un uh the w their women with child shall be ripped up. Right, so we have God saying that, you know, these women carrying the these unborn children or fetuses. Uh are gonna be they're gonna be killed. Doesn't God advocating for abortion in this verse? Yeah, he's also advocating for killing the entire population. The point is is that God is not um uh i he is he's not advocating for a specific abortive measure He's advocating for judgment against an entire group of people because he is God and he alone is the one that is allowed to make those judgments. And so that includes everybody that's a part of that society, women, children, men, everybody that's in the society, and God is the one that's allowed to make that a judgment. I don't think humans have any business trying to make that that particular judgment. I mean, here we are arguing about trying to, you know, protect so you know, some unborn person and God's like wiping out everybody left and right. Like what's what's up with that? God uses the sword everywhere in scripture to cut away those things that destroy life. And oftentimes there are whole groups of people, i. e. Sodom and Gomorrah, i. e. the Canaanites. that are so given over to sin and sinfulness and wickedness that God says, you know what? I'm done with them. It fact actually happened to the entire human race with Noah. And the point is that God is allowed to make that judgment. I'm glad that He's the one that makes that judgment. We are not the ones that make that judgment. So when somebody wants to make this a political issue, yeah. Your response is to go there with them at some level, it seems, to try to meet them where they are, because the first couple of shows that we did on this topic, you know, we ended up talking a little bit about politics and what our government has and hasn't allowed and or a democracy and all those sorts of things. But when push comes to shove, is it really a political issue for you? Um yeah, I think politics follows culture and follows beliefs. And uh especially in a democracy um uh democratic republic. uh we should expect that to be the case. That's what we came here for, so that we could have the opportunity to, you know, no taxation without representation, that we could be represented in what we believe can be represented in Um so uh does it come pol become political? Absolutely. I I will vote and vote my conscience, but first and foremost it's definitely a cultural issue and I'm more concerned about it at that level than I am as at the political level. And we've talked a little bit about, you know, the the medical side of this and what the scientific community would argue on one side or the other about this. You know, Jenny, is this, you know, really a scientific medical question for you? Well, I mean I I think it transcends politics. I think it transcends science. I mean I think it becomes a hard issue for women and and that's from my standpoint and working in the pregnancy center movement for twenty-five years. And I think a lot of the politics uh um stem from that emotional issue. Scientific I I don't think it's debatable, but that's just my viewpoint. I believe life begins at conception and I believe people that are intellectually honest and really study embryonic development and um just how a baby is conceived and developed could not possibly agree with abortion and the destruction of a human being. Yeah. Yeah, I would agree with that. I I think that uh I I'm I remember rather that science used to believe in the recapitulation theory. that the uh embryo would go through every stage of evolution, would start out as as a little minnow and then it would become a uh a little uh uh crocodile, then it would turn into being like a little doggy and then it would turn into being a little monkey and then finally it would be a fully formed human being. The point is is that uh that science is incapable of making these decisions for us. We ha we we come to science with a certain set of preconceived ideas. Uh Francis Bacon uh tried to uh uh teach us that somehow we could be a blank slate and we could We could be unbiased and that science would help us all to be unbiased. But he didn't realize that that very idea that we can be unbiased is a bias. You know, and scientists come to their science with a bias, and so to somehow argue that science is proving that uh that um abortion doesn't kill a life or something like that uh uh uh uh assumes that there's no bias in the individual. And that's uh that's an assumption that is probably the height of arrogance for any human being. We we need to acknowledge our biases and pay close attention to our biases. Uh and we clearly come from a bias that is a biblical uh biblically grounded worldview. Scientists come from the bias that uh that there is no higher power, that there is nothing else out there, and that bias affects everything that they decide. We just need to recognize that's the case ahead of time. One last uh devil's advocate question, you know, from uh a biblical point of view, not a scientific point of view. This is your last gasp and then you're going to the uh eternal fire. The the the Bible in numerous places talks about the the life force, the life giving things that God gives to men, right? That the the thing that makes him makes man animates man, gives them a somet certain something other, something that maybe makes them have the image of God, and that is the the breath of God. Ruach. The ruach. Right? The the the the enuma. Yeah. Right? Yeah Well, a unborn fetus isn't breathing. So is it really alive in the sense of what how the Bible would describe God's life-giving force? Yeah, that's actually um I know several Jewish rabbis that have made that particular argument. Um again, all the arguments that we made to this point uh have have not appealed to the ruach of God, but they've appealed to the knitting together in the womb and to the to the all the all the days being written before one has come to be And so um uh I think it is true that there's um uh that the ruach of God, the life of God, uh is is very important. I I don't know, I I guess I don't necessarily have a better argument than that just to say that I I haven't felt the need to appeal to that till now and I don't know that I necessarily need to. Maybe I'll have to ask the devil himself to uh help me with that one in a second. Do you have any thoughts on that? I mean my my thoughts I mean just since we're talking, I'm thinking of Bernard Nathan, which is a strange thing, but he was the past pay president of NARO and is now Come around to the pro life side, but he actually had a movie called The Silent Scream where he performed an abortion on a woman who was um twelve weeks along in her pregnancy and had permission to videotape this abortion. And it's amazing because as the needle goes up in the womb towards the baby, the baby violently pushes away from that needle. It senses a threat in the womb. Um it it feels pain. And so, you know I can't really speak to that theologically, but I can speak to the fact that God causes a baby to feel pain at that at that early stage in the womb. God would cause the baby to feel threatened enough to move away from an invading object. I mean these are just things to consider, I think, as a Christian. You could also argue if i uh uh as I'm thinking about it, you know, from a more scientific perspective that uh that oxygen is still very central to that baby's life at that stage of the ballgame. And so um I mean if you're gonna get nitpicky about whether or not there's breathing going on, uh I would argue there is breathing that's going on. Uh it's not breathing by itself. You know, it's dependent upon the mother, but um that doesn't necessarily mean that there's not rule out of the body. actually creates new mechanisms in the womb to sustain life. The placenta, the the umbilical cord. Those things are not present until a baby is I mean I don't mean to be cavalier but there had to be a reason for the you know belly button. Well We're gonna wrap there, but I will say that I think that uh my uh non devil's advocate answer to that would be that we we welcome back, Troy. We we we get ourselves into very dangerous waters when we try to take an atomistic, literalistic approach to understanding those words, you know. Ruach means breath, but it doesn't merely mean breath. The enuma can mean it doesn't merely mean spirit. It's good to have that so to confuse oxygen and nitrogen and carbon dioxide and those sorts of things with the spirit of God is is a huge Yeah. Yeah, in fact, you know, we're producing so much carbon dioxide on the world that maybe we're offending the spirit of God you for all you environmentalists. But we're we're over time, so we're gonna have to wrap up John Sweitzer, Pastor Cross Valley Chapel. Thank you, Jenny Nixon from the Care Net Pregnancy Center for Frederick, I'm Troy Skinner. You've been listening to the Frederick Frederick Faith Debate sponsored by Putman Fleming and Heating. How could we make you smile? Thanks for listening. God bless