Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 W WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How? Can we make you smile? The Friday Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to get together and talk about the things that are really most important things that have eternal consequences, if you ask me. And on occasion on this show We've had the The Pleasure of My Wife frequenting. We've had her on with Jonathan Sweitzer and Jonathan Sweitzer's wife Carol Uh we've had her on, I think, with just Jonathan Schweitzer. I don't know if she's a part of any other panels. Uh yes, who other guests have you appeared with? Can you think of any thing? There was the one woman, uh we were talking about tithing. Uh I don't remember what her name is now. It's been a while. It's been a while. But anyway She's been on a few times on the show in the in the four year history of the Frederick Faith Debate, if you can believe it's been four years. Wow. This month marks the four year anniversary of of the show. Anyway, every time she's been on, we have uh people that will come up to her or come up to me and say, Oh boy, Dina should be on more often. She should be on every week. I'd listen every week then If she were on every week I'd listen for sure. And I'm like, Yeah, uh thanks. I think. So we're gonna take uh take them up on that. So if you are one of those Who said, Oh, Dina should be on all the time, then uh then this this show, maybe the next couple of shows, will be for you. And thank you for such kind words. It's an honor and a pleasure to be able to serve the Lord through this medium. So anyway, I'm Troy Skinner, she's my wife, Dina Skinner, and what are our credentials to be uh faith community leaders? Well the only real uh um credential I can offer up is that I've been doing this show for four years and uh my wife is a is a layleader in uh Christian church circles. She's been uh actively involved in uh in women's Bible studies uh over the last number of years. and has uh uh hosted and facilitated and led a Bible study for women uh at our home for quite a while now. And she's been involved with uh other organizations uh Bible studies in the area and so Um, she spent a lot of time in the Word, a lot of time in prayer, and a lot of time talking to other women uh about their uh faith issues, life uh challenges, whatever. And so those would be her credentials. Is she a pastor or anything like that? No? Uh so in a sense she'll be more relatable than some of the pastors that are on this show. I'm just a sinner in need of a savior. She's one of you. She's one of us. So anyway. When we've done kind of informal shows like this where we don't have a real hot topic, I mean my wife and I we might agree uh uh disagree on a couple of things, although to be honest, I'm not sure I could identify what a couple of those things would be Uh so there's not gonna be a lot of debate necessarily on today's show, but I do want to have opportunity for this show. It's no secret, this show is not uh broadcast live. The nature of the show wouldn't allow for us to ever have any guests if we did the show live on Sunday mornings eight thirty. So we have to uh pre-record the show uh in advance. And one of the downsides to pre-recording is that you don't have any opportunity for it to be interactive with somebody listening to the show. So I've tried to make the website as interactive as possible when people send me emails as long as they're appropriate and somewhat on topic. I will post them on my blog section of the Faith Debate page at wfmd. com, keyword faith. And sometimes we've got a bunch of stuff that gets sent into us that we will then share on the show. And today is one of those shows. Now these are emails that I've received before I had a blog. And so they never made it onto the website, at least I don't think so. And so I printed them off a long time ago, figuring someday I'll have a chance to respond to these on the show And I've been working my way through these over the years. So if you sent me this email and you remember sending it, you think, man, I sent that like forever ago. Well, I saved it all this time, don't you feel special? So here's an email. The subject is uh dead donkey for sale. Hmm. Mm-hmm. A city boy, Kenny, moved to the country and bought a donkey of an old farmer for a hundred bucks. Farmer agreed to deliver the donkey the next day. The next day the farmer drove up and said, Sorry, son, but I have some bad news. The donkey died. Ah. Kenny replied, Well then, just give me my money back. Farmer said, can't do that. I went and spent it already. Kenny said, okay then, just unload the donkey. Farmer asked, what you gonna do with him? Kenny said, I'm gonna raffle him off. Farmer responded, can't raffle off a dead donkey. Kenny said, Sure I can. Watch me. I just won't tell anybody he's dead. Mm. A month later the farmer met up with Kenny and asked, What happened with that dead donkey Kenny said, I raffled them off, sold 500 tickets at $2 a piece, and made a profit of $898. Farmer said, didn't anyone complain? Kenny said, just the guy who won, so I gave him his two dollars back. Kenny grew up and eventually became the chairman of Enron. Is that a true email? No, I don't know if this is a true story, but it's a true I mean this is truly an email, she Well I know that, but I wonder if it is a true story. It could be. You know what? I say kudos to Kenny. He did I mean uh I probably shouldn't be saying that. Wow, kudos to Kenny. Well did anyone ask if he was dead or alive? Did he did he say in his advertisement alive donkey? Or did he just say donkey? And you think about it, two bucks probably is a is a fair price for a dead donkey. Mm-hmm. Right? I mean I don't know what you do with a dead donkey exactly. Can't eat it. No. It's an unclean animal. No, but you could but you could take his jawbone and go slay thousands with it. That's true if you were Samson. So anyway, speaking of donkeys That was a kind of a segue. Ah. See. So speaking of donkeys, here's the story, The Donkey and the Well. And I think you might have heard this one before, honey. Okay, I think I have. One day a farmer's donkey fell down into a well. The entity cried piteously for hours as the farmer tried to figure out what to do. Finally he decided the animal was old and the well needed to be covered up anyway. It just wasn't worth it to retrieve the donkey. He invited all his neighbors to come over and help him. They all grabbed a shovel and began to shovel dirt into the well. Imagine the horror At first, the donkey realized what was happening and cried horribly, and then to everyone's amazement, quieted down. A few shovel loads later, the farmer finally looked down the well. He was astonished at what he saw. With each shovel of dirt that hit his back, the donkey was doing something amazing. He would shake it off and take a step up As the farmer's neighbors continued to shovel dirt on top of the animal, he would shake it off and take a step up. Pretty soon everyone was amazed as the donkey stepped up over the edge of the well and happily trotted off. Life is going to shovel dirt on you, all kinds of dirt. The trick is getting out of the well, trick to getting out of the well is to shake it off and take a step up. Each of our troubles is a stepping stone. We can get out of the deepest wells just by not stopping, never giving up, shake it off, take a step up. Um, by the way, the donkey later came back and bit the farmer who tried to bury him. The gas from the bike got infected. The farmer eventually died in agony from septic shock. Uh moral from today's lesson when you do something wrong and try to cover your tushies. Another word for donkey. Mm-hmm. It always comes back to bite you. Anyway, I first heard a version of that story from the pulpit at a church. Do you remember hearing it? No, I was thinking of the comedy channel. Oh. With Drew Carey and he was stuffing the donkey in the well. Oh. Yeah, no. That was very funny. Yeah, there's a uh there was what's that show called? Oh goodness And there was a It's an improv show where the Yeah. Um it actually made it to T V at that point, I think it was oh it's still it was on TV. It might have been on Network. Well it was always on TV but network television. Right. Oh what was that show called T. Last Comic Standing? No no no no. That's a yucky show. Yeah. Oh I cannot remember now. Whose line is it anyway? Thank you. Whose line is it anyway? So one of the scenes is they're doing this pantomime and the guys are supposed to be narrating the pantomime uh to arrive at a secret word. And so they would keep saying what uh or a secret phrase or whatever. So they would keep guessing what the pantomime was doing in order to uh guess what the secret phrase was, and if they guessed the secret phrase then They won something, which I'm it was never clear on that show what they won. They won something. And Drew Carey was the judge. And it was a very clever show. And at one point the person is down on his knees on the ground and making a motion with his hands like pushing against the ground. Um uh kind of as though imagine there was an invisible person there and they were providing CPR and doing heart compressions. That's actually what they were trying to do. Who was guessing this is the p what the panel meant to say is, Oh look, he's tried to shove a large camel into or A large donkey into a hole. Into a small hole. Start ducking into a small hole. And it was very funny. He almost had to be there, but it was that's what so that's what you were thinking. Well I was thinking about uh th that message being used in a religious context from the pulpit about you know things are gonna happen. Mm-hmm. Uh and for the the for the Christian was the point. For the Christian, you know, all things God will use for good. So you've got the world heaping all this dirt on top of you. But God is going to somehow, even if you can't quite figure out how, is going to somehow, he's going to give you the ability to shake it off And then give you the wisdom to step up. And so those negative things that keep coming at you, somehow, some way, they are a blessing. I mean, that was the message that was that was preached off of that story. Um and that's why fellowship is so important because there are seasons in one's life where you will be wearied from constantly having dirt heaped upon you to the point where you feel like you can't step up again. And it's very important to be in fellowship with believers to encourage you and to admonish you and to discipline you when needed. It's you know we are called to be joyful in all things. And it's hard to stay joyful when you're t you're tackling a a very long season. I mean years could go by of you having to deal with the same issue and that that could be very tiresome. This is the Freddie Faith debate, so let's, you know, we don't have anybody here. in the studio is disagreeing. But I can hear it now, somebody who happened upon the show for the first time. They hear a couple of Christian folks talking about this, you know, clever email story that was sent out and they're rolling their eyes and Here we go again, those Christians thinking they're all that or whatever. Uh, that story could apply to anybody. Well, you know, it can. I mean, I believe from a Christian's perspective there is something called common grace God provides grace to everyone. So yeah, there is some truth to we can all we all have some ability to shake it off and step up. But whatever ability we have on our own certainly pales significantly by comparison to what you're able to do when you're empowered by God and His Holy Spirit. And that's not something that um can very easily be explained to someone else. You almost have to feel it. Mm-hmm. You know? Um anyway it's gonna start turning into a a sermon or a or some sort of a message here. I'm trying to imagine what would somebody who disagrees with our point of view say about this, other than pfft, okay, whatever. Well, they could turn it into a karma issue You know, that uh well certainly the donkey coming back and biting the farmer. That's well sure. And there's a biblical principle there, right? You reap what you sow. Absolutely. So And especially since he was a farmer, he would have definitely been able to connect to that analogy. But there are a lot of people that might be offended by that. You know, there might be people who I think that, you know, that's an offensive email in the sense that, you know, the donkey was actually the very first email that the donkey was portrayed in a poor light. I'm stretching. But it's impossible. 'Cause we love donkeys. Don't you remember the donkey from Shrek? Why would you want to bury such a cute little donkey? Right? Voiced by Hetty Murphy. Yeah. All right, here's another email. This is a series of uh football season jokes. Somebody who doesn't like the Washington Redskins or perhaps does love the Redskins but is a disgruntled and and uh unhappy fan with the Redskins. And this is appropriate since we're in football season. Sure. You could insert any team here who might be having, you know, a tough time or that you want to make fun of, all right? So don't if you're a Redskins fan, don't don't take offense. This is the way it was sent to me, okay? I don't hate the Redskins. Well, I don't love the Redskins, I'm a Bears fan, but anyway. So number one, these are uh I don't know, is there ten of them? There are ten things here. All right, be careful not to speed in Washington, D. C. The police are handing out Redskins tickets. Prelame. Okay. What's the difference between the Redskins and a dollar bill? I don't know. What's the difference? You can still get four quarters out of a dollar. But um bumps. Alright. What do you call forty-seven people watching an NFL playoff game on TV? By the way, you need to update this. What do you call fifty-three people watching an NFL playoff game on TV? A gaggle. They're watching the Redskins. Uh huh. So they wouldn't be playing in this playoff game on the TV. Uh-huh. Um what's the difference between OJ Simpson and the Redskins? One's behind one was behind bars and the other one wasn't? OJ Simpson at least had a defense. Ah, that was close. I don't know if you're close or not. Announcement from public address system at the uh Redskins field. Will the parents who lost your eleven kids here at the stadium please get them? They're beating the Redskins 14 to nothing. What did the Redskins and possums have in common? They're both animals? Both play dead at home and get killed on the road. Mmm. Now this is the one that actually caused this to make the Faith Debate show. Okay. What do the Redskins and Billy Graham have in common? They both need grace. Both can make ninety thousand people stand up and yell Jesus Christ. Oh my, but that's in a blasphemous way. Let's talk about that for a minute. Billy Graham might get 'em to yell it, mm-hmm. But hopefully in some sort of worshipful worshipful way, right? But those who are exclaiming uh Jesus' name in some sort of negative way would be taking the Lord's name in vain from a Christian perspective, right? So It's not just the words you use. Mm-hmm. It's it's the intent behind those words. Can I talk to you for a second about that? Because there are many people that don't realize that they're taking the Lord's name in vain. I mean we had uh recently a family member that was not at all aware of the fact that every time she would say the Lord's name in a just uh ec exclamatory way that that was actually taking the Lord's name in vain. When you say, Oh my God, I can't believe blah blah blah that's taking the Lord's name in vain. When you're just using it as a as uh a filler that's taking the Lord's name in vain. And you know, it it's It becomes a training when you get saved you you you want to make sure that you do everything that's going to bring glory and honor to the Lord because you love him so much, because he he paid the price of death for you and it's a great gift, so you don't want to do anything to offend him I was very guilty of doing that very thing. Do you remember when when we were first married I wasn't saved and oh my goodness, I think I would say that every other word. Oh my god, blah blah blah blah. And I know God. And it would just went on and on and on and I'm sure that it it was causing people to cringe like now I cringe. So I just want to make this clear because I think that People listening may not realize that this is something that is a serious thing in God's sight, that you cannot use his name in just a very haphazard way. It means it needs to mean something And it's ironic, isn't it, on television you can't say certain words they'll bleep them out or they'll edit them out or whatever, but you can take the Lord's name in vain on television or on radio broadcasts or that sort of thing. Um It's ironic because biblically speaking, the Bible doesn't tell us not to use vulgar well it's it does. It says let no ungodly word come from your mouth. Unwholesome word is actually the word is a good thing. I guess, but uh it's not one of the Ten Commandments. True. You know what I mean? Like the it it it there's more weight in the Bible to Right. There's more weight there, rightfully so, by the way. Sure. Than there is with these other vulgar, unwholesome words. Mm-hmm. And yet the other vulgar unwholesome words we're a little more uh acutely aware of. Um but the uh but the ones that really matter we've somehow been desensitized to. It's really fascinating uh that we've gone in that direction as a society. So Yeah, no, I no, I was just gonna say, I mean, uh you know, it was not something that I was aware of until someone pointed it out to me and you know, the aha light bulb goes off because it just became part of my speech pattern. And here's a little personal advice thing. If you catch yourself taking the Lord's name in vain, you you know saying uh uh God in a non-worshipful way or Jesus Christ in some, you know, almost like a like you know. Exclamatory. Yeah. It's almost like a swear word the way you say it sometimes or or whatever If you're using those if you catch yourself using any word like that that way and you're like, oh, this is what that faith debate show was talking about, you're probably doing it way more than you even realize you are. So you should probably try to find somebody that uh you can trust and uh who's involved in your life in a significant way as as far as spending a lot of time with you and ask them to help you to break the habit. Because this is the thing we find out with the family member my wife was talking about didn't even realize that they were saying it as often as they were. Mm-hmm. And so every single time that that word would come out Their mouth we say, Oh there it was. What? What? I didn't say it. Yes, you did it. Oh you're right, I did. And it takes a while for that training to kind of kick in and you start to self-censor and you catch yourself. So anyway Uh the last ones on this top t on this list of questions were uh how do you keep the redskins out of your yard? Put up goalposts. Oh what do you call a Redskin? Now this would have to be what do you call a current Redskin with a Super Bowl ring. Lucky? A thief. Oh. And uh why was uh why was Al Saunders upset when the Redskins playbook was stolen? He wasn't finished coloring it in yet. Oh goodness. You can tell this was sent a while ago because it's a little bit dated some of the references, but anyway. So Ravens fans enjoy that one. Yes. Cowboys fans enjoy that one. Folking fun at the Redskins. Are you listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMB? I'm Troy Skinner joined this week with my wife Dina at the encouragement and instigation of uh Friends of the Show. This one is titled Kids Today. When I was a kid, adults used to bore me to tears. Wait a minute. Did our daughter write this and claim that when she was a kid? Never mind. When I was a kid, adults used to bore me to tears with their tedious diatribes about how hard things were when they were growing up. What with walking twenty-five miles to school every morning, uphill both ways, through year round blizzards, carrying their younger siblings on their backs to their one room schoolhouse where they maintained a straight A average despite their full time after school job at the local textile mill, where they worked for thirty-five cents an hour just to help keep their family from starving to death. And I remember promising myself that when I grew up there was no way I was going to lay a bunch of that stuff on my kids about how hard it had been and how easy they've got it. But now that I'm over the ripe old age of 30, I can't help but look around and notice the youth of today. God, it's so easy. I mean, compared to my childhood. You youngsters today live in a utopia. And I hate to say it, but you kids today, you don't know how good you've got it. I mean when I was a kid, we didn't have the internet. If we wanted to know something, we had to go to the library and look it up ourselves in the card catalog. Remember being afraid of the card catalog? Were you ever afraid of it? No, I always loved it. I was like intimidated by the card catalog as a kid. No. There was no email. We had to actually write somebody a letter with a pen. Then you had to walk all the way across the street and put it in a mailbox and it would take like a week to get there. There were no MP3s or Napsters you wanted to steal music You had to hitchhike to the record store and shoplift it yourself. Or you had to wait around all day to tape it off the radio and the DJ. Oh, I remember that. Yeah, usually talked over the beginning and messed it all up. I remember doing that. Yeah, me too We didn't have call waiting. If you were on the phone and somebody else called, they got a busy signal. That's it. Mm-hmm. And we didn't have fancy caller ID boxes either. When the phone rang you had no idea who it was. It could be your school, your mom, your boss, or your bookie You're a drug dealer, a collections agent? You just didn't know. Wow, this person's led an interesting life, right? You had to pick it up and take your chances, mister We didn't have any fancy Sony PlayStation video games with high-resolution 3D graphics. We had the Atari 2600 with games like Space Invaders and Asteroids. And the graphics were horrible. Your guy was a little square. You actually had to use your imagination. And there were no multiple levels or screens, it was just one screen, forever And you could never win. The game just kept getting harder and harder and faster and faster until you died. Just like life. Hmm. When you went to the movie theater there were no such things as stadium seating. All the seats were the same height. The tall guy or some old broad with a hat sat in front of you. You couldn't see. Sure we had cable television, but back then that was like only fifteen channels. And there was no on screen menu and no remote control. You had to use a little book called the TV guide to find out what was on. When it came to channel surfing, you had to get off your rear and walk over to the TV to change the channel. Remember that? Could come could chum. I remember doing the crosswords in the back of the T V guide too. And there was no cartoon network either. You could only get cartoons on Saturday morning. Do you hear you hear what I'm saying? We had to wait all week for cartoons, you spoiled little brats. And we didn't have microwaves. We wanted to heat something up. We had to use the stove or go build a fire. Imagine that If we wanted popcorn we had to use that jiffy pop thing. Take it over the stove and run. Like an idiot. You can't even find that anymore. I've looked. I don't think they do make that anymore. Oh, I've got to find that. That's the best You think? Yeah, that's the best kind of popcorn. It's probably healthy for you. Yeah, we'll have to go look for it. That's exactly what I'm thinking talking about. You kids today have got it too easy. You're spoiled. You guys wouldn't have lasted five minutes back in nineteen eighty Wow. So short is nineteen eighty, eh? Now, I'm a little bit older than the person who wrote this email because when I was growing up we didn't have cable. I was just gonna say I don't remember having cable. I didn't have Atari twenty six hundred. Yeah, no. You know, so didn't have Pong. So imagine What's gonna you know, when our daughter who is thirty, forty years old and she wants to write a message probably won't be emailed at that point, it'll be something else. Um what will what will that generation say? And will it be progress? Uh, that's a good point. Are we you know, is all the stuff you know Are we better off? Is having uh n Nintendo Wii's and those sorts of things, uh PlayStation games, Xboxes, all that is that better? I don't think so. You know? Don't get me started. Don't get you started. Uh let's see, before we have time to do here. We're running out of time. I don't wanna get caught in the middle of something. Might have time to do this one. Let's try this one. And if I have time to do this one. These are all long. Send me shorter emails. I have to send me shorter emails. Well the beauty about when things progress or they don't progress is you have the option to opt out. We have opted out of cable. We have opted out of uh caller ID, caller waiting. We you know you still get a busy signal when you call our home phone, and I'm sorry about that, but that's just the way it is. And we still don't know who we're who's gonna call And there are times when we purposely do not answer the phone during dinner because that's our family time. Well, if um If you th wonder if it's still possible to watch television without cable or a satellite dish, it is. We have big rabbit ears. You know, we have a big antenna and uh we're able to get about, I don't know, a dozen different stations from the region and so you know, it it is possible. All right, we do have I can probably sneak this short one in. Gladys Dunn recently moved to a retirement community in a small town. One beautiful Sunday morning she walked to the church not far from her apartment. She was in awe of the lovely structure as well as music from the choir. She wasn't too impressed, however, with the sermon. She thought it was rather uninspiring, and she looked around the church, she noticed many of the parishioners were nodding off. When the Reverend finished he encouraged the congregation to greet those sitting next to them. Gladys turned toward the man on her left who had fallen asleep and was stretching trying to wake up. He smiled at her and Gladys returned the smile. She politely offered her hand and said, I'm glad it's done. You and me both, the man replied. Glad he's done. Oh glad he's done. Okay. Wasn't that clever. That was very sick. Clever. Anyway, thank you, honey, Dina Skinner, for being on the show. We'll have her on next week. We'll do a little more of this, I think. We didn't get through nearly as many of these as I thought we would. So we'll do some more of this next week. I'm Troy Skinner. God bless