Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Fleming. And heating, how can we make you smile? Rider Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to get together and share and discuss their views of the truth. I was reminded before today's show that Thomas Jefferson once said that the the sound of freedom is the what is that the clash of ideas of the sound of freedom? That's it. The clash of ideas is the freedom. So we'll hear lots of freedom on the show today on the Faith Debate. With Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Say hello. Hello. And the owner of the Owl Nest and um what do you call you? Practicing an avowed, a self-proclaimed what do how do I how do I introduce you? A pagan Tamar Bradley. I don't know. Hello. Like I wouldn't call you an avowed Christian, would I? Uh yeah, right. What would I call you? Devout Christian. Would I call you a devout pagan? Like a devout pagan. Absolutely. Here we go Um and you can get all sorts of uh you know books on that sort of thing at the L Nest. Yes you can. Yes you can. Uh last week at the end of the show, uh as always happens on this almost always happens on this show, we feel like we're just starting to pick up a head of steam and the show's over. So hopefully we can pick up on last week's head of steam and right off the bat and and keep it going throughout. And one of the questions that was asked, I think uh I think the way that Tamar posed the question was Do you think that the Native Americans with their their nature worship and and all that sort of stuff, would you call them, you know, like backwater hicks? Because we're talking about the definition of paganism over the years and and uh some would perceive that at least hundreds of years ago as a as a as a slam on somebody to call them a uh a pagan was to be pejorative Um and then I made the comment that you know today it's almost the reverse. Those that uh uh buy into and celebrate the the pagan new age kind of movement are the more um Eriodite. of society and it's those fundamentalist, you know, backwater Christians that are the you know the And so it was in that context that a question was asked And I think and and Jonathan started answering. I don't know if you had a chance really to feel like you finished answering it, but I want to give you that chance to either flesh that out or not. And I have a thought on it as well. Um certainly the incoming colonists, colonials, were uh treated the um Indians as being um Uneducated, backward, pagan, primitive, needing to be uh uh modernized, meeting needing to be brought into the real world But there's a guy by the name of David Brainerd that I think I would fit with. I would have felt, yes, they need need to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ, but I'm going to do that by going to live amongst them. and to uh to learn their ways and to learn to live with them, to learn their language and communicate uh Christ in such a way, you know, that they're able to respond to it And so um so I think I would have taken a different approach than your basic colonial col uh colonialist uh imperial, you know, uh uh incomer. But at the same time, uh, I still would have viewed them as a group that uh would benefit greatly from the gospel of Jesus Christ. And my comment on on that question is, you know, would Native Americans or anybody like that uh be considered like backwater, you know, hicks who just don't know anything? Um I think misses the point of what to me faith and certainly what Christian faith is all about. I don't think it's um about how smart you are, how educated you are, uh how much you know, you know, uh I don't think that knowledge is the thing uh the faith and the trust in the in in God is the thing. Um there are some brilliant atheists So no matter how smart they are, from a Christian's point of view, they're still utterly lost. In fact, there's some brilliant terrorists or there's brilliant uh Nazis. You know, uh the brilliance and education is certainly not I I think that's very well. So I think that the I think that the Native Americans say that they were very educated. the Native Americans. Right. Educated they might not, you know, be book smart, which is a lot of sure how, you know we s consider education, but when the colonists came over, not one of them could really take care of themselves Yeah, they had to learn how to plant the fruit. Absolutely. What what herbs were helpful, what er herbs were harmful, how to hunt. So I think that the Indians or the Native Americans were very educated and they were they lived. Yeah, but they weren't work smart educated. I mean educated But even if they were smart. But my point is even if they were that to me isn't isn't the point So Well but that's the definition of pagan. That's how it right. Right. But then if you if we want to extend and say, okay, well then if that's definitive is the definition of pagan and you're going to call the Native American Indians pagan, are you including that part of the definition? And I I wouldn't be Well I don't use the word pagan to be honest in my you know I can't remember the last time I said pagan other than my conversations with Tamar. You know, it's not part of my normal verb, but sure. You know. So I think that the Native Americans I'll I'll concede the point. They're way smarter than me. They can track a bear. Okay? I don't know how to do that. They're way smarter than me. Uh but that doesn't change the fact that as a Christian, I think they're lost. I don't think they have a saving faith. It has nothing to do with their intellect or their teaching or their training or whatever. You see what I'm saying? So I don't think that this um Sure, sure. So if I think they lived for thousands and thousands and thousands of years without knowing about Jesus Christ. Uh yeah, and so so did many, many other people. Sure. And w uh What happened to everybody before Christ was born? Does do all those people, the Moses all those people, do they go to hell or do they get the go to heaven free card? Well I can try. Or you want me to answer that question? Well you can answer it. I mean I I I feel like it's a softball. Well then I'll feel really embarrassed if I miss it. So maybe you should answer it. So well I can't play softball, so it's okay for me to call it that. Um that that's a very good question. What about the Jews? The Jews didn't even know who Christ was thousands of years before Christ came Um, the key to Abraham's faith for all those that are of the faith of Abraham was what he said as he's going up the mountain to sacrifice his son. God had sent him up the mountain to sacrifice his son. And he was willing to do it. This this act of total willingness, you know, uh God, I love you. I trust you above all things. If you send me to sacrifice my son, I even trust you so much that I'll do that. uh pretty amazing level of commitment to a God. And as he's going up the mountain, he says, um Uh his son asks him, uh God Dad, what are we going to sacrifice when we get when we get up there? And his response, I feel like, is the response that is the saving faith response of Abraham. He said, God himself will provide the sacrifice. And uh I've I've heard of cultures all around the world again and again that there was no Christianity preached to them, but they had built into their uh perspective on spiritual things and understanding that the God who is above all gods is righteous and desires to be interacting with us as human beings. And we're keenly aware of the fact that we as human beings were far from having it all together and built into, you know, whether it's over in India, whether it's down to South America, the the the um the religious people that worshiped that Machu Picchu up on the top of Peru worshiped the God above all other gods that was holy because the uh the other Peruvians that were down in the lowlands uh had had uh fallen into major immorality so much so that all their pottery was made with like human an anatomical parts all over it. You know, it was i it had become a very immoral and and grossly sexualized culture, but there was a group even there that had never heard of Christ that pulled themselves away and said, no, there's something holy about humanity because there's something holy about God, and God is going to have to provide a way for us to to connect with Him. And so Christ is the sacrifice That that make that builds that connection that brings us back together. But the understanding that God must provide a sacrifice, I believe, has been saving people ever since Abraham. So Fair enough. What do you say to that? Fair enough. Yeah. I I I and this could be a I think I think most Theologians would uh uh would agree with that, most conservative Christian Christians. There's plenty of people that haven't heard the gospel of Jesus Christ. I think many haven't thought it all the way through, but the bottom line is that is that that's the key faith of Abraham that God himself will provide the sacrifice. Now it's interesting in the first show, by the way you're listening to the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. He's John Sweitzer. She's Tamar Bradley. Um it's easy. Yeah, see? I'll quickly went right through that until you interrupted me and got me up there. Uh in last week's show, uh you were describing um your pagan belief as uh against something, which is a natural way to try to define something. I'm this which means I'm not that. And and and part of that was I'm this, which means I'm not part of the Abra Abrahamic you know, covenant of faith. You know, I'm not Muslim, I'm not Jewish, I'm not Christian. Um what is it about being Muslim, Jewish, or Christian that makes you not want to be that? Wow. I wouldn't say that I wouldn't not want to be anyone face if I had to pick one of the three. I would pick Judaism. Sure. I feel that that is probably a closer link to God than say Christianity. True. It's been around longer. Okay. So the Though of course Christianity claims Judaism as their root. Right, and Jesus himself was a Jew. Profoundly. And so I think where I get my um In fact he claimed to be the ultimate Jew. He claimed to be the fulfillment of all Judaism. And I I I think that lost my train of thought here. I have so many trains of things to do. You've been doing that to me for three years. Welcome to my world. You can get past me. You can get past me. And he's got such a nice mouth. Absolutely. I told you beforehand, no compliments are to be paid to Jonathan Swiss. At least not publicly. I wouldn't say that I don't want to be any of them because the one question that I was waiting to be asked was, do I believe in Jesus? Okay. Do you believe in Jesus? And I do believe in Jesus. I believe in Jesus from a Gnostic point of view. From the Gnostic text point of view. Like Thomas's Gospel and Absolutely, the Gospel of St. Mary Magdalene. Philip. Absolutely. All those. And I think that's the traditions. That's more well the Holy Grail, those kinds of things. Celtic Christianity's very different. Did I say Celtic Christianity? I said Celtic tradition? I meant more Druid. Okay, well then no, they would be two completely different things. Right. I spent a couple of weeks in Wales last summer on a goddess based pilgrimage and we stayed in very Christian bed and breakfasts. Sure. But at the same time, they had a great respect for the goddesses that were known to live in that area. They know their cultural history. Yes, Caredwin lived on Lake Bala and I can tell you all about her. And have a picture of Jesus on my mantle. And they were blended together and they they were harmonious together. It wasn't I believe one and this one's wrong. It was So what about Jesus do you uh uh agree with, believe? I believe and I I hope you guys agree with me, his number one message was love. That's to love one another and to respect one another. Jesus never said, I'm the be all to end all, and if you don't follow me, then you're short. He never said that? I mean if you if you follow the Well I'm not gonna I'm not gonna disagree with the first thing she said. I do think that Jesus' primary message was one of love. Yep, yeah. But then I think the second part of it ties to the first part because I think the rest of his message was was an unpacking of what it means because i it all boils down to what's the greatest commandment? To love God, to love your neighbor as yourself. Um and the first part of that love God part ties into the love, but the whole rest of what his teaching was, is the way I understand anyway, he's kind of unpacking what it means to love God. And part of what he was unpacking there and and teaching his disciples was if you love God, you will follow me. And if you don't follow me, that's evidence that you're not loving God. And if you're not going to love God and trust him implicitly that he has provided a savior who by the way is me, uh meaning Jesus, not me, Troy Skinner, um, then then you're going to be lost. So I think that uh I think it's more common. You don't think he said things like I'm the way, the truth, and the life, you don't think he said I'm the light. It depends on which Bible you read. Okay, so so the point is that you believe in you you would you would reject the uh Matthew Mark Luke and John the classic gospels representation of Jesus I have not read them lately enough to to go through and to pick them apart and pick and choose the thing. I'm the light, I'm the only way to the Father. If they say those kinds of things, then you would you would reject them. Yes. You would pick and choose. You would say, I like that, I don't like that. You would you would And I would read and take what works for me and leave what doesn't work for. And you feel like the the Gospel of St. Thomas and Mary Magdalene, you have read those? Yes. Yeah, I keep those on my bookshelf. Absolutely. Absolutely. Now I haven't read all of those, but I have read Thomas, so I'll use that as a kind of a touch point. What is it about the the gospel of Thomas that resonates, that you like, that you can agree with? Well, I'm very much of the mind. I love the idea Jesus was a Jew. Jesus was a rabbi. Jesus was married, Jesus had children. Mary Magdalene was his companion, the apostle of the apostles. And together they So Mary Magdalene was the chief of the apostles, as it were? Absolutely. Okay. Absolutely. Anybody who's seen the Da Vinci Code knows what she's talking about. Yeah, would you would you say that's true? I don't I do not I do not buy the Da Vinci Code as the truth. I think the Da Vinci Code was a great icebreaker for the the divine feminine He brought things and he Dan Brown, you know, a lot of people just thought the pentacle was an evil satanic symbol until the Da Vinci Code came out and they said, Hmm, I never looked at it that way. Earth, air, fire, water, and spirit Now tomorrow's not gonna like me saying this, but I've uh used because I've I don't uh accept as canonical you know, as as authoritative, you know, any of the of the s the secret gospels or the what the the Gnostics might call the lost gospels or the Gnostic Gospels or what have you. Um one, most of like the Gospel of Philip and some of the others that Jonathan mentioned are you know, we don't have the full copy of a lot of them. They're like fragments and pieces or whatever. I do think that we have all of Thomas And I've read Thomas and somebody says, Oh, so what do you think of Thomas? You know, you think it should be part of the canon? You know, part of the part of the rule of of faith? And you're not going to like this. My response was, there's no way that that could be part of the canon. And if you don't believe me, just read it What about the Gospel of Mary? Oh you haven't read the Gospel of Mary. But the Gospel of Thomas, it seems like all you gotta do is this is my perspective, obviously uh understand, but all you gotta do is read it. And there's no way that you come th It's my opinion, there's no way you come away from that saying, yeah, that's that's the inspired word of God right there. mainstream Christianity because the King James Version was put together way after those gospels were written and you know who who is man to decide what is you know, right to be put into the Bible. Why do why do we pick and choose? Well, I think that that um I personally uh would would appreciate if the people that lived at the time paid very careful attention to what Jesus and the original apostles said and did. And wrote those down and and were very careful to identify those things that claimed to be written by Jesus and the apostles, but were not. That would be very important to me. That would be that would be a uh a a New Testament according to the truth. Uh would you agree with that? That that um like for example, if somebody wrote uh a life of Tamar Right? But it wasn't anywhere close to what you believed and instead was advocating um uh terrorist Islam uh that would offend you deeply and bother you that somebody was writing in your name. And so so very important to me would be whether or not uh the things that were written you know, have some kind of credibility according to uh what happened at the time and the men and the women that were with Jesus. And that's that's the reason I reject the you know the Gospel of Thomas, the Gospel of Mary Magdalene. Because none of those line up with any of the original books in the sense is that that they are in fact saying things that are that are um in in direct contradiction contradiction to the other books. And so either the Gnostic gospels are right or the other gospels are right. And that's where it can't be both where spirituality becomes a very individual thing. Because I believe my God tells me to read and find out and what feels right to me. If something in my gut feels wrong, I'm not gonna buy into it. Alright, w let me challenge that. If For example, Christ lived and uh He uh He had twelve disciples, but let's let's just throw something out, just for talking here and I. Everybody listening knows that I believe uh that the Bible uh is or is orthodox, is is true as we have it today, that it's historically accurate. That the uh the Bible Uh the one that the New International Version, King James Version, Revised Standard Version, all of those versions uh come from a body of material that is considered to be orthodox has been tested. They have over 5,000 copies of of all of the manuscripts and all of the uh the the parts of the New Testament. that were scattered all throughout the Roman Empire and collected from different places, the earliest of which come to within 20 years of the original writing. uh of of of the Bible. And so uh the the historical precision, we have we have greater confidence that those gospels are were written by Christ, the the historical person, Jesus and his his apostles. We have greater um confidence of that, like in a court of law, than we do that George Washington lived. You know, we have greater confidence because there's more uh copies of these things that were so widespread and they agreed with one another. Even though there were so many copies, there weren't all these copy errors and and differences. And so uh so my point is that but let's say for example that that Bible that I believe in was wrong, and the Gnostic Gospels were wrong. Would it be important to you to find out what Gospels were written by the actual Christ and the apostles? I would w definitely want to get back as close to the source to I would want to get to the source. So then at that point it's not just what you feel. I mean you're really trying to figure out what is what what can be shown to be true Not not what can what can be shown to just kind of connect with me emotionally. You know, because for example, there's all kinds of movies out there that I watch them and I come away and I'm like, man. That movie had a worldview that that could never work, but by the end of the movie I left feeling good. You know, because because there are plenty of modern day sophists That can argue and persuade and come out at the end of the thing and have told me something that is absolutely stupid, but make me feel good about it. So I think emotions is a very dangerous final standard. There has to be something more than that. It it can be and I I'm definitely one that I go with my heart and what I feel is right. And I've I mean the Catholic Bible, they've got other books that the King James Bible doesn't have. And it's like, you know, there's so many arguments, well the Schofield Bible and this Bible and that Bible. And But they all agree on the major points of doctrine. Every single one of them do. I mean, I uh you take every single one of those Bible on the major points of doctrine they are in 100% agreement, and I would have no problem um calling a person a Christian that that that follows any one of those and is following Christ as a result. None whatsoever. And I think that's true for most of Orthodox Christianity. And there's and I don't know of any Christian Protestant, Eastern Orthodox, Roman Catholic, uh that disputes the historical validity of those books. Uh I know some devout Protestants that read First and Second Maccabees, for example, because they find it helpful because it it fills in some historical gaps in the Old Testament history. but they don't consider part of the canon. But even though the Roman Catholics do consider it part of their canon, there's nothing that I've ever heard of in any of those additional books that um That rejects the idea that God provides the Savior, that Savior is Christ. All the main tenets of Christianity are still supported by those books Um would the suspicious among the Protestants uh would charge the Roman Catholics with with trying to provide a divide between the Protestants and Roman Catholics, saying, Okay, you're gonna split off from us, fine. We're gonna add more books to our Bible and now you guys don't have the whole Bible. And that it was done for those reasons. Whether that's true or not, I don't know. And then the Schofield Bible, the thing that's And to me when you get into that kind of a match, oh, our Bible says this and our Bible says that, aren't you getting away from Absolutely. Absolutely. And then right there, that just nulls what God is about Yeah, there's definitely attitudinal a Troy, I believe that's uh I really like that word. Attitudinally is very uh uh it's very important how you come across. I believe that there's every reason to to persuasively and passionately search out whether or not those books are uh have good reason to be a part of the canon and the reason being is because if other people are going to follow those teachings, then I think there's a little bit of responsibility on the teacher to make sure that that he's dotted his I's and crossed his T's, you know, that he's that he's teaching something that that is you know historically accurate and valid, you know, and that fits with you know the the the canon Uh and so whether or not they should pa be passionate about it, absolutely, whether or not they should get an attitude and be like, well, you know, we think you guys are, you know, why But though I don't th I again I don't think there's as much of that out there as people say there is. Certainly in popular culture, like with paganism, Christianity is represented as oh we're just all rah rah, you know, fighting with one another. And it's just simply uh not out there as pervasively as it's painted out to be. And as a oh I'm sorry. I think that's with all s well not all, but a lot of spiritual faith. It happens even in the pagan community And I tell people and I use this analogy with my father in law, okay, we all wanna go to heaven. We're all going to heaven. We're on a road trip. You're gonna ride your Harley, I'm gonna take my truck, my husband's gonna take his car If we're all going to the same destination, what does it matter the route that we take? As long as the the bridge is on your route Get you all the way across the uh as long as we all get there. Uh I believe there's many roads to God. I just think they all go through Christ. He uses that line all the time. By the way, we're we're running out of time here. I want to say the Schofield Bible is brought up and there is some debate over that, but as I understand it, the debate on that centers on the study notes. Right, not on the the translation itself. Yeah, the study aids with that Bible that some people that aren't of the uh pre premillennial dispensationalist mode. If you know what that means. Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and the owner of the Owl Nest, Tamar Bradley. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you to our sponsor, Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And uh I haven't well formulated what the tact in next week's show is going to be, but it'll be a good one. I can assure you of that. Thanks for listening. God bless.