Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? This week joined by Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Schweitzer. and a former Shiite Muslim who is now a Reformed Protestant Christian, Imran Raz Razvi. And if you've missed the last three shows, then I would encourage you to go to WFMD. com, find the audio vault. section of the website and listen to the podcast of those shows. You get some good background. Uh we spent the first uh uh show or two talking about Well the first show is kind of a history lesson for us on the divisions within the the the Muslim uh community, religion, whether with within Islam, whether it be Sunni versus Shia and and and some of the political things that are going on. Then we talked uh in the second show probably mostly about uh some of the things that uh Raz learned growing up as a Muslim. Last week he finally got to uh the point in his life when he was around twenty years old. where he uh began to question his his uh Muslim upbringing and and made a turn, uh some sort of a gradual turn toward Christ and before he knew it he was calling himself. a Christian. And that w uh took place I guess in upstate New York and now he's moved. No. No. Actually I I've grew up here in Maryland Oh the upstate New York connection. Oh okay. Where in upstate New York? Uh Binghamton, New York. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I have family that uh that was up in Binghamton. Very interesting. So anyways, I don't want to get distracted though. So so now here we are for the last uh sixteen, eighteen years. I'm not sure exactly how old you are, but I think I remember you saying either sixteen or eighteen at some point along the line. So for the last sixteen, eighteen years you uh would have defined yourself as a Christian. Right. Compared to the first twenty years where you defined yourself as a Muslim. So that Yeah, that's not a very good question, but talk about that. Well one of the clarifications I wanted to say is if you do listen to the other audios, the uh what you'll hear is my opinion. It's not a definitive history or it's not definitive in any way, it's more of my perspective growing up in a Shia household in the in the US and that's what this show was about is to really get a feel for how what I felt growing up in the in what I what my family feels was a Christian nation and which I didn't realize it wasn't until I became a Christian. Um you know, until I made that step, I think he became a Christian and realized America is not a Christian nation. And it decided what I celebrate, the the that you came to that revelation It's really hard to see that from the outside. Because again we talked about all these churches that proclaim all these crazy things and then you think about it and people say well what's the difference between that uh this Episcopalian church is Methodist Church and true Christianity. Um, you know, true Christianity is the Bible, the Word of God, and only that and no nothing added or taken away. Yeah. Uh but from the outside until you actually make that commitment, it's hard to see that. Now if you talk about this and this is gonna you you've said a couple of things uh on the on the show of the last few weeks where you then caught yourself said, ooh, that would get me in trouble with a couple of groups. You know, the feminists are getting mad at me, the Muslims will be mad at me, whatever. Uh this is one that will probably get the Jewish people mad at me. Um but you know, if you said that we've offended everyone over the course of four weeks, we've got to make sure we What could we say to offend you? Email us that. Go back two thousand years. Alright, you got the Pharisees and the Sadducees and uh and and the uh uh um what are the the Essenes. The Essenes and and some other groups with within Judaism at the time that they thought they were good Jews. But if you walked about, you wouldn't have seen what Judaism really was at that time, because when Jesus comes along, we see Judaism perfected. And so you s you become a follower of Christ and you find out what Judaism was really all about all along in Jesus. And so you become a Christian. Or, for lack of a better turn of phrase, you become a true Jew and you recognize that the people around you aren't really Jewish Exactly. It's kind of the same thing that's happened for you. Now you grow up in this quote unquote Christian American context, and you become a Christian, you realize these people aren't Christian at all. Despite the fact that recently I read a st uh saw a study that somebody some group um did a really big research study that involved interviewing 35,000 Americans. And uh throughout this whole study they ended up coming up with some takeaways. One of the takeaways was 78% of Americans, according to this study, identify themselves as Christian. 51% of Americans identify themselves as Protestant Christians. You look around. 51% Protestant Christians, 78%. So three out of four, more than three out of four say they're Christian, and half say that they're Protestant Christians, which Everybody in on this panel right now would identify with the Protestant Christian part of that. You're gonna walk around the streets of America and you're gonna tell me that every other person is a Christian, I'm gonna say no way Yeah, there's just no way. There's just no way that's true. They're professing Christians. They're not truly Christians because you will know them by their fruit and we just don't see the fruit. That's my opinion anyway. So now I've offended the Christians too. Yeah. All right. Who else can I offend? Yes So it it really is fascinating to me that uh that you would come to that conclusion. Um so how is it what has that meant for you then in in trying to live your life? Well it meant for me I had to we my wife and I looked for a church home to go to and it was very difficult to find a church home that actually complied with what we were reading in the Bible And after much search we did end up going to a Presbyterian church that did preach from the Bible and that did talk against abortion and why it was wrong. Um and we were there, we Yeah, worship there for a while, then uh we moved and went to an A. G. Church, uh uh assemblies of God and the pastor was phenomenal and uh That's pretty different though. Very different. And it was very uncomfortable at first because it was uh a very showy praise, um but i there was a presence of God. And you can really feel that some places and with uh Pastor Mark Lehman at and and Bowie, uh you could feel that and it was amazing and there was a lot of growth there. And uh I believe that each step of my life God has put me in the right place to bring me closer to him and bring me to the next step. And then we left there and went to uh another church up uh in Uniontown, Uniontown Bible Church with Tim Webster. Phenomenal uh pastor, very, very acknowledgeable. Um and and uh we got along very well. I I taught Sunday school and I I can tell everybody if they want to learn something, they should teach it. Because if you teach it you'll learn it a lot better. So I learned a lot being a Sunday school teacher. And uh then we decided to move on because it wasn't filling what we needed. Um and again, I really believe a church should not change to fit everybody's needs. And I think a lot of churches do that. But I think a Christian should find the church that fits their needs where they are in their walk of with Christ and go there that way instead of trying to change the church. Because there are churches for different people and if the church tries to please everybody then it becomes like This Episcopalian Church, which is open to anybody, whether you're you know open openly uh sodomite or not, um you're acceptable It's it's all about love and not not at all about retribution or or punishment or law. I do want to explain my comment by the way, in case anybody's confused, like what does he mean? That's different. Aren't they Christian? What I meant by saying going from a a Reformed Presbyterian church to an assemblies of God's church being different is really just m more well, there are some theological differences, but the the the experiential difference. A Reformed Presbyterian church, if in case you're not familiar, is generally going to be more structured This wasn't really reformed. This was a Presbyterian church, but but it was a Bible-believing, Bible-preaching Presbyterian church. And so it was more of a cultural, more of an outreach church, but it did preach the Bible. And then we moved to the A G Church, which was a little more worshipful. Uh had spent a lot a little more time worshiping the Lord. They would fall into the Pentecostal school. They they're uh more in tune with the idea of being led by the Spirit. So they're they're just different experiences. You go to one church and then you go to another, it's like going to completely different organizations. Like you wouldn't even You know what I mean? A different religion. Yeah. Well almost. If you understand the word religion as the practices, then it is a different religion. Right. But it's the same faith. But in the from the outside, all of those are lumped in from a Muslim's perspective. They're all Christians, and so it's very hard to differentiate what is a good Christian, what is a bad Christian. And uh, you know, it just doesn't make a lot of sense. In fact, uh my mother w you know said I don't know if we said this on air or or or not, you know, she was commenting about my wife being uh doing all these great things and uh the the you know was, in her opinion, very good, very loving, very honorable, if only she was a Muslim. And I was trying to explain to her She's doing this because she's a Christian, because she follows the Bible. And it's not about anything else, it's about following God's law. And there's enough of God's law because in the in the Quran, because the Quran borrows all of uh a lot of the stories, everything from the Old Testament and uh even some from the New Uh and puts it into the Quran. So there's a lot of similarities. And the biggest thing w there is that there Their family structures a lot stronger, their honor and shame is a lot a lot stronger, and so they haven't experienced what the Western cultural Christians have experienced, but they are doing it now. And that's one of the reasons why s there's so many Muslims that hate this country and hate Christianity and the Western culture because it is doing exactly to them, to the Muslim faith, what it did to the Christian faith in the last century. Your it's your your last comments here are taking me exactly where I wanted to go, so that was perfect. Also on the panel again this week, Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. So now you're a Christian. Right. And now you have to interact with your family and others who maybe you grew up with or that you know they're part of the Muslim community and they're coming at you with things like, well, you know, that Christian Bible is like, you know, it's corrupt. And this this example we see in Western culture, I mean, that's that's corrupt. And they you know, they believe in like three gods, don't they? And you know, all these different things. So what are your interactions with the Muslim community like now for you? What are some you know basically what I'm asking you, what are some tips you could share with somebody like me if I run across a Muslim and I want to have a a fruitful dialogue with them. Well, I am ashamed to say that I've been a coward. When I became a Christian I ran and hid away from my background. Uh As a Muslim, when I left the Muslim faith, I lost my identity. My parents disowned me. Uh they didn't want anything to do with me. I was not their son Um, I didn't have a family, I didn't have any place to go. Because you shamed them, I guess, in their eyes, right? Because it there was shame and if their friends and their uh everybody found out that I was a Christian the shame would be brought to them. I was the eldest son of the eldest son of a leader in in the Muslim faith, so it was a very, very bad time. And so I just didn't want anything to do with Muslims. I wanted to stay away and protect myself And uh I felt like Peter denying denying Christ. Um but I didn't know any any other way. I just didn't have enough of a um of a knowledge base to be able to present it to anybody I knew what I believed, but I couldn't convince anybody else, and I and I wasn't strong enough in my faith to know that God would use my words, and it wasn't up to me. So I kind of after I was disowned, I kind of just stepped away and then my wife and I got engaged and I sent my parents uh a um marriage I mean uh a wedding invitation and uh then within two weeks of our actual wedding because they weren't speaking to us at that point Um two weeks from our wedding, my w my mom called me and and said, Okay, we've accepted the fact that you're getting married. Fine. But you're gonna get married in our house as a Muslim first. And so my wife and I talked about it, prayed about it with her parents and decided that being married in the in my parents' house wasn't going to go against God and against Christianity. It was going to honor them and hopefully open the channels up for us to communicate. So we went and got married in my fam my parents' basement. Um it was a large basement, it was an eight thousand square foot house, so it was a pretty large house. And we got married there as Muslims and um you know we didn't have any relations, my wife and I until we were actually married um the week later in a um Christian church and a Christian wedding. And did your family know you got married a second time? Oh yes. Okay. And that's the only reason they they said you gotta get married as a Muslim first and they didn't come to my Christian wedding, they knew that, but they knew that that I was going to go through with it. But once we got married, credit to my mother, she s sat my wife down and said, I was against this from the very beginning, but now that you're married to my son, you are my daughter. And I will treat you as my daughter. And and credit to her, she has always treated my wife as a as her daughter. Now I am still slighted a lot. My mother loves me, my father loves me, that's not that's not an issue But there's a lot of slights that happen that you wouldn't know coming from the outside. We could all be sitting in the same room and the conversation is going and you wouldn't know that several people have slighted me. Um I would know because I grew up in that culture. So I was a favorite son. Um you know not to, you know, ps you know uh I was a I mean I was the eldest son and I was Uh I was leading prayer, I was calling the Azan which is the call to prayer. And you're smart and you're good looking. So I was a favorite son and and when I when this happened it was very, very difficult for me because I was no longer in that position. I I lost my position completely. And uh so i i I was an outsider now. So even though my in in fact if anything it needs to be done um intellectually wise or any problem solve, they always call mo call my wife. They never talk to me, they never ask me unless you're not sure. But she's a Christian too, so what would make that okay? Um because she wasn't born Muslim Mm-hmm. And she's always treated my parents with respect and honor and I've given them shame. And that can never truly be forgiven. Okay, now just to uh help to put some puzzle pieces together, you say that you were rejected by your family. You were disowned. You were no longer their son. But it sounds like you're saying that then you went and married a Christian girl. And they then you get to be their son again because you had a Muslim wedding. I mean, is that true? Is that kinda how it played out? Yes, because uh again I was raised that um People of the book, Christians and Jews, were still going to go to heaven. Yeah. There were still people that you could deal with so long as they're good Christians and good Jews. But but there's a little bit of a winning back that honor because you went ahead and had the the Muslim wedding. But the greatest winning back of that honor was when we had children and my son, my oldest son, who is very loving and very very much um brings honor to to my Muslim family by all the activities he does. He's very intelligent, he plays instruments, he does all these things that brings honor to my family. And They have forgiven me in such that I don't go and talk to all of their friends and go to the mosque and talk to them about Christianity. So in that respect, that's why I said I was a coward. I really went away from it and did not proclaim Jesus where I should have And now in the last just a few years, in the last three or four years, things have happened that have opened doors for me and we can go into the the specific things if you like that I really truly feel God says, okay, you've had enough time. Get over it. Let's go. Yeah, I do want to ask you about that, but first a thought occurs with all this emphasis on honor which I didn't realize is part of of the Islam tradition is that it's very oriental You know, like you think about the Far East, it's all about the family honor and honoring the name. I'm thinking the same thing that there's some comparisons there. But anyway, so you mentioned that you I think he said the word had been or were a coward. Now does that mean that you are have done some things that have taken you away from that or are you at the beginning stages of coming out of that? Baby steps. For example, uh um fact who knows maybe this radio gets you in trouble, huh? This will probably get me in trouble. Uh that's okay. It's it's God's timing and I I truly believe that I can't get any m in any trouble in this world that God doesn't allow it. I believe he's a sovereign God and he will put me in whatever trouble he deems fit and takes me out of whatever trouble he deems fit to take me out of So I am uh a little bit uh hopefully stronger in the faith there. Though he slay me yet while I praise him. Um what happened uh was I was going to have uh a a party at at my house uh for the soccer kids for my um soccer uh my sons uh and my children's soccer teams And we invited them over, it was a pool party, had them come over and then one of the gentlemen that was there and I've been praying about this for a couple of weeks about what should I do, Lord, where are you leading me? What you know, I don't feel a direction in in following you, what do I need to do? But one of the gentlemen that came was the grandfather of one of the children that was on the soccer team. And he had just come back from uh Bangladesh. uh a Muslim country for a mission trip and he brought back a book which is called the camel training manual. You're telling me about this. And It just we happened to strike up a conversation. We started talking and he ha happened to have that copy in his car and he got it for me and I wrote it all down, made photocopies of the pages that I could and I ordered it and that really opened up my eyes in how to talk to Muslims. For that matter, it's funny because it's open It it sounds like it's opened up your eyes to how you were talked to and what helped you to change. Correct. The point is somebody asked you questions instead of imposing their dogma on you and it opened you up. And you're seeing wow, maybe you could do that as well. Yeah, most Christians when they go and and minister or uh to somebody or try to bring somebody to the faith, they they can be called Bible thumpers. They bring their Bible and thump on the Bible, this is the word of God and you must listen, boom, boom, boom and and they bring all their arguments and their logic and everything else from the Bible. But to a Muslim if the Bible is false because it's been corrupted and and mistranslated Why would you take any information from it? So and I that that had been my situation at at uh uh the the uh s um college And I would al I was always able to defend my faith of as of being a Muslim because of that. Ex until this one gentleman sa didn't even use the Bible. And he basically said, Well, Muslims believe basically you can Um, go to heaven if you do more good than evil to weight scale. I said, yes. So he said, also Muslims believe so long as you worship one God uh Jews and Christians being i. e. yeah, Jews and Christians worship one God, so long as they do more good than evil, they also go to heaven. I said yes. So he said, Well If if I do more good good than evil and I'm Christian, I'll go to heaven, and if you do more good than evil and you're Muslim, you'll go to heaven in your point of view. I said, definitely. He said, what if if you're right, then we both go to heaven? Wonderful. What if I'm right? And so what do you mean? And he said, well if I'm right, no matter how much good you do, no matter how good you are, you cannot go to heaven except by the secret that I know Yeah, and s and and and at that point you're like, okay, I've gotta resolve this. And so you've got to answer this question. It didn't really click that said, you know, whatever it didn't that that wasn't the main issue. The main issue was my answer to Jesus was that he didn't die on the cross. That he was spirited away. And his answer to that was, then what about all the other injustices? Why was Jesus, if you claim he was only a man, why was he spirited away? What was so special about him? Why would God go out of his way to spirit him away and and save him s from suffering? You know, I just I I just want to jump in here. I feel like in general Evangelism in the United States has has gone this direction of we're just trying to get people to intellectually, you know, say Jesus is Lord. But at the end of the day, by by going that direction, we've allowed ourselves really to be worldly and just, you know, kind of a quick fix. It's kind of, you know, it's kind of Jesus, you know, McDonald's style. You know, if you just say these, you know, few words and and confess Jesus as Lord, then then you'll be saved, as opposed to what made the difference for you. And I feel like what would what would make the difference in this day and age, instead of trying to have you know, McDonald's conversions, you know, that that is this fast food kind of an orientation, to have these kinds of discussions that we as Christians would would instead of trying to impose all our answers, would start asking the questions that everybody you know, should ask, you know, the the important questions. And by asking the important questions, what happens is then people are like, well, you're right I need to think about that. A as opposed to always making it that we're just giving them the answer. Because if they're not asking the right questions, then then the Bible doesn't look like an answer to anything. You know, it just looks like, you know, well you've got your answers, they got their answers. But if they're asking the right questions, the questions that you and I live with day in and day out, do you know? Uh what about sin? What about evil? What about all these kinds of things? And we help them to ask the right questions. It seems to me at the end of the day that that makes the biggest difference. And certainly you're saying that that's the case in the Islamic world. Yeah. You have to research, you have to find your answers. If you find the answers, it is more meaningful than if somebody gives it to you. Yeah. Okay? My father was very fond of it. Which is why people feel like it's so condescending if all we ever do is give them answers. Correct. Correct. My father was very fond of saying there's no such thing as a free lunch. Yeah. Somebody's gotta pay for it. Okay? In the same token, if you give free answers, it's meaningless. It doesn't it doesn't mean anything. It's uh it i God's gift was very costly. Yeah And we So first of all, we a as Christians, if we agree with this, we have to be willing to find our own answers. But then too, then we'll be we'll be a little bit more uh uh dignifying with unbelievers with whom we interact because we'll help them it will encourage them to find their own answers as well. But I think we get to the point where we feel so desperate to bring these people to Christ that we skip that step of having them find Christ. And so we preach out of insecurity instead of preaching out of out of a place of uh confidence in Christ. Yeah, there's different things for I mean there's some hair splits maybe here. Uh may not have the exact right word, but You know, thinking of the example of Christ, when he walked up to somebody who was, you know, blind or maimed in some way, you know, he would walk up and ask them a question, you know. They would call out to him even and he would go up to him and say, You know, what is it you want? What do you what who are you calling out to me? Yeah. He didn't go up to him and say, Oh, you want to be healed? You know, let me heal you. You know, he would just walk and and he would meet them where they are and ask. But at the same time he would go into the uh uh th the temple or wherever w the were whether religious uh synagogues the synagogues whether religious people were having religious uh uh conversations and oftentimes those that were considered rabbis from out of town were welcome to stand up and speak and in those contexts he spoke directly the truth but again it's because they asked him to step up and share what he knew. And then he gives his Sermon on the Mount or some of these other public speeches. The people gathered to hear what he had to say and they were saying, Speak to us, tell us what you know. So at all of those contests he might not he the Bible not might not record for us Jesus going to all these individuals say, Do you want to hear the truth? But their gathering was evidence that they were coming to hear the truth. So when Christians or When individuals come to a Christian church on a Sunday, they're very implicitly they're saying to the pastor, I'm here to hear the truth. Speak it. So I think we unabashedly, unashamedly share the truth from the pulpit. But that's different than feet on the street When you're talking to people and you hear and you see them in their pain and suffering and there's so much sin, there's lots of pain and suffering out there. I notice that you're in pain and suffering. You know, what can I do for you? And and that's why there there's parables. Jesus spoke in parables because he didn't give the answer. He made us look for it in the parable. Yeah, and in fact if you think about it, what he he said, I call you to be fishers and men and at least well today, I guess not not back then they just threw the net out and they pulled the net in, but uh today fishing means you you you give 'em the bait. You know, you you don't just go out there and just, you know, th thrust a spear through 'em and say, Ah, you know, I've I've I've captured you for the kingdom, but you put a little bait out, you know, you put a parable out, you you know, uh instead of just trying to cram the truth down their throats. And it comes down to and we're gonna have to wrap up here because we're running out of time on the show, but it comes down to your reformed sovereignty of God emphasis, uh Raz. You know, when we put the emphasis on ourselves, we need to go and win people to Christ. I think that's when we get a little uh out of balance. When we go to people and make ourselves available to be used by God to win people to Christ And we can do that maybe more effectively through questions. Uh we're gonna be more effective. That might be an interesting way for us to try to think through that in the practical way. He allows us to be part of his plan. Well then, you know, I'm going to be praying for you, Raz, to ask your parents the right questions. Thank you. Imran Raz Razvi, former Shiite Muslim, now a uh Christian Thank you for being on the show. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. It's been brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? God bless.