Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by my wife, Dina Skinner. Last couple of weeks we've gone through some listener emails, some of those chain email things that you forwarded to me and that sort of thing and commenting on on that from a Christian worldview perspective. Uh not a whole lot of debate. Again, the the reason we're kind of doing this is we've had a number of people come up and say that they've uh enjoyed when Dina has been on the show and they say that the only time they ever listen is when Dina's on the show. And so in a in a bold dash for ratings Yeah, just you know, it's a ratings grab is all it is. Uh we were selling out. Give 'em what they want. Uh not too much though, she's still mine. My wife and you can't have her. Uh silly. Anyway, so we're gonna continue because we uh I do have an opportunity on the website. Go to WFMD. com Keyword Faith, you'll find the Faith Debate page there, and there's a daily blog, well, weekday daily blog there. And that's a forum for me to take a bunch of things that are sent in my way and post them there because the show otherwise doesn't have much of an interactive feel. But before I started doing that I'd received a whole bunch of stuff that uh on occasion I've had a chance to allude to some of it or or share some of it on the show. But still have a lot of it that hasn't been shared and it's there's an opportunity to to share and plus I get way more emails than I could possibly share just on the 'cause I do basically do one a day. on the uh the blog. Try to limit myself to one a day. So sometimes I get way more than one a day. And so I have a chance to catch up on some of those in a show like this So this is this is a show for you. It's n it's absent of some debate, not to say that we won't say some things that you would take issue with and want to debate us on. And if that's the case Send me an email, Troy at WFMD. com. And uh if you are a faith community leader and you'd like to be on the show, I'd love to have you If you have a topic you'd like us to cover or a question you'd like answered or you'd like to challenge something that's been said, email it and then we'll do the best we can to address that. I have something I want to say real quick. Okay. It's popped into my head, so I'm gonna throw you a curveball we'll see if you receive it well. Okay. With parenting comes discipline. Now with discipline, there are two schools of thought. There's the timeout school of thought and there's the spanking school of thought. Which is more biblical? Which is more biblical. I don't know if I want to say that one is more biblical. I w I I would argue though that that both are biblical. Okay. I don't think that uh you know swatting your child's tush is child abuse I think you can make a strong biblical biblical argument that that is an appropriate way to discipline uh your child. Uh however, I think that those who would say that that is the only way to discipline your child and it when there's been a serious infraction and that uh time out, which is what you brought up, is a poor substitute, um I would argue that that is an unbiblical uh position to take as well. I think that you we do have responsibilities as as parents to discipline and instruct our children. I do think that on occasion, perhaps, a a swat across the tush is the way to go. However, I think it's possible to go through your entire parenting life, never spanking your child, and having done a good, godly job of rearing your children. I don't think it's wrong to spank, but I also don't think it's wrong not to spank. And I have my reason for that, but my wife I'm not sure why she asked the question, because I ye I share her opinion on this. Well it's a d well I I've had uh several women come up to me and ask me because we have a son with disabilities and he's very obedient by the grace of God. But along with that came a lot of training and we have needed to spank him on occasion from time to time. But we were very blessed and equipped with many people who um were uh specialists in the area of child rearing and were introduced into our lives because of our son and they were able to train us up in some alternative methods and one of them was was timeouts. And from a very young age we were taught with our child who was months old at the time that one way to discipline was to cover their eyes because they can't see you and that would cause great distress for an infant not to be able to see their mother and their father. So that is how timeout began with with an infant to just, you know, months old that was did not pose any physical harm to them, that was not threatening to them, but it was a form of of them knowing, okay, this is something bad happened when I did this. I don't want to do that again. I don't want to feel that again. In the same way that you can relate it to scripture, and the reason why I'm bringing this up is because I've had women come up to me and ask me uh to defend as a strong word, but to um offer explanation as to why we don't spank as much. And one thing that as I prayed about it, the Lord revealed this wisdom to me When we sin, we were separated from God. And what did Adam and Eve do? They hid because they didn't want to be near God. Well the same When you when you are um child rearing, when you do time out, you're separating yourself from that person which causes great distress because we were meant to be in fellowship, especially with our mother and father. So this is a very righteous form of discipline. You are basically echoing the need for a savior now. In this case you're echoing the need for uh redemption for repentance. And so in doing so, you've done that. You've modeled the gospel before your child in a way that could be very powerful when they're of an age to understand the message of the gospel. So that's one of the reasons why we like to um use timeout is because it really does bring you right into the it just it walks you into a way to share the gospel in a very powerful real way to them. And without getting into a whole bunch of examples and stuff, I'm gonna try to keep it as mainstream as possible in this context, because almost anybody who would hear this would know that these two stories are the The two m uh two of the most well known stories, that and and the life of Jesus would be i the other well known story Um the exodus from Egypt, when the people uh leave Egypt and they're going to the promised land, they've been promised to their forefathers, um, and they're on the cusp of entering. And then the people sin and God puts them in a forty year timeout. Basically. That's that you it's using modern language, but that's basically what happens there. So there's a biblical example of God Himself using timeout to discipline his children, his his chosen children. And then the story you're talking about with Adam and Eve, that's a timeout that all of creation is still waiting to get out of. Absolutely I mean it's some would argue that we have with Christ's uh death and resurrection and ascension, and s but there's an already not yet tension there. Um there's the promise but it has not been completely fulfilled until his return. So for the Christian that timeout has ended. We now have right relationship with God through the Son in Christ Uh but still the the f the absolute complete perfect fullness of that is what's absent. But for everybody else who hasn't uh entered into right relationship through Christ They're still in time out. But of course as as we were sharing, there is also example in scripture that talks about using the rod. Now I have heard some people say, well, the rod was translated it wasn't really a rod. So it depends on who you ask. But Um, but there are occasion when God would, you know, what what did he do to us? He struck 'em dead, talk about being whoa, you know, 'cause he was disobedient. He touched the ark. So there is definite um uh you know, um what is the word I'm looking for? There's definite um example of that in scripture as well. But I think that when you say only this works and only that works, you're missing an opportunity to see God. No, rod is um uh can be used as a as a as a tool of in an instrument of of inflicting pain and and some sort of punishment or whatever. But it it can also be understood as the guiding rod that the that the shepherds would use to guide their flock in the right direction just by uh holding out in a certain way or tapping them with it or whatever. It wasn't necessary to inflict any sort of pain. So there's different ways to understand that word. So We're probably rankling some feathers. I'm sure we are. I'm sure. I'm sure. But here's the deal. If you can effectively parent your children and you use spanking as an effective way to raise them up the way they need to be raised I think the Bible will support you in that. I think you have enough argument from Scripture to do that. However, if you can find another way and not uh use spanking and still raise your children uh uh t to be God fearing and to live righteous as as they can lives, then uh then you I think you have arguments from scripture to defend that. Mm-hmm. So anyway, good question. Well thank you. That's why I married her. Praise the Lord. Alright. What is this email called? It's called DANGER. This I don't think has anything to do with uh religion or faith matters exactly, but it was an interesting thing I thought I'd share. Do you that maybe you don't know this? I probably don't. A twenty-six year old man decided to have a cup of coffee. He took a cup of water and put it in the microwave to heat it up, something that he had done numerous times before. Not sure how long he set the timer for, but he wanted to bring the water to a boil. When the timer shut off, or when the timer shut the oven off, he removed the cup from the oven. As he looked into the cup he noted that the water was not boiling. Yeah, I do know this. But suddenly the water in the cup blew up in his face. Yes The cup remained intact until he threw it out of his hand, but all the water had flown out into his face due to the buildup of energy. His whole face is blistered and he has first and second degree burns to his face, which may leave permanent scarring. He also may have lost partial sight in his left eye. While at the hospital the doctor who was attending to him stated that this is a fairly common occurrence. And water alone should never be heated in a microwave wave oven. Yeah, you should put something in it, a tea bag, uh uh something. And here's what it goes on to say. If water is heated in this manner, something should be placed in the cup to diffuse the energy, such as a wooden stir stick, a tea bag, etcetera. Nothing metal. Yeah, and nothing plastic, because that'll leach into your water. It is, however, a much safer choice to boil the water in a tea kettle. Which is odd. So here's a response from General Electric, I guess, who had a question about this w regarding microwaves that they sell. And it says, thanks for contacting us. Be happy to assist you. The email that you received is correct. This is not some sort of urban legend, folklore, wives tale thing. Microwave water and other liquids do not always bubble when they reach the boiling point. They can actually get superheated and not bubble at all. The superheated liquid will bubble up out of the cup when it is moved or when something like a spoon or teabag is put into it. To prevent this from happening and causing injury, do not heat any liquid for more than two minutes per cup. After heating, let the cup stand in the microwave for 30 seconds before moving it or adding anything into it. Here's what the local science teacher had to say on the matter. Cause you're wondering how how is this possible that water would be so hot that it should boil but it's not boiling? And the scientist says, thanks for the microwave warning. I've seen this happen before. It's caused by a phenomenon known as superheating. It can occur anytime water is heated, and will particularly occur if the vessel that the water is heated in is new. or when heating a small amount of water, less than a half a cup. What happens is the water heats faster than the vapor bubbles can form. If the cup is very new, then it's unlikely to have small surface scratches inside it that provide a place for the bubbles to form. As the bubbles cannot form and release some of the heat that's built up, the liquid does not boil and the liquid continues to heat up well past its boiling point. What then usually happens is the liquid is bumped or jarred, which is just enough of a shock to cause the bubbles to rapidly form and expel the hot liquid. The rapid formation of bubbles is also why a carbonated beverage spews when opened after having been shaken. If you pass this on, you could very well save someone from a lot of pain and suffering. So pass that on, that's a real one. Has nothing to do with faith exactly. I mean we could probably try to turn it into some big faith analogy or whatever, be superheated for the Lord so that as soon as someone touches you, you will explode with the gospel message and you will bring them to salvation. Or something like that. Oh my. That was quite extreme. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. She is Dina Skinner, my wife, and we're going through emails sent to us by listeners. All right, this one is called Jim Nugent versus ABC TV. Alright, Jim Nugent is a coach in Childress, Texas, and he writes, My name is Jim Nugent. I wrote to ABC online concerning a program called The Practice. You ever seen The Practice? I have not. It's gone past my bedtime. You're familiar with The Practice total. Yeah, the doctors. No, it's the law. Oh. I guess I'm not familiar with the law I don't think you think it's on it. Oh okay now I know what you're talking about. Yes, yes. Okay. Uh one of the lawyers' mothers decided she is gay and wanted her son to go to court and help her get a marriage license so she could marry her partner. I sent the following letter to ABC yesterday and really did not expect a reply, but I did get one. My original message was ABC is obsessed with the subject of homosexuality. I no longer watch any of your attempts to convince the world that homosexuality is okay. The practice can be a fairly good show, but last night's program was so typical of your agenda. You picked the duofus of the office to be the one who was against the idea of his mother being gay and made him look like a whiner because he had convictions This type of mentality calls people like me a gay basher. Read the first chapter of Romans, that's in the Bible, and see what the Apostle Paul had to say about it. He, God, and Jesus were all gay bashers What if she fallen in love with her cocker spaniel? Is that an alternative lifestyle? By the way, the Bible speaks against that too. Jim Nugent. So here's ABC's reply from the ABC Online Webmaster. How about getting your nose out of the Bible, which is only a book of stories compiled by many different writers hundreds of years ago? And read the Declaration of Independence, what our nation is built on, where it says, All men are created equal and try treating them that way for a change. Or better yet Try thinking for yourself and stop using an archaic book of stories as your lame crutch for your existence. You are in the minority in this country, and your boycott will not affect us at ABC or our freedom of statement. Well Jim You wanna say something to that? Well I just think it's he's the one who's not being uh fair and not owning up to his end of the declaration of independence. Well, she's not entitled to her own opinion? She's not entitled to you Jim Nugent. I'm sorry. He is not entitled to uh use the Bible as as a means to validate his existence? Anyway, so here's Jim Nugent then replied to that response. Oh, okay. And said, Thanks for your reply from your harsh reply. Evidently I hit a nerve. I will share it with all with whom I come in contact. Hopefully the Arkansas Democrat newspaper will include it. That must be where he's he's from. Will include it in one of their columns and I will be praying for you, Jim Nugent. And then somebody put a note, uh or I guess Jim Nugent may have written a note. Wouldn't Satan just love it if people stopped using the Bible for a crutch? Please resend this to everyone in your mailbox. Thanks, Jim Nugent. I wonder if the person from ABC considered how many people would read this email. This is one we should definitely pass on. Now, I did check to see if this was an urban legend or whatever. Apparently it's true. Wow. This email complaint was really sent that response was really sent in reply. Hmm. Uh A A B C uh The powers at B at ABC um were not happy with the webmaster's reply and apparently that webmaster was terminated. Okay. Saying that that doesn't, you know, th they that doesn't speak for them and all that sort of stuff. But the point still is the same. There does seem to be in pop culture I don't know if it's an A B C agenda, but there does seem to be a pop culture agenda uh to to celebrate uh quote unquote alternative lifestyle. Well it sounds if we didn't see this coming down the road. Oh that is that is the path of sin. Oh you say it very well there's that what what is it that you say Uh there's this and then this and this and then you celebrate it. What is this? First you uh you you tolerate it. That's it. And then you accept it and then you celebrate it. That's it. Tolerate, accept, celebrate. And we're now to the We're in the middle of accept and tolerate. I mean I'm sorry, accept and celebrate. We're kind of we kinda teeter back and forth between the two. But there will be a day, I fear, um because it's sad that it will be in complete celebration. And we've talked about that issue. The you know the the the uh gay agenda, the homosexuality, what the Bible says. We've talked about that a number of times on this show, so we won't belabor that right now. I'm sure it'll come back up. It's it's part of what it's current. It's the it's the ongoing social conversation In America. That's part of the ongoing social con uh conversation in America. Let's see. Here's this talk about the future and where we're going, whether or not we're heading into a future of celebrating these things. Right Well here's headlines from the year twenty twenty-nine. Oh boy. So we're jumping ahead about twenty years or so. Okay. These are the headlines we'll see in about twenty years. Ozone created by electric cars now killing millions. Oh boy. In the seventh largest country in the world, Mexifornia, formerly known as California. White minority still trying to have English recognized as Maxophia's third language. Spotted owl plague threatens northwestern United States crops and lifesto livestock. Wow. Trying to save the spotted owl only for them to come back and fight us, right? Yes. Baby conceived naturally Scientist stumped. Oh couple petitions court to reinstate heterosexual marriage. Oh my heart. Iran still closed off. Physicists estimate it will take at least ten more years before radioactivity decreases to safe rubble. Scary. France pleads for global help after being taken over by Jamaica. Oh my goodness. That's just too funny. Castro finally dies at age 112. Cuban cigars can now be imported legally. But President Chelsea Clinton has banned all smoking. The President Chelsea Clinton. Will she be old enough in twenty years? How old is she? Of course she will Yeah, she's like she's like twenty one, twenty two now. Oh no, then she wouldn't be old enough. Don't she have to be forty two to be present? No, not j or is it forty. I guess it's forty, right? Yeah. All right. She'd be old enough. I thought it was forty two. You're right, forty. George Z. Bush says he'll run for president in twenty thirty-six. The post it's interesting because we t there are we don't have um a monarchy. But we kind of almost sort of do these dynasties. You know, the the Kennedy dynasty, the Bush dynasty, the Clinton dynasty. True. We have these dynasties. Postal Service raises price of first class stamp to seventeen dollars eighty nine cents and reduces mail delivery to Wednesdays only. 85 year seventy-eight point or 75 like it matters. Like you would know, I'm reading this, like you would know if I got this number wrong, but I'll start over again anyway. Eighty-five year seventy-five point eight billion dollar study. Diet and exercise is the key to weight loss. Took them that long. Headlines from the year 2029. Average weight of America drops to twenty uh two hundred and fifty pounds. Oh gosh. Japanese scientists have created a camera with such a fast shutter speed they can now photograph a woman with her mouth shut. Ooh. I don't like that. You'll notice she kept her mouth shut for just a moment before responding though, just to make the point. Massachusetts executes last remaining conservative. Hmm. Obviously this was uh crafted incent by a conservative thinker. Supreme Court rules punishment of criminals violates their civil rights. You can't punish those criminals, you're violating their civil rights. They have a right to be criminals. We're actually kind of there. That's not twenty we're not we're not waiting twenty one years for that one. The average height of NBA players is now nine feet seven inches. Yeah. New federal law requires that all nail clippers, screwdrivers, fly swatters, and rolled up newspapers. must be registered by January of 2036. Congress authorizes direct deposit of formerly illegal political political contributions to campaign accounts. Uh IRS that's lowest tax rate at seventy five percent. Oh my goodness. Feels like we're there. I know we're not, but it feels like we're there. Oh my goodness. Florida voters still having trouble with voting machines. And it ends with Now send this to whomever you want, as many as you want, and then guess what? Nothing will happen. No miracles, no money, absolutely nothing except you might make someone smile. See I like that. Yeah, that's very cool. No pressure to have to send the the silly emails off to somebody else. This one is called a bit of history. You ready for this? Okay. The first couple to be shown in bed together in primetime television were, could you guess? Uh Carol and something Brady. What's his face? Oh okay. These weren't actual f uh humans. Oh. Uh, not the Flintstones. Yes, Fred Rick Flintstone. First couple shown in in bed together on primetime TV. Every day more Monty this is interesting. Every day, more money is printed for monopoly than is printed at the US Treasury. Hmm. Men can read smaller print than women can, and women can hear better on average. Hm. That's why I have you always look at contracts and I always get the phone messages. That's why I never listen to you. Coca-Cola was originally green. Oof. Can you imagine? Golly. It is impossible to lick your elbow. I'll take their word for it. Alright, I want to see everybody listening right now is trying to live. Well, I visually was trying to do it in my head, so The state with the highest percentage of people who walk to work, what would you say that state is? Highest percentage of people who walk to work. New York. Oh, pretty good guess, but according to this, Alaska. Hmm. The percentage of Africa that is wilderness? Uh forty percent. Twenty-eight percent. Now guess this. The percentage of North America that is wilderness. Africa twenty-eight percent North America, how much of North America is worth it? Thirty-eight percent. More than Africa. Okay. Isn't that something? That is something. The cost of raising a medium sized dog to the age of eleven, how much does it cost to raise a dog? To have a dog for eleven years. Four thousand. Six thousand four hundred dollars. Oh that's close. Yeah, not bad. Only off by fifty percent. The aver No. Like forty percent. Yeah, you're gonna quivel over ten percent? Yes. The average number of people airborne over the United States in any given hour. Too many. Wow, that's a shocking number. How many people are airborne right now? I don't know. Over America. Sixty one thousand. Wow, I know. So is that too many? That's more than the population of Frederick. Intelligent people have more zinc and copper in their hair. I have lots of zinc and copper in my hair, apparently. Yeah, agreeing or disagreeing. Uh I'll let it go. The first novel ever written on a typewriter. The Grace of Wrath. Tom Sawyer. Oh. I was gonna guess that actually. The San Francisco Cape Fury Where. I've heard The San Francisco cable cars are the only mobile national monuments. We saw those. Yes we did. Two years ago we went, three years ago, when do we go? Uh each king in a deck of playing cards represents a great king from history. Did you know this? I did not. The king of spades represents King David. King of Hearts, Charlemagne. King of clubs, Alexander the Great. And King of Diamonds, Julius Caesar. I never knew that. I did not know that either. Um it I'm not sure why, but uh apparently one hundred and eleven million one hundred and eleven thousand one hundred and eleven times that same number equals uh a number that has like twenty-eight numbers in it. I'm not sure Okay. Well I'm not sure why that's important. Oh, I see there's a pattern here. If you take one hundred and eleven million, one hundred and eleven thousand one hundred and eleven and multiply it by itself You get an answer that is one two three four five six seven eight nine eight seven six five four three two one. Mm that's fascinating. I like that. Who came up with that? I don't know. We're gonna have to wrap it up there though. Little math in the face debate for you. Hmm. Anyway, thank you, my wife. Almost since its inception Uh I want to thank uh Patrick and Marlena Putman, uh good friends of ours who uh who who support uh what this show is really kind of all about all about, trying to facilitate debate about important things. Invite you to visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Again, I thank you for spending this half hour with us. God bless