Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 9th. 30 WFMD. I don't know why I'm talking like that. That was very nice. Too early in the morning for it. Or if you've ever seen that really horrible movie that was about Howard Stern W F M D. Anyway, this is the Frederick Face Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Those people you know, giggling and childishly making fun of me in the background, Jonathan Sweitzer, the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Actually he was the only one being childish. And our other guest, uh Tamar Bradley uh owner of the owl nest in Frederick. Uh Jonathan represents the um the Protestant Orthodox Evangelical Christian worldview. Hey does that look like paternalistic if I'm being childish As a matter of fact, yes it does. Yes, you could say that we'll put you in timeout. And uh Tamar Bradley is representing the feminine divine Gnostic New Age Paganist The tree hugging hippie movement. Movement. So are those enough labels for you all? Yes, yes, we are sufficiently labeled. Anyway, we've been we've been doing uh a series of shows now. This is series this is show number five Uh in the the infinite series. We're gonna do show after show after show. We'll come back, we'll be reincarnated and continue the show. No It never ends. Anyway, uh in last week's show things uh um we're focusing on the idea of right and wrong, whether there can be an absolute right or wrong. Uh Jonathan was asking a lot of questions to try to get a fuller understanding of whether or not Tamar believed that there was an absolute right or wrong. And I'm not sure that I have a definitive sense of what the answer to that is. I do know that my sense of the answers from last week's show is that Tamar has things that she believes personally are right or wrong. I'm not yet sure whether or not she projects those in a bigger way or if she grounds those in something that is bigger. So that's I guess what I want to try to figure out. Maybe a way to to to to launch into that if this isn't too personal a subject to try to to tackle. But you'd mentioned uh uh really quickly, it was a it was a blur for somebody listening to the show about how you had to um wrestle with whether or not to euthanize your cat and how you really wrestled with, you know, is this the right thing to do, the wrong thing to do? Um in our culture, it is common to euthanize a sick animal. In fact, it's becoming increasingly common to euthanize animals that aren't sick at all. They've just been in the wait list in the in the uh shelter for too long. And for that matter we kill a lot of animals just to eat 'em. Right, right. But this is this is not for any sort of utilitarian purposes just putting the the animal down. Okay. So it but the point is in our culture, the culture in which you are fully ingrained and raised in, that is the norm, and yet you still wrestled with it. So That seems to be a disconnect based on your standard for deciding whether something was right or wrong. You're saying if the society is that you kill your your your child you know, in a sacrifice that if that's how I was raised, that's what I would probably do 'cause I wouldn't know any better. And yet here you are being raised in a society that kills animals left and right without even thinking about it. And yet you anguished over it. So I Help me understand that disconnect. Yeah, I I like the way that you you put that out there. Help me process some of my own Thoughts and feelings. Absolutely. Yes, yes, yes. Therapy time, I'm sure. That's great. Um My my background, I went to college, I'm a vet tech and so when I was tucking I would see other people come in and like you said, you know, animals are euthanized just for sitting in the the pound too long. And for me personally, I think that's horrific. I think that that Because why? What's your basis for making that I have a no kill policy. Judgment. Yeah, but where does that come from? That's just part of Tamar. That's that's just part of me because I am such an animal. All society should should would you like to influence all society to follow you on that? No, because I know in a lot of other cultures they have different thought process, different thought forms on how animals are valued. I mean in some countries they'll eat a dog and save a cow. If you owned a uh um veterinary clinic? No, no. If you owned a pound, uh would you have a no-ko policy? Absolutely. Uh so you would require everybody that worked for you to follow your standard on that. That were working for me? Yeah. Absolutely. So what if you owned a whole slew of uh of pounds? Would you require everybody in those pounds to not kill any? Absolutely. Okay, what if you uh had the opportunity to be personal pound uh policy maker for all of Maryland. Would you make the the policy that you kill no animals? If I was in charge of that, it would be a no-kill policy. And same thing for the whole United States. If I had that power. Let's say well let me jump to the end one more level. All right. All of the known and unknown universe is at your control. Is this where you're going? No, no, no. I was just gonna go as high as the UN. I was gonna end at the UN. Same thing, right? Yes, yes, yes. But let's take it to it that you became goddess Tam Tamar You know, and and you had your own temple and you had the opportunity to influence the whole world, would you have a no kill policy? Absolutely. Let me go into into my cat and this is this might help Um, he went in for some exploratory surgery. I had two options. Chemo that would prolong his life by a couple months or euthanize him. And I struggle with the free will. I don't believe that I have the right to take another living creature, be it animal or human. and end their life. To me, that's between them and God. And I believe animals connect with God as well. But when I found out how bad the cancer was in his body and what he would have to endure just to prolong his life by a few months. I decided the humane thing would to be let him go. And believe me, I shut my store down and had a good long talk with God about that Okay. Um you were saying that if you're the goddess Tamar and you were able to rule the world, you make a no-kill policy. What is the basis For you feeling that that is right. Live and let live. Live and let live. But see now I would say that the basis In in that if you're gonna take it to that big extreme the basis is that she is the goddess Tamar. And if I've got that supreme And so that becomes the point now, I think I I I think I'm not sure. We want to have the freedom to kill a cat a week to sacrifice to a different God. Would you give them the right to do that if you had all authority? Whew. Well if I had all authority there would be no other God. Well that's my point. So then that question would be irrelevant. And then if they made that up, then I would have to deal with that person. That's precisely where I'm trying to go. God, who is God that you claim all the other gods and goddesses are just a facet of him, uh, doesn't have the luxury of uh hasn't given himself the luxury of of not allowing the other gods and goddesses to have worshipers. He has he has given mankind the freedom to walk away from him and to choose other gods and goddesses. He has free will Right. He's given them that freedom. My point is you're saying that you wouldn't. But okay. God being the creator created these the Would you give mankind the free will or no? Or would you just say no, you're not allowed to kill other animals? Well if we look at God as a parent and I'm looking at my children, I'd say no. Sorry, mommy said no. Right, and what I'm saying is that you're a lot more tyrannical than the Christian God. Because you wouldn't give your own people free will. God in heaven gave them all free will to walk away from him. You're saying that if you were God on the policy of of that one thing. And that's what I'm trying to get at is that we have to have a standard against which we could measure the goddess Tamar, or the goddess Venus, or the God you know, uh Ra, you know, f from Egypt. We have to have a standard for that, otherwise those gods will b have the freedom to be tyrants And we will no longer have any kind of freedom. Well, and be it as it may, I'm not the goddess com tomorrow and I don't have nor would want that sort of responsibility Nevertheless, God does, you would agree, right? God I give I give God all the props in the world for taking that on. And I think when God created the other gods and goddesses He created the other gods and goddesses? I thought you said that that they were figments of our imagination. They're co-creations of God. came up with the idea for these gods. They're like projections of the projections of our mind that we created them and that they're facets of God. Right. So did God create them or part of my struggle. because of also kind of the culture we live in. We're taught to believe this growing up from an age, I know that I'm taught there is a God. I want to figure out who that God is. And if God can create and do anything, God can take itself and facet itself into different mythologies, different stories for people to learn and and to reflect on. And every culture, we have the same basic creation myth. We all have sacrificial gods. Just about every culture, some god or son of God. in my pagan culture it's the sun S U N God who starts out as a child, goes through the year. All the other cultures, all the gods and goddesses interact with one another and when I read the stories of how Venus did this with you know with uh with Jupiter and you know all the different ones it sounds to me like a big soap opera And personally I find uh in fact playful That's how I feel about the Bible. Listen, listen well, yeah, because it is, because it's about people. God in heaven's not the soap opera. In fact, Plato himself and Socrates got so sick and tired of the Greek pantheon of gods that they postulated a God that would be firm and secure and that would not change willy-nilly whenever he wanted to. And that's the way that's the right. Why? Because the Greek gods and goddesses and the Babylonian ones and the Egyptian ones, all those gods and goddesses, uh were not stable. They they they were facetious and they were They were frivolous and they they they did this because they wanted to and this because they wanted to. There was no standard of right and wrong, which is precisely the reason why Christianity was so effective at winning them out. Christianity didn't beat the gods and goddesses of Rome and Greek because They were um uh s be because they were in power and they, you know, used the sword to drive them all away, they beat those gods and goddesses by preaching Christ. were mirroring their gods. And I do and I do I I do agree with you when you s say that, you know, everybody kinda got reined in around the world somewhere around the same time range, but also I see that as human evolution We're evolving as people. Yeah, but again I feel like that's that's kind of convenient. So why can't God to Christianity I mean if we if we evolved to something, we evolved to Christianity. In fact, I just finished reading this book that that is tracking um uh the growth of religion around the world. You know what's happening Around the world, Christianity is growing in leaps and bounds and pagan religions or religions that are non-Christian. uh all of them are shrinking and getting smaller around the world and they're flocking to Christianity. And it's not it's not my disagree with that. I don't have a computer in front of me to pull up facts and figures But I think that's a good idea. Forty percent of of Korea right now uh is Christian. Uh in China, thousands of people every day are coming to Christ. We don't proselytize. That's fine, but but Christianity is still growing around the world. I mean, fine, you don't have to proselytize. Yeah, but see uh respect for Anthony. I'm going to respectfully disagree with uh the the the the Christian pastor here a little bit. Uh not that I think that anything he said has is is is blatantly wrong, but I think it misses Uh we talked a couple of shows ago about what's the thing of the thing and I think it misses that thing of the thing a little bit. Okay. Uh this idea of, you know, everything I th by the way, let me back up just a second. I think that what Jonathan was doing was for the sake of argument, well, okay, let's say that humans have evolved and if that's true it evolved into Christianity. Right. Uh but then you you continued to go, so I wasn't sure if you were uh doing it for the sake of argument or not. In case you weren't sure. I think that misses the point because this whole idea, I think it's a common uh failing of of modern day Christians to think in terms of um the Old Testament finds its fulfillment in the New Testament and the New Testament is about the Christian church. And the truth of the matter is the Old Testament isn't fulfilled by the New Testament. Yeah, I'm glad you went this way. The Old Testament is fulfilled in in in God's saving purpose for mankind. The Old Testament is about Christ, and the New Testament is about Christ. So they're all about an individual, about the person of Jesus Christ. It's not about there's any sort of an evolution and that God's people have melded into this church in this church. It's not about the purposes of the church. It's about the purposes of God, and those purposes have already been accomplished in the person of Christ. So for the Old Testament, they were looking forward to Christ. And for us in the New Testament era, we're looking backwards to Christ. And in fact, the point is it didn't come and both the Old Testament and the New Testament believers, if you want to use that word, are not only looking at that point in history, but are simultaneously looking to a, from a human understanding, a future point in history where everything is fully realized and glorified So and and that might be a little heady. I'm not sure if I'm saying it as is. God's purposes haven't changed. There isn't an evolution. There's only those that have fallen into these other perspectives of gods and goddesses. that have been drawn back to uh the standard of who God is uh and that fall away and then they come back. And so your point is that is that God's purpose is it never changed. There is no evolution. I'm in agreement with that. Yeah, and it's and it's less about trying to track out that evolution and say, well, you know, Christianity must be true because it's growing. Whether it's growing or not means absolutely nothing to whether it's true or not. You know, that's that's that's the point In the Old Testament. I don't know that I agree with you on that point. J to not get killed. No, I'm not talking about I'm not talking about bullying. I'm talking about when the Mayans saw a god who uh who would not accept human sacrifice but gave his son for them. The Mayans weren't bullied into anything. The Mayans were uh were transformed by an idea that was that that they knew to be true in their heart, it fit way more thoroughly than their own perspective of what is true. And in fact we are taught in Christianity that that one day the knowledge of the Glory of God will cover the earth as the waters cover the seas, and that that they're uh that the truth um does win out historically. Uh and so I am of the opinion that that truth is winning and that it has a uh that it has a yeast effect in society. I agree. I agree that truth wins. But it don't this this now we're Tomar, go take a smoke break or something. In the Old Testament You would agree. Wait, we'll s I don't know. We'll see. You would agree that in the Old Testament God's chosen people are are uh th the people of Israel. Yes. Right from the loins of Abraham. Yes. Right? Mm-hmm. When they fell away. Yeah. When they weren't following, when when truth didn't appear to be winning out in those moments in history, when they were sent off into exile. Did that change the truth of the fact that they were God's chosen people? No, it's still true. So it it has so it has nothing what we can see in history has nothing to do with the truth of it. If Jews are the chosen people, why aren't you all Jewish? Uh I would say that uh that I am, yeah. In fact, Romans chapter four says that that the true Jew is the one who who believes, not the one who uh who's just been circumcised and and who is a uh uh has the blood. Uh from a Christian perspective, Jesus comes representing the truth of the covenant and those Jews who reject that are the ones that fell away. It's not like the Christians separated from the synagogues That live in Israel and are orthodox or wrong? According to Christ in the Gospels and Romans, those people that reject Christmas are rejecting Moses himself. And Christ said that if you read Moses and you understood Moses, then you would look at me and you'd be like, ah, at last. But if you read Moses and you're like, I don't think I quite agree with Moses, then you're going to look at me and you're going to be like, I don't think I quite agree with you either. Christ said that he was the fulfillment of everything that Moses taught. That's interesting. And I've talked with a bunch of Jewish friends about that in They would disagree. Jewish that grew up in Israel that definitely would disagree with that. So I I still kind of am like And I'd love to have her on the show and and and have a talk with her as well. I have I have quite a few um in fact I'm visiting. I'm going to Israel leaving um uh uh here in a couple days and and uh I'm gonna be ministering among the Palestinian Christians there, but I get to visit some of my Jewish friends that live in Jerusalem in Bethlehem actually, right outside of Jerusalem And uh and they are Christians and they are Jewish. And they uh they too s uh see that uh that that the clear teaching of Moses was Christ, and that Christ was the fulfillment of all those things. When I look at it from a more Gnostic point of view and I I recognize Jesus being a rabbi and I like to prefer refer to him more as Yahshua. Sure. That's a very Jewish way to say it. Absolutely. And in fact, my Messianic Jewish friends use the same phrase. It there's so there's very vast differences in the Gnostic teachings of Jesus and in the Christian. Profoundly so. Which is why I'm trying to get back to whether or not there's an absolute standard. Well and and I like to go to God is so personal to each one of us, like we were saying earlier. You can sit in church with a whole congregation of people and you have the same Reason why you're there. You're all there to go to church, you're all there to listen to the message, to connect with God, but it's very individual. For everybody. Everybody's going to interpret the message a little differently, take away different pieces. Not everybody's going to be a hundred percent with their neighbor. At the end of the day, my difficulty with the Gnostics is that there's these levels of knowledge that you grow to that that uh that make you more enlightened and uh and there's not a free gift of salvation but it's something that you're having to earn. It sounds like you might add to it reincarnation that it might take you a couple of lifetimes even to get there. And um that's precisely the difficulty I have with it because Well Gnostics are seeking knowledge. If God gives us grace And it's a free gift, then I'm saved as opposed to having to earn something I think could be very exasperating in the end. And humility. And and for me, Gnosticism, you know, you're seeking knowledge. And so when you go to Sunday school and you're in first grade and you get the Easter story, then you get the first grade level and then when you get into second grade and you're in the second grade Sunday school class, you're going a little bit deeper, you're getting a little bit more. The the the I it's it's Yeah the difficulty is that the Gnostics hide certain knowledge from you until you get to a certain level, and that bothers me deeply that they would have to hide it until you uh become uh an adept at certain levels. Uh it uh i if anything needs to be hidden, there's a reason why it needs to be hidden. I feel that way about a lot of groups. I was in a Wiccan tradition that, you know, you you don't get certain things 'til you're this degree or that degree. And I'm like Who are you to tell me when I have gotten to this point of enlightenment? Yeah, and I'll tell you that uh that m makes you bothered by uh things being secret. Everything I th I believe should be brought out into the light. And so I'm in agreement. And most most of Gnosticism, classic Gnosticism, means that they hide certain levels of truth from you until you get uh farther down the road and uh and so you're clearly not a classical no Gnostic. You No, like I said I'm pagan. I take I take what I need and I leave the rest. Sure. Let me ask uh about the reincarnation uh question here. Um do you believe that people come back as people or they can come back as animals or plants or like what's like what does reincarnation mean? I believe that we can only incarnate as people. I don't believe that we, you know, shift between animal, plant, man or mineral, any of that. Believe that I always have my little thought that before we incarnate, before we break off from the source and we come down here, our um astrology, our birth charts, kind of map out the things that we want to do, the lessons that we want to learn. And we go through this life and certain lessons are put in front of us and it's our choice Whether or not we uh learn this lesson or we don't get it so much and we have to try again. So when somebody dies They then almost immediately would come back as another person in the form of a baby or they they kinda wait for a while and then you're not going to be able to do that. and hire counsel. And we kind of sit there and re review what we did. Hey, you you know, great job. You really conquered this and we need to work on that next time. And we go through a process of just kind of acclimating back as a spirit and then we decide when and where we want to incarnate. And now what's your basis of of I mean that's a neat little story. What's your basis of that story? My own personal work. Your own personal work, meaning like an angel showed you that before you be before you got here you you were in a classroom and you were talking with somebody about your previous lives and And that kind of thing. Like like how do you know? More or less. More or less through my own work with God, my spirit guides, angels. I've asked these questions. I've contemplated, I've prayed and meditated. You know, and so you had to write it down or or it wasn't like, you know, um uh to me it was my aha moment, my truth. I also read books on reincarnation. I have asked Other people, what do you think? What do you believe? And after I gather up all my evidence, I make my own conclusion. And that's what works for me. We're going to have to wrap there. I have uh fifty-eight seconds left in the show. Okay. Not to be exact or anything like that. You're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. The owner of the Owl Nest, Tamar Bradley. Thank you. Thank you. Jonathan Schweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Froy Skinner, our sponsor is Putman Flumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? We thank them exceedingly. Check out the website, go to WFMD. com, look for the faith debate page, and you'll find a daily blog, weekdays only, from me. You'll find it there on the weekends, but I don't update it on the weekends. You'll find a link to Jonathan's blog, which uh he updates uh quarterly. But when I do, I put a lot in there. And uh you can check out uh podcasts of this show uh on the website as well. Um there's there's a link to the podcast section of the website from the Faith Debate page and other places on the website as well. Anyway, check that out. And you can email me, Troy at WFMD. com. Any sort of questions, comments, or suggestions for improvement. Always welcome. Thanks so much. God bless.