Welcome to Frederick's Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMG. I'm Corey Skinner, joined this week by my wife, Dina Skinner. Show is brought to us by Putman Filming and Heating. How can we make you smile? If you're wondering why my wife is on, well, we don't get to see very much of each other and No, don't tell then they won't listen anymore. She's gonna be on every week. Uh huh. I'll tell you tune in and learn otherwise. Yes, okay. All right. Well last week's show we were running through uh a a list of uh little bits of history, little tidbits and things like that. It was called a bit of history. Mm-hmm. And we didn't have time to finish, so we're gonna finish that up So uh if you were listening to the end of last week, or if you're listening to the podcast of the show and you go from one to the next, you can kind of almost seamlessly connect the shows together. Alright, well so we'll pick up where we left off on this bit of history. You ready? I'm ready. I'm excited. Um by the way, normally this the Faith Debate show would have a panel discussion where we would discuss really heady topics and that sort of thing, but we're uh taking a bit of a break during this holiday season to to catch up on uh listener email and uh and other odds and ends of of interest that have uh crossed the faith debate desk. Um okay so here we go If a statue in a park of a person on a horse got that has both front legs in the air, the person died in battle. I didn't know that. If the horse has one front leg in the air, the person died as a result of wounds received in battle. If the horse has all four legs in the ground, the person died of natural causes. Wow. Never knew that. I had no idea. Like you go to Gettysburg or some of these battlefields around here and you see those statues, you can oh, that guy died in battle. That guy didn't die in battle. He died of wounds. Yeah, well Yeah. And we're laughing about it. What's wrong with us? No, that's just very interesting. Yeah it is. I never never knew that. Only two people signed the Declaration of Independence on July fourth. John Hancock and Charles Thompson. Most of the rest signed on August 2nd. Wow. But the last signature wasn't added until five years later. Yeah, something. And who was that person? Doesn't say. Okay. That's a bit of trivia. If someone knows the answer, they should email it. Yeah, email me at Troy at WFMD. com. Half of all Americans live within fifty miles of what? Half of all Americans live within fifty miles of I don't know. Their birthplace. Oh. That's got to be Not anymore. Well it's got to be a much smaller percentage than it used to be. I bet you it was ninety five percent of Americans at one point. And if you f Fast forward, last we were talking about headlines from the year twenty twenty nine. Right. It'll probably be thirty percent of twenty it's uh getting ever smaller. No, absolutely. And a lot of people would I don't say most of the people we know, but a very high percentage of people we know. Most boat owners name their boats. What is the most popular boat name requested? I wouldn't have gotten this. Uh I have no idea. Wave. Obsession. Oh. That's bizarre. Yeah. If you're obsessed with your boat, man, you need counselors. I like mine better. If you were to spell out numbers, how far would you have to go until you would find the letter A? And three, four, five, the six. And there's no A in any of them? One thousand. Really? Isn't that interesting? It is. Trivial, but interesting. Very interesting. What do bulletproof vests, fire escapes, windshield wipers, and laser printers all have in common? Bulletproof vests, fire escapes, windshield wipers, laser printers. Um they all have a shield. They're all invented by women. Oh about that. What is the only food that doesn't spoil? Honey. Yeah, you know that one. That's right. I do know that one. Honey does not spoil. You can't make it go bad. And a little tip for the listeners If you have allergies, you should buy local honey with the pollen in it from the area that you live and raw honey. The raw honey and take about a tablespoon a day, a little bit more if you've got severe allergies, and your allergies you will build up an immunity to the things that you're allergic to. The pollen is in the um the honey and you will no longer be sniffling and sneezing and it's We've tried it this year for the first time. Troy tried it and it has made a world of difference. Not completely cured of my allergy. No. Again, the Lord has provided and did it very naturally. So it's uh just a blessing one to share that. Which days are there more collect calls than any other day of the year? Friday. No which single day? Oh. It's a holiday. I gotcha. Collect calls. Collect call. And what day would you call collect? Mother's Day. No, you don't ask your mother to pay for the call. Some people would. Uh the answer is Father's Day. Father's Day. Oh, you asked your dad to pay for the call. I was on the right line. A little ironic. In Shakespeare's time, mattresses were secured on bed frames by ropes. When you pulled on the ropes, the mattress tightened, making the bed firmer to sleep on. Hence the phrase, good night sleep tight. Ah clever. Did not. It was ex The accepted practice in Babylon four thousand years ago that for a month after the wedding the bride's father would supply his son-in-law with all the uh mead he could drink. Meat is a honey beer and because their calendar was lunar based, this period was called the honey month, which we now know today as the honey moon. Huh. Goes back four thousand years. So honeymoon is supposed to be about a month's time? It well originally it was, yeah, it was a a honey month of a month. Interesting. Now w how long was our honeymoon originally, honey? A day. Not even. Not even. A few hours. But I showed her the world. Yeah, we had lots of money back then. Went to a theme park that had a whole bunch of different uh stations where you could like feel like you were in Paris or you walk down the street of of the park and you feel like you were in San Francisco. And as I recall we got the tickets Free. Yeah. Well when you're when you're below the poverty line you do what you can do. That's okay. The Lord provided always. In English pubs, ale is ordered by pints and quartz, so in Old England, when customers got unruly, the bartender would yell at them, Mind your pints and quartz and settle down It's where we get the phrase, mind your P's and Q's. I didn't know that either. Huh? Many years ago in England, pub frequenters had a whistle baked into the rim or handle of their ceramic cups When they needed a refill, they used the whistle to get some service. Wetch your whistle is the phrase inspired by this practice. Huh. Fascinating. And finally, on this list, at least seventy-five percent of people who read this will try to lick their elbow. We talked about last week that it's impossible to lick your elbow and we joked that how many people are gonna try now? Well Uh, if you didn't, you are the minority. Yeah. According to this. Three out of four will. All right. You know you're living In the modern age, about to roll over into the year 2009, when you accidentally enter your PIN number on the microwave. You haven't played solitaire with real cards in years. You have a list of fifteen phone numbers to reach your family of three. You email the person who works at the desk next to you. That happens now. Yeah, it is so true. It's crazy. They're right next to you. Just talk to them. Yeah. Or you even buzz your extension. You're right there. I can hear you talking to me. When I pull the phone away from my head, you're anyway. Uh your reason for not staying in touch with friends and family is that they don't have email addresses. Oh. You pull up in your own driveway and use your cell phone to see if anyone is home to help you carry in the groceries. Every commercial on television has a website at the bottom of the screen. Leaving the house without your cell phone, which you didn't even have the first twenty or thirty or sixty years of your life, is now a cause for panic and you turn around and go get it. You get up in the morning and go online before getting your coffee. Well there is a little bit of truth to that one that you just did with the cell phone because they're not pay booths anymore. That's true, it's time. And that's why. I that's what really causes the panic. Good point. Yeah. You don't see payphones. No, I have not I don't remember the last time I saw a payphone. Yeah, well if you look for them you'll notice there's still some out there, but yeah, they're very much more infrequent. Mm-hmm. Yeah You s and I I can't remember the last time I saw somebody at a payphone, I will say that. Yeah. I don't know because I can't remember the last time I saw one. And I will say I've seen payphones, but I cannot remember the last time I saw a pay booth Or a pay payful note. Oh, okay. Where would what would Superman do today? Uh you start tilting your head sideways to smile.