Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News. Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. You can visit us, visit us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith On the panel this week, if you've listened to last uh about the last month's worth of shows now, you've heard us talking on Sunday mornings about Uh God's sovereignty versus human free will or how those two blend together. Is God in control or do we have some say in them in matters and you know, predestination is the theological term that we're arguing about and we're gonna do at least one more show on that because uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, has some Some uh well I guess some opinions on the matter. And uh Mr. Ed Ambush on the other hand from the right of opinions, he has the truth. Edward Ambush is pastor and bishop at the Bread of Life Church in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner and I'm really nobody. I'm just uh st stir in the pot as Lane Youngman put it and trying to create a mess And then see if the two of these guys can extricate themselves from the mess um in which I've struck them. So, you know, that's a theological question in itself. Can we extricate ourselves? From the mess of sin. I mean Troy. Actually that's kind of almost on sub on subject. It is, yeah, as a matter of fact. Let me uh I I began to share uh in between shows um with um Pastor Ambush uh kind of an interesting thought and and Jonathan had alluded to this uh in the very first episode of this series of shows This topic goes back a long way with Jonathan and I. Yeah. Jonathan and I have known each other for uh it's gotta be at least six years. I think we're going on seven now, because we're two thousand eight going into it was around two thousand one that we met So it wasn't very long after we met that we started to, you know, break bread together, you know, and and hang out and uh attend uh men's groups or whatever and and and we'd end up having these discussions that would go and I'm not exaggerating, deep. Yes. Into the night. One o'clock, two o'clock. Our wives were not at three o'clock, telephone rings. Are you coming home? And almost always, if it didn't start, it certainly ended on the issue of This this question, this classic question, is is God completely in control? Do I even have a choice in the matter? Or do I have a choice? And if so, what does that mean about God and his control over things? You know, like what And we would wrestle back and forth and Jonathan and I are in alignment on a lot. Now you might not be able to tell that from the previous shows if you've listened to them because I've I've been pressing Jonathan pretty hard. Um but really we're in strong alignment for the most part, but we choose to provide an emphasis on different sides of the hair splits. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You lean towards the sovereignty of God, I lean toward the uh freedom that God has given to man. And so therein lies um a lot of fodder for debate. I think actually that's probably that's probably why, because we're we have a lot of alignment But because our leans are a little bit different, uh that creates a really good dynamic for a conversation. If Jonathan completely disagree with anything and everything I thought and said and and vice versa It'd be very difficult to have a conversation, much less one that's going to go deep into the night repeatedly. In fact, that's what most makes most good debates really good is is when you go back to at least what you do have in common You know, for that matter, at least Obama and McCain have in common that they you know, they care about the United States and they feel like we've got something, you know, to offer the world in one of you know it's it's it's like that's where the good debate begins is with some kind of they really care about the good of the United States. I had to bring it up, didn't I? I apologize. You can't talk to Jonathan for very long without politics coming up, that's for sure. Uh please forgive me. Now in the previous four shows, uh we have argued ourselves into what Edward has uh described as a Mexican standoff. Yes And I think there's some truth to that. I don't know that uh the ground we've covered, uh, if we were to try to cover any more, that all of a sudden Jonathan is going to be persuaded by Edward to say, Oh, you know what? Yes I've never seen it that way before. And Edward's certainly not going to be persuaded by anything Jonathan says, because I mean really who would be. So so Uh so we're gonna move on slightly, but I do want to talk about an aspect of predestination that we haven't had a chance to cover uh really almost at all. Everything's been focused on God's initial election or choice. You know, does God choose us initially? Do we choose him initially? What role does God play? What role do we play? Um, but let's talk about the potential for a choice after the choice. Does somebody, once they've chosen to reject God, once they've decided that, you know what Screw you, God, I'm hardening my heart and I want to see what you can do about it. Can that person then later change their mind and unharden their heart enough to then make a choice for God? And on the other end, somebody who's been chosen by God and has accepted um from predestin from a predestinationist point of view has been chosen by God and has accepted or from a uh more of a free will orientation has chosen for God, has has made Jesus their their Lord and Savior, can they then later on say, hey, you know what Got a chance to think this through a little bit better and I know the last twenty years I've been living my life as a committed Christian, but now I don't think so anymore. I don't think I'm gonna be one now. Is that possible? Or does God once he chooses you're chosen or once you choose for God you're locked in and God's got a grip on you? I mean what do you think, Edward? Well that's a very, very deep question and uh I hope I can uh by the grace of God um give some shed some light on it. Uh first of all we we could go into the definition of salvation What does it really mean to be saved? Now, uh from scripture I I determined that salvation means that when God sees fit to indwell a person. Uh we are the temple of the Holy Ghost. Uh at that point our salvation is is sealed. Now according to uh Ephesians chapter one, we're sealed by the Holy Ghost until the day of redemption of the purchased possession. Of course, purchased possession meaning the physical body. So I think what makes it maybe this even clearer would be Romans chapter 8. It says, uh if you don't have the Spirit of God, then you are none of his. So then by definition, i saved or or elect means that you have dwelling within you the Spirit of God. Now the question is, can a person change their mind once the Spirit of God comes in? Can they reject the salvation that has been they've been sealed with Now, in my opinion, we can make decisions to maybe backslide. uh away from this the will of God, we can be not as on fire. But I believe that whenever we as Christians who are filled with the Holy Ghost Filled with the Spirit of God, as it says in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, we've all been made to drink into one Spirit. So we have the Spirit dwelling within us Uh John 3 5 says that you must be born of the Spirit. If you're gonna see the uh if you're gonna see the kingdom of God, you you must have the Spirit of God in you. Now God doesn't change his mind about who he chooses. I I believe that. But the person can sometimes uh who is filled and been selected and filled with the Spirit can maybe go through a moment of testing and and difficulty and trial and make a decision, well, I don't know if I I really you know, I don't know if I really love God anymore You know, why did God allow my mother to pass away, or why did he allow this, you know, financial difficulty and I'm just gonna walk away from God That's the temptation that came on Job. And Job could have made matter of fact he made the decision to keep his integrity with God, but at one point he c his his integrity kind of wore thin. And he he kinda questioned God. uh that questioning or that backsliding, what about that? What does God do about that? And in my opinion, the answer would be, yes, the Holy Spirit is grieved, but nothing or nobody can separate us from the love of God. Philippians chapter one verse six, nobody can pluck us out of God's hand. Uh we are sealed until the day of redemption. We we could we could try to change our mind But the Holy Spirit in us, leading us and guiding us into all truth, uh we'll come back to God. Jonathan, do you agree, disagree? Have additional comment? Yeah, there's a couple passages that I feel like uh are important to uh consider in this context. One We're warned in 2 Peter 3, verse 17. Therefore, dear friends, since you already know this, be uh know all this, be on your guard so that you may not be carried away by the error. of lawless men and fall from your secure position. Um Hebrews um uh now let's go to Galatians five verse four it says you who are trying to be justified by law have been alienated from Christ. You have fallen away from grace. Um And there's uh you know, he goes on to say, you were running a good race who cut in on you and kept you from obeying the truth. Um and then uh go to uh Hebrews chapter six Verse 4, it is impossible for those who have once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, who have shared in the Holy Spirit. who have tasted the goodness of the Word of God and the powers of the coming age, if they fall away to be brought back to repentance, because to their loss They are crucifying the Son of God all over again and subjecting him to public disgrace. So I would agree uh uh I would agree with uh Pastor Ambush that that God is never going to reject us. Uh and I'd agree with him that um uh that it's not a simple thing for us to fall away. You know, that that we don't need to live in uh fear of that happening uh, you know, like on i on any given day, you know, that I'm gonna somehow fall away. But I uh I do believe that these passages give a clear impression that there is the potential to fall away. And uh and that being the case that we need to give uh due attention to that and um Uh how does that work exactly? I don't know that scripture says exactly how that works, uh except for the Galatians passage, you know, where it's talking about Um, you know, we give ourselves over to uh illegalism all over again uh that makes us fall from grace, uh or um You know, I d I I I don't know that I know how that that works, except that I would agree that it has to do with the ministry of the Holy Spirit and whether or not we continue to be responsive to the Holy Spirit or whether or not we begin to to resist and reject the ministry of the Holy Spirit in our hearts, you know, that uh that is this feel. Um, you know, ultimately the the the unforgivable sin is the blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. And uh certainly um uh I I guess I think it would be a hard thing for somebody who has truly been enlightened and tasted the heavenly gift to to blaspheme the Holy Spirit, but I feel like these passages give the impression, a strong impression, that it is possible. Well go ahead, Edward. I was going to jump in, but yeah, I can tell you got Yeah. Well I I think it is possible for a free will thinking human being to possibly change their mind uh about anything. uh especially extenuating circumstances, uh difficult times. But in the plan of God I I again I I say that the Holy Spirit within us, and by definition, anyone who has not the Holy Spirit is none of his. Therefore the opposite of that is whoever has the Spirit of God dwelling within them uh is one of his. It's the Holy Spirit that is the keeper. Uh first Peter chapter one, verse five, it says, Who are kept by the power of God uh through faith unto salvation ready to be veal t ready to be revealed in the last time. So it is the power of God that does not let us go. Yes, we can grieve the Holy Ghost, uh we can make mistakes, we can Uh like Paul says, you know, I'm fighting a battle here. You know, my spirit I want to do one thing, my flesh wants to do just the opposite. Uh he said, but thanks be to God. that through Jesus Christ I I'm I I I'm gonna be okay. Yes. Uh so it is the power of God that keeps us because Uh when once God chooses us, um I don't see where uh especially like uh Romans uh nine, I believe, uh Romans eight, the last part of Romans eight, where anything can really separate us from God. Once we are connected or once we're saved, once we're in dwelled by the Spirit, uh I don't see anywhere where where we could actually drive him out or or change our mind about him. Uh except for that passage there in Hebrews it says Well we can talk about that. I mean that's that's a pretty extensive thing there. Yeah. It also says in First Timothy one eighteen or twenty Uh no, verse 19 it tells us to hold on to faith in a good conscience, and it says, some have rejected these and so have shipwrecked their faith. Yeah. Among them are Hymenaeus and Alexander whom I've handed over to Satan to be taught not to blaspheme. Yeah. That's a good point there too. Because I believe that God uh doesn't allow anyone, according to Philippians one sixty, He doesn't allow Satan to even pluck us out of his hand uh if necessary God will hand us temporarily over to the tormentors that our soul might be saved. It's all about what God is doing to not only choose us But uh for salvation, but to keep us faith. I agree with you that uh on that, because in it also says in Corinthians it says uh that you're supposed to uh on a specific situation you're supposed to hand uh when they meet together for church, hand a couple people over to Satan uh to be so that their souls may be saved uh on the final day and that there there is a um a role that the church plays in excommunication where you hand them over to Satan uh that is for the purpose of saving their soul. Um and so I would have to agree with you that those passages don't quite come into play. uh in terms of the question of whether or not we can lose our faith. Uh but the Hebrews six passage, you know, and the the Peter passage um clearly give a strong impression. Now here here's what I would Comment uh I don't know if he had a comment already, but on Hebrews chapter six, verse four, he says, For it is impossible for those now it doesn't say those who are saved, it just says for those who were once enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift, uh, and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost. I I really believe that that's referring to those who maybe go to church but have not surrendered all the way. They've been around Christianity, they've been around the Holy Ghost. They've even felt the presence of the Holy Ghost at times but never totally surrendered. Okay, can I give a response to that? Because that passage says they've tasted the heavenly gift, they've shared in the Holy Spirit, they've tasted the goodness of the Word of God and the powers of the coming age uh if they fall away to be brought back to repentance, giving the impression that they had already come to repentance. I mean, those are all the issues necessary for salvation for us to somehow give the impression that that's not referring to salvation in somebody that was a full member of the body of Christ. Uh I mean that's that's a big stretch. What more do they have to do? You know, to taste, to to repent, to share the Holy Spirit, taste the goodness of the Word of God. You know, don't be deceived as though that were possible. No passage where it says that our elect would be distra would be deceived if that were possible. Right Yeah. And it's the implication being that it's not possible for the elect to be deceived, which would if they which means that they aren't gonna change their mind. Right. Right. So h is the Bible arguing against itself there? Is this inconsistency of scripture? Let me deal with the first one about those that have been given to me. Um that uh the uh uh where's that passage again? Let me Look it up. Um I will not lose Matthew, right? Oh lose. Nobody can pluck us out of God's hand. Is that the one? Not lose Oh, uh Matthew John seventeen, where he says, All that you've given me I've lost I've lost none of them. Except for the son of perdition. John seventeen. Um Where's the verse what? Uh oh, it's down there. I have to look it up again. By the way, you're listening to the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating How can we make you smile? On the panel this week we have Pastor uh Edward Ambush from the Bread of Life Church in downtown Frederick, uh and the senior pastor from Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Sweitzer. And right now they're feverishly s rifling through their Bibles trying to find this particular passage. Okay, it looks like verse eleven. Uh where he says, uh I am now no more in the world, but these are in the world, I've come to thee. Holy Father, keep them through thine own name whom thou hast given me. They may be one as okay, that's still not the one though. None has been lost except the one doomed to destruction so that scripture will be fulfilled. None has been lost uh except the one. The one uh the son of perdition that the scripture might be filled. And John six thirty-nine is another one, and this the Father's will which has hath sent me that of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day. Yeah, that's a good one. A couple things about these passages. One, they they refer to a uh submission of his will to the fathers that I think is is um uh very profound in uh that uh points to uh his recognition that uh he can't just go out and save anybody that's out there, but that salvation is is on the basis of the will of the Father. You know, and so so Um God is the one that decides. Christ is not the one that decides, but but cr but God decides who's saved and who's not saved. And Christ does not lose any of those people. He serves them appropriately and abundantly. Uh but he doesn't he doesn't deal with in that passage the potential that you know, that one of those people might choose to walk away. He's dealing with this question of of Father, I've done what you've called me to do and I've lost none of the ones that you've given me. You've given them to me. and and and you know I've maintained everything that you've given me. Uh but, you know, that's dealing with, you know, in that specific situation uh in the nation of Israel, you know, a certain group of people. He's not dealing with Gentile believers that are going to get saved in Acts later on. He's not dealing with Romans or Corinthians. He's dealing with uh with people in the nation of Israel and that he's lost none of the ones that you've given me and it's very possible uh that he's referring to the disciples, the twelve disciples. Yeah. And none of them are lost Except for one. Now that principle of God giving the this the people to Jesus and then he losing none of them except for one Uh does do you believe that that principle applies to all the rest of us, Jews and Gentiles alike, where God gives each of us to Jesus and we're not lost? I would say yes, but I would say also that that there is the potential that we could walk away. Not that he would lose us, but that we would walk away from him. Point being