Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFM. I'm Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Futman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? And Jonathan Sweitzer is on a missions trip at Israel, but this will be the the last program I'll have to do solo. So it'll be the last chance for me to try to catch up on email. If you sent me an email recently and you haven't seen it posted on the on the website blog and you haven't heard me mention it on the show recently, trust me I save them. I'll get around to them uh if at all possible uh and share them either on the air or on the blog, or in some cases perhaps even both. Who knows? So anyway, thank you for hanging in there with me. Um last week we ended the show with something that got stuck into my uh little email uh folder here and it has to it was a news story had to do with the the um the struggle the Episcopal Church, the Anglican Church in America, is having w over the ordination of of admittedly uh homosexual pastorate. And uh the Presbyterian Church USA uh has wrestled with that issue as well. Um and this is an issue that's gone on Really it's gone on in the news for the last couple of years in in a s on and off big way, but it's been brewing for more years than that. It's gotta be at least five years, I think. Anyway, here's a couple of other news stories and the point behind this. Well here, let me tell you the point. as I go into this. Are these the kinds of stories this is made this is mainline or mainline mainstream you know media. This is Associated Press. You know, these are AP News stories. Are these the kinds of stories that the church wants the world to be hearing? I mean, is this the kind of you know, the way that we should be conducting our business, living our lives? Um I would say not. But anyway, these this is what happens when the church doesn't behave as a church, when we don't go about the business of being the body. We end up with news stories like this. Dateline Columbus, Ohio. Religious conservatives have failed to stop the advance of gay rights in two Protestant denominations. In Ohio, Episcopal delegates snubbed Anglican leaders' requests to temporarily stop electing gay bishops, a vote that could hasten a break with Anglicans worldwide A few hours later, the Presbyterian Church USA, at a separate meeting in Alabama, approved a plan to let local congregations hire gay ministers, even though it's against church law. Anglican leaders, angered by the two thousand three consecration of an openly gay Episcopal bishop, had asked the Episcopalians to pass a moratorium, at least for now, on homosexuals leading diocese, but a majority of delegates at the Episcopal General Convention. voted against the measure. Uh and then there's a soundbite uh here apparently that uh uh that's quoted From the Reverend Philip Lindner, Episcopal Delegate from South Carolina, in an AP interview, uh Lindner says the Episcopalian's rejection of a moratorium on gay bishops will have consequences. And we've seen that play out. This story, by the way, is from 2006. I'm not sure why I still have it, but it has played out over these last couple of years in very destructive ways for the church. Here's another story. Presbyterians consider gay pastors gender inclusivity, gender-inclusive trinity. This lug line on this one is Birmingham, Alabama. Again, an associated press story. Leaders of the Presbyterian Church USA, and by the way, that's an important distinction for those who don't know. There are very there are different um What's the right word? Brands, branches, uh distinctions of Presbyterian churches. There's Presbyterian Church USA, there's Presbyterian Church PCA. Um there's OPC, there's ARP, there's you know d different um flavors of Presbyterianism, if you will. Most of the ones I actually all the ones I just mentioned other than USA would be considered uh pretty conservative Orthodox uh you know type of um denominations. The Pres Presbyterian Church USA has become an uh increasingly um famous or some might argue infamous for a liberal leaning uh in their theology uh over the last uh thirty plus years or so. But anyway, uh now that distinction is clear Hopefully, as mud maybe. Leaders of the Presbyterian Church USA will vote tomorrow on a proposal to give congregations and regional bodies some leeway on ordaining gay and lesbian pastors. The proposal would keep the church ban in place while effectively suspending its enforcement. Yesterday the Presbyterian Assembly stopped short of approving gender inclusive language for the Trinity. In addition to Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, church officials will still be allowed to propose alternatives in referring to the Trinity like mother, child, and womb, but congregations won't be required to use them. Supporters of the variations argue that prayers directed to the Father and Son suggest that God is male and that men are superior to women, but conservatives say the church should stick to the way God is named in the Bible and note that Jesus' most famous prayer was addressed to our Father. What can I say? When the Bible stops being the foundation for the church, it has no foundation. I mean What what sieve are you going to run your truth through? Your own perceptive uh own perceptions, your own attitudes, your own feelings of the moment, your own emotions, your own particular attitudes which are colored by s by cultural influences and and and society all around you? You know, there is language in the Bible that um is more feminine when speaking about God. You know, there's there's the idea of of God wanting to protect his his people like a mother hen protects its chicks. That is a you know a a feminine idea. The mother hen is a female. Um God Doesn't have, at least as far as we can tell from what the Bible tells us, God does not have sex organs Alright, it's not uh it's not a male-female thing in that way. And the Bible does say in you know in Genesis, God created uh man in his own image, male and female, he created them. So there's this idea that there's there is a duality to this image of God, that God is, you know, that manness and womanness both represent something of God. But the whole point of the language in the Bible, it seems to me, why there's so much emphasis on the Father, the Son, the you know, the the the the He pronouns. speaks to, you know, elements of position. Um men are not the same as women. Women are not the same as men. There are differences. There are unique special differences. And those differences are to be honored. And some of those ways in which a man should be honored for being a man are what the Bible, in my opinion, is talking about when it talks about God. uh using male pronouns and male words. Likewise, however God is or or women by the w uh uh I'm getting ahead of myself here. Women are to be honored and respected for their womanness. And there are parts of the Bible that will highlight those elements of God in a feminine you know in a feminine um pronoun way. Nowhere that I know maybe I'm maybe I'm missing something. I maybe I need to get do some homework on this, but nowhere do I know does does the does the Bible refer to the Holy Spirit as the womb Uh uh maybe there is uh some obscure passage, but certainly if there is one, it's gotta be pretty obscure uh and in the face of the lion's share of of Bible verses that don't refer to the Holy Spirit other than anything as the Holy Spirit. Um wow. And womb is overtly feminine in nature. Only women have a womb. Holy Spirit is gender neutral So we're going from one, you know, if you want to argue that we've got an extreme with the Father, Son, Holy Spirit, how extreme is mother, child, and womb for crying out loud? Anyway, where does that phrase come from, by the way, for crying out loud? You know? Who invented that? Is there another phrase? For crying silently. Never hear that phrase. Another Associated Press story along the same lines. Uh Presbyterian church bills will keep gay banned but allow local leeway as the slug. Birmingham, Alabama. The Presbyterian Church USA severely split over homosexuality would maintain its ban on gay clergy, but allow some leeway in enforcing it under a proposal Headed to a National Assembly vote on Tuesday, a key committee which divided thirty to twenty-eight proposed keeping on the books of church law requiring the lay office holders as well as clergy Restrict sexual activity to heterosexual marriage. But another bill would give local congregations and regional presbyteries leeway The uh ten conservative Presbyterian groups have warned that approval of what they call local option would promote schism by permitting the disregard of clear standards of scripture. You know, in that other story we read a second ago is talking about forget scripture for a half a second. Can't believe I just said that, but forget scripture for a half a second. Their own church bylaws say you can't do this. So They're violating everything that they stand for. Things that are uh that they would hold to be inspired, I would think, the Word of God, and things that they would hold to be important and yet not inspired, they're bylaws. And they're violating all of it. What What do they want to use as their guide? W what? Does anything go? Have standards and then abide by them for crying out loud. I'm beginning to like that phrase a little bit, even though I don't know where it comes from. Here's another story from the Associated Press. Superman a Christ figure. Hmm. Some see the hero of Superman returns as a Christ figure. Really? This slug line is Los Angeles, California. Is Superman a Christ figure? A preview for the film Superman Returns, which uh was in theaters a while back has intrigued viewers with its religious imagery. It shows the hero with its his eyes closed as the voice of his father tells him that he was sent to Earth because humans lack the light to show the way. For this reason I have sent them to you, my only son. Before being kidnapped by villain Lex Luthor, Lois Lane assure Superman in another preview The world doesn't need a savior, and neither do I. Luther says, gods are selfish beings who fly around in little red capes and don't share their power with mankind. But Superman Returns director Brian Singer, who is Jewish, says the notion of Superman as a Christ figure is simply another case of contemporary storytelling borrowing from ancient motifs Yeah? Okay. So see so he's uh on one hand it sounds like he's saying, No, it's not a Christ figure, but on the other hand he's saying, well we're borrowing from an ancient motif. So it is a Christ figure is what he's saying. I guess Lex Luther is is Satan Lois Lane represents the the those uh m basically us who are prone to think we don't need a savior and do it on our own So maybe there is some Christ imagery there. By the way, you wanna see loads of Christ imagery if you've ever uh if you've seen the Matrix movie, the original movie anyway tons and tons and tons of Christian subtext and imagery. Not all that's on the money in squares of scripture exactly, but I mean the the producers and directors of that movie went way out of their way to incorporate Christian imagery into that movie Curiously the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. We're catching up on emails from the email bag, and here's one that is slugged gold wrapping paper. This came across my desk at this time of year. We all need to take stock of all that we have to be appreciative of. By the way, this was sent in December. Gold wrapping paper. I received this from a friend who had a choice to make. It said that I had a choice to make too. I've chosen. Now it's your turn to choose. The story goes that some time ago a mother punished her five year old daughter for wasting a roll of expensive gold wrapping paper. Money was tight, and she became even more upset when the child used the gold paper to decorate a box to put under the Christmas tree. Nevertheless, the little girl brought the gift box to her mother the next morning and then said, This is for you, mamma. The mother was embarrassed by her earlier overreaction, but her anger flared again when she opened the box and found it was empty. She spoke to her daughter in a harsh manner Don't you know, young lady, when you give someone a present, there's supposed to be something inside the package? The girl had tears in her eyes and said, Oh, mama, it's not empty I blew kisses into it until it was full. The mother was crushed. She fell on her knees and put her arms around the little girl. And she begged her forgiveness for her thoughtless anger. An accident took the life of the child only a short time later, and it is told that the mother kept that gold box by her bed for all the years of her life Whenever she was discouraged or faced difficult problems, she would open the box and take out an imaginary kiss and remember the love of the child who would put it there. In a very real sense, each of us, as human beings, have been given a golden box filled with unconditional love and kisses from our children. Family, friends, and God. There is no more precious possession anyone could hold. You now have two choices. Pass this on to your friends or delete it and act like it didn't touch your heart. As you can see, I took choice number one. Friends are like angels who lift us to our feet when our wings have trouble remembering how to fly. If you receive this more than once in return, just know that your friends have also thought of you That is pretty powerful. If nothing else, it is a stern reminder, particularly to parents, about controlling our tongue and our and our anger. You know? Those are scars that can run deep. I don't know if that's a true story or not, but even if it's a parable, uh the point is the same. This email has its subject line, Believe in Hope. Three years ago a little boy and his grandmother came to see Santa at Mayfair Mall in Wisconsin. The child claimed climbed up on his lap, holding a picture of a little girl. Who is this? asked Santa, smiling. Your friend? Your sister? Yes, Santa, he replied. My sister, Sarah, who is very sick, he said sadly. Santa glanced over at the grandmother who was waiting nearby and saw her dabbing her eyes with a tissue. She wanted to come with me to see you oh so very much, Santa, the child exclaimed. She misses you, he added softly. Santa tried to be cheerful, encouraged a smile to the boy's face, asking him what he wanted Santa to bring him for Christmas. When they finished their visit, the grandmother came over to help the child off his lap and started to say something to Santa, but halted What is it? Santa asked warmly. Well, I know it's really too much to ask, you, Santa, but the old woman began, shooting her grandson over to one of Santa's elves to collect Lost my place. Collect the little girl of the little gift which Santa gave all his young visitors. The girl in the photograph, my granddaughter. Well, you see, she has leukemia and isn't expected to make it through the holidays, she said through tear-filled eyes. Is there any way, Santa? Any possible way that you could come see Sarah? That's all she asks for for Christmas is to see Santa. Santa blinked and swallowed hard and told the woman to leave information with his elves as to where Santa was, and he would see what he could do I thought Santa knew everything by the way. He didn't know if it was a sister or the friend, doesn't know where Santa is, doesn't know where she is, what he can do. Anyway, Santa thought of a little Thought of little else the rest of that afternoon. He knew what he had to do. What if it were my child lying in that hospital bed dying? he thought with a sinking heart. This is the least I can do. Here's a question by the way. Does folklore teach us that Santa has children? Don't think I know the answer to that. I think the answer is probably no, but anyway, back to the email When Santa finished visiting with all the boys and girls that evening, he retrieved from his helper the name of the hospital where Sarah was staying. He asked the assistant location manager how to get to children's hospital. Why? Rick asked, with a puzzled look on his face Santa relay to him the conversation with Sarah's grandmother earlier that day. Come on, I'll take you there, Rick said Rick drove them to the hospital and came inside with Santa. They found out which room Sarah was in. A pale Rick said he would wait out of the hall. Santa quietly peeked into the room through the half closed door and saw little Sarah on the bed. The room was full of what appeared to be her family. There was the grandmother, the girl's brother he had met earlier that day. A woman who he guessed was Sarah's mother stood by the bed, gently pushing Sarah's thin hair off her forehead, and another woman, who he discovered later was Sarah's aunt, sat in a chair near the bed with weary, sad looking uh eyes and a sad look on her face. They were talking quietly and Santa could sense the warmth and closeness of the family and their love and concern for Sarah Taking a deep breath and forcing a smile on his face, Santa entered the room, bellowing in a hearty Ho Ho Ho Santa shrieked little Sarah weakly as she tried to escape her bed to run to him IV tubes intact. Santa rushed to her side and gave her a warm hug. A child, the tender age of his own son, nine years old, gazed up at gazed up at him with wonder and excitement. So I guess Santa does have kids Her son was pale and her short tresses bore telltale bald patches from the effects of chemotherapy, but all he saw when he looked at her was a pair of huge blue eyes. His heart melted, and he had to force himself to choke back tears. Though his eyes were riveted upon Sarah's face, he could hear the gasps and quiet sobbing of the women in the room. As he and Sarah began talking, the family crept quietly to the bedside, one by one, squeezing Santa's shoulder or his hand gratefully, whispering, Thank you. as they gazed sincerely at him with shining eyes. Santa and Sarah talked and talked, and she told him excitedly all the toys she wanted for Christmas, assuring him she had been a very good girl that year. As their time together dwindled, Santa felt led in his spirit to pray for Sarah and ask for permission from the girl's mother. She nodded in agreement, and the entire family circled around Sarah's bed holding hands Santa looked intensely at Sarah and asked her if she believed in angels. Oh yes, Santa, I do, she exclaimed. Well I'm going to ask that angels watch over you, he said. Laying one hand on the child's head, Santa closed his eyes and prayed He asked that God touch little Sarah and heal her body from this disease. He asked that angels minister to her, watch and keep her, and when he finished praying, still with his eyes closed, he starred started singing softly Silent night, holy night. All is calm, all is bright. The family joined in, still holding hands, smiling at Sarah, and crying tears of hope, tears of joy for the moment, as Sarah beamed at all of them. When the song ended, Santa sat on the side of the bed again and held Sarah's frail, small hands in his own. Now, Sarah, he said authoritatively, you have a job to do, and that is to concentrate on getting well. I want you to have fun playing with your friends this summer, and I expect to see you at my house in Payfair Mall this time next year. He knew it was risky proclaiming that. This little girl had terminal cancer, but he had to. He had to give her the greatest gift he could, not dowels or games or toys. But the gift of hope. Yes, Santa, Sarah exclaimed, her eyes bright. He leaned down and kissed her on the forehead and left the room. Out in the hall, the minute Santa's eyes met Rick's a look passed between them, and they wept unashamedly. Sarah's mother and grandmother slipped out of the room quickly and rushed to Santa's side to thank him. My only child, the same age as Sarah, he explained quietly. This is the least I could do. They nodded with understanding and hugged him. One year later, Santa Mark was again back on the set in Milwaukee for his six week seasonal job, which he so loves to do. Several weeks went by and then one day a child came up to sit on his lap. Hi, Santa. Remember me? Of course I do, Santa proclaimed, as he always does, smiling down at her. After all, the secret to being a good Santa is to always make each child feel as if they are the only child in the world at that moment. You came to see me in the hospital last year Santa's draw jaw dropped. Tears immediately sprang in his eyes, and he grabbed this little miracle and held her to his chest. Sarah! he exclaimed. He scarcely recognized her, for her hair was long and silky, and her cheeks were rosy. Much different from the little girl he had visited just a year before. He looked over and saw Sarah's mother and grandmother in the sidelines smiling and waving and wiping their eyes. That was the best Christmas ever for Santa Claus. He had witnessed and been blessed to be instrumental in bringing about this miracle of hope. This precious little child was healed, cancer free, alive and well. He finally looked up to heaven and humbly whispered, Thank you, Father. 'Tis a very Merry Christmas. That's pretty powerful. Now I gotta say These sorts of emails are kind of cool, but they're kinda long. And it can make it tough to uh to keep up with. Here's a short one. This might be how how we end the show. Let's see if we can get this one in. I think we can. Might have to room for two if they're short enough. This one's slug line is Happy Fall to you. From one pumpkin to another. A woman was asked by a co-worker, What is it like to be a Christian? The co-worker replied, It's like being a pumpkin. God picks you up from the patch, brings you in, and washes all the dirt off you. Then he cuts off the top and scoops out all the yucky stuff He removes the seeds of doubt, hate and greed, then he carves you a new smiling face and puts his light inside of you to shine for all the world to see. I like this enough to send it to all the pumpkins in my patch. And that actually is a I've used that as a object lesson with my daughter in uh carving the jack-o'-lantern. I've used exactly that uh to reinforce a Christian message on what is Really not a Christian holiday. Alright, we'll see if we have time to end with a joke. Enough with the elections already is the slug line and subject line on this email. The Pope met with Cardinals to discuss proposal from the leader of Israel. Your holiness, said one of the cardinals, Mr. Olmert wants to challenge you to a game of golf to show the friendship and ecumenical spirit shared by the Jewish and Catholic faiths. The Pope thought this was a good idea, but he had never held a golf club in his hand. Don't we have a cardinal to represent me? he asked. None that plays very well, the cardinal replied. But he added, There is a man named Jack Nicholas, an American golfer who is a devout Catholic We can offer to make him a cardinal, then ask him to play Mr. Olmert as your personal representative. In addition to showing our spirit of cooperation, we'll also win the match. Everyone agreed it was a good idea. The call was made. Of course Nicholas was honored and agreed to play. The day after the match, Nicholas reported to the Vatican to inform the Pope of the result. I have some good news and some bad news, your holiness, said the golfer. Tell me the good news first, Cardinal Nicholas, said the Pope. Well, your holiness, I don't like to brag, but even though I've played some pretty terrific rounds of golf in my life, this was the best I've ever played by far. I must have been inspired from above. My drives were long and true and my putting was absolutely perfect With all due respect, my play was truly miraculous. And there's bad news, the Pope asked. Yes, Nicholas sighed. I lost to Rabbi Tiger Woods by three strokes. But um bump, and that's the end of that. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you to Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile for sponsoring our show I thank you for listening. Please check out the web. Go to WFMB. com, check out the Faith Debate uh page and see our daily blog. You can email me at Troy at WFMB. com. Again, thank you for listening. John Sweiss is back with us next week. God bless.