Sarpa Well a rare treat for you. Welcome to the Frederick Faith. Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Technical glitch leads us to an opportunity for you to listen to the entire theme song for the Faith Debate, which we've never done before on the show. Uh can't seem to get the the headphones to work and some other things here. We got enough of it figured out so we can move forward with the show today. Thanks for listening. The Protect Faith Debate is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? By the way, in case you're curious, the theme song that we use is by the band known as Journey. Uh now I think they might still be around, but they're all but defunct as far as Steve Perry not being in the band anymore. They can't really be Journey without Steve Perry, can they? Anyway, that instrumental Doesn't need a lead singer, and it is called With a Tear, and the only place I think you can find that is on their box set uh CD collection, Time Three. So anyway, for what it's worth. I'm Troy Skinner, thanks for listening to Freddy Faith debate this morning and the last time I had to do a show, absent any guest whatsoever Any sort of sidekick, any sort of involvement from Jonathan Schweitzer, it was when Jonathan Schweitzer was running for the school board in Frederick County And Jonathan, I think at one point uh we tabulated, if I remember correctly, that he got about, you know, one out every four people that voted cast or ballot for John Schweitzer. Not bad, but not good enough, so Jonathan is not on the school board. And right now he's not even in the country. He is in Israel. on a a missions trip over there, uh actually I I can t the to the uh Palestinian area over there where um you know a lot of the focus that the world places over there is on the you know the Jewish people, rightfully so. And on the tensions with the Muslims, um, perhaps rightfully so. But kind of forgotten in all of that are there are Christians who have been displaced. And the West um doesn't focus on them very much, and therefore the Western Church doesn't focus on them very much, and they feel kind of forgotten, and there are some people trying to change that and reach out to them and show them that they're supported by uh people who care about them in the West and Jonathan Schweitzer is over there doing some of that kind of work right now. So that gives us an opportunity to catch up on some emails and news and notes and that sort of thing. If you are a regular visitor to the Frederick Faith debate web s uh webpage on the WFMD website Well you know that uh I use that as an inter as an i the closest thing to an interactive forum that we have for the show because we don't take calls during the show because it's uh it's it's a short time frame. We have lots of things are trying to cover and uh we really can't cover all the ground we want to cover uh without taking phone calls, much less uh trying to take phone calls. Plus it's difficult. We we could try to do the show absolutely live real time. The problem is, of course, the show airs on Sunday. A lot of the guests on the show are pastors, Christian pastors, and they're busy on Sunday morning, go figure. So to try to do a live show, we'd have a hard time getting any guests to come on the show. Um so we end up taping the show in advance. Sometimes uh days in advance, sometimes weeks in advance It kind of depends on the circumstances and hopefully you can't tell it's not doesn't sound too dated most of the time, I would hope. Anyway, if you visit the website, go to www um www. wfmd. com Look for the faith debate page. If you can't find it real quickly, you go to the I think there's a shows. There's a little click button thing called I think it's labeled shows. Or maybe it's yeah, or is it on the air You'd think I would know. I do it all the time and I can't remember now. But you click on that and there's a drop down menu. On that drop down menu it lists uh the the local shows that have their own web pages. The F Frederick Faith Debate is one of those. You click on that, it takes you to the Faith Debate page. Another way to do it is to go to the weekend schedule and click on the Frederick Faith Debate on the Sunday schedule and it takes you to the page as well. All of that to say this. I use that website as an opportunity to be interactive. People sent emails to me and I will post them on there, sometimes with uh some extended comment, sometimes with very little comment from me and just kind of posting what what people are sending me via the email. But I can't keep up with all of the emails that are sent my way. And so from time to time I like to try to filter through some of those on the air And with Jonathan out of the country and uh no guests scheduled for this particular episode, we're going to do just that. So it's time for your emails. This one is pretty simple. It's just a quote. If uh it says, Only if we're faultless do we have a right to look for faults in others. I wonder about that. Is that true? Only if we're faultless do we have a right to look for faults in others? You know, that falls into the category of judge, not lest ye be judged. Uh for by the same standard that you judge, so too will you be judged. Uh I don't think that that part of Scripture is telling us not to have discerning uh hearts and to to judge right from wrong. I think it's telling us to make sure that we get the s you know, get the plank out of our own eye before looking to uh remove a speck out of our neighbor's eye. Meaning, get your own house in order for sure. But Your neighbor still has a speck in his eye, even if you ha whether you have a plank in your eye or not, your neighbor still has a speck in his eye. And to deny that that's true and to to fail to address it ever, uh, I don't think is is uh is true. And if even if you wanted to go so far from a Christian perspective, if you want to go so far as to say that we should never, ever hold somebody uh at fault because we too have faults. It's not us that are holding by fa uh holding people uh up and pointing out their faults It's God and his standard that are pointing out the faults that we all have, and we're not doing ourselves any favors if we if we don't point that out. Again from a Christian perspective. And I know that this show doesn't welcome just Christian perspectives, but It's no secret that uh I, as the host and moderator of the show, come at it from a Christian worldview perspective. Um and so you know, there's there's uh there's no hidden agenda there Here's a something that was emailed to me that was written by Hank Hanagraaff. Now Hank Hanigraaff did not email me. Somebody emailed this to me, but Hank wrote it. Hank is Pretty well known for for people who listen to Christian radio, uh Christian talk radio. He's known as the Bible Answer Man and uh he's been doing that show for years and is pretty well known. And here's something, uh little article or column apparently that he wrote that's called When it comes to truth, tolerance is a travesty. This ties into the quote actually that I was just sharing that somebody emailed to me as well. The question was posed to Hank, why are Christians so judgmental and unloving? And Hank's answer is, because we live in an age of tolerance where almost anything goes, openly questioning or criticizing other people's belief systems can quickly get you labeled as judgmental, narrow-minded, bigoted, hateful, even ignorant. With regard to Christianity, Matthew 7. 1 is often quoted, or should I say, misquoted, as discouraging Christians from putting other religious teachings and practices to the test Judge not that uh ye need uh not be judged. We were just talking about that. Me and Hank, we're tight, baby. This interpretation of Scripture, however, is simply mistaken. The Bible clearly speaks out. Not against passing judgment in general, but against rendering inaccurate and unfair judgments. See John 7. 24, for instance. In 1 Corinthians 2. 15, Paul tells us that Christians are called to make judgments about all things. Our judgment, though, should not be based on what God has not revealed, but rather on what He has revealed. God's revealed word, the Bible tells us this is still Hank Hanagraph by the way, writing. God's revealed word, the Bible tells us that Jesus Christ is the only way we can possibly reach God and that there's no alternate route. Acts 4. 12, for example. It stands to reason, therefore, that other beliefs offering alleged alternate uh alternate paths to God only lead to dead ends. And if we as Christians really want to follow our Lord's teaching to love our neighbors, we can't escape our responsibility to warn them about spiritually destructive roads paved by non Christian belief systems. True love and compassion should move believers to sound warning cries, even in the face of opposition, to avert countless lives from heading toward eternal separation from God. Let's realize that when we call teachings into question, it's only because we're concerned about the eternal destinies of people. Let's also keep in mind that Scripture doesn't command us to simply rail against false teachings, rather, it encourages us to offer biblical reasons with gentleness and respect. See first Peter three fifteen. Always remember that when it comes to personal relationships, tolerance is a virtue, but when it comes to truth Tolerance is a travesty. Yeah, I'm I'm not sure if I agree with everything Han Hanagraf has ever said, uh, but I do find myself agreeing with an awful lot of what he has to say, and this is an example of that. This is actually the point one of the points behind this show, the Frederick Faith debate. Um we try to stand for what we uh uh believe to be true, whatever our belief of the truth might be. I come at it from a Christian point of view, so does John Schweitzer when he's on this show. So do some of the other guests who come on the show, and then we're getting to the finer points of what we hold to be true and near to near and dear to us. Uh and non Christians who come on the show, they have their view of what they think is the truth. The point is They can't if they're in uh disagreement with one another, if they're particularly if they're polar opposites of one another, and you hold one truth and I hold another, we can't both be right. Either you're right or I'm right, or neither of us is right. And that's kind of what we try to hash out on this show. Thank you for that email, by the way. Here's somebody I guess wanted to make sure that we knew what was going on with the West. Baptist Church. We did a series of shows about these folks a number of months ago. These are the uh uh the folks, the the supposed Christians. out in Kansas who like to picket military funerals saying that uh our s our fallen soldiers are fallen. as punishment for our government policy on allowing homosexuals into the military and there's there's this judgment uh on our nation as a result That may or may not be true, and that's a subject for a for a debate on this show, perhaps, with some folks, but the way in which they go about trying to uh give voice to that opinion is so un Christian, so unbiblical and unscriptural that uh I really struggle. And if you heard a show from a few months back, you heard me talk about this with Jonathan Sweitzer at length, I really struggle with considering these folks Christians. And I I don't belong to a Baptist congregation, but if I did I'd have a real problem with the with allowing these people to use the Baptist church name. Anyway, here's the the story about these guys A talk show host, who some of you who listen to WFMD might be familiar, Mike Gallagher, talk show host gets funeral picketing called off. Here's the story. The name Westboro Baptist Church may not ring a bell. Well it does now since I just updated you. But if we say the church that sends protesters to military funerals, you probably know who we're talking about Members of the church have been seen repeatedly in news reports because they picket military funerals saying that American soldiers are dying overseas because God is displeased. that the U. S. tolerates homosexuals. The group was also planning to pick it at the funerals of the Amish schoolgirls murdered in Pennsylvania Uh remember that story from last year? Well apparently leaders of the church blame Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell for the deaths I don't live in Pennsylvania, so I hope that that's how you say the governor's last name for the deaths because of comments he made on television if um for criticizing the group for picketing military funerals. A syndicated talk show host, Mike Gallagher, stepped in and uh asked the church, based in Topeka, Kansas to agree not to pick at the Amish funerals in return for an hour of airtime on his national show, uh which does air uh in Pennsylvania on at least one radio station. Uh the picket was supposedly cancelled. I'm not sure if it actually ended up remaining canceled. I do know that Mike Gallagher gave them the air time or uh as I understand it, but was concerned that they would still possibly still show up the picket. I don't know if they did or didn't. Um This is a release from Westboro Baptist Church, by the way. Westboro Baptist Baptist Church to picket funerals of Pennsylvania schoolgirls killed by a madman in punishment for Governor Ed Rundell's blasphemous sins against the Westboro Baptist Church. in religious protest and warning, quote, He suffered no man to do them wrong, yea, he reproved kings for their sake, saying, Touch not mine anointed and do my prophets no harm They're quoting there Psalm one oh five. For we know the him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense, saith the Lord. And again the Lord shall judge, avenge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. And they're referring to Hebrews chapter 10 there. Now, Governor uh Ed Rendell speaking and acting in his official capacity to bind the state of Pennsylvania, slandered and mocked and ridiculed and condemned Westboro Baptist Church, so this release continues to go on, on national television. Rundell also revealed a conspiracy to employ the state's police powers to destroy the Westboro Baptist Church in order to silence the WBC's gospel message. Co-conspirators identified by Rendell included state officials, citizens, lawyers, legislators, and media. Are you kidding me? I mean, really? Come on. Are you kidding me And actually I'm thinking about the timetable on this, I think the it's probably a year and a half ago now, or pretty close to it since the uh since the shootings in in the Amish school, if I'm not mistaken. But regardless These Westboro Baptist church guys just won't go away. And if you see them on television, they're so vindictive. And to say that You know, the Pennsylvania governor having some sort of issue with what they do and the way they go about their business, uh that he was, you know, attacking w uh them in such a way that uh would be considered blasphemous That God would bring down his wrath and vengeance on him and his entire state because of it. Wow, how self-important can these people be? I mean, really I mean I'm talking about it on this show right now, so does that mean that vengeance and wrath will be brought down on me and this show and this radio station and and and this community because this community uh listens to this radio show? I mean, how far does that go Unbelievable. I want to say it again for the record, from my Christian perspective, Westboro Baptist Church in Topeka, Kansas. It ain't Christian, baby. Not even close. Anyway, you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, and we're doing the show solo today, going through and catching up on some emails that uh uh you perhaps have sent me. Here's one. I think this is an Urban Legend, but we're going to read it anyway so that you can maybe not worry about it if you see it. UPS uniforms is the subject. It's a warning from the government regarding the purchase of UPS uniforms It says that there's been a huge purchase, thousands of dollars worth of UPS uniforms uh on eBay over the last month or so, and this could represent a serious threat as bogus drivers i. e. terrorists posing as bogus drivers could drop off anything to anyone with deadly consequences. If you have any questions, when a UPS driver appears at your door, they should be able to furnish a valid ID And additionally, if someone in a UPS uniform comes to make a drop-off or pickup, make absolutely sure they're driving a UPS truck. UPS doesn't make deliveries or pickups in anything except a company vehicle. If you have a problem, call your local law enforcement agency right away. Take this seriously. Tell everyone, your family, your office, your friends, make people aware so they can prepare and avoid terrorist attacks on our people. Thank you for your time in reviewing this and please send to everyone on your list, even if they are friend or foe. We should all be aware. I checked into this and I'm pretty darn sure that this is a hoax. Uh uh eBay, as I recall, said that they have no record of anybody buying a whole bunch of UPS uniforms. I will say though, it's common sense Somebody shows up and they're not driving a UPS truck and they don't have ID and stuff. I mean, whether this uh is an urban legend or not, this this actual email is an urban legend or not Use your common sense, you know. If they look like a UPS driver, walk like a UPS driver, talk like a UPS driver, smell like a UPS driver, they're probably a UPS d If you have reason to think they're not, you know, use some common sense caution there Speaking of security alerts, here's another email. It says, Don't get fooled. The Social Security Administration has discovered a new email message purportedly from the SSA. Security administration. Reportedly, the message asks that the receiver update personal information, including your Social Security number and bank information, at a phony site designed to look like the Social Security website. Be cautious when asked to give out personal information online or by phone. Also, get in the habit of typing the web addresses of the sites you wish to visit directly into your browser rather than clicking on links and messages for more information about the scam, read the SSA warning. Now again I don't know if this is uh an urban legend or if it's real. The point is, do we need to get emails like this anymore to remind us? Somebody sends you an email asking you for your Social Security number And they say they're from the Social Security administration? Don't you think they'd have it? They should be able to give it to you. You know, some credit card company calls you and they need your credit card number. Don't you think they'd have it? I mean, let's use a little common sense here. You know, beware. There are a bunch of schmucks out there, so beware. But, you know, be careful not to pass along urban legends if they're not. Check them out. Go to scopes dot com or uh fact or fiction dot com Um there's a truthorfiction. com. One of those one of those some something kind of like that. And and they track these sorts of things down and I think they're reasonably reliable in in doing what they do. Alright, here's um another warning. The person who sent this says, I know it's true because I had to do it before. Alright, well let's see what it's all about. Is this possible? A new way to steal cars? Here's info worth the price of your car. What will they think of next? See that the car thieves have found yet another way to steal your car or truck without any effort at all. The car thieves peer through the windshield of your car and write down the VIN number From the label on the dash. Go to the local car dealership and request a duplicate key based on the uh they then go to the dealership and ask for a duplicate key based on the VIN number. Now The person who sent this email says that their friend didn't believe the email, so called the dealer and pretended that she had lost her keys. They told her to just bring in the VIN number and they would cut her one on the spot and she could order the keyless device if she wanted The car dealer's parts department will make a duplicate key from the VIN number and collect payment from the thief who will return to your car He doesn't have to break in, so any damage to the vehicle, uh and he won't draw any attention to himself. All he has to do is walk up to your car, insert the key, and off he goes to a local chop shop with your vehicle. You don't believe it? It is that easy. To avoid this from happening to you, simply put some tape, electrical tape, duct tape, so that sort of thing, across the VIN metal label across on the dashboard. By law, you cannot remove the VIN number, but you can cover it s So it can't be viewed through the windshield by a car thief. Alright, a couple of things. First of all, a lot of cars th the these days have their uh VIN numbers positioned in such a way that you can't get to them. You can see them through the bottom of the windshield, but they're sealed off and you can't tape over them or slide an index card or anything down there to cover them. You can't do it So I think you're stuck. The other thing, I'm not sure how common a practice this is for dealerships to just cut keys. Maybe they do it, but if so, maybe they'll stop. And the other thing That occurs to me is professional car thieves, they're not gonna go through all of this, are they? Really? Are they gonna go through all of this? To have a key mate they can get inside a car in seconds. They and they can start that car in seconds. They don't draw attention to themselves. Again, I don't know that's an urban legend or not. It could be, it couldn't be, regardless. You know, be aware, keep an eye on your car, park in safe places, lock the c doors, and take common sense precautions and do the best you can to protect you and your things Uh you've listened to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I've been reading these emails. If you'd like to send an email, it's pretty simple to do. Just send it to Troy at WFMD. com. That's T-R-O-Y at WFMD. Again, please visit the website, go to WFMD. com's uh website and click on the faith debate page. I doa weekday daily blog update there. Jonathan Schweitzer's page is linked to from there and he does uh an update there a little more irregularly, but when he does update it he throws a lot of stuff up there. So uh and and uh some of it's actually pretty good Yeah, I'm hoping Jonathan doesn't actually hear this program and hear that I paid him a compliment. Anyway, I want to thank our sponsor, Futman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you for listening. And um There was something else I wanted to say and what was it now? It'll come to me. You know what? We'll talk more about it next week. How about that? Thank you so much for listening. Next week, Jonathan's still uh gonna be in Israel, so I'll uh I'll put I'll do another show. Go through a few more emails and uh and catch up on all these uh these loose wild hairs. All right. Thanks so much for listening. God bless