Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we Make you smile. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Doctor Cynthia Calla, Executive Director of Life Rides. Life having a hard time studying that for some reason. Had a hard time last week too. Life Rise AIDS Resources. Just slow down and it comes out more naturally. Uh the Faith Debate program is uh a forum for local religio religious I can't talk today. Local religious leaders uh come on and talk about the things that they think are most important in our world today and Hopefully you will be edified. There's a nice word for you. Edified by our conversation. Now I'm not sure how much debate there's going to be. My guess is if anybody says anything that'll get somebody in trouble, it will probably be me Uh because last week we ended the show talking about by the way, uh Life Rise AIDS Resources is an organization If we want to use that word. It's a small organization, an organization powered by by uh by the mighty heart of uh Dr. Cowla. Um And and uh might I say the the power of the Holy Spirit, right? Yeah. Amen to that. So anyway, uh it is uh doing the work of trying to prevent AIDS, treat those who have AIDS and and give care to those who have AIDS. Um in mostly African nations. And so the topic of the United Nations and their involvement and the purse strings and the money that's available through them came up in last week's show. And we kind of ended the show last week talking a little bit about um you know How the secular world, the UN, has kind of stepped up and filled a void that you know the the church, particularly the the evangelical branch of the Christian church, kind of left unattended And if that isn't just pathetic that is horrifyingly pathetic that that could happen One of my favorite books ever, I've talked about it before on the show, Jonathan uh knows I'm a big fan of the Charles uh Coulson and Ellen Vaughn book, uh Being the Body. Yeah. Uh if this isn't an example of the church not being the body, I'm not sure what is. We talked last week about the importance of sharing the gospel. uh and tending to those that who are in need and how sometimes we get out of balance and some people are all about tending to the need and you know the gospel can wait. 'Cause we need to tend to the need and we don't want to distract from tending to the need with this gospel thing. And others will say, wait a minute, the gospel is what's really important because that has eternal consequences. So Forget the need. What they really need is to hear the gospel. Yeah, but they're dying of AIDS. Well, better that they die of AIDS and spend eternity with God than, you know A and and there's you know has a tendency to be on one end of the seesaw or the other and tr rather than trying to do both. And I think that the church is called to do both and should do both. And unfortunately the church doesn't do both, and then when it doesn't, what happens? Secular humanists step in and fill the void by the providence of God, probably, you know, or some would say certainly, uh, because God is going to, you know, he lets it rain on everybody Right? He feeds everybody. Right. So he's gonna take care of everybody. If the church isn't gonna do the job, you know, God doesn't need the church to do the job. The job's gonna get done. But shame on the church for not doing the job. Okay. Shame, shame, shame. So I so I'm gonna have to take the side of the I would expect that you might. Wait a second. The question that I have to ask is this. When AIDS first arrived on the scene People didn't even know what to call it because they would call it by you know because people that die from AIDS don't die from AIDS. They die from uh other diseases that they catch because it's an immune deficiency And so they died from the other things. So people didn't even know what to call it. Back in the eighties. Right. Do you believe we've been in the AIDS era for like a quarter of a century now? But then it became abundantly clear that there was a significant component that it was root that it was uh that it was uh very um active or or that that that AIDS was very prevalent in the gay community. And it became very clear that that that was true in a broad sense, you know, and and that there seemed to be a sense that that it was uh even per perpetrated more in the gay community than elsewhere. But then it became abundantly clear, all right, so I'm walking through the process. Then it became abundantly clear that there are all kinds of people that were catching it through uh through uh uh coed sexual activity not just through homosexual activity, you know, like heterosexual activity. And so co-ed, isn't that yes, that's such a uh sophomoric way to say it Uh and and so my point is that in the context of all that, uh, Christians first response to any kind of a sexually transmitted disease is Stop having sex. That's our first response. And it's actually a very effective way to keep people from getting an STD. It's 100% effective. You will never catch an STD if you only engage in monogamous sex, unless it comes through some kind of tainted blood you know, or something like that, you know, where where of course, you know, uh drug drug use, you know, where you where you're sharing needles and that kind of thing. But the point is is that the risky activities that people were engaging in uh was helping to perpetrate and so our I think Christian Christianity's first response is is wow this is a horrible disease Let's start living right. Let's start uh living righteous and stop engaging in extramarital sex. Let's go back to what what scripture originally said. And I kind of feel like, you know, if I remember The the the news articles and of course you know back in the eighties I was a teenager you know I gave that away uh you know let the cat out of the bag there. I was a teenager back then so it's not like I was keenly aware of what was going on in the news and that kind of thing But my vague sense is that what was going on in the news is is Christians were were were saying, wait a second, we need to get people to stop you know, getting these diseases, so let's get them to quit engaging in in the activity. And then uh but then the UN and the world uh the the secular uh uh people that cared because everybody cared to to stop the problem. It wasn't like Christians didn't care. It's just like Christians' first response was, well, a very uh reasonable response. Stop engaging in the dangerous activity. You know, stop drinking and driving. Stop having sex outside of marriage But the world's response was, well, you know, everybody's gonna do it anyways and and you know what, you can't look down on those homosexuals and you can't you know, you can't do this and that, and so and and so we need to find a way to to to fight this disease and to eradicate the disease, you know, so that people can, you know, just do what they're gonna do anyways And and that that I feel like is part of the problem. I mean if if the ABC approach had been used that was used in Uganda, the abstinence be faithful Christ approach that was so effective it went down uh you said from fifteen percent of the population to five percent of the population having it in Uganda when they use that model. If that was so effective, why didn't we use it everywhere? Well because they didn't want our help They didn't want the help of Christians. It wasn't that Christians weren't wanting to help, but Christians were kind of sidelined as being judgmental. in in too you know like in your face. And I know people that uh Christians that even back then, uh uh even while all the Christians were saying, Well just quit having the sex, you know, and you'll be okay uh that that were still involved in caring for the people that were hurting, but the but I kind of get the sense that we were sidelined because they didn't want to hear our message. Let me ask uh Dr. Kyle, let me ask you because you do this full time. It's become your your life's mission in a sense. Thank God, amen. Do you think that it's uh a fair characterization that the church twenty years ago, twenty five years ago was pushed to the sidelines by people who didn't trust the church to be involved and and we were relegated to some secondary role in trying to respond to the worldwide age crisis. And so it's through no fault of our own that somehow we were we were arguing that it's no fault of our own, but but I I just think that there's more to the story. than just that Christians weren't willing to be involved, but that but that part of it was that that we our our help was resisted. But yeah, I'm interested to what what's your perception on that? I I think it was um for the moon because if if you think I am. Don't don't be able to do it. Well in in Uganda we shouldn't try to tell me I'm wrong for you. Over and over again. Just tell him. Whether you think he is or not. In Uganda, which is the example of the infection rate coming down. And you you said that a Ugandan pa uh pastor had talked about A, B, C, C being Christ. Now I've always heard C was Condoms. But anyway, either way by the UN when they came in, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Either way, um the infection rate went down and in that process In Uganda, there were a lot of churches involved in that. Pastors, the churches. Yeah. So the gr so the Christians who were in the world. The Christians were at the center of helping there in Uganda But the point is is that in other places, because think about it, already at that point in the United States the whole abortion debate was massive and all the other STDs, you know, were also an issue. And Christian's response was was was, wait a second, don't terminate the pregnancy. Don't get pregnant in the first place. We you know, we we our our whole response was that looking at the baby as a problem to uh to somehow um get over that hurdle so that you can be free sexually. In fact, this is part of the sexual revolution. that we should be able to have sex whenever we want, however we want, uh you know, according to whatever lifestyle we want to lead without there being any consequences. And Christians were like, well wait a second, there's babies that are consequences, and they took that away you know, by by advocating for abortion and making that free to everybody, paid for by taxpayer money. You know, and then the next step, you know, had to do with STDs. Well then We gotta find a way to stop the STDs, condoms, you know, and so they come up with condoms. And the point is that I feel like the problem was exacerbated And that the AIDS problem was exacerbated because the early solutions didn't really deal with what needed to be dealt with. And that was that sex outside of marriage and specifically homosexual sex sex uh uh in addition had a tendency to breed things that were very dangerous for people uh that were engaging them. And and and so Christians w you know, wanted to deal with that and that the people in the world didn't want to deal with that. And there was a lot of money. You know, the UN is not historically a very Christian uh um uh organization. You know, in fact You could argue it's the antithesis of that, it's the opposite of that. That everything that we Christians would would normally do when we engage in taking care of the poor and helping, you know, people in tough situations that the UN tends to approach it from a way more humanistic kind of a kind of a way. They want to push abortion wherever they're involved. You know, they they they want to push condoms wherever they're involved. And and so there's kind of a sense that the church and the UN are are are tend to clash with one another. We both agree there's a problem, but when they go to fix the problem I feel like th they being the UN, I feel like they create a worse problem. Instead of solving it, they allow it to continue. Well I want you to be right because it makes me feel better about the Christian church. But there's a disconnect then I mean the church has been preaching, you know, be faithful, abstinent, you know, Christ for centuries. Yeah. So it we didn't just start the we, the collective we, the church didn't just start preaching that message in nineteen eighty whatever, eighty three, eighty five, whenever, you know, we first be began to become familiar with what AIDS was. Okay. So the fact is that this problem which um is allowed to manifest because of some behavioral choices in in in the majority of the cases, those behavioral choices have been preached against for years. Okay. So I I agree with all of that. But now here we are, it's twenty five years later from when we first, you know, identified something called AIDS. Yeah. And in last week's show we were talking about how the UN is so involved and their money is so important. Yep. And how did that how why is that? And the other taking it out of your pocket in taxes. But we were saying that the reason the UN is so involved and the reason they're so important is because the particularly the evangelical wing of the Christian church hasn't filled the void, hasn't been there. And I'm saying that they have been. The disconnect is they've got all the money because they take it out of your pocket in taxes. The UN does. And and so the Christian community's first response is to is to to say, well, wait a second, be absent and be faithful But that message was wasn't even allowed to be taught in the public school system until like the nineties. You know, th th there was a resistance to that e the that message even being used And so again there's a sense that we were being sidelined. I mean Christians, come on, Christians have always been involved with with famine relief. in uh sickness medical missions around the world. I mean sent by by uh the doctor's own uh admission, she was involved in medical missions before she was involved in the AIDS stuff And the point is is that the UN and and all those people got down the road and they started shaming us for not being involved. At which point we were like, all right, well, I I feel like we were like, well, fine, okay We've been saying all along that we want to be involved. But when we come, we're going to bring our message that you need to be faithful, you need to be abstinent, and uh and uh and we'll find ways you know, as well to minister to what's going on. So this is how you bridge the gap by the disconnect. You're saying that that there was a void because the church wasn't there, but the church wasn't there through any lack of want. The church wasn't there because they're being blocked I and now people are desperate enough that they'll even let the church of all organizations involved. I feel like there is a desperation out there. In fact, Bonas involvement Bono was able to get in singer for the rock group U2. Yeah, for those that don't know. And by the way, a professing Christian. Yes. Uh I feel like he was able to get into the whole thing because he ended up interacting with all those that would be more liberal, non-Christian, and and it and he was just like, well fine, let us be involved And in so doing, he was able to wield the kind of influence to to kind of open up the door for Rick Warren, you know, uh the the pastor at the big church out in uh in California and for Cynthia and for the others to say, okay, yes, we do want to be involved. Let us participate. Alright, so what do you think? Yes. I think there's truth to both sides, uh because I think there are a lot of uh a lot of Christians who who don't want to be involved because they think that people deserve what they get. Um, I also think that the message of abstinence and be faithful, even if we do say it, no one listens. Yeah. And so you know, so if we have sense of being ignored, yeah. Yeah, spoken it. So I think um There's probably both end. There's also the issue of there's prevention and then there's care. You know, prevention is when you're you're s you're preventing something the infection from occurring. And this is what U Uganda was doing a better job at doing. Right. And so maybe, you know, in terms of A and B Krishna sort of promoting that That, you know, had to do more with prevention. But there's this whole issue of care, which is once somebody's already infected Yeah then how does the church deal with them? And I think in that regard, especially in the regard of care, we were not Very well for that. Uh because, you know, w we helped to you know, many churches uh There are many stories that I've heard of churches not welcoming people into their midst, you know, who are HIV positive or Oh really? Yeah. Even even uh Huckabee is accused of in ninety two, uh after everybody already knew that you couldn't catch AIDS, you know, just like by interacting with somebody that's Tom Huckabee you're talking about? I'm talking about Mike Mike Huckabee. the uh presidential candidate. You know, and a year after he was um he he was i i it it was already abundantly clear that you couldn't catch it that way you know, Congress, President Clinton, everybody, you know, had already recognized that you couldn't catch AIDS just through normal interaction, that that he was still advocating uh for What is it when you He was advocating quarantine Which that's the point is that that there was this myth out there that this is a disease and so you wanna you know, they're the the dirty, you know, ones and we want to keep ourselves separate from them. So there was all those issues that were involved as well. Yeah, and of course, you know, in the in the eighties people didn't really understand AIDS. We didn't know how it was transmitted. We we were people were very afraid. They were afraid of, you know, it's a terminal illness. Um and we didn't even have any treatment at that time. You know, so people were very afraid of it. So a lot of that is generated out of fear too. Sure. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. The female voice is that of Dr. Cynthia Calla, the Executive Director of Life Rise, AIDS Resources. And the other male voice is that of Jonathan Sweitzer, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And, you know, the comment was made um probably two minutes ago in the show that a l a lot of Christians were hesitant to get involved in the care side of AIDS because of this kind of judgmental attitude that well they're getting what they deserve. Yeah. Uh we're kind of forgetting that, you know, we all Anything bad that happens to us, we probably deserve it. We all thank thank God literally that we don't all get everything that we deserve. But anything bad that befalls us, we certainly deserve it because we're sinners At least that would be a Christian point of view is we're all sinners and so we you know we deserve eternal damnation. But it's only through the saving grace Of of Jesus Christ that that uh that you're spared from that. Okay, I'm the one that's saying all the all the uh really sharp things today that are. So we f so we forget all of uh all of that when we want to be judgmental whether they're getting what they deserve. Right, what do you say? Well well w I feel like in in the United States, I don't feel like I mean you could you could argue it pretty persuasively, literally just a hundred years ago, if there was a famine or there was a drought or there was some kind of an outbreak of a disease or something like that, the first thing that that cities and states would do is is they would get up and they'd say, We need to repent We need to return to God and ask him to remove this plague, whatever it is. And if if the first instinct of a Christian is, man, let's repent. then it is true that that's gonna sound judgmental to those people like, who cares about repenting? We just need to find a way to solve it because we're humans and we can Pull ourselves up by our bootstraps and you know w we don't have to deal with those, you know, old fashioned, you know, primitive uh moral codes. We can just move into the future. And the reality is that God has in the past and probably still does interact with humankind uh th through droughts, famines uh plagues, these kinds of things. I mean he's he he's he's the same yesterday, today, and forever. But his intention with all those things is that when they happen that we would that we would say, God, we have forgotten you and we'd return to him Because he wants to have a love relationship with us. And so, yes, I'm I'm in com like I'm in total agreement with what you do. Uh in and that that we as Christians must be involved with the care side of things And and yet it makes complete and total sense to me, and I believe it's logical and not a reflection of a lack of compassion that it took Christians so long. Because if the world refuses to allow us to take a repentant attitude towards something, then well, we Christians are like, well, if you're not willing to repent, then then it is true you're going to reap what you sow. But we're very quick to say that if you repent and call out to God for help, then he is quick to forgive and to pour out kindness. And that's per precisely what the struggle has been. that in in the lieu of a lack of a repentant attitude, well, I don't think Christians have any hope for mankind outside of repentance. I mean, even for those that we help that are poor and hurting, you know, are w our our instinct, natural instinct is that they will, you know, repent and that they will say, you know what, there there is some change that I need to Well I I agree with what you're saying. Yeah, and and I I think I I Sure. I think that you would be of the opinion that that would be the majority of the church that held that held that position that that that certainly would be uh i uh it would be an a normal thing for the church to hold well I would say we're being righteous. And I'm not sure if it was the majority or the minority, but I think we what we're arguing over here is, you know Uh Cynthia has made it, you know, clear that in her experience there have been some Christians even today who would hold the opinion that look, you know, screw them. Right. They s they they screwed up their lives, it's their fault, they deserve it, this is God's punishment on them, and let them die. And I wouldn't advocate that you're not. It's very very sad that that's the case of the thing. AIDS is complicated by the fact that uh not everybody who has AIDS has been involved in any kind of behavior which brings that, you know, on themselves. Uh and that's you know, So percentage wise, what what what uh what percentage would you say probably has been involved at least in extramarital sexual activity? Uh you know, that I can't say um I don't know. Those with or without AIDS. Right, right, right. You know, but what what about a uh what about a spouse or Usually a woman, actually. Right. Right. Or you have, you know, a pregnant woman who's who gives AIDS to her baby. Or you have a child who's orphaned when their parents die when his or her parents die of AIDS. So I think it's it gets very complicated in terms of looking at who needs to repent and who doesn't. Um and and so what w so what tends to happen is that if we if we don't consider the care part of it, we tend to say, well, how did this person get their AIDS? You know, and we wanna know how they got it and And, you know, do they need to repent or not? Or so it gets gets quite complicated in there. So um Can I ask this question? Is it a normal um medical question? to ask how somebody got something? Isn't that I mean that's not a that's not a religious question. That's a medical question. How did you get what you got? Well, I in terms of AIDS. It may be, you know, it's it in the end it it really doesn't really matter so much, you know, 'cause that person has AIDS. They're infected and again they need the care. Yes, they do. Amen. So um I think, you know, the tendency for Christians to s sort of s want to say, well how did this person get their eights? You know, is is that helpful? That's the question, is that helpful? And Right. Right. And at this stage of the ballgame We know enough about how people get uh get the disease, like we've solved that question. You know, uh medically even uh it's clear now how people get it. We know abundantly how it is that people get it. And so Um you know, I could see that uh that that question uh it's easy for us to move beyond that and you know, to the next, you know, important questions of care and that kind of thing. Yeah, because you know, uh when you look at Jesus, Jesus was full of grace and truth. Amen. Now the truth I'd like to get more into that next week if we can. It looks like we're just finishing up here. Yeah, we've got just a few seconds left, so we're Yep. If you can hang on to that thought for, you know, one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours, I'd really appreciate it. Not like you're counting right now. You've been listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD with John Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Cynthia Kalla with Life Rise AIDS resources. And uh if you'd like to share a comment, a question, a guest suggestion, uh a topic you'd like us to tackle, whatever, send me an email. It's pretty simple. It's Troy at WFMD. com. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And thank you for listening. God bless.