Welcome to the Frederick's Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Joined again this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Imran Raz Razvi, who grew up a Shiite Muslim and is now a devout A Protestant, I think, Christian. Is that I didn't get that clarified before, but are you a consider yourself a Protestant Christian? Reformed Protestant. Reformed Protestant Christian. Ooh, we have a long conversation after the show. Those are rabbit trails we won't go down though. We don't have time for that. And uh thank you to our sponsor, uh longstanding sponsor since just about the very beginning and inception of the show. Putman Plumbing and Heating uh tell uh Patrick and Marlena that I said hi. Put in plumbing and heating, how can we make you smile? Uh last week we learned, well maybe you didn't learn, but maybe you did. We learned that the Sunnis outnumber the Shiites. And we learn that the sh uh Shia Muslims are raised to understand that the Sunnis are are kind of more aggressive uh uh more mean spirited Muslims, if if you if uh if I that's not exactly the words that Raz used, but that they're the aggressors out there. They're the mean guys. They slaughtered uh the descendants of uh of of Muhammad and and so we don't like them kind of thing. And so that helps even though it happened what, like fourteen hundred years ago It helps to explain some of the the division that continues to this day. We started to talk about uh where these divisions lie, obviously Sunnis are all over the place, uh Shias are all over the place, but uh mean geographic. Geographically. But that um A couple of nations that would be majority Shia would be Iran and Iraq, which I'll have to ask you about because I'm not sure why they fight with each other quite so much. And then Uh uh uh an example of a nation that is majority Sunni would be like Saudi Arabia. And uh I'm not sure what other ones are. Now the reason Iran and Iraq fought so much is because the uh Saddam Hussein and his Sunni party was in leadership. And they were by the way, I think. by my family was was uh adamant in saying the US was propping him up in order to fight I Iran so that they could keep the Muslim um strength down. Now these terrorists, we alluded to it late in the show last week. Yep. You know, the terrorists that flew the planes into buildings and that continued to cause all sorts of f problems. Is that a combination of Sunni and Shia or is that mostly Sunnis or mostly Shia? Who who who are these people? Sunni or or Sufi background. So Osama bin Laden grew up in Saudi Arabia. Yes. And so the Wahhabism and the Sufi from Saudi Arabia are the ones that uh that are the are the most extremist, at least that were part of uh that particular right. See, they don't consider themselves extreme. Sure. And the reason is they're trying to protect their religion from the uh the westernization that's coming in And And the westernization is all of the immoral movies and music uh that talks about sex, drugs, and rock and roll that we you know, propagate all over the world that we send all over the world, export all over the world. And they a ascribe that to Christianity as opposed to a country. Cause even Europe, which was supposed to be Christianized, is actually more secular than the United States is and and uh and in many ways their media is even more uh salacious in their uh sex and and drugs and those kinds of things uh in their media. And so if Europe represents Christianity and America represents Christianity, then therefore Christianity uh to most of the Islamic world equals immorality. That's right. And that's uh one of the things that's happening in in the Muslim world is a lot of a lot of the younger people are becoming more westernized and they call it Christianized, um, they're starting to wear some of the smaller clothes, they're starting to uh drink, they're starting to do some of the things that Muslims frown upon and it's disrupting family and they're blaming on the Christians. Um in fact I was at my uh mother's house um a few months ago. And we were talking and she was complaining about, you know, these young Muslim girls, how they're not uh being respectful, how they're uh uh dressing v poorly and behaving poorly. But uh then she said, But y you know, your wife, Tammy, she's she's great. Um she she does that she in fact she even wears a hat which is got sort of like a job covering her hair. Um and then her comment was Ah, if only she was Muslim. I was trying to say, well, she does these things because she's Christian, not because she's American. And that's the difference. And they still don't get it after thirty-five years of being in this country They don't get that there's a difference between American and Christian. Yeah, well we have all the time we have these these surveys done that, you know, ninety eight percent of all Americans or you know, eighty percent of Americans still believe in God, you know, and so So then the headline will say that America is still, you know, a uh nation that believes in God or something like that. And so we have all these, you know, surveys and things going on in the news that again It would seem to me that that would would make it hard for uh Muslims even that live here in the United States to discern that there's a difference between somebody that really believes in God uh in somebody that really does it. In fact so much that when I interacted with um Yah Yah Hendi, who is the the Imam uh chaplain down at Georgetown University And I was talking with him. He always hangs out with with pastors from churches that uh uh that don't believe that sex outside of marriage is wrong, that don't believe that homosexuality is wrong. uh so called liberal uh churches and pastors and and and all of his closest friends were those guys and I said to him over lunch one time, I said, You know, you need to start hanging out more with some conservative pastors because when it comes to morality, we agree with you guys. You would not think that we were such a immoral nation if you were to hang out with the right people. Well you might still think you were we were an immoral nation, but you uh you would be you know, you'd have a whole different perspective because we you know, we are uh almost you know, unlocked stuff with you when it comes to morality and Right. And those kinds of issues. Well my answer to the the eighty or ninety or ninety-eight percent or whatever that God is, so does Satan. Right, right. No, me too, I know I know. That yeah, that statistic means very little to those of us that really care about uh, you know, a genuine relationship with God, walking in holiness. You know, being transformed. And then going back to what we talked before, is I don't I really don't believe Mohammed, the prophet Muhammad, um really tried to create a new religion. When he uh grew up, he was he was part of um a group of that would uh go in a caravan a around and they would trade with a lot of uh religious sex, Christians and Jews. In fact it was dominated by Christians and Jews in that area. And so he learned a lot about a one one God. And he realized that what the pagans, what his tribes and were doing was worshipping these handmade, human made idols was wrong. It didn't make any sense to him. I personally believe and I've uh and uh there's several other uh people that I've talked to is believe that he didn't intend to start his own religion. He intended to bring the religion of one God to his community And uh what happened is it uh got further and further and uh probably get some uh fla uh the uh some um uh some people fighting back for the Muslim Muslim community getting mad at me for saying this, but that's when it started when the Jews um in that area would not accept him as a prophet. Uh they they uh would not accept him as uh a new new um god's word Uh there was always somebody to prop prop somebody up. Anytime somebody takes a leadership position, there's always some lackey that's gonna say, Yeah, I'll follow you anywhere because I see that you have the charisma and you have whatever it takes and uh and they ride the coattails And so there was plenty of those people, in fact, in fact there were Jews and Christians doing that, and that's why uh a lot of Muslims will claim that Muhammad was foretold in the Jewish and and Christian scriptures uh saying that he's coming because these people would would uh ride his coattails and and say nice things about yes you know I read the Bible and read the Torah and read the Ingeol and and did all the and found that they mentioned you. You're coming. This is you are the fulfillment And when that's pulled out, then I s I I believe that it went further and and separated and became his own religion and that's when it separated and it wasn't the first intention. Because if you read the Quran You can't really get it unless you've read the Bible. You can't. Because it it uh takes parts of stories of of all the different um prophets. and uh the um actions and and things that happen in the Bible and it mentions them as if you've already read them, as if you should know that. So if you read that, so then for you growing up as a Shiite As uh uh how uh uh would you go read the Bible in order to get more of the stories? I mean how how would you come to terms with I grew up Shiite, I read the Quran in Arabic. In Arabic. And I memorized it. In fact I could still say prayers in it. Memorize the whole crowd. No, no, no. Just just some of the some of the some of the um chapters and verses that uh we're the all of the memorize um for the prayers. Yeah. And so I can still recite them. But on on the same token. I don't necessarily know what those meant. Well I knew the translations and they didn't mean as much to me as the actual um they didn't stick with me. I mean I c I couldn't remember the translations now but I can still recite them to you. Okay. Uh so There were that was there, so it was really hard for me to um get into the Bible. I mean that was something I didn't want to get into and I want to read because it was in in the Muslim uh perspective was corrupted I mean why would you want to read some disrupted? So my ta teaching was all done by Milanas or learned men that would tell me the stories. Tell me the stories. Like f from data that they got from the Bible. From about Adam, about David, about Solomon, about They'd tell you the full stories, but but then they would teach out of the Quran about these people Um, they would say this is what the Quran says about them, but they wouldn't actually say this is where the Quran says this about them Oh okay. Okay. Again they weren't expecting that you were gonna like go home and read the Quran and study it. And not really. in that were translated in English and English is really my first language even though I was born in Pakistan. I yeah don't read and uh underst I don't read Urdu. Um, I can understand it but I don't read it. And so I English was my first language here since I was only four years old and I had a a Quran that had English translation. But I I was never I was never pressed to r to study it. I was only pressed to do what they told me to do. How much time would you spend, you know, on a weekly basis uh studying and uh memorizing the crumb? Um not much. On Sundays we would memorize at Sunday school. Um I knew the prayers. I I memorized. I thought they went on Fridays. Well, Fridays are still in school, regular school, so we uh we end up having to uh uh go to Mustad on Sundays for the children to have Sunday schools there and they're still very active. Friday is the holy day and the the Muslims that can will take off from work and go sit and pray on on Friday on that day. But uh Sunday is when most of the children are taught because they're in public schools and they can't get off Friday And so like your dad would go in on a Friday and my father would sometimes go in on Friday and sometimes he not because he was in the business world and he needed to work. Um when he had a chance he would go. Now in in Pakistan or in Iran or Iraq, Fridays is the holiday as opposed to Sundays. Right. So what does that mean for your father? You know, he's in business, you know, but you said he was a leader um in the religious world. What does that mean? What kind of what does it mean to be a leader in in Islam but not be like an imam or religious teacher or something. Like an elder. Yeah. Um, you know, very instrumental in in building up the church, building up the community. uh fundraising and uh giving direction to where the church is going. So you sit in meetings, you know, and like have like uh like an elders meeting and committees and that kind of thing and board of you know try to build a place or that kind of thing. Yeah, and was there like a youth group or something like that? Yeah, there uh there was, but not in the same sense as here. There uh there are m it is more now. They're getting a lot more influence now from the Christian churches and In tackling that just like um when I first came here, there was Christmas. Yeah. Okay. There wasn't really Hanukkah, there wasn't Kwanzaa, there wasn't anything else, but it was Christmas. And then slowly as I grew, then Hanukkah became very, very prominent to compete with Christ for Christmas. Right. And then the school system was was done. Yeah. And then then the um when the Muslim community, Eid, which is done twice a year, it's a celebration after fasting and after uh it's it's two celebrations in a in a year. And those were equated to uh Christmas for the Muslims. So you know, everybody wants to fit in and they don't want their children to be dragged or to be enticed by another religion. Right. So they're gonna even though Hanukkah is not really a very major religious holiday in the Jewish culture, it is in the US. Yeah. Because they don't want their children to celebrate Christ uh Christmas. And same with the Muslims, they don't want their children to celebrate Christmas, so they uh it really built up ease when it wasn't I mean it's a big deal but it's not the same level as this culture has put up in Christmas. And even here Reformed Christians, a lot of them don't celebrate Christmas like that. Right. Um, but it's the culture and they don't want the culture to drag um have more enticements. All right, jump in here and uh reset a little bit. Um Imran Raz Razvi grew up a Shiite Muslim, is now a Reformed Protestant Christian And Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner, listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Two real quick kind of incidental type questions, and then I want to uh follow up on something you're talking about, the Quran, and I want to ask you uh uh it's a more serious question than the the two little quick questions uh to help uh explain something of about how the uh the Quran's teachings have been understood since nine eleven. But first of all, Malcolm X Which uh group of Muslims is he would he uh belong to? He was in a separate sect, black Muslims. Not Sunni or It was it's a derivative of Sunni Islam, but it is a it is totally separate. Uh it is black Muslims, um and it Is it heretical, according to you Muslims? It depends on who you talk to. Uh-huh. Um I don't know enough about Malcolm X and the Black Muslim 'cause you know, we were told, Yeah, that's great, that's their Islam. Gotcha. And uh we never pursued I that I would be the wrong person to really give you an in-depth answer. Now and Muhammad Ali wasn't part of Nalkham F's group, right? He was part of a different group. Was he part of one of these two mainstream He was claimed by everybody. I mean, you know, he was he was special, so everybody would be able to claim him. And uh, you know we grew up and you know, Mohammed Ali was was the guy and uh, you know h he realized that Islam was the way and then so you know he became Muslim afterward and so everybody in the Muslim world claimed him and I'm not sure if it was Shi Shiar Sunni or what his actual belief was. Um You know, just like you can't really tell somebody's saved, I mean th they they exhibit behavior in a certain way or not. Um but he was he he was a Muslim and all the Muslims and everybody I grew up with, friends, family, everybody claimed him Or or still is, right? He's not dead. Correct. Yes. Uh all right, now the question about the Quran. Since nine eleven Uh there's been lots of discussion in America media, um uh among the the American populace about what the Quran teaches about what Muslims are to do to is infidels. You know, is does the Quran and I feel like I can get a pretty good answer from you on this because you grew up in it but now you're out of it, so I might get a totally different kind of perspective As you understand it, does the Quran teach violence against the infidels, against Christians and Jews, or does it not? Well It depends on your translation. Um, and meaning that are Jews and Christians infidels or are they not? See, infidels what that means is someone that does not believe in God or is a pagan and believes in idols or follows idols. So, some Muslims believe that Christians follow three gods, so that's not one God anymore, and that's their idol worshippers or their infidels. And he thought one of the gods is Mary, actually. Yeah, b yeah, because from Catholicism And uh and it first he didn't understand what the Trinity represented. And second, when he heard that we believed that Jesus Christ, you know, was uh was with God from before the creation of the world Uh that totally transformed his perspective. He was like, Really? You believe that? His he he said, I've never heard that before. He was raised his whole life. you know, being taught that that Jesus Christ, you know, only started his life two two thousand years ago and that uh as opposed to being with God in the beginning. So there's this there's this uh general uh stereotype of Christianity again that's out there among the m the the Muslim world that's again false. That's one of the reasons that uh Prophet Muhammad when he uh was starting his religion he was against the Christians because the one of the sects in that area was Monophysite I d I don't remember the name, but they they they worship three separate gods. And he that's why he was saying that the the um And their scripture is corrupted. You know, the you that cannot be. He couldn't reconcile that. Because the particular Christians that he ran across honestly did ha were a heresy. They they were a a heretical group. that ended up being uh r misrepresenting Christianity to Muhammad and so his whole perspective of Christianity was off from the beginning. Exactly. And that's what the Quran was based on. However I grew up as a Shia in a Shia family and my parents and my teachers all told me that the Quran and Prophet Muhammad taught us that Mus uh Jews and Christians are people of the book. And the Quran is very specific that you are not to persecute people of the book. So you were not taught that Christians were infidels? No, I was not. Um I know there are some other Muslims were. Then did that leave you like with a generally positive impression of Christians? Yes. Really? Um Even though you you well then I gotta ask this question. Were you also then of the opinion that Christianity and American immorality were um, you know, one and the same? Like I I was raised that way and most of most of my family still believes that and I still argue with them that that's not Christianity, that's a culture, that's American Bring me with you next time. Well I I would love to. I don't know if they've listened to you or not. Um but it's really like you're saying, I won't spend all my time talking, I'll spend my time asking questions. Yeah, and that might work. My father actually did read the the Bible and he knows a lot. He can quote a lot of the Bible. Yeah. Um he was again very, very learned. And It's just we were taught that Mus that Muslims, Jews and Christians were all people of the book. We were not to persecute them. And in fact I was taught that as Muslims took over the different areas They were told by Prophet Muhammad not to persecute the Jews or the Christians and not to even tax them. But to allow them to have self-rule and only convert those that are pagans or infidels by the sword, they could either die or become Muslim. And so the jizya tax, the tax on everybody that's not Muslim, was not to be applied to the Christians and Jews, only to the infidels. That's what I was taught. Though oftentimes apparently in history that that wasn't the case. Yeah. Same same same deal. Religion has been used in a lot of ways just in the wrong way. Yes. And that's what I was taught. And I was taught many times that that crusades, you know, look at how evil Christians have become have over the years. They've they've went away from God and that's what they've done So that is still I think Now now what's your perspective on the Crusades? Like do do you feel like your perspective on the Crusades has shifted? 'Cause, you know, uh apologists for Christianity will argue somewhat persuasively that the Crusades uh initially were a defensive just war and that uh that it was a couple of 'em, the Crusades, that ended up turning into, you know, a lust for power by the uh popes. you know, and those guys, but but that at the end of the day the the argument goes that the Crusades were an attempt to take back land that the Muslims had taken from Christians and so we wanted to give it back to the Christians. Uh but obviously you come from a different perspective. I wonder you know, my personal perspective in any war there's going to be a lot of ugliness and a lot of people going out after for their their own purposes Sure. And anytime you do anything in a war, you're gonna have the corruption, you're gonna have people joining in and being part of the war for their personal reasons. It was started in a noble cause. Sure. Um it uh the people that are involved are not noble. And because I believe that all of us are sinners and we will always go after what is pleasing to us until Jesus comes back. All right, let me jump in and ask this follow-up question to the question I was asking before. So some uh Muslims uh your family taught you that Christians are uh are are not infidels. Correct. Um would you say would you say that that is unique to your family or is that something that might be common in all Shiite families? I don't know if it'll be common in all Shiite families. I know there was a lot of Sunnis and Shias that believe that way. We had a lot of friends that were Sunnis growing up in the US and they felt the same way. Um it really is The the main thing is if you're a pagan, if you worship more than one God, those are the infidels. And actually I want to jump in on that because okay, I can understand how you would c uh the you. A Muslim with that I with that uh understanding would say, okay, the Christians they have these three gods and so they're in they don't understand what Christianity is really about, and so they would say they're infidels, they have three gods. What would be the purpose for thinking the Jews are infidels? They clearly are monotheistic Uh yes, they are. And the main thing is um th it's they're controlling and they're pushing down Muslims, so it's more of a defensive relation. And they feel that the Jews have too much power, uh too much control over the world, the world politics and what's happening in the Muslim world, and because of that control, they're fighting them. Not so much for religious purposes But more because they feel that uh without the Jewish control they would rise up more. and the wealthy, then therefore they they uh end up representing the rich who are oppressing the poor. Right. And so then if the Muslims happen to be poor and not uh you know, as wealthy as Western nations then it must be because the rich, whoever they are, are oppressing them and so all the evils to the Jews. Uh yeah. All evil Jews. Um and and that's what I was taught And I was taught uh not to hate Jews individually, but the Jewish race because of being greedy. Because they're greedy. So I could have Jewish friends. But the next would still degrade the Jewish race. It it's kinda weird. More more Zionists. And also that didn't help when Israel was created and uh the Muslims that were living there got displaced. Yeah, well even to this day, from what I understand, uh you know, having just been in Israel, you know, eighty five percent of Jews even in Israel today are atheist and if that's the case then um they're not really being uh Jewish. They're not being Muslim. They're Zionist. They they want them to be interesting distinction. Yeah, well that's like a whole show, probably. Thank you. Uh Raz. Uh Imran Raz Razvi grew up a Shiite Muslim, is now a Reformed Protestant Christian. I like saying that. That sounds good It sounds more official that way, doesn't it? And Jonathan Schweitzer, who is a senior pastor at Crossroads of Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsor is then Putlin, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I want to encourage you to visit our website, go to www. wfmd. com, find the faith debate page. It's simple enough. Go to the on air tab, and there's a little drop-down menu and you'll see the faith debate. You click on that, it takes you to the page. Uh go to the audio vault section for webcasts of the show. You'll find daily, well, almost daily blog posts from me and and and occasional blog posts from Jonathan and Uh Jonathan's are always more interesting than mine, but mine are more frequent. So you get kind of like an interesting mix that way. Thanks for listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. God bless