Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week again by Tamar Bradley, the owner of the Owl Nest, and Jonathan Sweitzer, the senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel Last couple of weeks we've been talking about Christianity and paganism and in some kind of general, you know, foundational setting. Let's get our d definitions set and all that sort of thing. And we're almost there. We're not I don't think we're completely home free, but we're almost there And then we can start to dive into some some specifics that might be a little bit fun to kind of hash out and explore a little bit. Between shows I talked with uh tomorrow trying to get a a a a toehold as I'm calling it uh about exactly you know how she would describe what her f her faith is. And um if you pay attention to the New York Times bestseller lists uh et al over the last several years, then you know who Elaine Pagles is. Elaine Pagles wrote a book called The Secret Uh Gospel of Thomas and uh and and others. She's she's a a a big proponent of of uh modern day Gnosticism and the feminine deni uh d uh feminine divine uh movement Um you've pro if you don't know the name and you've watched some PBS specials on the Search for the True Authentic Jesus, any of those shows with like John Dominic Crossing from DePaul. uh university. Uh you've seen Elaine Pagles uh interviewed. She's she's uh if you've bought one of those Newsweek or US News and World Report or whatever magazines about Christianity, about faith, have you seen those? Yeah You know, Elaine Pagles is typically quoted in those articles, sometimes featured as maybe an author or co-author. So anyway I I'm using that as kind of this general thing that I know something about and saying it sounds similar to what Tamar is is talking about. And so I said, so You and Elaine Pagles, like you know, like this, you're tight? Oh wish. And uh but as far as your your your view on things, you're pretty darn close? Probably as close as we're gonna get, I would say. Um uh the goddess movement it's it's still new, it's still evolving. And it's kind of where we are in our in our times in our lives. We were almost to the point where we can pull any goddess, pull her strengths and feel archetypally close to her. Especially women. Right. Meaning yeah, yeah, so you feel close to the archetype. Of of a woman, of the attributes of If if if I was a woman that was very concerned with my beauty and love and things like that, I might feel drawn to Aphrodite. I definitely feel drawn to a more mothering role and I feel Mary is an awesome role model and um just a great spirit that I feel connected to. I love communing with her. So what are the what are some of the basic uh core values then that that are represented by um the goddess uh that that attract you, the core principles? Uh feminine mysteries, the stages that women go through from being a child growing into a girl, into an adolescent, into a teen, to the mother aspect to the crone. And um a a very popular term is the triple goddess. Maiden mother crone, the the three men Crone is the wise woman, the elder, somebody who has passed menopause is typically considered Crone. I don't know if anybody can hear that on the air or not, but Jonathan's being paged. He's calling. Cold blue. So so so the it's it's uh it's almost a very pragmatic helping you to understand what it means to be a woman and uh the different goddesses and the the language of the phases of her life of the the goddess um the different goddesses seem to fill up the meaning for you of what it means to be a woman at a at thirteen years of age, at eighteen years of age, at thirty years of age, at forty five, fifty years of age. And so for you it's it's a it's a tool for knowing what it means to be uh the best woman that you could be. When I when I look in mythology, you you look at these wonderful things that these women did. And I pull on that, I pull on their strengths. And when I feel weak I look at their you know, what their weaknesses might have been, what their trials and tribulations might have been, and I see how that is. as mentors as it were. You know, well I wonder how Venus would have handled this or absolutely. Absolutely. Definitely. And um one big thing talking about pop culture uh goddess is often shown to us through the phases of the moon. That that's that's a b a big Well let me let me pick up on this, Jonathan. It kind of puts you a You know I'm I don't know if in the hot teek is the right way to phrase this, but you know, it's it's not an uncommon thing to hear. It's not like you hear that o all the time, but it's not uncommon to hear somebody say that uh Yeah, this whole idea that God is masculine and you know women are to sit down and shut up in church and women can't be at in certain denominations, can't be in the in the pastorate, they can't lead a congregation, they can't, you know, whatever I mean, what do you s what do you say to somebody who says, you know, the Christian religion, the Christian church, not women friendly? Um Yeah, I would have to say that uh from my perspective, if you look at India, look at ancient Greece, you look at China Uh you look at uh Russia, uh you look at the uh the African cultures, uh I would have to say that the the perspective on women uh around the world in terms of um lifting her up and uh giving her the freedom to be everything that that it seems like she should be free to be uh that you find it most pervasive in uh most pervasively lifted up in Christian cultures and in Christian uh uh environments. You know, the concept of motherhood, the concept of of um of being uh uh honored for who you are and being honored for um the the differences uh i. e. you know um grace and uh gentleness and um uh kindness and nurturing, being honored for those things as opposed to uh being thought of as just a slave and that that the Judeo Christian environment leading into the West has has been uh uh historically on the face of the planet, uh the most uh kind to uh women at large. Uh if you went to India or if you went to China. or if you went to um places in South uh uh down in Africa where uh that are pre-Christian, uh the um perspective of women is just, you know, wow, ugly and um controlling and um they're they're they're stuck. There's there there's not uh a sense of um You know, freedom to be involved in business and freedom to be involved in in uh teaching and freedom to be um uh to be an important voice of new rights to women in the Christian community i over say the past thousand years. We didn't always have these rights within that community. I would agree, but the point is is that this is the only place in history where it's happened. And that's what I'm saying. Yes, they're new, but I think they're new because uh uh Christianity has has been uh progressively uh um uh aiding culture in its ability to honor and protect and to to serve uh the the women that are in her midst. Now what about Mary Magdalene? Um she was You know, her name was Drug Through the Mud. Terribly. By who? The the church until the nineteen sixties. Was it that she was found? Yeah, the the Roman Catholic Church, uh their history. Right. Oh absolutely. But the point is that she was a whore that changed when she was touched by Christ. Which is which is a profoundly liberating and redeeming thing. I disagree with that from what I've read about Mary Magdalene being a very educated woman, a priestess in h in her own right. Okay, but but but uh let let me deal with this on a different level. If there was a woman who was a whore I mean whore in the classical sense, meaning she used uh her sexual um in her body uh as a tool for making money. All right, somebody who is considered a whore. And if there was a story about a woman like that, let's not call her Mary Magdalene or call her Jessica. You know, Jessica and Jesus meet And uh the people want to stone her, and Jesus says, Okay, he who has uh who has no sin, throw the first stone. And then later on, she comes and breaks a vial of perfume over his feet, and he rebukes his disciples who are complaining about the value of the perfume, and he rebukes them. He says, Now wait a second. What she has done is a very beautiful thing, and wherever the gospel is preached around the world, what she has done for me will be told in remembrance of what she's done. I mean, maybe it wasn't Mary Magdalene that that was about, but if that was just some other whore that that was about, that's a pretty phenomenal thing that that Christ presented to us. the right way to look at and to redeem people and to to bring them back. you know, by uh the Catholic Church or whoever, the the story that's given to us in the Gospels is is probably One of the most powerful and liberating things that ever happened. By the way, for the record, I wasn't trying to say that the Roman Catholics had drugged her dragged her through the mud. I'm saying that they have been criticized for doing so. And I think that the the issue, I don't want to get bogged down on this, but there's a passage, yeah. There's a passage in the New Testament that talks about a a prostitute of whore who uh who uh then has a a positive encounter with Jesus and then it's the it's the next passage in the New Testament that introduces us to Mary Magdalene. And so some have drawn the connection that that prostitute must have been Mary Magdalene. But It's not clear that that's the case. And personally, by the way, I think the two different individuals. But the two stories are blended. But this is my point from the process not even given a name. Uh it's not it's not like she's even named Mary, but it it follows in the heel like, oh they must be talking about her. But I think there's a transition there. But again, the point is I don't think it really matters. Well but okay, but but I would I would argue that it does in this sense Let's say that that this person that that is Mary Magdalene was also the whore, right? Um the fact that she becomes a part of Jesus' entourage And that he's there she's there at his death on the cross, at his resurrection, that he appears to her and speaks to her. Uh and that sh that that she's uh this figure, Mary Magdalene, whoever she is, is raised to a level of being, you know, a member of the witnesses for for Jesus Christ. uh that doesn't drag her through the mud. That exalts the ability of of uh people to be redeemed from wherever they are to a place of of honor and dignity. But yet it happened. The church still slung her. around and Well give me an example. What did the church do to do to Mar Magdalene through the ages? Well I I wasn't raised Catholic. I've I've talked to Catholic friends about how she was, you know, just considered the whore, kind of pushed to the side. And then finally I g night mid nineteen hundreds sometimes the church went ahead and made her a saint. See uh my my take on it is And the church has now made her a saint Maybe they have, I don't know. But my incredible. But my my uncle now saints here. I'm not much of ahead. Okay. I think that uh I mean I'm not here to be a Roman Catholic apologist. We probably should have a Roman Catholic on to do this. They probably do a much better job. But I think that what happened is they made that connection between this passage that wasn't specific about who it was and connected to Mary Magdalene and by making that connection they've been charged through the years with having tried to drag her through the mud. I think that's an excessive charge against the Roman Catholic Church. So that again I want to clarify for all our Roman Catholic friends, uh I think this is one w in which you've got an unfair black eye. I think that I think that it's true that you've been charged with dragging her through the mud, but I don't think that the church ever actually has dragged her through the mud You you seeing the difference I'm trying to make? Right. I just want to make sure that I don't get a bunch of hate emails. You know, uh I I I think this is one There are a lot of issues on which I will disagree with the Roman Catholics, but uh this I don't think is going to be one of them. And and my part of my big issue and I don't even want to say I have issues with Christianity Because I you know, I'm totally in the live and let live and I respect what you believe and what you believe and I that's all I ask for in in the same But when we get the n to that, well I don't know if it was Mary Magdalene, the Bible said this, but we decided it was that. hear it being heard on the air or not, but as you grab the microphone, it's causing some sort of a short and I'm hearing in the headphones. So just a fly eye, sorry. Yeah, that's helpful. I think that, you know, it was, you know was this this woman, the whore Mary Magdalene, wasn't it? Well, you know, let's just say it was. And it and and again it gets into the point where men are going through and and just kind of making their own decisions on well we're gonna say this is that. By the way, uh if you're listening to the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, I'm Troy Skinner. She's Tamar Bradley, he's Jonathan Sweitzer And that's why I think it's so important to get back to something we're talking about. I don't know if it was this show or last show. They're all starting to run together in my mind now. Sure. Uh so important for us to have a critical eye about what should be canon or shouldn't. Let's say that some Roman Catholic priest, heck, let's take it to the top. Let's say that a Pope in the year 568 Put out some sort of position paper that said that Mary Magdalene was this horrifying whore and she should be in hell with the devil forever, kind of thing. Um it's important for us to then make a judgment, okay, is that part of canon or not? Does that agree with what is accepted as canon? Or not? Does it agree with that at all? And if it doesn't, you have to reject it and go to that Pope and say, and that's what Martin Luther did. He went to the Roman Catholic Institution and said, You guys are wrong on a lot of issues. Here they are. There's twenty some out of them and I'm gonna nail them to this door and we're gonna have a fight about it. Um it's the same issue with the the gospel of Thomas and Philip and all that sort of stuff. If they're not agreeing with that canon, you gotta scratch your head and say, No, wait a minute, that doesn't seem to jive with what I understand to be true from the canon. Can we trust it? And that's when I would tell somebody, do some homework. Go buy these extra texts. Come to my shop and buy those texts. Sure. And read them and have a s have a conversation with God yourself. That's that's what I want everybody. I want them to think. I just don't want people to just believe what they are fed in church. It to me that's empty unless you have an actual rapport with God. What would you say is the central point? of faith. And you can def you can I'll I'll allow you some some uh flexibility in how you want to understand the question. Meaning, you know, what is the ultimate purpose? What is the ultimate goal? What it what What is the thing about the thing? Okay. Uh I believe the thing about the thing such a great question. I'm having fun with it. Uh the thing about the thing is, in my uh perspective, um it's all about uh relationships. And uh if I uh lie to my wife, it's gonna hurt her. And if I cheat on her, it's gonna hurt her. And if I um uh am ain't uh am hateful toward her uh or uh spending all my time whining because I'm covetous about what other people have and and not being grateful it's going to hurt her. It's going to undermine my relationship with her and uh cause her life to be uh difficult, irritating, painful Uh I'd rather not do that. And so there needs to be some standard for uh for her to be able to say, Sweetheart, you lied to me again Or sweetheart, you're um you're treating me inappropriately th about this or about that. There's got to be some standard against which she she can uh w to which she can appeal for justice to which she can appeal and say, Sweetheart, why are you doing that to me? That's not love. There's got to be some definition of love that we can agree upon. And uh and So the thing about the thing is that there also has to be some standard then for how God is treated and how we expect him to treat us. There has to that that he doesn't lie to us, that he's faithful. uh that that he blesses us, that he uh that he also helps us to be better than we are because we need to grow. And so he has tools at his disposal by which to train us up and to uh facilitate our growth. And so the thing about the thing to me is relationship, which is love. Love is the key. There's got to be some standard to which I can appeal. Otherwise uh my God might reach out and just strike me dead in and I have nothing to appeal and say, God, that wasn't just. There has to be some standard by which we can judge God, judge one another and say, that was right, that was wrong. And outside of that standard, what we have is injustice. We have people uh tyrannically ruling over and oppressing everybody else because there's no standard. They want to do whatever they want to do. And I feel like it's it's just fine for people to believe whatever they want until it comes down to their beliefs giving them freedom to imp uh to uh hurt somebody else. And at that point then we're all gonna go to law, go to the court, we're gonna sue one another. And we're going to try to decide who's right and who's wrong. And if we don't have a standard or we have a changing standard, then there's no way that that society can exist for any l uh long period of time. There has to be Some uh road signs that say, this is the speed limit, this is the line, drive on the right side of the line. There has to be something like that. Otherwise we run into each other, we destroy one another, we have Hitler-esque type of uh events, Stalin, uh people that that throw out any perspective of what's right and wrong, or that live by their own standard, and as a result, the rest of the world sits in shock. Because there's no standard, because they can't believe how ugly and how dark things have gotten. The light is the standard by which we measure love. Okay, so now um the you know that this divine feminine Gnostic paganist kind of thing. Right. Well when you were saying, you know, if if you go out and you cheat on your wife or if you lie to your wife, you're hurting your wife. Yes. You're also to me, you're hurting yourself. Absolutely. And I believe in karma. And we all know for every action there's an equal and opposite reaction. Everything we do, there's gonna be something that that balances that scale. And so the big thing with the pagans and the wiccans, we have the big rule of harm none the threefold law, which is, you know, whatever you do or put out there comes back to you threefold. So I definitely, you know, believe, you know, speed limit says fifty five, you drive at fifty five or if you're like me you go seventy five, you might have to slam on your brakes and almost hit somebody. And then I realize, haha, I am breaking that law. Speed limit's fifty-five for a reason. I'm going 75. I almost caused an accident That was the reaction to me speeding. So I think karma for me has a big play in things. Karma's very interesting to me because uh have you ever been to the uh to the nations on the planet that uh that the base religious uh worldview believes in karma like if you've ever been to India you ever been to some of these different places? No I've never the caste system in those places is so ugly. It's it's shocking to me. And uh I think it's very convenient for us in the West to believe in karma because we uh we don't live with the uh uh with the centuries of fruit that it that that that society has borne out. It's it's very um uh it just feels very convenient to me. uh when people do that. But there's a hint of truth in it, right? But the y but yeah, I do agree that you re well it's interesting because the things that that you're describing so far are in no way Um uh different from Christianity. You know of the harm none, uh what's the threefold path you're saying? Basically the karma, what you do, what what you put out there will come back to you Three times. So you reap what you sow. Right. Absolutely. That's the Christian way of saying. So we're in agreement about that. Absolutely. So to me, you know, and to me, karma makes me very mindful of what I'm going to do. I remember, you know, last time I didn't work out so good, you know, I you know, you can't do it. As it's taught by the Dalai Lama, karma is something that um that you're trying to be released from the cycle of karma. Well, I'm not sure. The goal is that is that you would be released from all you know, and so going through reincarnation. It's just interesting to me, you know, for you to use it with such warmth. you know, in your tone because um it's classical boot Buddhist thought, you know, it's it's what you want to be released from. That's that's the bad thing. You want to be released from all your karma. Well I I believe that before we come here, we write out what we want to accomplish in our lives. For good, for bad. And we're continually a soul and evolution. Before we come here, you mean you m meaning we were spirits before we became human. Right. We were spirits and we were sitting up in the cosmic school and we were writing out what we're going to do, what we want to become and we try to accomplish these lessons. If we want to learn compassion, then I believe that the universe, God's Spirit, sets us up with potential lessons, whether or not we choose to follow those and to to work through this and become a more compassionate person or become a murderer, we have that free will. And do we take that road and learn our lesson or do we go off and have to be coming up on the end? Yeah, we're g we're yeah, we're gonna have to I mean We took a huge left turn here on you know reincarnation popped up like wow we could talk about that for a long time. Right, right. So I think pulls back in. So I think that maybe uh we'll talk about that in next week's show if that is agreeable. Because that's that's more than uh than thirty seconds I think of material right there. And I do want to uh Uh Pine and Jonathan's response to my question about what the thing of the thing is, uh I thought was a very good answer. Um but uh but he didn't end up touching on exactly what I might have said. Uh and I think that Tamara's answer I can't say whether it was good or bad because I mean I have to assume that she gave a good representative point of view for herself. Sure. So Yes. But for for Christians. Yeah. Christ is the I think well, yeah, but well, yes and no. Okay. Um, because Christ is an office, that's a title. God is the thing. Okay. So and it you're right when you say it's about relationship, but ultimately it's about relationship with God. Yeah, amen. I would agree with that. And all that goes with that and keeping in mind what the what what that relationship is. It's a creator-created, creator-creation relationship. And to keep mindful of that all of the time so that everything, every decision we make, every point of view that we have is focused on God's glory, um uh God's purposes, God's plan, God's way. Because when we s when we deviate from that we we end up talking about our plan, our way, our emotions, our point of view, what makes us feel good, what we want. And every time we start to get into a we me focus Um we deviate from what I think authentic, true biblical Christianity is teaching us. And it's a problem in the church, by the way. I don't think that the Christian church does a very good job of staying focused on this, but when Christianity is at its best It is really diving deep into the root of what Christianity is, and that's what Christianity is. It's about God. Yes, we have free will, but our free will is not greater than God's free will. He has the ultimate free will that trumps our free will at every turn. So anyway, that was that's the point I would have made, but I'm not Jonathan Sweitzer. So anyway, thank you, Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. You're welcome. Uh the owner of the Owl Nest, Tamar Bradley. Thank you, sir. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And thanks so much for listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty, WFMD.