Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator. Troy Skinner joined again by Jonathan Sweitzer, C6 Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Also this week, John Armstrong, senior pastor at Faith Reform Presbyterian Church in Frederick, and Jenny Dixon, who is the executive director of the Care debt Pregnancy Center of Frederick. You can check out their website, I don't want to forget, so I'll mention it now, their website at FrederickPregnancy. com. Our show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And Frederick Faith Debate is a open and honest forum for the area religious leaders who get together and talk about things that we think are important. And it's not just us who think that they're important. Of late, it's been in the news that other people must think it's important too If you haven't been paying paying a lot of attention, um it would have been easy to miss, actually. Um but if you were paying real close attention then you'll have to forgive us for spending some time laying some groundwork some background so that you have a sense of what we're talking about and why we're talking about it. In case you don't know what CareNet Pregnancy stands for, they are a pro-life organization Alright, they they are up there battling for the sanctity of life. Uh John Schweitzer and John Armstrong uh as uh Orthodox um Protestant uh Christian pastors are of a similar mindset. And if you've listened to this show for a while, then you would recognize that so am I, but as the show wears on I'm going to try to take on the the uh the challenge uh for and personally it is a challenge to try to advocate for the other side because there is another side to this issue or there wouldn't be a debate going on in this country. So uh but before we get into that Senate Bill 690 and House Bill 1160 um kept you guys busy for a while. I know that John Armstrong went and testified in Annapolis a couple of times, at least a couple of times, um saying this is bad. We need to vote against. And why don't, Jenny, why don't you explain what it was that the bill was advocating for and then we can get into why you would be against it and you can tell us, you know, how where all those things stand now. Well, um, first of all I want to say that Maryland has the most aggressive NARO organization in the United States. They are out to attack pregnancy centers. And we find that so interesting. I'd like to give just some statistics first because All across the nation, if you if you track abortion rates are going down, except in the state of Maryland. Maryland's abortion rates are going up. But NAROL sent basically this legislation stems from a report that NARAL did and basically NARAL stands for the National Abortion Rights Action League. They sent 12 college interns into various pregnancy centers across the state of Maryland to ask questions to try to find something wrong. Um there it was all based on anecdotal testimony, which was also fascinating. Nothing was really recorded or documented. It was just from their perception of the answers they received at these pregnancy centers. And so it was interesting to me that they could even produce a piece. of um uh a bill that would go to legislation and be voted on based off the anecdotal testimony of twelve college interns. It certainly does not represent the 30,000 real client visits that pregnancy centers in Maryland received last year alone. And so from what these twelve think they found out or uncovered, they were advocating that what would happen? Well, I mean basically the report accused pregnancy centers of of not following standards, um, giving false information to clients, being misleading, manipulative coercing clients to carry their babies to term and on and on. You can find the report on NAROL's website. Now it's interesting to me. Is hasn't there been like several times across the nation uh in the past ten, twenty years where uh people have gone into abortion clinics and and basically discovered the same kinds of things. I mean have uh me meaning like like like coercion and uh uh for that matter uh sex between uh you know people that are not supposed to be having sex and And incest and different things where where the it's just not even paid attention to and they don't develop any kind of a law out of that. And yet in you know, twelve college students here in Maryland and they're gonna They're going to put legislation together with this thing. That's the voice of John Sweitzer, by the way. Most abortion clinics are not required to follow the same standards as veterinarian clinics. Which is interesting. And so, yes, I would have to say there's a lot of um terrible things that happen in abortion clinics that aren't revealed or uncovered because pregnancy centers are not out to fight NAROL and Planned Parenthood. They're out to give support to women in crisis pregnancies. They're out to support their families, to provide care, to provide limited medical services. They simply don't have time to battle legislation. We do when we're required to for our own rights. But our sole purpose is to serve women, men and families that are facing unplanned pregnancies. Now you're saying that the abortion rate is higher in Maryland and going up than it is elsewhere and they decided to pick on Maryland why? It seems like things are going their way here. Why wouldn't they go pick on somebody else? I well You know, abortion is an industry and we have to realize that. It's a money making business. Um they charge for abortions. There's uh uh uh Maryland has a great number of abortions. I think there are ten abortion clinics within an hour of Frederick and and not as many pregnancy centers. And if you look at where our pregnancy center is stationed, you'll find the dynamics very interesting. Um there's a hospital which has a neonatal unit that saves babies born as early as 22 weeks. Around the corner you'll find an abortion clinic that performs mid-trimester abortions on babies up to 24 weeks. And then you'll find the Frederick Pregnancy Center. So kind of an interesting dynamic of life and death in our own community. Now they wanted to have a bill passed and t have a law then. Yeah. And they wanted this law to require what? They wanted the law to require us to tell every client at first client contact that we are not required to give them accurate information. Which basically says totally discredits pregnancy centers up front. The irony is pregnancy centers follow very stringent standards. They follow OSHA guidelines, APOG, AIUM, all the medical standards that they are required to follow. And so It's basically what we would be telling our clients is we're not required, but you know, honestly, we can promise you that we will give you factual information. on abortion. Seems like it'd be a better law to say that you are required to give accurate information. Why would they want to pass a law saying that you have to say you're not promising to give it away. That makes sense. Yeah, that's a good point. Why wouldn't they just push for it? We don't know. Except it is it it does put pregnancy centers in a peculiar light. It does discredit them to some degree by saying we're not required to give you factual information. What they're trying to do basically is they're trying to say that a that a planned parenthood uh a location clinic somehow is of a different quality, of a better quality, of a higher uh uh you know medical quality than what the Cairnet pregnancy centers are, which is Totally not true and so in order to do that if they can just force you to somehow admit it publicly then therefore uh it puts you in a different category and then nobody wants to go there because yeah, I I mean I can see their argument. Yeah, you're exactly right, Jonathan. That's uh they that's simply a a tactic to discredit uh the Kiernet uh or the the pregnancy centers uh and the people that work there. Uh it's interesting that uh the professional standards, you know, you we have a doctor uh uh O V G Y N that works there at uh Karenet and who has taken professional oaths and those kinds of things, held to a the standard of a medical doctor But then we're telling her all of a sudden that she has to say she's not required to give medically accurate information. Morally unconscionable. I can't it's it's just defies reason. I'm not required to promise that to you. Exactly. I I'm not required to give you accurate information on your site in the system cancer. The point is if they can't come out and prove somehow that that CareNet pregnancy centers are somehow not up to par then the next best thing for them to do is pass some kind of a law that makes you guys act like you're not as good as they are. You know, I mean it's total intimidation. It's it's it's a It's a legal maneuver that the fact that they even think that they can get away with it is is I guess what's so shocking to me that people would agree to that kind of a thing instead of just moving right in and say, Okay, if the care net pregnancy centers aren't up to snuff then then let's somehow, you know, shut 'em down or expose 'em for not being up to snuff. But if we're doing if the k if the pregnancy centers are doing what they say that they're doing, then uh, you know, they gotta get over it. They gotta realize that they're losing the battle. Well it is ludicrous because um if you think of the number of of client visits and that this whole legislation thirty thousand you said. Thirty thousand through pregnancy centers in the state of Maryland And our pregnancy center in Frederick, we had 3,690 client visits last year. That's substantial. Yeah. And so you think this piece of legislation was based on the testimony of twelve interns, anecdotal testimony at that Yeah. So to me it just seems insane. So now anecdotal ev evidence means that they came in uh they came in undercover. Right. So they're claiming that they're pregnant and that they need help and in the process of being helped by Carnet Pregnancy Center. facilitators and nurses. Uh they went back and they wrote an essay about their experience and so they didn't record anything. You know, and uh and they're then claiming that somehow they were harassed or They in fact for that matter they could have even been egging you on trying to get you to push them uh into a certain direction and to manipulate them Who knows what they were doing in terms of the you know, it's not like they're coming in, you know, being unbiased. They're coming in with a bias, trying to push you into something, and so the whole approach is inherently non-scientific and backward and manipulative and You know. You're you're you're right on you're right on Jonathan. I mean methodologically the uh the report is I mean If if I were a professor at at a college level, I would have just I would have laughed at them as as I was writing the F on the report, uh, because there was no science involved. Yeah. Uh it was pure bias. Which at the end of the day this is what this is what I think is is the most important issue across the nation for anybody that that is paying attention to the abortion question is that it has nothing to do with compassion for women that are that are in the uh that are in the midst of of a difficult situation. The mentality behind the abortionists is one, it's money, but more than that, it's this social engineering that somehow they're going to encourage uh uh abortions among those people that are not fit to have families. And this eugenics mentality is what drives the whole thing. It's not science It's not genuine compassion and it's not a real concern about care for standards and that sort of thing. It's this whole other agenda that that goes back, you know, to for for for the whole last nineteen hundreds about you know somehow we're going to make society in our own image and in making society in our own you know what did they say? They said that um uh even though about twelve percent of um uh of the nation is African American. Thirty seven percent of the abortions are from the African American community. Why is that? Because at the end of the day It is an inherently eugenic and racist uh organization from Margaret Sanger all the way down through through, you know, uh all all of the people in between. What was it just uh a few years ago, um I think it was the first black uh uh uh president of Planned Parenthood said, you know what? We are proud to be carrying on Margaret Sanger's legacy. She said that 1980 something, I I believe it is uh shocking to me because Margaret Sanger's legacy was eugenics trying to uh come up with a way that that those that are not fit to breed in society that are somehow hurting the entire American race be they black, white, you know, yellow, or red, that that somehow we would stop these guys from breeding and as a result, we would then be able to have a glorious future. You know, in fact somebody just said uh in two thousand five he said that uh w when the R U four eighty six or what is it RU four eight four eighty six pill came out said said, imagine how many kids would have been on the streets committing crimes if we did not have legalized abortion for the last you know, they're still preaching the same eugenics Which which is, you know, the ugliest thing imaginable, you know, today and yet nobody pays attention to that. How can they not see that? Well, I think they are paying attention. Actually, if you go to YouTube and you Google Planned Parenthood or you type in Planned Parenthood and go to racism racism part one and two, um, you will be amazed Students for Life actually called these Planned Parenthoods around the nation and they pretended to be donors because we like to contribute money. And we like to put it towards um uh ab abortions for African Americans because my son's trying to get into college. And we're against affirmative action and it's the response from these different people at Planned Parenthood that were in development. It's shocking But you're exactly right. The point is they they were like, okay, well if that's if that's the reason what you want to donate, we'll go ahead and collect the money. They in no way repudiated the racism that was being offered. Exactly. Jesse Jackson said this in nineteen seventy seven. He says as a matter of conscience, I must oppose the use of federal funds for a policy of killing infants. This was Jesse Jackson who changed his position when he decided to seek the Democratic nomination years later. The point is that black pastors are keenly aware in the black community that there's some kind of a of a weird thing going on and yet when it comes to abortion it's like th there's this massive attempt to pull the wool over people's eyes that somehow this is not a eugenics uh uh race um discrimination uh kind of an orientation. But you know I think there are uh black pastors across the nation are waking up and if you look at America and you look at where Planned Parenthoods are located and where abortion clinics are located, they're all located in urban areas. The abortion rate is three times higher among African American women than it is among Caucasian women. The statistics I have is roughly eighty percent of Planned Parenthood's abortion centers are in or near minority communities. Exactly. And you know The pregnancy center movement is catching on. They're starting pregnancy center in urban areas all across America. But the challenge is that Planned Parenthood has been there. for decades and decades and they have become the trusted friend and health provider of the money. And our tax money is supporting them so pervasively. You probably have those numbers in the I have those numbers, you know Clantarinhead profitable we're from a hundred and fourteen million dollars last year. Profited Yeah. Um and that was from government money but also from from private donations. So I think it's interesting. Um because Uh they're a very wealthy organization and that was from two thousand and six to two thousand and seven. Actually from two thousand and five to two thousand and six They received over three hundred and five million dollars from our taxpayer money. Uh-huh. And um last year three hundred and thirty So basically a social reengineering program attempting to create a better race for the future, you know, and and our tax money is going to this thing. In a huge way. So we'll let me jump in. Well let me jump in here as he's wont to do, Jonathan Swipe to you know jumped right to the end of the game. Oh I did, sorry. And you know, and it got us all riled up. Yes, it was. You know, fun. Energetic, you know, good for a Sunday morning. Now we'll go back and sit down in my chair in the corner for a second. Jonathan Sweitzer is senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. The other John in the room is John Armstrong, senior pastor at Faith Reform Presbyterian and Frederick And Jenny Dixon is the executive director of the uh CareNet Pregnancy Center of Frederick. You can check them out online at FrederickPregnancy. com. There I said it twice. Thank you. By the way, you can check out the show at WFMD. com And there's a new feature on the website that makes it easier than ever to find the Faith Debate portion of the website. In the upper section of WFMD. com, there is a window, a field that says keyword search Just type in faith debate there and it takes you right to our page. So isn't that exciting? Yes, they're cutting edge technically. They must have done that just for our show. That's kind of them to begin. Yes. Because there's a hidden agenda behind the showdown today. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMB. I'm Troy Skinner. I'm going to be sliding into you a little try to anyway, a little bit of a devil's advocate role in a second, but I want to finish up the information gathering part. So these bills that were before the House and Senate What happened? Yeah, what happened? I'll let Sean give the rest of the story. Well, we went uh down to Annapolis, a number of us uh across the state of Maryland, I believe, the for the Senate bill, there were forty-two uh folks to uh testify against and um about the same number the next time for the for the House. But uh we testified um before the Senate and the House, uh different committees, and it was not uh at all pleasant at times. Uh lots of hard questions. Um but That's one of the hard questions you can remember. Yeah. Well the One senator in particular was uh driving home that we needed to do uh mystery shopper type uh operations within our uh our pregnancy centers and I I sit on the board at uh Kiernet here in Frederick. Um but it really it betrayed a an ignorance of how things run. I mean it's not a it's not a restaurant or a or a retail business where you send in a mystery shopper to see if you're if you're uh folks that are working the counter uh that may be coming and going and have some turnover if they're doing the job that they're supposed to do. The folks uh that you'll find at the pregnancy center, the volunteers and the staff are very committed, have been through extensive training, and and most have been there for years. Uh these are committed folks, these are uh brothers and sisters in Christ that we know, have good solid relationships with, we know what they're what's going on in the uh in the counseling rooms. Uh we know the kinds of things that they're saying. We if uh if we had somebody that that said something that was off the wall or are not correct. Uh certainly if if that was addressed through the uh executive director or or someone on staff That would be immediately corrected. Uh we we don't tolerate uh oh we only tolerate the most excellent care. We don't tolerate anything less than that. You know, I was the third child growing up, so fairness was always really important to me because I could easily be bullied by my own Is Planned Parenthood required to do mystery shopper kinds of things or no? No. You know? No? I mean they're the ones getting all the money. Why why why would uh why would we get you know Clarinet get get pushed with all these, you know, requirements between parenting. Everything that uh that Carnet provides and these these uh pregnancy centers provide, all the services are free. Right. And uh here we are providing uh top quality care with uh you know free of charge and um with people who are obviously have to be committed to be volunteering you know, hours and hours every week and month and so anyway. Yeah, it's just shocking to me that double standards in there. So somebody walks in, a w a woman, ostensibly, walks in and says that she is thinking about having an abortion. What sort of response will meet her? What are the things that would be said to her, done for her To her. Yeah, what would you say? Would you just come out and say we don't have abortions? No, we just don't say don't have an abortion. What we asked her is if Do you know that you're pregnant? Have you had a pregnancy test? And the first thing that we would offer her is a free pregnancy test. And if the test is positive, we you know, we sit down, we believe every woman needs to have factual information before she makes an informed decision. And we go over the basic um responses of of physical um dangers of having abortion, emotional consequences, and spiritual consequences if she's a believer We are not negative in any way as far as as treating her in any way demeaning. We respect her. We we treat her with care and dignity and love. We ask her about her situation. If she wants to carry determine, what are the options? obstacles facing her, preventing her from wanting to carry that baby for to term or from being able to carry that baby to term. Okay, so again, my fairness things come uh uh uh kicks in D is Planned Parenthood required to give uh factual information? Are they required to show this uh this girl that's coming into their clinics? What could you know, the the potential for cancer, the potential, you know, the potential health and side effects, depression side effects, those kinds of things. Uh they are they required a share of the thing. And and one service that we offer is a limited diagnostic ultrasound to verify her pregnancy to be able to see a where she actually gets to see the fetus. See the unborn baby. Sorry, I'm sorry to use that language. That's okay. Fetus means the little one in Latin. It does, but see the little one. Yes, it's a it's a medical correct term. But yes, she's able to see that baby. She's able to um know when her due date is. She's able to see that her pregnancy is a valid pregnancy or not a valid pregnancy. So we're able to provide that for her also and then refer her for the help that she needs in the community If she needs ongoing medical care, of course she will prenatal care. We're adding services at the pregnancy center like childbirth and parenting classes, a fatherhood initiative. So that we can also reach out to the men and so that they can become involved, responsible, and committed fathers to those children. And through childbirth and parenting classes to be able to educate these women on nutrition, on childcare, on nurturing Um we believe these things are crucial and and it is about having a baby but it's also about raising a child and we want to make sure our clients are a good place How often in the CareNet uh environment do you run into situations where it's obviously a statutory rate kind of a situation or those kinds of things? I mean is it is it often, is it not? Is that unusual? Unusual. Um Uh I would say yes, but but we do run into it and probably run into it monthly. Monthly? Yes. Meaning at this location. Yes. Here in Frederick. Monthly you're running into situations Where would you categorize a statutory rape as a girl under the age of fourteen having sex with somebody over the age of eighteen? Right. Wow. Lots of predators out there on the internet. Yeah, shocking, huh? Yes. Very shocking. We're not going to have time to dive into a an argument now because we only got about, I don't know, sixty or ninety seconds left in the show, believe it or not. So We do have time if you're feeling like there's some sort of because this was a fact finding mission this show. So if there are some facts, some basic facts about what's been going on recently in the news or whatever that we haven't shared This will be a chance to share that. Otherwise, you know, we'll just put a wrap on this show and we'll pick up next week. Could you just share a little bit? Because apparently Playing Parenthood recently has been exposed for not caring too much about the statutory rape type situations. What do you know about that? Well we are required to report them and we do. We really try to help parents understand it's their right to protect their young daughters from this type of situation and educate parents on their responsibility. towards their minor daughters. Sure. Well John Sweitzer, thank you. Thank you. Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. John Armstrong, thank you. He's a senior pastor of Faith Reformed Presbyterian and Jenny Dixon, thank you, executive director of CareNet Pregnancy Center of Frederick. You can check them out online at FrederickPregnancy. com. Check us out online at WFMD. com. Go to Keyword Search Faith debate. Faith debate. This has been the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman, Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks so much for listening. Next week I'm gonna do my darndest to go on the attack and see if I can't wear these three down. What do you think the odds are? Thanks for listening, God bless.