Kinda like me. Welcome to the Frederick's Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. You know, you can't appreciate this because you're listening on the radio. You don't know what's happening. You can't see what my hands are doing Which is probably a good thing most of the time. But uh I for the record you're really looking nice today. Do I look good? Yes. Nice time, nice shirt. Thank you for noticing. Well I guess you smile. Actually no that's not true. Like you showered. Yeah, I'm well I I mean, you see me all the time, I never looked like this, right? I obviously dressed up for Tamar Bradley. Yes See? That's right. Yeah, well, you and me both, right? Anyway, so before the show started, you know, we have the theme music starts and I pressed the button to make it go and like it took a while before it actually went. Yeah, and then and then it occurred to me, just like me. Yeah, I don't get it. Takes a while if we you can like press my buttons, but it'll take a while before I actually get up and do something. Trying to say that your honeydew list is uh not quite done yet. Kinda like me. Yeah, it's kinda like the way people understand me. You listen for a little bit, oh, and then it finally starts to make sense. You might not be able to tell, but you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. He's Jonathan Schweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel, he's a senior pastor there. And Tamar Bradley, say hello. Hello. She's the owner of the Owl Nest in uh Frederick, which sells all sorts of really cool books and stuff. You should go check it out. Oh yeah. And uh and if you hear anything you you like on this show, you can go talk to her about it and just take it offline and talk for hours and hours on end without the limitations of a radio program to get in the way. During business hours only. Yeah, do you like have a uh have a discussion room somewhere in there, like a reading room or anything like that? We actually have two rooms aside from the gift shop. We have a room for private readings And um we have a back room where we have workshops, massage therapy, Reiki. A lot of times we just kind of Sit around and reach out to the right. It it's um it has to do with focusing on the uh the chakra centers in the body and fun funneling energy. Oh. Uh in similar to yoga. No, it's m it's more of it's it's it w this is really a horrible layman's, but it's it's massage therapy with no touch. Spiritual massage. That's that's exactly how I refer to it. And so you think a certain way and it makes your body feel better. Somebody does it to you. Typically. Somebody tells you to think a certain thing. No, you would be trained in Reiki and they would like move their hands over your body and stuff and reiki master. And they would be focusing their energy and your on your chakra centers. Just about this high up off your body. Couple inches. And in Uh I know my stock. There you go. Have you been into my store on my day off? You have no days off, who are you kidding? Yes. Um A couple of things real quick, because I think these will be quick before we get into the really deep subject matter. Uh never is. Yeah, please be quick answers, I don't know. But you've talked about you know Aphrodite and then some of the these different goddesses and stuff. Now To my way of thinking, those are ancient Greek mythology and nobody really thinks of them as being real goddesses anymore. But is that not true? Oh, they're still very much alive. There's um I think as long as we honor them and remember them and talk about their stories, they're always going to be alive. And who's to say a thousand years from now, Jesus isn't put into that exact same category? Well now that's very interesting because right There goes my short question. Right right when we talk we were just talking here before the show and uh and you said well you really believe that all gods are just one God. So so when we talk about Venus, Aphrodite, you know, all the different goddesses, uh, do you just really believe that they're all just one god? Absolutely. It's like you got your phone book. Which one are you gonna dial up today? They have everyone. Well for in different cultures, they have many names. Many of them have the gods goddesses. Okay, but but you still believe that they really all just represent the one. Absolutely. And maybe I resonate with Rayonin, the horse goddess. Maybe I'm really big into horses and I feel connected to her. So I can identify with that face those characteristics. But what happens when Rihanna the horse goddess? says something or represents something that is polar opposite to something that Aphrodite might say or represent. What do you do with that disconnect then? kind of above having jobs. But they're above minimum wage jobs anyway. Absolutely. They all have different messages, different stories, just like all the characters in the Bible. Moses brought something to the table, Abraham brings something to the table, Michael brings something. You know, that that he really dealt with what you and I deal with. And but the gods and the gods and the goddesses we're left with the impression that they have powers, you know, they're kinda like uh they're kinda like the X-Men, you know, or like the uh super friends, superheroes. That's how I see Moses. Actually no buttons. Is that we're never left with the impression we're never left with the impression that mo that's exactly my point, that Moses did anything. We're not left with the impression that that King David did anything. We're left with the impression that that those people are of the opinion that God alone could do that and that was part of their whole humility trust faith thing whereas the gods and goddesses don't have to have any trust and faith. They just do what they want to do because they've got the power to do it. And who okay and and man, we created all these gods and goddesses We needed um when when we needed our Wait, wait, wait, let me let me ask clarification. You're saying we created the gods and goddesses, but did we create the god that they all represent? In your mind? I gotta think about that one for half a second Because, okay, millennia go, caveman, whoever needs to plant crops He starts petitioning the the deities of the land, the spirits of the land to help him and we only know the human form. When we see God, we see we take on human form. That's what we know is humans. we don't see the flying spaghetti monster as god. Okay, but I can't get past this question. Um is the god that is above that that all those gods and goddesses really represent. Meaning you j you're basically you're saying that all the gods and goddesses are like facets. God's the diamond and they're facets of the diamond. Okay, but but is is the diamond is the god then that you think that the gods and goddesses are facets of, is that God made up in our minds or is there really a God that created everything? Not gonna know until we die. So you don't actually know for sure. Exactly, and that's where faith comes in. I choose to believe that there is that divine Source. Okay, so let's come back to this this uh this question uh that that we're talking about in between the two um uh right before the show here. We're we're talking about how would you define what's right and wrong How would you define the standard by which we should judge the gods and goddesses? Is it okay for a god or a goddess to lie? No. I think it's a good thing. Is it okay for them to is it okay for them to murder? No. I uh Is there a basis upon what your god or goddess could could um Could decide that somebody had forfeited their life in uh in in a capital punishment kind of a way. Does God wield that kind of authority I think some uh so in different cultures, some of the different mythologies. No no no, I mean in your in your viewpoint. From my viewpoint, I personally I don't think that there's ever a reason for violence to hurt people. I think never Okay, so that's what and that's where karma comes in. If I beat you up, I fully expect something to come back at me. Yeah, but if I'm coming to kill your daughter Do you have a right to stop me? Do you have a right to use violent force to stop me? In those circumstances, then yes I do believe that. Okay, so then would you uh would you agree with the idea that the sword the first place that the sword shows up in all of scripture is the flaming sword flashing back and forth uh so that man cannot go in and touch the tree of life, that God uses the sword to protect life and that all through the Bible Whenever God brings in the sword, he's using it like a doctor to carve away the cancer that's destroying the rest of the body. Is it okay for God to do that? And to define something as a cancer that is destroying hard to say if I'm coming from a Christian. Hitler's wanting to take over the world and he's killing off Uh all the blacks, all the homosexuals, and all the Jews. Uh should he be stopped with violent force and everybody that's with him should they be stopped with violent force? Well, I think they definitely need to be stopped. Well obviously obviously those guys weren't gonna let us stop them with a with a gentle hey can't we all just be friends. No, no, absolutely not. You know, same thing with you know what's going on Right now, but at the end of the day. In fairness, how do we know that wouldn't have worked? We don't, but you're looking nice enough today that you could have tried that. Let me also ask this question. What about then a God uh who demands child sacrifice like the Mayans for the bales of ancient personally you personally I don't think that that You think it's okay for others potentially well then that's not for you personally. You believe that it's a universal principle that nobody should ever sacrifice their child to a god. No, no, no, no That's their culture. That's their way that they have lived. That's what they know. If you lived in that culture, would you fight to get to see that culture changed? If I grew up in that culture and it was embedded in me, I probably would think it's okay Are you serious? Wow. If I grew up in that culture. That is hard for me to believe. Hey, what's that poem? Children learn what they live? Without a doubt, but I mean I'm of the opinion that uh that there is built into the human psyche a sense of right and wrong that that transcends cultures and that is universal. So let me ask you, you were you born and raised in a Christian family? Absolutely That's something that you children learn what they live. Did you ever question if that was right or wrong? Every day of my life. That's what I struggle with. What's that? different belief systems. And because I want people to respect me and my belief systems and I have a harm none policy. I don't I had I I I broke down a week ago when I had to make the decision to euthanize my cat or not before. I can never respect a belief system that believes in child sacrifice. What about a guy you 'cause you were talking a second ago that that gods and goddesses who was the one that had that was supposed to cut their kid in half in the Bible? Um It was supposed to? Or dead? No, no, no, no, no. This is Solomon. Uh two ladies came to him. Uh one of the one of their newborn babies died in the middle of the night, so she took her dead baby, put it next to a woman who had also just had a baby and took the live baby uh to herself. The next day the one with the dead baby said, Wait a second, you took my baby. They went before Solomon, and Solomon, as he's looking at the two, he says, Alright, bring me my sword, and he goes to kill 'em. to prove his point. And when he goes to kill him, the one who was the right mother said, No, no, no, no, don't do it. Let the other lady have the baby. But the lady that whose baby had died was like, yeah, go ahead and kill it. You're right, neither one of us should have it It wasn't uh Solomon wasn't advocating killing anybody, he was using it as a uh as a as a as a tool to uh expose which one of them was lying. There was no encouragement to kill anybody there. The closest we get is Abraham being ask to g to sacrifice his son and he doesn't end up sacrificing his son. God wanted to know if he was willing to do so. Once God knew that Abraham was willing, his hand was raised. Then God said, All right, fine, here's one over, you know, over in the the bushes, here's a ram, and God Himself is the one that was willing to give His Son on our behalf because the wages of sin need to be paid. We said a second ago, you said that there's a God That all the other gods and goddesses represent. And then you said that we can hold those gods and goddesses to a standard. But now you're saying that the standard of killing a baby that is innocent. is not a standard that you believe those god those gods and goddesses should be held to. Would you agree? Again, it depends on which culture, which mythology. So in that sense there it's not an absolute standard. Okay, what about uh let's take a different situation? What about a situation where a god or a goddess encourages people to come to the temple and copulate with somebody of the opposite sex? whoever it is the temple prostitutes, uh would you say that that's a healthy uh or or that that that's something that gods and goddesses yeah, that fits within the the scope of if it's a cultural thing, it's okay. Would you say that's okay That's what happened. It it is what happened. We know that it's what happened. But but what I'm asking you is is is that a standard that you believe your gods and goddesses uh should be allowed to do that or do you believe that that's something that that gods and goddesses should never encourage that kind of uh adultery and um uh uh unprotected free sex Well that's so that's that sounds uh a lot, you know, definitely coming from you know, coming from your Christian point of view, that's absolutely not okay. Right, but I'm trying to figure out where you're coming from. Right. I'm trying to find out what standards 'cause because you were agreeing that God the guy who isn't go into a temple and have sex with the temple prophets. Right, but that's not what I'm asking. I'm asking you is there an absolute standard to which we hold it. No, it's a very individual thing. So there is no absolute standard to which we can hold God. I don't think so. I it's all very, very individual. Hitler As we study Hitler, a guy by the name of Erwin Lutzer did a study of Hitler and found out that his uh his personal spiritual mentor was a Buddhist. Uh in fact the uh Falun Gong, their um their symbol is a is the Nazi symbol, which is actually a yin-yang symbol. And if you go to their website online, there's a spinning swastika. That's actually that comes from that comes from pagan spirituality. That's also Right, and my point is is that is that if he represents, you know, or is following anything that that represents a certain God, I want to be able to look at it and say, wait a second, I don't care what your God says. What you're doing is oppressive, and your God is encouraging you to do something that I want nothing to do with. And I don't care if your culture is coming into the United States. I never think it's okay for there to be any kind of temple prostitution. I never think it's okay for there to be any kind of child sacrifice. I would call those things primitive and backward. and uh unsophisticated and um I'm concerned that that you would be unwilling to draw the line and say no You say you would draw the line for you and your family, but would you let your neighbors do something? I'm only in control of myself. But we as a control of other people. But we as a s society vote on certain laws and rules. Don't we have a r do we have a right to vote on certain things? Well we're gonna look at okay in the United States it's against the law to murder people. Yeah, but the UN is trying to get us to come up with a uh a universal statement of human rights. And that universal statement of human rights says certain things, i. e. , that that you should have a right to trial by jury Uh that you should have a right to uh yeah. Absolutely. So so there's basic human needs that need to be met. Okay. Okay, but you wouldn't have to be a good thing. And there's certain fundamental things too. Murdering is not okay. Okay. I wasn't there two thousand years ago. I look at these stories and I take from them, hopefully, what the lesson is supposed to be. I don't know is a great idea. Are you glad that society rejected child sacrifice? Personally, I think I I think that's pretty appalling. Child sacrifice. Okay, what about temple prostitution? It's kind of a tough one. You're not necessarily glad that they did away with that? Would you want your daughter to be a temple prostitute? No, I wouldn't want my daughter to be a temple prostitute. However I'm not sure. Would you want your daughter to be a temple prostitute? Also i I think you need to read about what the temple prostitutes were in a lot of these ancient pagan cultures, they were priests and priestesses. I know. And these very interesting these were very divine meetings. It wasn't just casual sex. It was the unification of God and goddess. Okay. Would you mind your daughter being a priestess in one of those uh If she was an adult and that was her choice, I would support whatever she did. Wow. Okay. That helps me to know where you're coming from. I personally feel like that would be uh extremely dangerous because every guy that I know uh would uh would find every reason in the world to encourage the entire nation and everyone that he knew to be uh to be that way. Well and also they were coming to the temples for very specific reasons. It wasn't just casual sex like you go into a a a house of prostitution or whatever. It was a very different setting of sex to to um To express unity with the divine, even if it's not a long-term committed relationship, is okay. In the right context. Wow. Okay. Hmm. What about um um Before you ask that question, you're listening to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. She's Tamar Bradley, the owner of the Owl Nest in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner, and we're uh talking about um various detailed aspects now of differences between uh maybe a Christian worldview and uh and at least Tamar's personal pagan uh worldview. And I gotta say none of those, the the prost none of that really Fits into my belief system. That's what I'm saying. how how together you know how how similar or different our perspectives on religion are because I think it's very easy for people to um to take from what are current norms of right and wrong, which all of us would argue come from a Christian uh Western worldview, to take those certain norms and then say, okay, well I'm gonna keep those norms that Christianity uh uh fought so hard to to maintain and and all those other norms that Christianity fought so hard to get rid of Um we're not going to deal with those because they're not even around anymore. We're just going to take the ones that are here. It's very easy to do that and then say, but you know what? I'm going to I'm going to give it a different name and I'm going to I'm going to use different different people to uh to go there. It it again it um It's easy to do, but I think it misses the gratitude that uh that the Western world uh should give to its Christian ancestors to to get rid of temple prostitution, to get rid of child sacrifice. I think it was the Christians that told the pagans, hey, if you don't convert, we're gonna kill ya. There was definitely a lot of that that went on in the Middle Ages. Is that okay? Is that okay? We are gonna kill you if you don't follow our God. Good. I I'm glad you went there. Um there's two ways that that a religion can go um into that kind of thing. One, the religion can actually advocate as one of its tenets, thou shalt uh sacrifice your children. And the religion actually advocates that. Uh in which case if people do it, they're following the religion. Or a religion could advocate openly Love your neighbor, lay your life down for your neighbor, turn the other cheek. Uh and the people that don't do it, who are also taught that paganism was wrong and evil, but we're never told anywhere in scripture, uh at least not in the New Testament. In the Old Testament they were. Uh and uh I'd like to address that too. But in the New Testament we're very clearly taught to turn the other cheek, to lay your life down. And so those people who were were using Christianity in the name of Christ to go after witches and to go after and to kill them were in blatant violation of the scriptures. They weren't following their scriptures, i. e. a religion that encourages uh child sacrifice. They were blatantly violating their scriptures. Little backwater village with people minding their own business, worshiping the deities that they have known for thousands upon thousands of years, and said, Hey! You don't follow us, we're gonna kill you. Right, and obviously that was wrong. Why is that wrong? Because it's a blatant violation of the clear teaching of Scripture. It's in blatant violation of it. Nowhere in Scripture are we ever taught in the New Testament that you should do that. Now in the Old Testament, they were taught to do that. Why were they taught to get to do that? Because God took for himself a group of people out of Egypt. He took them out of another nation and he said, I want you to worship me and worship me alone. They made a covenant together like a marriage a covenant together out in the desert, and they said, These are going to be the rules by which our entire um society is based. And then God also said this. He said, I'm going to send you into Canaan and give you permission to slaughter everyone. And the group of people that he gave him permission to slaughter were people that are in that that were into child sacrifice and into uh uh very promiscuous temple prostitution and God, according to the Jewish religion, had told the Israelites that those people were wicked and evil and had become a cancer on the earth, and so therefore he gave them authority one time on the face of the planet to drive out and to destroy all Canaanites. They never were given permission anywhere else in Scripture to destroy or to kill anybody else anywhere. Just the Canaanites, because they were the lowest of the low, wicked, evil, like if you were uh like the uh the the Nazi Germans or you know or you know in uh Russia with um Stalin. uh and and and convert people at the sword? Absolutely not. How do we know that? Because we read the Bible. The Bible is very clear that it's wrong. And so we all we have to do is judge them against their own religion. What I'm asking is whether or not paganism. But who's to judge anyone but God? And I see that that's a huge theme in our society. Yeah. Is I see a lot more unforgiving Christians towards other spiritual beliefs because oh you're not Christian. This you're not following the one and true way. Yes, there's definitely a distinction there. Do we have time to get in that today? No, but it's no we don't because we have like a minute and a half. But it it's interesting. I don't know if we're gonna have time to get into this or if it's just gonna be one of those weird, you know, show-ending thoughts of mine Uh but it's interesting because obviously Tamar is is troubled by that inconsistency from from Christians. Historically, Say are you troubled with it because it's not in keeping with the the true nature of the Christian culture Is that what bothers you? I don't get the sense that it's the case. I I still don't know the true Christian culture because if we're following Christ, Jesus, Yahshua Yeah. W I think Christianity should really be called Paulism 'Cause he's the one that made it more of what it is today. Well hold on. Without a doubt. Yeah, well that's like a totally different subject we don't talk. But my point is you know, the the Inquisition and the the the the Salem witch trials and all those sorts of things that are that are blight Yes. feel that you are correct in any sense of moral outrage at that. However, those Christians that was their idea of their culture and they were doing what their culture said and so that based on your standard of of uh moral truth would be okay. So But y but obviously it's not okay because there's a sense of outrage. And I think that's what John Anyway, I'm I'm talking myself into a circle. I've got ten seconds left. You're listening to the Frederick Fate debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Tamar Bradley, owner of the Alaness, thank you. Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, thank you. And Putman Plumbing and Heating, our sponsors. How can we make you smile? Thank you so much. Thanks for listening. God bless