Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930, WFMG. Brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Feroy Skinner, your host, Gen and Moderator. Frederick Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for our faith community leaders to get together and talk about the things that are really most important. If you don't agree that they're most important, then uh share with me why. We'll talk about that on a future show, the Frederick Fate debate. I'm firmly convinced that these are the most important things. Whether you want to call it a faith issue or religious issue or just a a worldview position. These are really the the crux of the matter of that all of us have to face individually and corporately as a people. On the show again this week we have Bernie Beale, founder of Great Commission Families, and Jonathan Sweitz, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh the last few weeks we've had the same panel together. We've been talking about uh things Americana. We've been talking about the history of this nation, whether or not uh we were founded as a Christian nation or not, and whether we've If we were, if we've fallen away from that, are things better now than they used to be? And is it okay for a Christian to to vote for a politician who supports abortion? And you know, those kinds of questions Um and we might still talk about some of those things as uh as the discussion goes on, but we haven't talked a ton about what it is that Bernie does. We've alluded to uh what Bernie Beal does with Great Commission families Uh so I'm going to give you a real quick thumbnail sketch of that and then we're I'm gonna ask uh Bernie a question about it. Um If you haven't missed the last uh if you haven't heard, if you've missed the last three shows, I would strongly encourage you to go to WFMD. com and uh l find the uh the audio vault and listen to the three shows. Uh Bernie is a living, breathing encyclopedia with personality. He doesn't like to be called an expert, but on these is these issues of American history and uh uh and church history and things like that, uh he he's really fascinating and amazing. And so he has this passion, clearly. This passion in his life. He can't get enough learning and then he can't get enough of sharing that learning. And so what he does uh with Great Commission families is you could contact Bernie And uh he would hook up with you and take you on a tour of Washington D C or what some of the great battlefields around this area or whatever and talk about uh What's going on there, what has gone on there, and how that ties into uh the Christian faith and what that means to you as a Christian and and if you're not already a Christian, you know, uh maybe he uh plant the seed or or whatever. Um so let me ask you this I've kind of almost answered the question perhaps, but let me ask you What is the real motivation behind what is you do? And I'm going to guess that whatever you say is going to be similar to the motivation that is behind what Jonathan Schweitzer Does full time. I I think I wanna I think so, but uh I want to give two disclaimers, or no, we'll call them claimers rather than disclaimers. Uh my uh you you said something about any you know he's he just has this love of learning. Uh that's my mother's fault. Um and uh um when we were when we were kids, I grew up with one sister, uh we'd be driving along and and there'd be like a historical marker, you know, that has some bit of history there on the marker. And my mother would kind of enthusiastically say something like, Look at that, historical marker. I wonder why they put it there. Let's find out why. You know, kind of with the just a cheeriness and and and my sister and I'd be like, Oh Mom, you know But we'd go, we'd learn and And uh but you know what I do to my kids now. Same thing. And then do they say, Oh dad Well they're used to it. Actually they can tell s they can tell some of my stories. And uh you use the word expert. Um I was a a summer exchange student, seventy-five to Germany. I lived in Bavaria with a family in a small town there, and uh the first couple of weeks uh was the last two weeks of school there and I wasn't there for school. I was just living with his family and I so I went with my host brother uh and uh went to all his classes And if it was uh any class that wasn't a technical class, you know, like um uh well they don't have English, but with the you know, they you know, history and things. The topic of the day became life in America with our expert Bernie Beal. And I thought, well, I'm just a seventeen year old kid from a dairy farm in Frederick County. I'm not an expert. But I made up a definition of an expert. An expert is a person away from home. In that the place where you're at home and you're just kind of one of the many people there and you kinda know things about this is where we live, and then you go away from it Then everybody thinks, oh you're an expert about that stuff. So I've become an expert relative, you know, perhaps to you, Troy. But uh um Uh I really have enjoyed kind of looking into the history right here in Frederick County, uh it's mid-Maryland area, Francis Scott Key. You know, he's buried right here in Olivet Cemetery. Uh Monoxie Battlefield, Lou Wallace, uh the C and O Canal, Antietam's nearby, Gettysburg, all these places. And what I love to do is to take families there um to go with me and we'll do the tour just like you would like to do with maybe a park service guy. But along the way, I'll give a Christian perspective, often something will happen or s some aspect that will remind me of a Bible verse. For instance, here at Benoxie Battlefield, the first stop uh after the uh the the uh the visitor center which is new and you should visit is really nice Uh but the first stop after that is uh the best farm, meaning a family name best rented the farm. It's not like the best farm around, but it's it's called the best farm. Uh but there they've got a you know a marker that's you know you s you you read to your kids and say, Yeah, you see this is what happened to your kids. But it talks about uh among other things the uh the ransom that took place here for the city of Frederick uh in eighteen sixty four when Jubilar Early came through on his way to Washington DC. Uh and Lou Wallace held him up, battle mock monocussy for for that day, and that saved Washington as the story goes. But um as the history happened. Uh Frederick had to pay a two was demanded by Jubil Early pay us two hundred thousand dollars in northern currency of course, uh two hundred thousand dollars or we're burned in the city. And the city fathers, you know, the elected people went to the bankers and I think there were five banks and they apportioned to the bankers, based on their amount of capital, how much that they each had to pay. Uh so there was a ransom. Wow, ransom. You know what? There's that kind of terminology in the Bible about Christians. We've been uh bought we've been bought with a price. And we've been ransomed by the blood of Jesus to have a restored relationship, reconciliation between God and man. So as we go through the Battle of Monocasy tour, that's a little something I might mention that I don't think the Park Service guy would bring up, as of for instance And here's okay. Do people who sign up uh for your tours do they know that you're gonna give them a fact that shock somebody with these uh Okay. I showed you this earlier, Troy. We uh I've I've done some research and found uh I've read through dozens of uh gospel flyers from the Civil War And I picked out two that are um I would call them accessible to the modern person in the sense that they're not too long, not too difficult to read. Uh and they tell stories. It's much more interesting to hear stories rather than kind of a sermon in the U. They're not too long and they're not too difficult. Apparently Americans have been known to that though from the very beginning. Well you know the average American teenager had a working vocabulary of uh what's what's the number now? I'm forgetting it. Was it uh like forty or fifty thousand words uh back in the nineteen fifty. And now the uh average American teenager has a working vocabulary of fifteen thousand words. It's like a third of what it used to be. Wow That's shocking. I don't have words to express. Wow. Say it back down. Say it upside down. There you go. Okay. Oh by the way, we're gonna have this kind of silly uh moment in the show. No. You never saw the movie Elf? No. I've heard of it. Oh my goodness, it's hilarious. You gotta see the movie. Okay, the movie Elf. You know what we were talking about? It's out a couple of years ago Anyway, uh in one of the scenes he's walking through New York City and they got a big sign in the window that says the world's best cup of coffee So he storms in with this big smile on his face and says, Congratulations, you did it He thought they'd been awarded the best cup of coffee in the world kind of thing. So best farm. It could be really the best farm. We don't know. You're right. We don't know. It could have been. By the way, this is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, in case you've uh lost track of what you're listening to. The debate. So what can we do what can be done, if anything, about what most uh Christian leaders are aware of, what's happening from generation to generation. Uh Tom Rayner wrote a book a few years ago called The Bridger The bridge generation the bridger generation. I'm not sure of the title, I am sure of the name, Tom Raynor, T H O M Tom Rayner. And in there he cited a an amazing statistic, a shocking statistic. He said generationally uh from the uh the uh the builder generation, those who came of age in in the Depression, fought World War Two and built the country after World War Two. They had a lot of babies, so then the next generation was the boomer generation the not as many babies of the Buster Generation, and then the generation after that, the Bridger generation, sometimes often called the Mosaic, the current generation. But percentage wise of Christians Tom Raynor cited 65% of the builders were Christians, 35% of the boomers, 15% of the busters, and 4% of the Bridgers So if you're in a business and you saw your market share in four business cycles go sixty five percent, thirty-five percent, fifteen percent, four percent, what would you do? I I said that to a a friend once who's a real estate agent. He said sell. So I I suggest the thought. Um if we're talking about the church of Jesus Christ and he's the head of his church What would Jesus have us do? You know, this is kind of the ultimate question for our day and age. And I think the the short answer would be we'd go back we should go back to first principles. and apply them astutely. And the first principles, one of the principles, you know, Jesus was asked what's the great commandment? And he answered, here's is these two. Love God, love your neighbor, in summary. Well, the one that's loved God is he's quoting directly uh from uh the Shema in uh Deuteronomy six, four, and verses following. You know, Hero Israel, the Lord your God Uh the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and s and with all your might. These words I am commanding you today shall be on your heart And you shall teach them diligently to your sons, and shall talk of them when you sit in their house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. That's kind of a metaphor for when you sit in your house, you walk, by the way, inside, outside, everywhere. When you rise when you lie down, when you rise up, morning, evening, all the time. So we're to diligently teach our children to love God, and then by extension because Jesus said love your neighbor, uh, to love God, love your neighbor, to diligently teach our children all the time, everywhere. Well, in the past hundred, hundred and fifty years You know, it's it's hard to look past in our own lifetimes, but if you look into the recent history of the church and America, uh there's been a a dramatic separation, as as I like to say. Um The the church even has inadvertently facilitated the abdication of fathers in particular, parents in general, as the primary spiritual leaders in the home. The the families our families have been atomized. You know, the atoms blown apart. Uh when you go to church, normally our families divide. Uh and that facilitates a mindset of it's someone else's responsibility to raise up my children in the fear and admonition of the Lord. So our little ministry, Great Commission Families Uh it is plural families because it's our family and our oldest son is married, so that's two families. Uh and then any of the families we interact with We're simply trying to give uh families, especially dads, an opportunity to take a step of faith to greater involvement in the Great Commission. So the battlefield idea. We got these gospel tracks from the Civil War. I g I I give each family, you know, they know this is what you know this is part of the vision of why you come with us, um, and we'll give you an opportunity to take a step of faith. I'll give you forty of these gospel f sets of these gospel flyers, because that's how many bullets they gave Civil War soldiers before they went into battle. Uh and uh and as we go along today, as we stop different places If I'm talking and talking loud given the history and and even given a Christian perspective on it, it's likely other people kind of gather in that we don't know. Well Turn to them, introduce yourself, offer them these gospel flyers. If you've never done anything that's kind of uh talking to a stranger about Jesus, and Jesus did that kind of stuff, the woman at the well. If you've never done anything like that, that's a step of faith. And if your kids see you do that, they see my dad, my parents are taking steps of faith. And then it can affect what happens back in your neighborhood, your day-to-day life that uh you know with your neighbors, with your extended family, with your coworkers, you can begin to think, I don't need to go far away, uh, you know, you know, off to some tourist place. But there's people around me all the time. So our vision is to create opportunities that are enjoyable, interesting, and have an opportunity to take a step of faith. That's why we made this little gospel fire about the Maryland flag. We went down to the uh cherry blossoms and they're in full bloom, so a few families with us. My wife made this up uh and my uh my son is a graphics designer, made it look real pretty And there's uh you know there's thousands of people down there looking at the cherry blossoms, kind of wandering around looking up. And we'd woke up and said, Here's a flyer that gives the history of the cherry blossoms with spiritual lessons for today And people oh thank you very much. The spiritual lesson is very simply the cherry blossoms were a gift from Japan. We had a big war with Japan. There needed to be some reconciliation because a lot of the cherry trees got chopped down. Did you know cherry trees got chopped down in Washington? During World War Two. It wasn't George Washington. But my mom told me this. She said uh guys would take a hatchet to work with them and then during the lunch hour they'd go down to the tidal basin around the Jefferson Memorial and chop down those cherry trees. People were mad at Japan But after the war in the fifties there was reconciliation. So this little flyer talks about, you know, are there people in your life that you need to have reconciliation with? In fact, how about God Himself? You need reconciliation with him. So it's a turn to the gospel. So a very attractive way for a family who's never done anything like that. to to do some uh initiation. Bernie has an amazing gift for finding analogy. You know? Really. You just you can see the analogy in some and then you f Tie it to the gospel. Enjoyable thing. Well my conviction is that every family has unique gifts, talents, temperament, passions. Uh for for us and for me and my house, if you will, it's kind of this Christian heritage idea But um I have a buddy up in uh Pennsylvania, you know, we were talking about our ministry and what we're doing, and he said, I got an idea. I got this old Nova car I've kept running. And it's been a lot of work, but I'm gonna write a little flyer that explains what I did and how I fixed it up and you know all of the technical stuff and then talk about how God has that kind of love and concern about me as a person. And if I want to give that to my car guy friends, you know, they probably won't never read, you know, you know, the you give them some other gospel flyer, but if I've writed about this I'm sure they'll read it. So that's every family has their own gifts and talents and temperaments and passions. Meet them where they are, right? Yeah, yeah. Well you asked the question uh must have been a couple months ago now whether or not tracks are valuable, you know, whether or not they uh they make a difference. And it seems to me, like with Bernie's tracks, that If it's a well put together, you know, it's got some interesting data in it, you know, that that kind of sucks you into it and then has a twist that's not too heavy, but you know, presents the gospel. I think that there is a lot of value in tracks. In Bernie's in particular, the reason I like his as opposed to many other tracks is that his are so Uh they're they're just lower key. They're not they're not preachy, they're interesting, and then they've got this twist that's that's a little bit of salt. You know, salt's not supposed to be something that you you know, there's so much of it that you can't stand what you're eating. You know, it's just supposed to be a little bit of salt. And the the thing is that his tracks are very effective along those lines, I feel like. And I think that one of the things 'cause I'm not going to disagree, I think that the the tracks that uh Bernie brought to the show to to share uh are are very w well put together. They have a a nice style about them. They're They're not too long, so somebody's not gonna be uh feel like wow, I don't have time to read this, so that's you know, in a pressure packed life that's an important thing in modern society. So all of those practical things are true. But the other thing that really makes them come to life His Bernie. Right. So having somebody who's willing to engage and talk and share and say, hey, you need to read this and here's a cool thing. So it's not just the track as a standalone. Don't let the track do your job Yeah. Segway alert, segue alert. Uh don't let the track do your job any more than you should let the church do your job. Ooh. Which is what we were talking about a few moments ago with parents abdicating perhaps is a strong word, but uh you know, turning over the responsibility for the spiritual upbringing of their children to the church, to the youth group leader, or to the pastor or the Sunday school or whatever. And it was kind of almost in passing 'cause it was part of a larger conversation, but Bernie kind of took a shot at children's church. I don't know if you intended it to be a shot. But he kind of was talking about the atomization of of what happens to the family. You go to church on Sunday, you arrive together, you leave together, but in the middle there somehow the family gets exploded apart and the children go off over here and do their children church thing and the adults are over there doing the adult thing and somehow there's it it's almost like there's a permission given for those things to be separate. I'm not sure if you meant that point to be made or not or if that's even w something you believe But uh it is a question I'm gonna and and you can answer it if you want, or you don't have to, but it is a question I'm gonna turn to Jonathan here in a second. Oh sorry, okay let me answer first. Do you want to? Okay, okay. Yeah, that was a shot. I'm sorry. Shots are a lot on the Freddy Faces. Yeah, I realize that. But my training was with Campus Crusade for Christ. And one of the things that uh Bill Bright always said was Don't basically it's one of his words, don't take shots at other Christians. It's it's just not it's not useful, not helpful. We should have him on this show. We should Well uh well yeah, well Dr. Bryce passed away, but All the more reason. Yeah. That would be cool. Yeah, yeah. Dr. Bryce's passage. That would either be very cool or that would be like uh really satanic. But I've thought about these issues more in terms of as a for me in my house, as opposed to saying pointing the finger you all should You quote Joshua Oh yeah, yeah. Yeah, that was my granddad's uh uh Bible verse. I mean a lot of people chose Oh yeah, Joshua's not my granddad. As for me and my house, we shall serve the Lord, right? Yes. Well, yes, as for me and my house, I want our family to be together when we worship the Lord. Um and uh so you know, in fact we started driving from Northern Virginia to a church here in Frederick County for that reason, uh because uh we kind of looked all around and and eventually moved to Frederick County uh to be closer to family and in this church. Um But the the idea of uh the yeah, what I said was the church has inadvertently uh facilitated the abdication. of fathers as spiritual leaders, parents as spiritual leaders in the home. Uh and a a s a senior youth pastor, that's kind of an odd coin of the phrase, but a youth pastor who'd been in it for all m like twenty some years in Northern Virginia. Uh we were talking at one point and he and and he said We're doing it this way. He really agreed, boy, if I could just get the parents involved in these kids' lives, that's the reason people stay in the church. In fact, this particular youth pastor, I believe it was nineteen ninety two Uh he took me out to lunch. I was a Campus Christ staff guy at George Mason, you know, working with Colossus and he took me out to lunch and said, I got a question. We're this is the first time I ever did had this inkling that uh for for me uh became aware that um Uh as he put it, youth ministries and working, he said that, he's a youth minister. Uh he said, uh we're losing half our kids uh from the church And he said that and I thought, well I I thought he meant was, you know, they they grow up, they graduate from high school, they move away. You know, they lose half the kids. That's it. So I said, Well that's you know, they a lot of them move away. He said, No, no, no, no, no We're losing half at least from any church, anywhere. This is ninety-two. And I thought, wow, that's that's not good. And uh at that time our oldest child was nine. uh the oldest of four children. And uh s so as we began to kind of get closer to the teen years, especially someone in ministry, especially someone that viewed my family as my ministry, my primary ministry as my family uh my ministry team, I thought well what what do we need to do? And and the challenge for us as we got into parenting the teen years wasn't the world, you know, the non-Christian neighbors and their kids and that kind of thing. the the most challenging thing for us was the other Christian families we knew that that perhaps had different perspectives on things. Uh there's there's one little vignette of a thought that I kind of s captures what our ministry is about, the idea of we're a missionary organization in a sense. And every Christian family has three mission fields. The first mission field is under your own roof. Do not pass go, do not collect $200. This is always your first mission field. Your second mission field, however, is every relationship God's given you and your family. In fact, as those under your own roof come to Christ and you begin discipling your own children Because God gave them to you. You don't have to pray about should I disciple my children? He gave them to you. He's already decided, so to speak. Well, the primary way to disciple them, like Jesus, he discipled them in the context his disciples in the context of real life Uh he didn't send them off or give them a manual. Uh he said, come with me, and we'll do ministry together. If a f if a family does ministry together, that's the best training ground for the Great Commission for Labors for the Harvest. Then the third mission field, just to finish the thought, is what you usually think of as a as a mission field, and that's someplace far away. But God's not going to call you to someplace far away if you're not Being faithful and obedient with the first and second mission feels right where you are. I've got a couple of questions, I'm not going to have time to answer to ask them all, but I will ask this one to Jonathan. I mean you have to deal with this on a on a practical level as a pastor. Your church has decided, at least for those who are under a certain age, they do have children's church uh during the uh the adult service when the when the message is for the those who can kinda hang in there with a uh a a serious long winded I don't mean that negatively, but I mean kids can't hang in there for forty five minutes or an hour very easily when you're talking about things that aren't, you know, Barney and Miley Cyrus or whatever it is that's interesting. They can if they're not If it if they haven't been raised in that, if it's if it's uh being thrown in the deep end of the water, that's gonna be tough. Right. And then the other issue is any of these kids who are squirming and how much attention are the parents really paying to the message, I'm sure that's part of a practical consideration. So I mean your church Crossroads Valley Chapel has decided to have children's church for the youngest children in the church anyway. Um how did you arrive at that decision or do you still wrestle with it? Do you feel pretty settled in that decision? No, I I feel like um The best decision for parents is uh as as early as possible to have kids with them in the church service. And um uh that the reason for that is so that you you train your kids um that that the church service is not just for adults, but it's for them. And if you if you raise your kids, training them that that oh, when we get to the Bible part, you know, then the kids go off somewhere else. Then the kids are going to grow up thinking that that that's not for them. You know, that they're supposed to have something else and then we wonder again why kids leave the church uh when they reach a certain age because they've kind of been taught that that, you know, church isn't for them. Uh I think that the best thing for parents to do is to raise their kids in the church, to keep them in the church service, teach them how to worship during the the singing time, teach them how to pray, teach them how to take notes and to read their Bible to look up verses as they're going through But the reality is that there's a lot of families that come to a congregation that uh aren't ready, aren't there, and so uh to try to require all parents coming in is going to be a little bit too much. And so in order to serve those that that aren't there, uh I'd say it's better to have some kind of a uh children's ministry so that those parents that are just barely making it there on a Sunday morning have a way to uh, you know, to be able to relax and and have something for their kids. And so uh bottom line is the ideal is to keep 'em with in the church service, but if you can't then um I think that uh church is wise to try to serve the needs that are there. You're trying to minister to the people where they're at. You gotta meet 'em where they're at. And the and the you think of the typical Christian family, uh you know, their kids go to public school a week and uh so they're not really uh you know, not radically different than the culture in that way. Yeah. So on Sunday morning, in fact, uh, you know, the old idea of from architecture, form follows function. Right. A hundred and fifty, two hundred years ago If you went to a church, it was uh you would think it was like a small cathedral, you know, it was just this big worship center or w you know worship sanctuary. Now today if you go to a typical church, what you find is a sanctuary and then an educational wing and a gym And uh you know, it was a big church, it might even be a cafeteria, that kind of thing. Well if you go down the road to the elementary school or the high school, it's the same architecture. It so that's if that's what people are accustomed to, that's what they may want at church. So uh what I said earlier about if you saw your um market share go sixty five, thirty-five, fifteen, four percent I said half of my answer, half of the what I said was I'd go back to first principles. I think what you would probably do if you were the CEO of a corporation like that You would probably, Jonathan, you would probably this is a little bit this this is uh kind of taking a a shot here. Oh, probably Fire all your top leadership. Right. Because uh what you're gonna keep if you keep doing what you're doing, you're gonna keep getting what you've got. Exactly. You've got to change, you gotta start all over again. So I think there is uh y you know, there's a movement afoot towards uh Uh you know, y Christian leaders are looking at this. You know, you're you're wrestling with it, and I'm doing it from a uh a ministry perspective, not a church perspective, so I'm I'm freed up. to uh not have to deal with the church structures and institutions and buildings just to uh families. We can't fire the top leadership because that would be God himself. So anyway. I said the CEO followed the management. Anyway, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, uh Bernie Beale, founder of Great Commission's Families. Thanks to our sponsor, Putin Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. God bless