Welcome to the Frederick's Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Futman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Check us out online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. I'm Troy Skinner, and on the show this week we're going to talk about whether or not you have the ability. To choose God? Are you completely dependent on God's ability to choose you unto Himself? Do you have the ability to reject God? Or is God in control of that too? Are you going to spend eternity in hell because God says so? Are you gonna spend eternity in heaven? Because God says so. These are just small issues of life that we're doing. Small issues, nothing too serious. And here's Here to talk about these trivial matters, we have uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And Pastor and Bishop Edward Ambush from Bread of Life Church in Frederick. And we spent the last couple of uh weeks talking about uh this issue, and we're really just building up a head of steam now. Yeah, the nostrils are flaring. Right? The the the the ears even have turned different colors here. I think we should talk about popsicles is what I think we should talk about. So I'm going to uh this is just for fun. Okay. I spent uh three or four minutes reading a very lengthy stretch of Romans chapter nine last week. Yeah. These are just a potpourri of little verses to get us started for this week. Oh okay. All right. Deuteronomy chapter seven, verse seven and eight. The Lord did not set his love upon you, nor choose you because you were more in number than any people, for you were the fewest of all people. But because the Lord loved you and because he would keep an oath which he had sworn unto your fathers, has the Lord brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you out of the house of bondmen from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt. indication there that uh God didn't choose them because they deserved anything. They did anything in and of themselves. God just chose them because he loved them and because he promised to save them. Right. Yeah, but let's clarify that it was because of Abraham. It was God's promise to Abraham by which he chose to save those guys. And so that's key to the to the whole uh choosing. Okay. It's another point too. Uh would they have been saved if it were not for the love of God and the mercy of God? Uh definitely not. Alright, so then God determined their destination. Uh based on Uh well yeah, well we'll get to that. These are good popery verses. You're definitely getting us charged too. Joshua eleven verse twenty. For it was of the Lord to harden their hearts That they should come against Israel in battle, that he might destroy them utterly, and that they might have no favor, but that he might destroy them as the Lord commanded Moses. So these people had their hearts hardened by God for the one purpose that God was gonna wipe them out for having a hard heart. I can't wait to talk about that one. We'll let you know if you give us a bad verse. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord and the people whom he has chosen for his own inheritance. All right. Blessed. We'll turn to a couple of passages in the New Testament, because it's not just that mean, angry, ogorous God in the Old Testament who, you know, had this uh inferiority complex and decided that he was gonna tell everybody how to live their lives. It's in the New Testament too. My wife disagrees with that, by the way. She thinks the Old Testament God is way too patient. By the way, I said that tongue in cheek, I disagree with it too, but for the record. John six, verse thirty-seven. All that the Father gives me shall come to me, and uh him that Comes to me I will in no way cast out. Yes. Yes. Oh what good That just wouldn't be any fun that wouldn't, no, you're right. Matthew twenty four verse uh twenty-two And except those days should be shortened there should be no flesh be saved but for the elect's sake. Those days shall be shortened. And Matthew 22, 14, for many are called, but few are chosen. A couple of these are verses in in previous uh shows. Uh well yeah, many are called but few are chosen. Chosen by who? Right? Yes sir. That is the question. So did you want me to answer that now or why not? There there's enough I've I've got more. Okay We've got a whole bible full of 'em, actually. But uh let's stop there. Well if for somebody who hasn't heard the first couple of shows, uh Pastor Ambush is uh somebody who supports the idea that You know, God chooses an individual onto salvation and through his love and mercy, through nothing that the per in fact Maybe even kicking and screaming the person is saved with against their will kind of thing. And Jonathan uh is taking uh I don't know if it's exactly the opposite point of view, but certainly a different point of view than that. So that kind of sets the stage for the per perspectives you'll hear on that. Yeah, further I think i it should be said that Ed believes that God made those decisions before the creation of the world. And I don't believe that God made those decisions for the creation of the world. Now that's uh I'm gonna take uh executive privilege here and we're gonna have a rabbit trail for just a moment. But we're gonna be What's up, Doc? We have to be disciplined. So is that supposed to be Bugs Bunny or Elmer Fud? A little bit of both. Uh now you've your your Elmer FUD bugs of anything just lost my train of thought. What were we just going to talk about w whether or not God decided before the creation of the world? Rabbit trail for just a couple of minutes. Let's try to be disciplined about this. You would I think you would agree, John, I think I'm I'm not saying this as churches. I think you would agree that God is not bound by time. That he created both time and space. Is that uh I I would say that um that the implications of that are not uh necessarily borne out by scripture. We do know that God existed before time. He created the sun and the moon by which you know, in the stars by which we make time, but the implication that somehow God can run to the end and run to the beginning, uh, I don't think is something that is borne out in scripture. We do know that he knows the end from the beginning, but that's different from God being able to like run w you know up and then rewind and jump into history and then we'll be able to do that. I I think that uh Edward's position is that God would be out would be both inside and outside of time and that he can I'm not sure that you can give me a passage of scripture that says that he can run back and forth. Well I'm not so sure that uh I would argue that he can run back and forth. I would uh kind of agree with uh Edward alluded to this I think in the very first show we did on this subject, about how God is uh And everything that's happened before, everything that's happening now, and everything that will happen is kind of happening at the same time for God. Like it's an eternal instant that Mm-hmm. So he's not running back and forth, it just is. And for the record that idea comes from Plato in uh Platonic Greek thought that had this impression that God uh if he was at all mutable or changeable was would somehow automatically be uh an untrustworthy God And so they the Greeks, philosophers, before they heard the gospel of Jesus Christ, before they had the teaching of the Old Testament, came up with the idea that God has to be immutable. And this whole idea of of some kind of eternal present that God lives in is not an idea again that you find in Scripture or in Hebrew thought. It's an idea that you find in Greek thought that uh that later Greek Christian Greek philosophers trying to uh make uh the Bible fit with Greek philosophy and answer all the questions of Greek philosophy. chose to uh impose upon the text and I feel like it's an unfortunate imposition. Well just uh I'm gonna for the sake of argument uh suggest how's that rabbit trail going that just because Plato says something doesn't make it necessarily wrong. I certainly wouldn't support that everything he said is necessarily right. Sure. Uh so he could have stumbled into something accidentally and been right on it. Certainly there's the idea that God you would ag I think I think you would agree. Okay. God is omnipotent, right? God is all powerful. Uh I it does say that, yes, God is certainly Almighty is the word that is used in scripture, almighty. Okay. I like that word because that's what scripture says. Well that's the English word, I guess, right? That's the English word we use to to understand the the ancient Hebrew. Yeah, so I'm comfortable with the idea of all powerful, all mighty, without a doubt. He created everything. So I'm very comfortable with that with that. Yes, I I believe in that. Okay. So w get with sorry, it took me a while to get there, yes. But with that couldn't you kinda get wouldn't it be difficult to argue against the idea that God could time travel? That you get run back and forth from the beginning to the end? I have no problem with it being a possibility. We just should never build a doctrine off of it because it's nowhere in scripture that it says that. Well that's going to be the end of uh the rabbit trail for now. I'm not saying we won't revisit that, but anyway. Um Uh back on the issue of predestination and really let's let's let's narrow the focus because predestination can mean a lot of things. Uh that God created everything and set things in motion and and has an active hand in things that are going on and uh I don't know if it was off the air or on the air, but uh Uh I remember Edward saying something along the lines of, you know, when there's a tropical storm that comes through, God's in control of that. He predestined that there would be a storm some would hold. Others would argue against that by the way. We've had people on this show argue against that in fact. Yeah, in fact, yeah. Uh though not me. Yeah. No. So uh let's let's narrow the focus of what we're talking about to really election. We're talking about Can we answer the question with whether or not uh we can re resist God's love, you know whether or not we can Did we answer that question? I don't know that we did. That's kind of where we're going now with this focusing in on the doctrine of the election. Okay, yeah. Can anybody accept God Unless they're elect by God, and once elect by God, can you reject your election? How much control and sovereignty does the creature have? Uh versus how much control and sovereignty the Creator has. Go ahead. Okay. I'm going to go to First Peter chapter one verse two where it says, elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. Now, it follows follows that by saying through sanctification of the Spirit. So elect according to the four knowledge, it's one thing to say is that God knows ahead of time, before the foundation of the world who was going to be the elect. And that's first Peter two. First Peter chapter one, verse two. Uh for the record that that second word chosen is is totally absent in the Greek. of that passage. It's to God's elect strangers in the world, scattered throughout all those nations, uh, who, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through the sanctifying work of the Spirit are for the be obedience to Jesus Christ and sprinkling by his blood. And so that that that second word chosen that uh there in verse two shows up nowhere in the Greek. It's added in by are uh but it still does use the word uh according to the foreknowledge of God and if god for if God foreknows something it couldn't be otherwise. If he knows something's going to happen, that thing can't then not happen. Otherwise he would have been wrong. Right. So but the word chosen according to the foreknowledge as opposed to to God's elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, to me, uh has the potential to really change the the meaning of the passage. Yeah, because the the way it's written, uh, at least in the King James, it says that all of those that are Saved all the elect. Yeah, God's elect yeah, God's elect is according to absolutely based upon and I'm fully in agreement with that Oh, is he going to argue that God knew in advance what the choice would be, but that he didn't actually dictate the choice? Is that Yeah, I'm saying the one the yeah, through the sanctifying it's a f the foreknowledge of God the Father through the sanctifying work of the Spirit for obedience to Jesus Christ sprinkling by his blood. The point is that it's not about you, it's about Christ. Well, and that's kind of maybe we have to do it. Christ is what it's all about there. Our our election is one hundred percent. We can't have any points of agreement at that point. What's the point of agreement? Well the point of agreement might be that Without the sanctifying work of the Spirit, nobody would be saved. Uh, if without the uh God given desire because God gives us the desires of our heart to even obey him because it looks like obedience is part of the requirement to become heart of the elect. Well I'd say that that's what we've been saved to is obedience, for obedience to Jesus Christ. Yeah. Matter of fact, uh the Spirit of God will not dwell in an unclean vessel. Well I define a clean vessel as one who is willing to trust God. Willing to obey God. Alright, so so Yeah, what makes us clean is the blood of Christ. Right? Are we in agreement about that? There is no cleanness outside of the blood of Christ. Well because it it starts off with, well, you sin the sin penalty must be paid for. Okay, so the sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ, without that there would be no remission of sin or covering or washing away of sin. So even before we start to clean ourselves up and sanctify and so forth First God requires that the sin penalty must be paid for. So that that's the first step, one of the first steps. And of course then that is based on faith because uh here comes the God must first believe. So for those who believe Right. Because the the the payment for sin can now apply to them. who believe. Yes. So so you see all these requirements. So when God says that we must be perfect in him, uh to me that means, well, he must be complete. We must be complete. And so to be complete in God We must be complete in all that he requires. So then the question is well what does he require? Well of course I go back to Acts chapter two verse thirty-eight It says, uh men and brother, what shall we do? And it says, Well this is what we gotta do to be baptized. Yeah. Then you have the second requirement, repentance. And I feel like I feel like ultimately that's the question, how does faith arrive in us? Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. Yes. But some people heard and still rejected. So so it's not just hearing, but it's how you go about hearing the Word of God. Well uh that that makes all the difference. And uh it's uh the word says, uh well Jeremiah says, he says, and I spoke unto you, this is God spoke to his people, rising up early and speaking, but ye heard not. Right. Yeah. And then in verse 15 he's he says, Well I will cast you out of my sight. Now some people will and that's the word of scripture says many are called. The call or the word goes out to everyone But why is it that some people hear and some people don't hear? Some people have an ear to hear, some people do not have an ear to hear. In fact, I'll even make your argument for you. We're told uh when uh Jeremiah receives his call to ministry that he's gonna send them to a people who are ever hearing but never understanding, never seeing, but never perceiving, that that God will have already hardened their hearts. Meaning that the the very preaching of the Word of God was destined to fail ahead of time by God's divine uh appointment. That that when by the time that Jeremiah shows up on the scene, God at that point is has already had enough with the nation of Judah Because the the other ten tribes had already been sent into uh captivity, and that that being the case, Jeremiah's the people at Jeremiah's time had totally been given over to hardness of heart And there was no hope for those guys anymore, even though God was sending the word to be preached to them. And that's part of the point of the whole thing is what is the basis upon which God hardens people's hearts? And he tells us what that basis is time and again throughout Scripture. What how do you describe why or how God Hardens hearts. Proverbs says the heart of the wise inclines to the right, the heart of the fool inclines to the left. I believe that that God hardens people's hearts based on what we do with whatever word of God that He's given us before. And if he gave us some kind of word before and we took it and we received it, and we said, Yes, God, and we were obedient and we humbled ourselves before his command and before his his requirements of us, then he softens our heart. But if he brings the word to us and we're like, ah, I don't feel like f following that God. then our hearts harden a little bit. And what makes the difference is whether or not we choose every step of the way to respond to what comes to us. And if we reject it every step of the way then Here's part of part of my take on this, especially uh back to Romans chapter nine uh verse oh verse eighteen it says therefore hath he mercy on whom he will have mercy and whom he will He hardened it. Right. Pharaoh's heart, uh that would seem like a very unfair thing. But the way I see the whole human race, the whole human race is hardened towards God, and God chooses whom he's gonna have mercy on and who he's not gonna have mercy on. Yeah, but the problem is is that when the Israelites left Egypt, there is a whole slew of Egyptians that left Egypt along with the Israelites. The point is is that the same thing's been true here in uh in the the twentieth century. All of uh Russia chose to reject God totally to be an atheist nation, totally turn their back on God. So what happened? Every Russian that had the opportunity do fled to the West. Why? Because they could tell that God had chosen for a period of history the uh the nation of of the United States at that point to be blessed. Well the same thing was true at that time with Israel. Israel was the nation that was to be blessed, and everybody that that was with Pharaoh had the chance. A whole bunch of them could have left But a whole bunch of them chose not to, and the point is that God set up an election that everybody that would reject God would naturally, by his will, be attracted to following the the uh Israelites. But everybody that rejected God would naturally be attracted to following Pharaoh And God was going to take those guys and form into form them into a beast. He's going to do it again here in the end times. And everybody that rejects God, God's going to take them and He's going to patiently form them into this beast that's gonna be really scary and that's gonna take over the world and then God's gonna destroy the thing and everybody's gonna be like, Oh what right do you have to do that? Who are you to do that? And God's gonna be like, What are you talking about? I you rejected me, I have the right to do whatever I want with you. Yeah. You know, and that's the point. You can't resist God's will. Well, I I still go back to the point of why do or the question, why do some uh receive and why do others not receive? My my position is that uh nobody naturally receives the call of God But those who do receive his call become the chosen, and they only become the chosen supernaturally. I'm saying that God places the desire within certain ones. Like it says in Romans nine. Yeah. Uh and I'm I'm of course I'm basing this on Romans nine where it says of the same lump of clay. The same lump, yes. He makes one a vessel under honor, another a vessel under dishonor, and then he works out this entire story. So in a nation. He's not saying he's going to take half of you and and make a vessel of dishonor and half of you to make I mean the lump of clay isn't one person, it's a whole nation, and from the same lump of clay, he's gonna take some people and he's gonna form them for a vessel of dishonor because they rejected him. And he's going to harden their hearts because they keep rejecting him. And then they're going to turn around and say, Well, you hardened my heart. And he's going to say, No, no, no, no. You rejected me again and again and again. You're right, I hardened your heart. But you're responsible because you rejected what I brought to you again and again and again. I don't know though. I think that the uh how we should understand the word vessel is almost uh is uh I'll take the word almost, so I don't want to even put that qualifier. I think it's always Talking about an individual and not a group of people. Oh man, I can I cannot disagree with you more. In fact, the only other place in the Old Testament in all the Bible where the potters uh illustration is used is in uh the book of uh I'm gonna say Jeremiah or Ezekiel chapter eighteen. I'll find it here in a second. And when he talks about it, he is abundantly clear that he's talking about a nation. And here when he's talking about Pharaoh, he raised up Pharaoh so that what? so that I might display my power in you. That's clearly the nation that Pharaoh represents that's being dealt with here. In fact this whole passage he's talking about m all my whole people, you know, the whole nation of Israel. He's talking about a group of people that are a corporate group of people and to somehow turn this into simply a um an individualistic kind of passage I I feel like is precisely the Greek problem because the Greeks always turn everything into A personalized in and don't have much of a of a good understanding of what corporateness is all about. It tends to be true about most of the Western world But uh yeah, but as a an example of uh being used uh for an indiv are you saying it's always corporate or can sometimes be corporate and sometimes be individual or what are you saying? I'm saying that whenever God uses the phrase potter He everywhere else. Five or six places in the New Testament. I'm not talking about Potter though. I'm talking about the word vessel. Right. Well potter the the word vessel goes with with the illustration of the potter, a vessel for noble uses or a vessel for ignoble uses. And everywhere that he uses that illustration with the phrase vessel The Potter illustration, he's always dealing with nations. But the wife is the weaker vessel, and she's an individual. It's not a nation of wives. Yeah, so clearly in that situation uh the the context shows us that he's dealing with something different. But every other place where he's talking about major judgment and major um um uh election in what God's gonna do with a whole group of people in terms of judgment. Uh he uses the potter and he talks about a vessel. Edward's got his finger up. He wants to jump in. Um would the principle be the same for the group as well as the individual? Uh if the clay m makes up a nation of vessels uh or if if you make it singular, you say the nation is a vessel and it is dishonorable Um that's a principle there where someone is is rejecting or someone is rejecting God or not accepting God. Also the same principle can o can apply to an individual where the individual is a dishonorable vessel rejecting, not accepting God. Yeah, the the key is that is that when we're talking about doctrine, I believe that it can be applied that way, but when we're talking about the doctrine of election This passage in Romans chapter 9, 10, and 11 is talking about how God could reject the whole group a whole group of Jewish people who are adopted, who have been given the covenants, who are the people of God, and God, Paul is on behalf of God giving the argument of righteousness as to why God should be allowed to reject his chosen people, the whole group of them that that that at that point in history had rejected God. And that being the case, uh, I think that it tortures the passage to try to say that it's just an individual thing. But I think he's making the point though in in Romans chapter nine that not all of not all of those who are part of uh the nation of Israel are chosen, that's his point. Totally. So it's not a question how could he reject those are chosen. He's making the point that some of them aren't really chosen. A whole portion of them. In fact what what we're left with the impression is that only a remnant of the nation chooses God, meaning like the remnant that left Egypt with the Israelites of Egyptians, there's only a remnant of Jews at this point in history that that are choosing to accept Christ. and the rest are rejecting him. We gotta wrap up there. We're out of time again, if you can believe it or not. Clearly Jonathan is wrong and uh we'll unpack why next week. I want to get you on a basketball court sometimes just to see if we can pass this out once and for all. Uh anyway, he's Jonathan Sweites, the Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh also on the the panel this week is Pastor Edward uh ambush from um why am I drawing a blank? Bread of Life Church in Frederick I'm Froy Skinner. The shows are brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks so much for listening. Go to the web, WFMD. com, keyword faith, check out the blog there, listen to old shows in the audio vault, and uh find yourself Uh re-listening to this and seeing if you make any sense of what we just did over the last half hour or so. Thanks for listening. God bless