Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and the moderator. Freud Skinner. Show is brought to us by Plitman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Normally the Frederick Fate Debate is a forum panel discussion on things of uh strong religious significance, uh clash of worldviews, clash of ideas. Which uh Thomas Jefferson is credited with saying is the sound of freedom. Normally Jonathan Sweiser, my cohort in crime, would be on this show uh rankling uh people's nerves and ruffling some feathers as only Jonathan Schweitzer, my good friend, can do. Uh but Over the four years plus now of this show, we've had opportunity to have uh our wives involved. Uh Carol Sweiser's been on a few shows and my wife Dina has been on on a number of shows and Uh I can't speak for w because people wouldn't come to me and talk about Carol. Uh but I can say that when I've had uh uh we've had Dina on the show, almost without exception, afterwards people say, Oh, you it was great hearing your wife on the show, you should have her on more Whether they're just being nice or not, who knows? But here she is. Good morning. Thank you for having me again. And so this is a show that's just the two of us. And so there's not going to be a lot of disagreement because we're in pretty uh pretty good accord on on most issues. But it gives us a chance when we have shows where we're not going to get into the nitty-gritty of debate on things to catch up on things that the that you, the listener, have shared with us with via email and and uh and other such items or items in the news or whatever that uh we might want to just comment on briefly. So we are almost near the end of the year The day which shall live in infamy, December 7th, 1941, got us pulled into the uh Second World War. That anniversary is today. And interestingly, at least to me, um, this past summer, my wife and I had opportunity to go visit the Hawaiian Islands. We went to uh Pearl Harbor. And before we get into the uh uh some of the emails and stuff, I thought it might be interesting 'cause uh my wife was very moved. It was almost like a religious experience for her at Pearl Harbor. And so I figured I'd You're here, give you a chance to to reminisce and share a little bit about what you know, hold it together though. It was It was a very uh interesting experience in the sense that I didn't expect to get that emotional. I have no ties to any of these people. None of my relatives fought in World War Two that are that I ever met. There were on my m I believe on my father's side, my grandmother I believe had brothers that fought in World War Two, but they were deceased because of the war, um and I had never met them. So I don't have any personal ties to anybody at Pearl Harbor. Don't even know anyone um who has relatives really that uh are alive that fought in Pearl Harbor. So I wasn't expecting to be this emotional. Let me get that point across. So We go through and they we had headphones that narrated different stations and at these stations they would have uh representations of say the battleships or uh photos of certain things that went on, certain areas of Pearl Harbor that were attacked. And this narrator was actually very good at portraying the emotion that was set behind the scenes and behind what was going on, everything the the chaos that was going on. Um but the calm that was before the storm was they they literally had no idea. No idea. I mean there were people who were, you know, out just folding clothes, going about and doing their their daily business and planes are flying over and they still didn't know that it was the being bombed by Japan. And we went to part of the um The the tour at Pearl Harbor takes you on this little ferry boat across the seas to the Astral Memorial of Pearl Harbor. At the Arizona. Some sorry, of the Arizona rather. And um again, not really feeling any sort of emotion other than Somber, I mean you you r out of respect for what's gone on and respect for there were people that were with us that did lose loved ones or you know, or or had some very emotional ties 'cause there were people sobbing along the way and that typically will move me and and I wasn't at that point We went over to the Arizona and stepped on and um to see you're on the ship and to look down and looking down at the ship and to see the ship underneath the water and parts of it still there And then the guy's narrating saying, you know, and these are the tombs of, you know, these people and how many peoples l lost their lives and it was just It was so much. Um, you know, I was trying to make my way around to see different parts of the ship that were still underneath that you could see see from the memorial. in the uh of the Arizona that were underneath. And then there was this one part where there was an opening, a square opening that you could look down. And they said if you wanted to bring lays that you could shed the the the the petals of the flowers into the water to you know to honor those who have passed. And there was one man who was over the edge and he had his light and he was just sobbing and as he would shed a petal he would say I'm not sure if he was saying prayers or I couldn't make out what he was saying, but I saw him and I was so overcome with emotion that I I was crying almost uncontrollably to the point where I was making noises and had to I square myself to another part of the of the thing and it was just so overwhelming. And then there was another part that I wouldn't allow myself to go into because I knew I'd be a mess where apparently they had all the names written of those who had passed through this horrific tragic event that occurred on that day. So it was very moving and very sad. It was so s Sad. I don't know how else to explain it. Just so sad. Well the narrator did a good job was Ernest Borgine, the actor was the narrator, uh and he did an excellent job. And you know tying this into a faith debate context, I mean one of the things that's, you know, stunning about the whole thing is yeah, you hear stories now that the There was the the radar opera because radar was a new technology at the time, it was an untested, unproven kind of technology. So they weren't sure what to make of radar images when they saw them at the time. But they had radar warning that something was coming but they didn't know what they were and they were told to dis disregard it. That it was their own shi uh their own the American plane. Right. They thought it was a a bunch of American uh C bombers coming in or something and it and it was the Japanese coming in and And then of course you hear all these conspiracy theories that, you know, the Roosevelt administration knew that this was coming and that they wanted it to happen. Who knows if any of that's true? That aside, the men and and women, mostly men, but women too, who were who were uh um in and around Pearl Hardware at that time did not know it was coming. Absolutely not. And it's a Sunday morning and out of the blue, bang. I mean, bombs are dropping, people are dying, things are exploding, and their life is turned upside down. It's just a kind of a reminder, spiritually speaking, you know, Jesus will come like a thief in the night. Absolutely. And there are warnings. There are radar images. You know, that we have been told what to expect. And yet, you know, I fear that we'll be caught Uh unwatchful will be caught uh unaware and horrible things are gonna happen. So there is a if you're not careful Which is good because God is an all-thinking. Sure. And I'm a big fan of analogies and my brain is kind of wired to think along the lines of analogy. And so I have a tendency to look for uh analogy in things. It helps me to understand things, helping to help me to remember things. And there's you know there's an analogy there for those who want to see it. Is it a forced analogy? I don't know maybe, but is it a helpful analogy even if forced? I think so. So anyway. Um Pearl Harbor, that would be sixty-seven years ago. It was forty two, is that right? Forty one, right. Forty one, okay. So sixty sixty seven years ago on a Sunday. Yeah. Just like today. Yeah. Anyway, we're gonna move on to some of the e stuff things that have been emailed to me. Now the last couple of years I've been emailed something. I haven't shared on the show yet. Uh but it's the exact same thing. They just changed the the date. So I'm sure I'll get another one in a few weeks. for 2009. But these are things from the Dalai Lama that he has to say for the upcoming year. Like here's one that says for 2006, here's one that says for 2007 and you know, have one somewhere that says for two thousand eight. So it it makes the rounds apparently every year and I don't think they changed it. They just changed the date. Ah and they send the same thing. So here here's what we should be thinking about for the coming year apparently. All right. This is a nice reading but short it says. Yeah, how many pages is this? How how short does that look like? Yeah. Now can I interject Huh? Can I interject Christian comments throughout? Sure. Okay, because I don't know why I'll be that's why you're here. I don't know if I'll be able to contain myself with this karma junk. No. Let's see. Yeah, I think this is th I'm pretty sure it's gonna be almost exactly what I'm reading. So you can follow along. We can read along and you can hop in whenever you want. All right. So this is a nice reading, but short. Enjoy. This is what the Dalai Lama has to say for the upcoming year. All it takes is a few seconds to read and think over. Do not keep this message. The mantra must leave your hands within ninety-six hours. You'll get a very pleasant I already hate that by the way. That drives me crazy. Evil befell me as a result, but must be turned to good. Anyway, you'll get a very pleasant surprise. This is true for all. Even if you are not superstitious or of whatever religious belief, faith Alright, so no matter if you're superstitious or not, have a religious belief or not, have faith or not, this applies to you. All things to all people. Heaven help us. Narrow is not the road, according to this. So instructions for life, all right? Take into account that great love and great achievements involve great risk. Any comment on that or do you want to just keep reading as I go? Yeah. I don't know. I mean everything that anything that you everything comes at a cost. You know, the the thing that is beneficial for the Christian is that every cost has been paid through the cross of Christ. Now what are the problems with these sorts of nebulous uh big idea things Who's the audience and and about exactly who are you talking about? Are these just are these fundamental eternal truths or are they truths for us in this life? You know, I don't and it doesn't say and it's not going to something that comes th like this in the email. But God has great love. God is love, according to scripture, uh and has achieved incredibly great things. So when when God through his love created all that is, created the creation, did he take a great risk? Was there something at risk for God there? Was was God putting himself in jeopardy somehow? I'm not He's all sufficient. Yeah, I'm not sure. Uh so it's hard to know how to apply this this principle. But I will say if if what you're trying to do is encourage people to to love greatly, to pursue great achievements, and to take some chances along the way, then I can certainly agree with that. Absolutely. When you lose, don't lose the lesson. Right. Good message. Right. Learn from your mistakes or you know, that's good. Follow the three R's. Respect for self, respect for others, responsibility for all your actions. I can't disagree with those. I I would like to think that there are more than those three R's then. It's an incomplete list. Yeah. And my list wouldn't start with respect for self. It would end with that. Number four, remember that not getting what you want is sometimes a wonderful stroke of luck. Well we don't do luck. Remember that not what getting what you want is sometimes a wonderful blessing from God would be another way of putting it, right? Um first of all, you can't always get what you want 'cause where would you put it? Um and there's a song by Garth Brooks, you know, Sometimes I Thank God for Unanswered Prayers or something along those lines of the lyric. Um, learn the rules so you know how to break them properly. Well that's obviously wrong. I mean that's just backhanded filled with deceit and lie. That's interesting. Yeah Don't let a little dispute injure a great relationship. Well, that's true. Love covers a multitude of sins, so I would agree with that. When you realize you've made a mistake, take immediate steps to correct it. Repent. Absolutely. And don't let the sun go down when you know that you've uh right, you've done somebody wrong and you've got and you're angry. So definitely. Spend some time alone every day. You want to add two words, don't ya? Yes, with the Lord. Right. Spend some time alone With the Lord every day. Every day. Open your arms to change, but don't let go of your values. Hmm. I think the intent of that is is good. I'm sure that that could be twisted in an evil way, but it's important to recognize that things are evolving. And that you need to steadf you know, hold steadfast to the principles of the Bible. Remember that silence is sometimes the best answer. Correct. Absolutely. You know, Jesus, for example, New Testament stands accused and he doesn't answer his accusers. Yes. Live a good, honorable life. Then when you get older and think back, you'll be able to enjoy it a second time. Okay, there's nothing wrong with that. Of course we aren't good, only God is good. You know, the and I would agree with this, but I will say that it again, it's uh it's almost incomplete. The part about that that makes me nervous It's not that so much is wrong, but I would I would want to amplify it and make it bigger, is if you spend too much time looking back and enjoying the past, you're not preparing for the future and you're not present. You're not enjoying the moment. You're not living your life in the now. Isaiah says, do not call to mind the former things. Behold, I have done a new thing. Will you not even be aware of it? So absolutely. So you certainly want to live a good honorable life. That's true. And you do want to Remember and recall things from the past that will help you to keep your eye focused on what is to come and what the promise is that's coming and And that's scripturally where to pass on the promises of God and the miracles that he's done. These things that seem kind of true or basically true Uh they're so close to the truth that yeah, why can't you just give them the benefit of the doubt? The stuff that looks the most true, but isn't exactly true is the most dangerous is the most by far dangerous, in my opinion. Um according to scripture too, I guess, right? That's just my opinion. Yeah. Number twelve, a loving atmosphere in your home is the foundation for your life. Well As for me, my house will save serve the Lord, so as long as the Lord is the foundation, you will have a long life. Yeah. Again, it's not it's so much that it's wrong. It's it just it kinda misses it a little bit. Number thirteen, in disagreements with loved ones, deal only with the current situation. Don't bring up the past I would I would say that that would be weighted on an individual di you know, uh case by case basis. Sometimes they're bringing up the past would be helpful to move forward in the future, so I think it just depends. And I think if you do a good job of dealing with the current situation, there'll be less need to deal with the past because there will have been those things in the past would have been dealt with. Mm-hmm. Uh number 14, share your knowledge. It's a way to achieve immortality. Okay, well I just don't agree with that at all. That well, from a Christian's perspective, if any anybody who hears this and calls themselves a Christian has to disagree with it. Right. If you're a Bible-believing Christian, you have to, because knowledge will pass away. Amen. Scripture tells us that knowledge will pass away. So knowledge itself is not immortal. So how can the sharing of your knowledge bring you immortality? Right. Plus the whole question of how we would achieve immortality has nothing to do with our knowledge. You're not saved by knowledge. That's called Gnosticism. And Christians, uh, if they're going to be true to their faith, must reject Gnosticism. Now if you're not a Christian and you accept Gnosticism Okay, that's a subject for a faith debate show, and we'll we'll talk about that, but that is not a position that a Christian can hold. Uh be gentle with the earth. Well we are to be good stewards of everything that God has given us. Absolutely. So I would agree with that. Once a year go someplace you've never been before. Oh, that's probably fun. Yeah. I don't see any harm in that. Like that Remember that that like we went to Hawaii Pearl Harbor this past year. Yeah. Right. Remember that the best relationship is one in which your love for each other exceeds your need for each other. Hm. I'm trying to f that's deep figure out what that means. If you love something, let it go or something, it's probably along the lines of that. Um I would I would say that I can understand that if you love someone so much you will have healthy boundaries and know that you can't suffocate them, know that they cannot be your God. that they uh they are not able to fulfill you in in a way that only God can. So I think that that could be turned for good. Yeah, I think I'll think I'll I'll give the whoever wrote this the point on that one. I don't think of a By the way, you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by my wife, Dina Skinner. Number eighteen on this list, judge your success by what you had to give up in order to get it. Mm. Well, sacrifice. Um Sacrificial love, we are to give beyond what You should give sacrificially. Right. And so and if that's gonna be a measure of success, I suppose. Having salvation wouldn't necessarily be a success, right? It's a gift, so because you don't give anything up for that. Well, okay, I don't know. I guess we'll let that one go too. Approach love and cooking With reckless abandon. I'm not quite sure how to even put those two together in my head. Obviously the person who wrote this is a chef. So we'll just leave it there on that one. Now it says forward this mantra email to at least five people and your life will improve. Okay. But if you're not superstitious, as it said in the beginning now if you send this to zero to four people, your your life will improve slightly. So I didn't forward this to anybody. Yeah, but we are sharing it with all of Frederick County, so our life is gonna improve. Oh wow, that's sure, that's true. And everything we ever dreamed of It's gonna begin to take shape. Woo! Alright, but until now I share this with zero people. But still my life will improve slightly. So by doing nothing, my life will just improve, just because, apparently. Well, that's just because you're chosen by God. You share it with five to nine people, your life will improve to your liking. Nine to fourteen people, you'll have at least five wonderful surprises in the next three weeks. And fifteen people and over. Who good, we have exactly fifteen listeners of this show, so we're in good shape. Your life will improve drastically and everything you ever dreamed of will begin to take shape. Do not keep this message. The mantra must leave your hands within 96 hours. You will get a very pleasant Now wait a minute though. I didn't forward this within ninety-six hours. I received this for the first time several weeks two or three years ago. So what does that mean? Well, it means that you are Blessed. Regardless of the silly email. Alright, let's see. Here's uh what does this say? Is this the same thing? I'm trying to make heads or tails of this Yes, somebody who sent me this this originally, way back when, said it was really a nice and a and a way to live your life and that you should enjoy it. and that, you know, you should definitely forward it because, you know, you're gonna want to uh what do you got to lose? You wanna get these blessings, you know, it's one of those things. Eh, I'm gonna send this 'cause what do I got to lose? And Only good things can happen if I do send it. Right. Well you're kind of buying in the lie maybe and then bad things do happen as a result. And so uh I actually still saved a response that I wrote to the person who sent this to me. It says you do realize that most of what this says is utter nonsense, I wrote. Also by the way, this was a a close uh friend so I could be a little more we just lost another listener. I could be I could be I could be direct. I could be direct in this circumstance, all right So if you realize that most of what it says is utter nonsense. Also, if you should reply to this email or forward to anyone or delete it from your inbox, you will receive uh seven years oh, there's a part of this that I guess must have not got printed But it uh there was something if you failed to you would get seven years of bad karma. But you could remove the curse by throwing a black cat over your left shoulder and across your neighbor's path. Sorry. Oh boy. Oh, I remember now. This is me being funny. This is so long ago. Now I remember. So this is me saying it's another nonsense. Also though, this is me then being funny. If you should reply to this email or forward to anyone or delete it from your inbox, you will receive seven years of bad karma, but you can remove That was you and across your neighbor's path. Note this cure works only if the neighbor is walking under a ladder while carrying a broken mirror that reflects the cracks and lines in the sidewalk below. Very funny, dear. That was my attempted humor. I do amuse myself. Me thinks too much. Um does. Bilbo is a very inter is very entertaining until he goes on an adventure and then ends up being courageous and saves some of the dwarves' lives. Everyone who would try to defeat Bilbo becomes scared, as it says in the book. They has become mortally afraid. What is this from? This must have something to do with the uh the hobbit and the uh Lord of the Rings. Why do I have this? Somebody emailed this to me, but it's been so long that I don't even remember why. Lord of the Rings though, you haven't seen nor have you read the books. No, I'm not a big fan of that fantasy stuff. No, there are a lot of people that are big fans of that series, the Lord of the Rings series and and of the books who are I mean, big fans that are big fans despite not realizing that it's really a Christian Mythology, story. The all the imagery is is supposed I haven't read the books, but I've seen uh a couple of the movies and I have friends who uh are big uh devotees of uh the of the Lord of the Rings and Hobbit series. And they um they go crazy talking about all the imagery and what it all means and all that sort of stuff. So there's an example of something that's not um it's not cast in traditional Christian ways. It's not some sort of Christian liturgy. It's not, you know, the Bible itself. It's you know and yet it's meant to portray a Christian message. And so you could say, Hey, that's a good thing. But there's so many people that are fans of it that don't get the message. So is an argument against that being a good thing? I don't know, against it. I think that if you want to see the Lord in something, you will see the Lord, you know, ask and you shall receive And especially when it's in accordance with his will and of course the Lord wants us to ask him to reveal himself to us. So um Absolutely. If you want to see the Lord in something, then the Lord will reveal himself and he'll use any medium that he knows will get your attention. Here's a list that I I have. I think I prepared this in response to somebody who was asking about the kinds of things that we do on the show. And it's interesting because this isn't an email, but it's it's somehow snuck in with these uh papers on on email. And it is interesting in this context, we're doing a show now that It's just the two of us kind of bantering back and forth, not a lot of debate, pretty one sided if there is any debate. We're here to squash the opposing view 'cause they're not here to defend themselves. And some of these are kind of fun or silly or or whatever But in case, you know, this is your first time hearing the show, these are some of the kinds of things that you uh have heard or will hear talked about on this show. in future weeks. These are some of the kinds of topics that we've done, all right. Does God's will determine our leaders, our nation's leaders, our our s our cities leaders, that sort of thing? Yes. Um You know, worldview uh questions regarding socialism and capitalism and how that fits in with a Christian worldview or Muslim worldview or Jewish worldview or what have you, Buddhist, whatever. Uh is there a hell Yes. What's our purpose for being here? To bring glory to God. Who is Jesus? He is the Savior of the world. Can Christian I wasn't originally intending for you to answer these, but this is good. This is good. Can Christians, Muslims, Jews live in peace? And what does that look like? Not without Christ. The person of Jesus separates Christians from others. What separates Jews from Muslims? Is suffering God's will. How do we get to heaven? What happens when we die? The death penalty, biblical or not? Oh, is God knowable? Yes. Is war ever justified? Yes Uh questions regarding the Da Vinci Code. Uh was Jesus married? Was Jesus just a man? Did Jesus have uh physical earthly children? Well he's our bridegroom. You know. Did Constantine pick and edit the books of the Bible for the church? Why don't the denominations get along better than they do? That's a good question. What is the state of faith in Frederick? Should Christians celebrate Halloween? Should Christians read and watch movies like Harry Potter and books like Harry Potter? Is there truth? Yes. Can there be, and is there already, Christian unity? What should be our Christian priorities? Anyway, those are some of the kinds of things we might typically talk about on this show, and we'll do that in weeks to come. Thank you to my wife, Dina Skinner, for being on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor. Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And thank you for listening. Check us out online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. God bless.