Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Our sponsor is Pumpin' Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Last couple of weeks I've did the show solo because Jonathan Schweitzer was uh traveling the world. He's on a mission trip actually in the Middle East and Israel. And uh he'll be back uh shortly and then we'll get back on track with uh having panel discussions uh about uh things that we think are important to be discussing. And what I've been doing is catching up on emails and you know I feel badly about the way last week's show and that if you were listening to last week's show, I was in the middle of a really powerful email and r d wasn't keeping a close enough look on the clock and ran out of time This isn't going to help you if you missed the first part of it last week. Except I will tell you that the show is now podcasted on the website. So go to wfmd. com go to the Audio Vault section of the website, find the face debate, look for uh last week's show, um, which would be the March, what'd that be, March 16th show. Listen to the end of that, and now then then you could listen to this one on the podcast, which would be the March twenty-third show, and you can get the whole email. Piece it together yourself. So here's here's where we left off last week as we go through our email bag. It's talking about Iwo Jima, that famous photograph that's been turned into statue, uh, with the guys raising the flag and uh And uh John Bradley, who who wrote a book about that, his father was one of those who was pictured there, uh, was talking about the the various men who were putting their flag up, and then it gets to the point about he's talking about his dad here, and people thought he was a a hero And he says, You see my dad didn't see himself as a hero. Everyone thinks these guys are heroes because they're in a photo and a monument. My dad knew better He was a medic. John Bradley from Wisconsin was a caregiver. In Iwo Jima he probably held over two hundred boys as they died, and when boys died at Iwo Jima, they writhed and screamed in pain. When I was a little boy, my third grade teacher told me that my dad was a hero. When I went home and told my dad that, he looked at me and said, Well, why don't you always remember that the heroes of Evil Jim are the guys who did not come back. Did not come back. So that's the story about six nice young boys. Three died on Iwo Jima, three came back as national heroes. Overall, 7,000 boys died on Iwo Jima in the worst battle in the history of the Marine Corps. My voice is given out, so I'll end here. Thank you for your time. Again, that's John Bradley's quoted as speaking here. Now back to the person who's writing the email. Suddenly the m monument wasn't just a big old piece of metal with a flag sticking out on top. It came to life before our eyes with the heartfelt words of a son who did indeed have a father who was a hero. Maybe not a hero for the reasons most people would believe, but a hero nonetheless. Let us never forget from the Revolutionary War to the current war on terrorism and all the wars in between that sacrifice was made for our freedom. Remember to pray praises for this great country of ours, and also pray for those still in murderous unrest around the world. Stop and thank God for being alive and being free at someone else's sacrifice Remember every day that you can wake up free, it's going to be a great day. It's a great story, worth your time. Please pass along. You know, that is powerful. And I gotta say, again, from a Christian perspective, we've talked about this on the show numerous times, but Um this whole idea of, you know, being free and being set free because of the sacrifice of others, boy, that's a Christian message right there. You know, because of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ You know, the Christian message is that now believers have freedom in Christ. See, so there's always a way to pull around. Uh you know, it's something that strikes me. Not always, but pretty much uh I didn't even say most of the time. An awful lot of the time that seems like a safe way to put it, an awful lot of the time I'll read an email or see something in a book or on a TV show or movie, you know, just idle conversation with somebody, whatever. The things that somebody might say, oh oh a song on the radio even, whatever The the point behind what is being presented might not be religious, at least its intent might not be religious or Christian in any way, shape, or form. But it's amazing how often you can pick up on things that are religious. or Christian orientation or tie to something that's Christian orientation if you choose to see it that way. Um it's fascinating to me. I wish I did a better job taking notes of that sort of thing because you could probably write a book about it. There's my idea. Go make a go write a book and make a bunch of money. All right. This email is titled The Rise and Fall of Democracy. About the time our original Thirteen States adopted their new constitution in 1787, Alexander Tyler, a Scottish history professor at the University of Edinburgh, had this to say about the fall of the Athenian Republic some 2,000 years prior. A democracy is always temporary in nature, it says. It simply cannot exist as a permanent form of government. That's interesting The democracy will continue to exist up until the time that voters discover that they can vote themselves generous gifts from the public treasury. From that moment on, the majority always votes for the candidates who promise the most benefits from the public treasury, with the result that every democracy will finally collapse. due to loose fiscal policy which is always followed by a dictatorship. Interesting. The average age of the world's greatest civilizations from the beginning of history has been about 200 years. During those 200 years, these nations always progress through the following sequence. Alright, let's see if this applies to America. The first step in the sequence, from bondage to spiritual faith, from spiritual faith to great courage, from courage to liberty. From liberty to abundance, from abundance to complacency, from complacency to apathy, from apathy to dependence, from dependence back into bondage Professor Joseph Olson of Hamline University School of Law in St. Paul, Minnesota points out some interesting facts concerning the 2000 presidential election. So this is going back, you know, a couple of elections. The population of counties won by Al Gore, one hundred and twenty seven million The population of the counties won by George Bush, one hundred forty-three million. The square miles. So, you know, Bush won the population uh when you do it that way. Bush won the population vote. How's that possible? Oh, okay, 'cause it's I got just just the key the whole county counts. Okay. So if you go county by county, uh uh Bush had a narrow margin of victory there. Uh square miles of land won by Gore. Square miles of land won by Gore, about a half a million. For George Bush, about two and a half million. Wow. States won by Gore, nineteen. By Bush, twenty-nine. The murder rate, does that add up to fifty? I don't think so. We missing some states. I guess they're putting a couple of states up as ties. Uh the murder rate per one hundred thousand residents in counties that were run by uh Gore, thirteen point two. For Bush, two point one. Interesting. Professor Olson adds, in aggregate, the map of the territory Bush won was mostly the land owned by the taxpaying citizens of this great country. Gore's territory mostly encompassed those citizens living in government-owned tenements in living off government welfare. Huh. All right. Olson believes the United States is now somewhere between the complacency and apathy phase of Professor Tyler's definition of democracy with some Forty percent of the nation's population already having reached the governmental dependency phase. Passes along to help everyone realize just how much is at stake, knowing that apathy is the greatest danger to our freedom. Um and then it goes PS if the Senate grants amnesty and citizenship to uh all the millions of criminal invaders called illegals and they vote then goodbye USA in less than five years. I don't know if that's true or not, but this is kind of a political thing. But you know, let's look at that again. You go from bondage to spiritual faith, spiritual faith to great courage. courage to liberty, liberty to abundance. So far so good. Now you're at the halfway point, you peak. But then you go from abundance to complacency. Now let's not make this political. Or at least not uh let's not make this uh geopolitical. Let's make this uh Christo political. Think about the church. Has the church grown into a sense of complacency through the abundance that is to be found in Christ? And has that complacency given sway to apathy And his apathy made us dependent, dependent on the church as an institution, dependent on the charismatic leadership of a pastor, dependent on The government, if you want to go back to this email. How we become dependent as the church have have by church I mean the individuals that make up the church, the body of believers, become dependent. Because they're apathetic and complacent. One wonders. If so, then you don't enjoy the true riches that uh that your faith uh has in store for you, maybe you're not truly the Christian that you think you are, and if that's the case, back into bondage. Anyway, just a thought. This email. Uh see, can I read this? This well, okay. I don't know if I'm going to read all of this, but I am going to say that looking at this now, here's an email that is supposedly from a Christian. Uh it's slugged uh the person who writes it is named Alan or Elaine or something like that, and it builds themselves as or themselves as a conservative Christian who is politically active. Okay. Well, I mean that's fine. You can be politically active and Christian and conservative, that all fits. But then it says things like, help me, kick off some liberals. I mean, is that a Christian attitude? Christians are supposed to be going around trying to upset people who disagree with them politically? And then it's got some disparaging remarks, uh with some double entendre kind of stuff maybe built in. I'm not uh related to uh uh Bill Clinton. Not sure that's something a Christian should be writing. Uh see, can I read this? I'm trying to find something I can read here. I think I can read this. The Orwellian language gap. In his nineteen forty eight novel, nineteen eighty four, George Orwell introduces the concept of uh I g it's like political uh there's a typo here, I can't quite read it, but it has to do with uh, you know uh politically correct speech kind of thing. His novel describes linguistic reduction. Oh, there's the word I'm looking for. That's what he was saying here. As a way for the state to control human perception and human thought. Orwell's hypothesis states that concepts cannot be expressed with uh concepts that cannot be expressed with words cease to exist. When language is limited, so is human perception and thought. That's interesting. Uh I got a concepts that cannot be expressed with words cease to exist. I'm not sure if uh if i if that's entirely accurate or not. I will say from a religious standpoint, it it it it's interesting because the the Christians, you know, particularly talk about Jesus as the Word of God and the written word and God spoke things into existence and things like that. So there definitely is power in words Um but I wonder if this uh this person who's trying to anger liberals takes this takes the argument a little too far. Uh Here's a story that uh asks about whether cross-dressing activists will come to your school. Okay. Let's see. Um totally wrong about that. I have to s I f probably should have screened this before I got on here to do the show. Here's what this story has a little blurb as I say. As our children have returned to public schools, they face a new threat to their sense of morality and sexuality. Transgender activists are targeting children for d so for seduction into gender confusion. I will agree that there is a little bit of a of uh it almost seems like there's an agenda there. I don't want to overstate it though, but it does seem like there's some encouraging of gender confusion in pop culture particularly late night television and some of the sitcoms and some movies today. Um but uh I don't want to seem like there's this vast conspiracy 'cause I'm not sure that there is. Uh I don't think it's quite as insidious as as that. Dangerous, but I don't think it's as or all all that orchestrated. Uh McCullough's Clary and Call. American history's being lost. It's up to Americans, parents, teachers, mentors to reclaim it and pass it on to the younger generations. Yeah, okay. Freedom of religion and undue IRS intrusion. Alright, this gotta be interesting, blurb The Internal Revenue Service has notified pastors all over America that IRS will VIRS will be monitoring the content of sermons If there were anything political, the IRS would initiate action to withdraw any applicable tax exemption. The IRS stated it will not wait for the ACLU or People United for Separation of Church and State to file a complaint. No, Suri. What does I the IRS consider political? That is not clear, but it appears to be subjective, agent by agent. This development is deeply troubling. In fact, it bothers me more than about anything that goes on these days, and that says a lot. You know, there's a couple of things about that issue, by the way. On the one hand, you know, pastors need to speak the truth. And they need to speak the truth consistently from the pulpit. And if that truth sometimes touches on things that some might consider to be political in nature, and that can be subjective, I suppose, then that shouldn't be restricted, it seems to me. However, it's not so much that the government at this stage anyway is passing a law saying that the pastors can't say those things. What it is saying is you can't say those things and still have tax exempt status. So maybe Christian pastors have a choice to make. Maybe they should say, okay, forget our tax exempt status. We'll pay our taxes just like everybody else So leave me alone. I can say what I want. Maybe that's the answer. Now that could create a hardship on some churches. Um, because a lot of them are getting by on you know, the the there's this great lie that, you know, the churches are getting uh fat, dumb, rich and happy and you know that might be true for some of 'em, but boy, you know, I've had an opportunity to meet an awful lot of pastors doing this show and most of them are scrimping and scraping and struggling to to get by to feed their families and to keep their church afloat. It's tough. It's a tough, tough gig. You know, so it's an easy thing to say, oh well You know, start paying taxes because maybe the taxes aren't there. But then that speaks to another issue. They wouldn't have an issue paying taxes if the people going to church would do what the Bible commands them and tithe. It it's it's pathetic what we as church members give to support our churches. It's absolutely pathetic. The plate comes around, we throw a dollar in. Is that is that even close to now I understand if all you have is a dollar, I get it. That's cool. That's a generous gift. Don't get me wrong. But for somebody who's making $50,000 a year, $75,000 a year, $100,000 plus a year, a dollar a week? Is that gonna cut it? Is that anywhere near what you should be giving? Oh, I don't give a dollar. I throw a five in. Okay. Five dollars when you're making a hundred thousand dollars a year? Hello? Oh, I threw a twenty it. The point is, you know, i on the one hand we complain that society is not going the direction we want it to, and we want to blame the government for not doing enough, and where are the churches and all of this? And then we don't want to put our money where our mouth is. You know, Malachi three ten says you know, to bring your entire tithe into the storehouse and you will be rewarded and to test God in this and you know it's become a cliche now but It's the one place in the Bible where God actually encourages believers to test Him. He wants to bless you. Let Him bless you. Support the church. Bring your full tithe into the storehouse. Alright, you think I was one of the pastors on the panel on this show. By the way, you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. We're catching up on some emails. This uh it is slugged, Imagine if D Day were today. Calling me Askins, but the last time I kicked an angry dog, he reacted angrily That's gotta be hyperbole, right? Who goes around kicking angry dogs? Anyway, usually you only kick angry dogs when they're attacking you because you know they will attack Uh that you know that until they attack you you might have other options. But once they have decided to chew your calf off, you'd better quickly become, in the dog's mind, the absolutely superior, absolutely dominant organism When it's the law of the jungle, he who can kick hardest and most frequently wins the discussion Huh. Now again I want to remind you this is these are all blurbs from the same uh person purporting to be a conservative Christian. So is this what conservatives stand for? And more importantly, is this what Christians stand for? The idea that he who can kick the hardest and most frequently wins the discussion. What about the meek shall inherit the earth? What about the fruit of the spirit, which includes your gentleness and kindness and self-control? You know? Come on. If you're going to call yourself a Christian, at least espouse some Christian values. And if you're not going to espouse Christian values, then expect those who do to call you out on it. Let's see. PTA Parents must file illegal alien educational spending. Says PTA parents Uh what does this say? Your child wants to play football or play in the school band or the soccer team, well you already know you have to dig a little deeper into your wallet due to school budget cuts. While the cost to parents handling out handing out cash in order to keep their children in these extracurricular activities keeps going up. Another part of state educational budget is actually exploding Because those dollars are being diverted to educating illegal alien children because of an ill-conceived and little known nineteen eighty-two US Supreme Court case called Plier versus Doe Yeah, you know, it's interesting. Uh it's it's been an issue in the presidential election because of Mike Huckabee's uh stance on amnesty and compared to uh the other Republican candidates uh stance on amnesty for illegals and and and some measures that uh Mike Huckabee uh took in his state to provide for uh the possibility for scholarships for the children of illegal uh immigrants. And you know Those are some fair points. I can understand the heart sensitivity that Mike Huckabee is trying to demonstrate there that, you know, hey, it's not the kids' fault that their parents you know, came into this country illegally and these kids, you know, despite some obstacles that come with their parents being illegals, have fought and struggled and done a good job in school to learn and to get good grades and so we should reward that. The problem is we're not rewarding children in Colombia or Mexico or Spain or France or Iraq or Russia You know, those students are working really hard to earn good grades and to learn, so why don't we give them free scholarships to our state institutions here in the United States as well? Uh Yeah it it I think it's a fair I think it's a fair point. Uh then there's some stuff here about Google supports uh some sort of abortion thing and same sex marriage foes and I don't know. This guy goes on and on and on. He kinda rants and rails. I know, it makes me nervous. It it it's I'm not saying that this is as bad as the Westboro Bible uh church folks uh out of Kansas But, you know, I gotta wonder. If somebody you know, it it says in the Bible, uh, from a Christian point of view, it says in the Bible that they will uh they will know you, meaning Christians. That they will recognize you as a Christian by your fruit. And when you're going to put out very vicious, vindictive kind of stuff, yeah, sure you occasionally uh slip up, make a mistake, whatever, that's fine. You ask for forgiveness and uh and and and you and you work to do better But when that's what defines you and that's the kind of stuff you're consistently putting out, yeah, y y y you have to do the cause of the kingdom any favors, let me put it that way. Alright, here's an email. Slug line is, Are you paying attention? Says this is the transcription of the actual radio conversation between the British and the Irish off the coast of Kerry, Ireland. in October of nineteen ninety-eight. The Radio Conversation was released by the Chief of Naval Operations um on October tenth, nineteen ninety eight. The Irish. Please divert your course 15 degrees to the south to avoid a collision. The British recommend you divert your course 15 degrees to the north to avoid a collision. You can see where this is going. The Irish. Negative. You will have to divert your course fifteen degrees to the south to avoid a collision. The British So this is the captain of a British Navy ship. I say again, divert your course. The Irish. Negative. I say again, you will have to divert your course. This reminds me of some people I know, so the person says here in email. Stubborn, proud, competitive, no one's going to mess with us. Then again, here's the conclusion of the conversation. British. This is the aircraft carrier HMS Britannia, the second largest ship in the British Atlantic Fleet We are accompanied by three destroyers, three cruisers, and numerous support vessels. Demand you change your course fifteen degrees north. I say again, that is fifteen degrees north Or countermeasures will be undertaken to ensure the safety of this ship. Irish, we are a lighthouse. Your call. You know. Let me pontificate for a moment. Imagine one person is the stubborn British, all puffed up, self-important, powerful. And someone else is the Irish seemingly insignificant as we view things and our self importance. We don't want to give them the time of day. We don't want to give them any say in our life. We don't want to listen to them. We're going to do it our way. No matter what. I don't care who they think they are Now think about that Irish, that someone being God. Is that how we live our lives? Is that how we treat people? Is that what we is that what we do? We treat people as though we're God God is the lighthouse. He tells you to correct your course by fifteen degrees. By golly, you better do it. You better not expect God to correct his course. God's got his course laid in already. He's got it mapped out perfectly. And there will be a collision. And it will not be a pleasant one. If you don't listen. Anyway, that's enough of the sermon for now. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Check out our website. Go to WFMD. com, look for the face debate page. You can email me at Troy at WFMD. com. I'm glad to uh Share your emails if uh if appropriate on the website or on the show at some point, all right, and I'd like to reply when I can too. Thanks for listening. God bless