Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio. 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Imran Raz Razvi, who uh grew up a Shiite Muslim and is now a Christian. Our show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And don't forget if you're a big fan of the Frederick Faith Debate and Who isn't after all? You can get your daily fix every day. Go to WFMD. com, find the Faith Debate page. Uh I have a weekday daily posting there. I take the weekends off. Jonathan Schweitzer uh he doesn't do it every day, but then he makes up for lost time, like if he skips ten or twelve twelve days, sometimes they'll put ten or twelve postings up all at once just to catch up. Uh and there are podcasts of the show. If you should hear a show that you particularly like you can go back and listen to again or tell a friend about it. Um or if, you know, somehow you you got up at nine o'clock instead of eight thirty and you missed the show, you could always catch it. Uh it's usually up within twenty-four to forty-eight hours. of of the broadcast up on the podcast. And it's been interesting. I had a chance recently to listen back to some of the shows as we are getting the podcast section, the audio vault portion of the website up and running. and to listen to the show and how it has changed a little bit over time. But I will say, uh, it has been consistent in one thing. I've been great throughout. That's right. That's right. And you're still trying to get one over on me, right? Without a doubt. Yeah. In all seriousness, I think that the the original purpose and plan for this show has has has maintained it. We've maintained our integrity. So I think we should be kind of Yeah. Yes, yes. The other side of the It's kind of a part of who we are, isn't it? I mean I feel like, you know, it's in us to s to stay focused on both, you know you digging in deep and not being afraid to ask the hard questions. You know, I think at the end of the day that if you're made that way, then you know it's hard to change. So that's the good news. The bad news is we've demonstrated no growth in three and a half years. That's right. But Raz is here to help us with that problem. He's like the miracle grover program. Yes, today. So he's going to give us the nutrients that we need. Beautiful. Um And again, uh I'm I'm gonna probably at his suggestion call him Raz throughout the show, but uh, you know, his his real name is Imran Uh, which sounds like a Muslim name perhaps. Somebody who might have been from that part of the world. Did you grow up outside the United States? I was born and uh it in Pakistan. I became um a US citizen when I was young. I I came to the US when I was four years old and grew up here in the US as a Muslim and was a very devout Muslim, prayed my five prayers and went to the mosque and Um, did all the things that a Muslim good Muslim boy does, even though we were in this uh infidel country. And which uh which version of Islam, which sect of Islam? Um I was born and raised Shia And uh I was the eldest son of the eldest son going back several generations. So there was uh some tradition there as well. Wow, so to for you to be a Christian now is This is an interesting conversation. Yes. Now at what age um did you leave behind uh your Shia Religious practices and and either become or start thinking about becoming a Christian. What do you think? Uh through Uh uh the the campus crusaders, um, they were relentless af came after me and eventually one of them said the right things and got my heart to soften up enough to do some research and try to find out more about the truth because I knew all the pat answers that the Muslims told us to fight the Christians and fight the influence of Christianity and the Bible and how to defend our faith. So I was very easy and very able to defend myself until some, you know, uh the campus crusader said a couple of the right things and got me thinking Now I will I want to go into the the the whole process of you know you embracing Christianity and leaving Islam behind. But before we get there, this is for us a rare opportunity. Uh I've had a chance to meet one other time uh before today's show to meet Raz and I don't even know if you remember meeting me, but it was in the context of the Ahmadiyya uh community wanting to uh build their retreat in Walkersville. And um there was obviously some community backlash and there was some backlash within the Christian community too, some pastors and stuff who were like, We gotta keep them out And Jonathan uh Schweitzer to his credit organized a a a luncheon meeting. Was it a luncheon or breakfast? I can't remember. It was a luncheon, yeah. A luncheon meeting that involved quite a few of the uh pastors, Christian pastors in town and uh and a few members of the Mahdiya community. Uh and and Raz was there. I'm not sure how the two of you met. I'll have to ask you that question maybe at some point we met there. Oh, you met there? How did you know it was going on? Uh through another pastor that was uh there, he invited me. Interesting. Okay. Bernie Beale, right? Yes. Bernie Beale. Yeah. So the the Lord was at work. On campus Crusaders. Yeah, oh interesting, yeah. Anyway, in in that meeting it struck me how articulate and uh thoughtful and reasonably well schooled in both some very fundamental Christian principles and what seem to me to be very fundamental Muslim principles that Raz can bring to the table. So I want to use some time here to kind of pick your brain a little bit. I'm the average dumb American. Well I want to correct you for a minute. I'm not w very well schooled. Okay. Well you on your own or you've taken s you you've done some reading or studying or or you listen attentively or something, because you see my list and I've uh I again I was a devout Muslim. And so I was very much um involved in in the Muslim faith. And then when I left I w didn't want anything to do with the Muslim faith and I kind of hid from any Muslim for several years. And then at that point it was just building a relationship with Christ and knowing uh you know that I was saved and and I was at the point that I didn't uh feel the remorse that a lot of Christians feel for other people that are not saved because I was so afraid of even getting involved to that point. Um and only recently in the last I guess five years I got to the point where I I'm feeling a little bit more of, you know, where are my parents and my brother and sister and my uh relatives and all the Muslim world is going. And uh now it's become more of a um of a point of contention with me that I need to do more and I think God's opened some doors for me to speak. I've spoken to a couple of churches uh about my testimony and about really how to uh talk to a Muslim without uh becoming antagonistic and having them going and trying to just, you know, give the pat answers Uh there's a lot of different ways, unique ways. Um and I think we'll talk about some of that later. Yeah. Now as I started to say, and now I have the opportunity to say it a second time, I'm the average dumb American. And um Although I will say that because of this show and uh and other things going on in my life, I probably know a little bit more about the history and the foundation of Christianity than the average American does, because not many people in America are immersing themselves. in a show like this and having regular conversations with pastors like Jonathan and and others. Uh but that said, I'm very similar, I would think, to the the the general landscape in not knowing a whole lot about things that are relatively foreign to America. And, you know, the percentage of the population in America that is Muslim is is pretty tiny. And so we don't know a lot about it. So okay The first twenty years of your life. Yeah, if you can in a relatively short time. Tell me some things that are important for you to know about uh about Shia uh belief about a and how it maybe it compares if you know if you feel comfortable talking about how it compares to other uh sects of of Islam, uh whether V the Mahdiya group or uh or whatever. I mean how how similar are they? It seems like they fight with each other a lot. What's that all about? You know what can what can you tell me about the first twenty years of your life Well, first of all, there's really two main sects of Islam, Shia and Sunni. Then from there there's splinter groups, um, and many different kinds. I I had never heard of the Ahmadiyya group until I went to the uh to that luncheon Um was very unusual. It was more of a you know, new age type of Muslim I'd never m met before. Yeah. But I grew up as a Shia and Shia Um, there's two sects, they divided up when um the Muhammad, the Prophet Muhammad passed away. And then who was gonna be the leader? So one group decided they're going to elect from the followers or the or the disciples of Muhammad an imam. And the other group said, No, no, we're going to go with a line of Prophet Muhammad And uh first um Ali is going to be the next imam, which everybody agreed upon 'cause he was the first Muslim. And then from there be Ali's sons and so forth and it was gonna be a kingdom type of thing and that that was a Shia. The Sunni said, No, we're gonna elect the most eligible, the most learned, the most uh whatever as the Imam So so Muhammad's bloodline is the is the Shiite line? Correct. In fact my name Raz Razvi uh is uh son of Raza, Razavi, which is the one of the m the last Imam from the uh side of line of Prophet Muhammad. Really? And so to this day they still the Shiites still track You know, like a lead imam all the way back through to the Well it's genealogy. I mean if you look at the Bible, when I first became a Christian, I looked at numbers and I said, Why is God wasting all this time with genealogy? I mean this is just a waste, I can't even pronounce half these names. So it it didn't it didn't click to me it should have because I grew up with that genealogy and know how important it is and God makes it Very very clear. Genealogy is important. You have to know who your father is. Blessings and curses have gone through through your your bloodline, th through the father. And being firstborn son is very important in the Bible. And it sh still should be and in in this culture it really isn't. And you are a firstborn son? I am firstborn going back several generations. My father was firstborn son as well. And so what does that mean for you? Does that mean that you kind of represent uh nobility or or or you know what yeah what does that represent. I never thought of it that way. More of it was my responsibility to take care of my family. I'm the oldest. And um I you know, in our culture we take care the older son takes care of the parents as well and is is the not only the family head but the religious head of the family uh is the oldest son. And that was my role and that's what I was grow being groomed to be. And my father was as well, since he was the eldest son. He was very, very learned, um, and he was very uh much of a mover and shaker in the um communities Muslim community. And th that's one of the reasons I really kind of shied away from uh proclaiming my Christianity in that community because out of respect for my father, I wanted to uh when the communications opened up again, I didn't want to jeopardize my relationship with my parents. Right. So it kind of stayed away from that that community Very prudent of you. We'll swing back around to that in a second, but I do want to press into this history stuff because I g I mean I've already learned things. Well that's the main difference. And then there's little minor differences of, you know, the s Sunnies pray with their hands clasped, she has to play play with her hands on their sides. Um and sh the biggest difference was It seems like a really minor difference. It is. It is very minor. It is very minor. But it's there. Okay. Um but also The biggest thing happened when in um in Karbala in Iraq, uh y you guys watch the news, you see Karbala is there, it's a little city, it's a crossroads of of rivers. Um when Imam Hussein, um the grandson of Prophet Muhammad, was coming back from his pilgrimage, his family and it was a whole his whole family, his standard family, was stopped there by Muawiyah who was the other Imam from the Sunni side. And he said, I'm the elected Imam and you will bow down to me. You you will acknowledge me as the head of the Muslim world. And Imam Hussein said, No, I'm not going to do that. So they wouldn't let him drink. And it was family drink and it's a desert. So if you don't get a drink, it's there's not no place else you can get water. Wow, so this is like a major standoff. It was. It was a major standoff for several days until finally, uh without a dehydration and desperation, uh Imam Hussein said, Okay, we'll fight We're not gonna give in, we're not gonna compromise our our principles. And so they were basically slotter, it was like ten to one or twenty to one. Um And they were slaughtered. So who won? The Shiites or the Sunnis? They slaughtered them. They were dehydrated. They were outnumbered and dehydrated. And so the Shias Including like his wife? Mostly all the males, male children, um and and some of them were taken captive. So anybody that could have been construed to be an heir to correct Muhammad. And did that wiped out all the time? No, there were there were some hidden and that's why their the Imams continued. And it's it stayed that way. But the main thing was at that point Mm-hmm. Um, that's where the biggest splinter was and then they couldn't get together because obviously yeah, that's where that's why they still fight. Um now I have plenty of Sunni friends as growing up Sunny friends. My parents had Sunny friends. So coming to the US kinda opens it up because Hey, you're not allowed to kill people here. So that wouldn't have been the case back in Pakistan. They wouldn't have had Sunni friends. But because they were here you They would have had some, it depends on the circles. Um but that's why Iran and Iraq fought so many years. Iran is mostly Shia and Iraq was ruled by Sunnis. Now it has a lot of Shias in it, but it's mostly Sunnis. Okay. Okay. And that again that's my understanding. I'm not as learned as some people out there listening might be, but uh that's how I was brought up and taught. Um but we had plenty of Sunni friends, it's just that it's the Shias will y take a month to commemorate the death of Imam Hussein, the slaughter of his family. And they will uh flagellate themselves. I mean they'll cut themselves, they'll hit themselves for for a month commemorating his death and and his suffering. Uh my family never got into that uh severe of um um commemoration. They I mean we we went to the masjid, we went and listened and we cried and we wept and we you know, did all that, but we didn't cut ourselves, we didn't, you know, hit ourselves to the point of of bleeding, although that was a you know, I saw m I saw friends doing it. And that was one of the reasons that the Campus Crusader brought up to me. He he said, Look, you saying that Jesus was saved from the cross by God so he wouldn't have to suffer and die And that's what the Muslims believe and that's what I was taught that you know Jesus never died on the cross. So if he didn't die on the cross, how could he die for you? So That was my answer. And he didn't use the Bible saying he died for the cross. He said, Well, if he didn't die for the cross, okay, I'll take that. Fine. Then if God went out of his way to protect this one man because he was only a man in your pin opinion. Yeah You know, he wasn't anybody's buttons, he was a prophet, but he was a man. Yeah. Why didn't he protect Prophet Muhammad's entire family? Who was also supposed to be sent I had never thought of that. Wow. And I said And so Christ was protect As a prophet, but the whole family wasn't your Shiite. That's that's a major I never thought of it that way. And then he's he went further to say, Well Muslims believe that the babies are born sinless Okay? If that's the case, why isn't God protecting all these innocent babies all over the world? What was so special about Jesus? That he couldn't die on the cross. Oh, because so let me see if I'm following this. You're saying that the reason that theologically the Muslims say the reason that Jesus was protected uh and would never have died is because God has to protect Innocent pure people. No, that wasn't that wasn't it at all. And and then furthermore, why isn't he protecting all these innocent children? If he is the God that p that is all um all that he's supposed to be and and the reason why he protected Jesus was because you know Jesus was special and he was sinless and God didn't want him to suffer and die on the cross. What about all the other suffering? Now you were telling us uh ahead of time that that in your perspective on the way that Christians approach Muslims, oftentimes Christians come in saying, Well you have to believe this and you have to believe this But what but what made the difference for you and you feel like it's true in a broad based way, you know, for Muslims in general, that what makes the difference is is almost when you understand their religion better than they do and you just ask questions about the uh inconsistencies that are there, i. e. like what happened with you, you know, how come Jesus wasn't protected? Right. I mean The Quran was written in Arabic and only in in the last I guess forty years was it translated into any other language. It was illegal to translate the Quran. If you cr translated it, you'd be put to death. Uh Arabic was the religion of God. Okay. And you couldn't translate it. So even growing up in Pakistan, then you have to you have to You know, learn it in Arabic. Do what do they speak in Pakistan? Do they speak Arabic? It's just written in a different uh tr script, but it's uh sounds the same. Okay Um so basically you spoke spoke a variation of Hindu, but in order to read the Quran then you would have had to study and know Arabic. I mean could read it but not understand. They could read Mass but they couldn't understand it. So the priest in can in Catholicism would tell them what to believe. Right. And only the ones like Martin Luther who actually read it and decided this is really not what it's supposed to what the scriptures say was able to come back and confront it And same thing with Muslims. They were told they are told what to believe by the Mulanas and the Hadiths and the um proclamations of their of the Imam and most of them are not literate to the point where they can understand Arabic for themselves. Only up until the last forty years when the when the uh Quran started being translated is when people actually started reading it in different languages. And even then a lot of the Mulanas really, really frown upon people reading in their own language. They'll say you will not get what God is saying to you unless you read it in Arabic. Yeah, I've heard this over and over again that the only really pure uh interpretation of the Quran come come out of reading it in the Arabic. That's not an interpretation. The only pure Reading of it reading of it today. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And and but you still to this day don't do that in Arabic. You don't read in Arabic I can I can still read in Arabic. Like so that you could understand it? Not that I can understand it, I can read it. Just just like you could read Spanish, but could you understand Spanish? Uh it's written in in English script. Exactly. That was Spanish, one of those. Did you get that? Yeah. You're listening to the Frederick Faith debate, I'm Troy Skinner. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer is the one who's attempting to speak Spanish. He has a Spanish vocabulary of one word. Yo quiero tacobel. Sorry, that was shameless. He is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chaplain, Frederick. And uh Imran Raz Razvi, who grew up uh a Shiite Muslim and is now a Christian and we're we've touched on Jesus and Christianity a little bit, but I I I I don't want to go there just yet. Right. Um help me understand Is it a pretty even split 50-50 Sunni versus Shia or is it or is is one a a much more dominant population than the other around the world? Sunni is much more dominant and uh they are in uh more uh I mean my family taught me to believe they were more violent. I don't really know. I mean that's you know coming from a bias standpoint. So again I I only know from growing up in a in a Shia household that the Sunni and the Sufi sect of the s of the Sunnis are very violent and there's a lot of persecution of Shias in Pakistan. in Iran, um, not so much right now, but there there has been. And around the world in different Muslim countries, Sunnis are much more dominant uh sect. Um and i there's always gonna be fighting. That's uh So then what are the main uh nations that have the Shia Shiites in them. All of them? All of them at least? The Shias are are all over, but there's uh Like where are they in ascendancy? Maybe that's good. Um Iran and Iraq, there were most more Shias. Okay. Iran, mostly Iran is basically a Shia nation. Oh, okay. And uh there So the Shah in Iran is Shia? Well the Shah in Iran was uh um came to the US and got and England and studied and learned and that's why uh the um the Milana took over because he became too westernized, culturalized. And that's why the relationship between the US and Iran went downhill and when uh Afilla Khomeini took over as the Muslim head and got rid of the Shah who n then went to exile Wow. And the point is is that the Shah was becoming more westernized. They didn't want that. They wanted him to be a pure Shah. Think about it from this point of view. If you if you love God, and you like it love his tenants and want to be a good pro God fearing person. Yeah. And you see this country that you know is a Christian country. Right. And you look at their advertisements, you look at their T V shows, you look at their all the things that are there. Yeah. And you Yeah well this has been my uh I you know I've been on a lot of trips, you know, to other nations uh mission trips as it were in and I've been shocked. I was in Albania, I've been in the Middle East, you know, I've been in South Africa, and I'm shocked at how pervasively people look at our number one export which is movies and music and they think that Christianity means immorality. I'm shocked at how pervasive that you know i I mean it's easy for a Muslim who lives in the Middle East to think that about the United States. Exactly. And that's why they hate this country. Because it's an immoral Okay, so I got a I got a question for you. Since you uh come from you know twenty years growing up in a Shia Muslim family, pretty devout Uh if the United States, obviously there's a big if, but if the United States were to genuinely, you know, uh follow God and and be moral and and not not have the pervasive sex, drugs, rock and roll, all this stuff, you know, throughout all our music and movies. Do you think that that that we would be less hated by the Middle East? Yeah yeah yeah I mean if by some miracle that happened, I'm sure that there would be other reasons to hate this country. Okay. Okay. Because Nevertheless that just kinda adds a little icing on the cake thing. It is, because what's happening is the US for many years has in the Muslim world view have been kingmakers. They've been prop uh propping up uh bad regimes, dictatorships all over the world. They've been putting people into power and having uh Muslims fight Muslims to keep that part of the world down. And I grew up um with that knowledge and with that uh almost hate of and it was a lot of the pro was prescribed to the Jewish population controlling The the uh US government. Right. Okay. And again, these are all things that were talked to me. I don't know I don't have any proof. Now we're getting into politics and I think there's a lot of roads to go down there. Troy, did you want to go that direction? Well we're not gonna have time to to to pursue them. We've got a maybe a minute, minute and a half left in the show, believe it or not. So here's what I'm thinking we might do. If if Raz is agreeable and Jonathan's agreeable and you, the listener, are agreeable. I think that next week I'd like to pick up and see if we can't uh get a l a little bit more sense of the flavor of of what it's like growing up uh a a Muslim, uh particularly a you know a Shia Muslim uh and what that all means. And then we can get into what what that meant for you in relation to other uh religions and geopolitical considerations like Israel. Uh like dealing with the the quote unquote Christian West and those sorts of things. And then uh progress into talking about the whole conversion to Christianity, what led to that, what that's meant for you. uh in the in the immediate aftermath of that relationship with your family, friends, what have you, and then kinda where you are now. It's kind of you know, it it's a long road to try to get there. There's an awful lot of ground to to cover it here. Without a doubt. So if that seems like very fascinating a pretty good plan, then maybe that's the way we'll go. Yeah, I like that. Well before we end, I would uh urge everybody that's listening, the best thing you can do for the Muslim world And I'm I'm I don't want to offend anybody by saying that nine eleven was really the best thing that happened for the new Muslim world because that's when Christians w got out of their shells and prayed for the Muslim world. And that's what you can do If you can pray for the Muslim world, I really believe our prayers are what's what what's making a difference there. And I can tell you from my family, there are stories that they don't want to tell me of people that have never heard of Jesus seeing Jesus, learning the Lord's Prayer from somebody, from a man that they describe. is Jesus. He's alive and well there, and I want you to know that through our prayers, He is there and saving people without our help. He doesn't need our help. But he would like our prayers, and that's what I wanted to make sure you guys knew that. Yeah, as as we progress in the shows, a series of shows we're going to do. Thank you. Uh Imran Raz Raz uh Razvi, uh Jonathan Schweitzer, thanks to our sponsor, Putman Fleming and Heating. Helping Make You Smile. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Fate debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD.