Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio. 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Things that we think might not only be of interest to you, but are critically important for you to think about. We'll we'll see if we can't live up to that in this week's show. On the panel One last time for this go round anyway. We have uh tendency, as you know, to do series on this show where we'll have the the same panel together for um anywhere from four to six uh sessions So that we have a chance to really get into the nitty gritty on some things. Uh this show's a short show. It's only twenty seven minutes or so long and Jess, when you're finally building up ahead of steam, it's time to wrap up the show and that gets frustrating, so we have a chance for everybody to speak their mind and and just vent And after you do four to six shows, you feel like you've had an opportunity to say what you wanted to say. Sometimes you regret that you said what you had an opportunity to say, but you have an opportunity to say it nonetheless. So anyway, on the panel this week, Bernie Beale, founder of Great Commission Families, and uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh as we um get ready for the the holidays. Thanksgiving staring us in the face. And we were talking just before the show uh about Um something that's kind of interesting and unique on the um American cultural landscape. I mean Christ uh Christmas is a big deal. And everybody kind of celebrates Christmas, uh, in a modern marketing sense. Uh everybody watches the uh the the B Charlie Brown specials and goes out and buys lots of things. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um and everybody, you know, waves a flag on Independence Day. Uh but Thanksgiving is a religious celebration that all Americans truly do celebrate. I don't know maybe there's some that I don't know, but there's not a single group of people that I know that doesn't celebrate Thanksgiving. Part of it might be that they don't realize It's a religious celebration. It's thanksgiving. To whom are we giving thanks? And why? Yeah, and in fact, um The more that I think about it, Washington, Lincoln, uh many of the presidents down through uh the generations have put out official proclamations Thanking God for his blessing, you know, year in and year out. That's been something that uh that has been a significant part of our nation's history. that uh that the leaders of the nation have participated uh in a uh pretty abundant manner in this particular uh holiday. So what's the over-under? How many more years before they outlaw Thanksgiving? How can the government recognize such a holiday? It's interesting. Christmas clearly is Christ Mass, you know, it's it's related towards Christmas. So uh they've they're already trying to outlaw it in the schools by saying, you know, that it's just the winter holiday. You know, and then you've got the spring holiday, 'cause Easter, you know, and the uh uh Christ rising from the dead, you know, is clearly a religious holiday, you know, and uh and so they call it the spring holiday, but Thanksgiving You know, you could just say Thanksgiving without saying God. Plausible deniability. You know, you can get away with it and so maybe they'll just always let it be Because it's you know, not overtly, even though we all know that we're supposed to be giving thanks to God. Well we don't all know. See that's the thing. There is plausible deniability and I I know you guys probably as well as I have heard stories here and there where, you know, they're teaching Thanksgiving in a school or there's an article about it or whatever and oh yeah, the first Thanksgiving. That's when the pilgrims thanked the the Indians. Is that true? They were grateful to the Indians. Really? Yes. Wow. That's how you that's the plausible deniability. So there you have it. See they've already removed the religious angle of the God angle. Wow. Yeah. How could they lie? Huh? Next thing you're gonna tell me is they're gonna be teaching our kids that we, you know, evolved from apes. Go with it, man. Go with it. What else are they going to teach? They're going to lie to us about this stuff? They're going to tell us that our founding fathers were just a bunch of meanies, you know, because they all owned slaves and such Well, do you have any um Anything that you do in your church or in your family to drive home the point that this is a godly Celebration. Yes, we eat as much turkey and stuffing and gravy. Well then you're just as guilty as anybody as everybody else. No, you're eating food. You're thanking God. You're you're No, okay, really. What's your question again? What what what do you do that's spiritual on Thanksgiving? Well, we watch football, I'm pretty spiritual. Well, when we get together with my uh extended family, we'll go around and we'll say, you know, what is what is one thing in the past year? that we really thank God for. And we'll we'll all go around, you know, and it it could be, you know, a financial thing, it could be a health related thing, it could be, you know, any number of things, you know, that just kind of hits the highlight of the year. And you know, we'll we'll genuinely put it in the context of, you know, thanking God for it. So I I guess that's one thing that we do. And and you mentioned extended family, kind of the opposite of plausible deniability might be uh spiritual opportunity. And uh on my on my mother's side of the fan. That's almost the same number of syllables. There is My my um my mother's side of the family, uh you know, good, really good, hardworking people here in Frederick County And um but uh don't often go to church, so not you know, not not against it, just you know it's not really a central part of their lives But uh since I can remember w when we were little we would have uh Thanksgiving at grandma grandmother's house with and granddad's house, my mother's uh side of the family. And since I can remember, uh when it w we in my growing up years Uh we would all gather around the table, it you'd be like twenty or twenty-five people, and there'd be this moment where everything's ready, all the food's there. Then it gets quiet. And everybody would look to my dad, who married into this family. And th and then my dad would pray. And uh so this is you know, he's praying with folks that don't normally pray before the meal I I perceive, I really don't know, but I perceive. Well, my dad passed away a little over ten years ago. Uh oh. About a month and a half before Thanksgiving. Uh oh And so we're all gathering. Pressure. No, no, no. Here it goes. No, it was precious is what it was. Oh, they did it again. This guy's amazing. Because we're all gathered around the table, you know, we've got the funeral for my dad six or seven weeks earlier Uh and it's that moment where everything gets quiet and then everybody looked at me 'cause I'm I'm like representing my dad. God's precious. And I Yeah, I think I said, let's pray. And and as I'm praying, I hear my father's voice. Yeah. And the and uh that's uh the earthly thing I am most grateful for is indeed uh Christian parents. That Yeah, so it used to be in the Schweitzer family with uh my dad's brothers and sisters that we would gather at Christmas up in uh uh up in Harrisburg and uh at m one of my uncle's uh houses. It was actually his church and we would have a big Christmas celebration. And so the whole family would be there together and all my cousins and all my aunts and uncles on that side, you know, and and that would be our Christmas time. And so that was, you know, you you're talking about, you know, the whole family coming together 'Cause we couldn't k we couldn't get together also at Christmas because we had people way up in New York and people down in Florida and different places. So you know, once a year we wanted to have a get together and so we did it at Thanksgiving And um we don't do that anymore but, you know, just in terms of thinking back on things that used to be ritual and it was always a very godly thing. You know, before when I'm saying, you know, well come on I'm eating turkey and everything. You know, honestly It's just in in my mind, in my background, all of that was was so related to God and thanking God, you know, that when we came together, uh there there's such a strong God orientation that I almost feel like it's it's religious, you know, to eat the turkey and you know and to have the the stuffing. You know, like it just that that's my particular background, yeah. Yeah, it's in and seriously, you know, for a moment on this whole, you know, precious pressure thing, uh it is maybe the one time or one of two times a year that people are gonna look to the head of the house, you know the pr usually the man, usually the eldest male who lives in that house. Now in this particular case you're talking about in your family uh Bernie about the um them deferring to the outsider who married in. But usually that's the pressure falls on the person whose home it is. And if we would look to that person And then they get a little dry in the throat and the color drains from their face and they uh so you know, even the fact that Thanksgiving is a family event, you know, that you that you think about getting together with family, you know, smacks of doing things according to God's order, you know, that you all look to the head of the home Why do you look to the head of the home? Because the reason you're together with that particular group is that you're a family. And so, you know, there's a natural deferring to whoever's the eldest part of the family that happens to be there who's the patriarch or the matriarch of the family kind of a thing and you know, so there's kind of a natural um r uh religious or biblical orientation, you know, that that fits into Thanksgiving. I guess depending on your background. I mean, I guess it's very likely that there's those that haven't grown up with that So let's take some pressure off. Okay. All right. Somebody's listening right now has to give a prayer on Thursday and they're not. What what we're gonna tell them what to pray and how to pray? You know, what are some guide basic guidelines? Is there such a thing as too short? Is there such a thing as too long? Are there things you shouldn't really pray uh in the meal, uh prayer? You know. Thanksgiving prayer 101. Is that what this is? Rubba dub dub, thank God for the grub. Is that an appropriate prayer at Thanksgiving? If it's sincere, sure. Why not? We'll take it Come on, you can thank God for everything. You pray, you open up, say, Dear Lord, thank you for mom and daddy and Uncle Joe. Like a like a child. Yeah. Yeah, I mean Yeah, it's re relationships is the greatest thing to be grateful for and ultimately a relationship with God Himself. Amen. Yeah. Thanksgiving is um often thought of as thank you for the stuff we've got. Uh but really it's relationships. You know, on uh September twelfth, two thousand and one at George Washington University we had an event planned. It was g gonna be a a um an open form uh focus group open forum on relationships. I mean that was how it was built ahead of time. And then the day before, September eleventh, two thousand one happened. And uh what we were th thinking of on the topic of relationships was um male female relationships, you know, guy-girl relationships, you know, romantic relationships. Very interesting. I just read an article today that said that uh that there's major dissatisfaction out there in the current college hookup culture and nobody th there's no sense of sexual ethics any longer because uh relationships so often in the college environment are defined by these one night stands, you know, that that people are very dissatisfied with it and and there's starting to be something of a backlash to it. That that's interesting But we changed our subject from romantic relationships because of September eleventh. You remember back then and you'd hear these reports about the last cell phone calls? Yeah, it was heartbreaking. Yeah. Um but it was always what are the relationships that are most important? It was family. Um you know, you didn't call your broker and say, Boy, I hope the stocks fli you know I called all of my brothers that day. Did you really? So we've got to be a good thing. I felt this need to connect with those guys. So Thanksgiving, that's the the thing to be really grateful for in relationships. And you think about it, not just is it the one or two times a year, you know one one of one or two times a year when uh when a prayer gets said before the meal, but it might be one of one or two times of the year when the family gets together to eat. Exactly right in today's society. Have you ever been in a situation where you you've been the one who's been uh turned to to give the prayer and you know there's some unbelievers, um, maybe o or nominal Christians uh in the room and you could get one of these Yeah, do we have to pray? You mean while you're praying? Is he done already? Are you one of those? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. A little distracted. Yeah, we used to get that from uh one of uh our relatives and yeah, interesting. You know, you just kinda you know, what are you gonna do? You're gonna pray for him while you're doing it, Lord and pray for Uncle for those that don't like the prayer You gotta be careful. Prayer is not a sermon. Amen. Amen. It's not a time to take a shot. That is true. Yeah. That would be that would be a a definite principle about prayer one on one. Thanksgiving prayer one on one Do not take a shot at any of your your uh not a sermon. Yes, relatives. Yeah that's how actually I think So you can take a shot at, you know, like political figures in a prayer like that. Oh I'm kidding. That's not relative. Only in the sponsor household. That's right, depending on what house that you're in. You're listening to the Frederick Fate debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD with uh Bernie Beal, founder of Great Commission families. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner and this is 930 WFMD. Um not just Thanksgiving, but there's something else that popped into my mind that um It it's almost shocking that we still have it in our society today, and that is National Days of Prayer. Right. So I don't how is it that we can have a national day of prayer, a national day of thanksgiving that everybody celebrates together with their family? Um have a Christmas tree on the front lawn of the White House and all that and then still have these claims that we really aren't a religious society and our government shouldn't have anything to do with religion. It's it does strike me as kind of an odd it's an oxymoron kind of a thing. So do you think that those things will eventually go away? And God was kicked out of school. I mean s I mean I kinda joked about it before with the over under on before they think but do you think that it's possible, sure anything's possible. Do you think it's probable that in our lifetimes Our government would cease to recognize a day of Thanksgiving, would cease to have you know public days of prayer. There would no longer be a tenanbaum on the uh White House lawn. You think that's a a probability? Well look look to Europe. You kind of uh comment on that the other time. Yeah, I mean um Is it not there in Europe anymore? I don't know. Europe still has Christmas, right? They celebrate Christmas in Europe? I don't know the answer to that. It it's more of a post-Christian culture than than even we are. Like a like a uh winter break or something? I don't know. It's interesting. I I have a hard time I guess getting my head around not not having that anymore. Like even, you know, this past election there was there was so much uh r religion in it, you know, that us not actually having some kind of a, you know, national day of prayer. I mean at this point, even the national day of prayer, you know, there there's uh major push that keep Jesus out of it, you know, and those kinds of things. You you already get those kinds of an orientation, you know, or the uh the prayer breakfasts You know, at the White House, you know, you get a lot of uh non-sectarian prayers, you know, and and a little bit of um frustration if you do pray in the name of Jesus. You know, that even happened here. There's a uh a gathering of Republicans and um somebody got up and prayed in the name of Jesus and uh you know there's a little bit of a you know kind of a murmur Like uh well you shouldn't have done that, you know. So last year, year and a half, two years ago, something like that? Yeah, well I was the one that prayed. Oh okay. No, no, no. There's a big hubbub about that Sure. Sure. Where was that? I actually I hadn't heard about that. Uh some city function or something. He was they needed to have a uh a prayer done before the gathering or whatever and they They selected him or it was his turn or I'm not sure I came over the details and that was a while ago. But he prayed and he ended it in Jesus' name Interesting. And they got all upset. Quite the hubbub. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. So we already have You know, um a s uh a limitation pretty much. The real problem is the way Chris I mean we've talked about with Thanksgiving uh already about, you know, it it could be thanks for anything. And and the way Christmas is celebrated anymore, it it's not really a a Christian holiday. You know, it's it's uh it's a s it's become a secular holiday. Yeah. Yeah, what what what does uh a turkey or a football game or colored lights or an evergreen tree for that matter. Football is very real any of what you have to do. How can you is not religious. You know, I mean we we've totally w Come on, God's a coach, Holy Spirit is the uh the defense. Jonathan and I have talked about this before. I can't remember if we've done it on the show. I think we actually have done it on the show. I don't know if you've heard that show, Bernie, but Sometimes I begin to wonder if the most Christian thing uh we could do would be to stop celebrating Christmas. Well, there are Christians who who believe that. Well I think the um The Puritans. Yeah. The people who came here for from Europe. Uh really believe that. Uh yeah, I can't remember if it's the Puritans or the Pilgrims or b or both, uh whatever the case might be. Are you a Puritan Are you a Neo Puritan? Yeah, I think I might be. I've been accused of that actually. Oh you have? Yeah. Yeah. I was accused believe it or not, in high school. on the spring equinox either because it's too pagan. And I don't think we should call it Easter. You think we should call it Resurrection Sunday. Resurrection Sunday. Absolutely. Yeah, my Orthodox friend always reminds me that we celebrated on the pagan day instead of the original day. If somebody could show me any English translation of the Bible that has the word Easter in it, I might change my mind. That's pretty unique. You know, I just I know. I don't know. Maybe I'm pu uh maybe a few puritanical, is that what you're telling me? Uh no, I'm just noting that this is a particular puritanical element of your background. All right. Let's change the subject. Okay. We've got about, I don't know, five minutes or so, and uh if you've listened to the first few s shows in this series with this panel, then you know that uh Bernie is uh is an expert okay on uh things of uh history uh in in this part of the country. And uh he made mention of something off the air that he hasn't had a chance to share on the air, but he he you know, we we talk about a lot about Francis Scott Key in this area. There's a mall named after him. Uh a baseball team. Yeah. So who is this guy? Well the baseball team is named after the mall, I believe. That uh come from the same idea. Yeah, that get stolen. Well that was an art project last year. We went around to those keys and uh had some gospel flyers giving Francis Scott Key's testimony. Yeah, that was the point. Why did you w what is the Francis Scott Key's testimony? Oh, what is his testimony? Okay. Well he was born in Frederick County. uh over outside of Keysville in Terra Rubra, and if you know your Frederick County map you would say to yourself, Keysville's not in Frederick County. Well it was when he was born. Uh Carroll County was later created out of Baltimore County and Frederick County, they took part of each and made Carroll County. Same thing same thing with Montgomery County. Montgomery County didn't used to be there. Frederick County used to go all the way down to East. Named after the Keyes family? Yes. Not Franciscott Key in particular, but he grew up in a place there called Terra Rubra um and uh became a lawyer. Uh was a lawyer in Georgetown. That's right, I still like him By the way, any lawyer listening, I that was a joke. Yes, yes. Not like you don't get those all the time anyways, but you know, that's just another one Um, he he was a Bible teacher as well. Uh and um you know th think how times have changed. There was a guy elected to Congress from Virginia who was known as um uh he was against Christians. He didn't like Christians. He was a wealthy man, so he got elected to Congress. Uh and some of the under other congressmen felt, oh, we should We should uh witness to this guy. We should help him, you know, think about becoming a Christian himself, rather than being uh negative and angry Uh you know, think that's not probably the first thing congressman thinks, you know, about their fellow congressman. Uh but this um this non-Christian congressman actually to antagonize his fellow Christians uh or he he antagonized the Christians that he knew in Congress, he he asserted he was a Muslim. He probably probably really wasn't, but uh he made some assertions in that regard. Uh so you may have heard a couple of years ago that a Muslim was elected to Congress. It was a uh a guy i equally still in Congress. He was elected from I think Michigan and he had converted to Islam when in college, so he wasn't born and raised a Muslim Um but anyway, Francis Scott Key was a friend of these Christian congressmen and they went to him and said, You're so good with the Bible. Could you talk to this guy? and and uh you know help him to become a Christian. And it took a couple of years, but indeed Francis Gaquy led him to the Lord. Uh that's it Got to change national anthems. That's right. Oh say, can you speak? That's right. Yeah, he's the one who put the uh and and here is our motto in God is our trust. That's the fourth verse of the Star Spanish Banner. But up in Keysville he you know in his time period he uh inherited slaves and he just wrestled with that as a Christian. How can I get he didn't like that. And so he had a a plan he worked through where he got every slave that was under him some kind of s uh trade, skill, training, and once they were ready, then he would release them. So it was like he Train and release. And he went around to his neighbors, who's up in Keysville, and said, Um if any of those southern slave traders come up here to Frederick Don't sell them any of your slaves, they'll take them back and it'll be bad. Instead, sell them to me. 'Cause then he had his plan. Um and in Keysville, you go right to the center corner in Keysville, there's a church, and uh Francisco Key gave the land for it Uh, 'cause he wanted to see that there was a church in his town. But he eventually I said went to Georgetown and it was really the amazing providence of God that he was on a British ship. in the middle of the British uh naval invasion, watching the bombardment of Fort McHenry, which took like twenty five hours from uh sunrise to the following sunrise And uh when they had stopped bombarding the through the night, you know, he was wonder he and his um uh two friends that were there with him, Americans, um He was wondering, you know, what had happened, what had happened. That's why, you know, he wrote on that on that paper, Oh say can you see, 'cause he really wanted to know. So you go here here to uh his crypt, his He was buried in Baltimore, then reburied in Frederick. Um and there's a statue over there and it's him standing there with his with his arm, you know, stretched out, pointing to the flag. Uh but it was uh the the amazing providence of God that he was in that location to see. Hm. Yeah, I was gonna say when you uh made reference to the fourth verse, you never hear the fourth verse. Yeah. You never hear the second or third verse. In fact, yeah you know, watching the Olympics uh this past summer You don't even hear the first verse anymore. You know it used to be when the when the anthem was playing you'd see people mouthing the words. You almost never see that anymore. There were a couple of the athletes I noticed that that did do that But almo does anybody even know the National Anthem lyrics? I do. But you know, I mean uh they're saying Each next generation has fewer words, would you say fifteen thousand? Yeah, the average American teenager has a working vocabulary of fifteen thousand words, which is about a third of what it was, you know, a generation or two ago Joy, do we have time for one more uh local Christian testimony from a local well known person? Can you can you do it in forty-five seconds? Yes I can. General Lou Wallace, who is the famous general here at the Battle of Monocassy Uh you go any tour there, they'll say, and after the war he was a famous writer and he wrote Ben Hur. Why did he write Ben Hur? Well about twenty years after the war or a number of years after the war he was on a train and he met a famous atheist of his day who for two hours chatted him up and down about being kind of a uh a nominal Christian well he wasn't really a Christian, but why consider Christianity? So so he he committed to I'm gonna set out to disprove Christianity, said Lou Wallace. And in the process he became a Christian and wanted to write a book about uh illustrating reconciliation or forgiveness that comes through Jesus Christ. So the title of the book is Then Her, A Tale of Christ. Wow. It's interesting, that's a similar kind of biography as uh Lee Strobel who wrote C. S. Lewis, Josh McDowell. Lee Strouble set out to disprove Christianity because he was mortified that his wife became a Christian. He wanted to prove her wrong and he ended up becoming a Christian and wrote the case for Creator, the case for Christ, the case for faith And is one of the uh great modern day apologists for the uh Christian cause. It's really a f fascinating story. Anyway, we gave away cases of his books on campus Thank you for your uh unbelievable stories and and and knowledge. I appreciate it so much. Bernie Beale, founder of Great Commissions, uh Commission Families. Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman, Plumbing, and Heating. How can we make you smile? Check us out online, WFMD. com. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. God bless.