Welcome to the Frederick Space Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD brought to I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Bernie Beale, founder of Great Commission Families, and Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We're about a week and a half away from the presidential election. Uh as you listen to this show. And so we're talking about things American. Is America less Christian, more Christian than it used to be? Is it in a better place, a worse place as a result of being more or less Christian than it used to be? We're talking about those sorts of things. And we left you with a cliffhanger. If you were listening last week, uh if if you were obedient Then you've been listening to this radio station nonstop for the last one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours. If you've been disobedient, then you haven't been doing that. So are you obedient or disobedient? Hierarchical. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Tyrannical. Well when we left the cliffhanger, Jonathan was asking the question, hey, you know, you could talk about all this, you know, Christian uh influence and the founding of our country and all that, but uh Bill of Rights, pretty important document from early on, and uh some would argue that uh it was uh not Christian enough for those uh at the time, right? So that you can't find any support for the Bible in the Bill of Rights. So If the Bill of Rights is this big thing back then and you have all these Christians supposedly involved in writing things like the in approving things of the Bill of Rights, how Christian were we really? And so he put the question, I think it was he said just like this, prove it. Show me. Show me. Show me in the Bible where it is, Bertie. Come on. Something like that? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I appreciate the way that you uh turned the knob on the replay. You got the idea. So where what's the poor can we find in uh scripture, Old or New Testament? We'll open it up to both Testaments for you, Bernie. It's a softball. Okay. Right. Where can we find the Bill of Rights in in the Bible? Well the the Bill of R yeah, I'm I'm not a scholar nor the son of a scholar. I'm son of a dairy farmer. Right here in Frederick County. Uh but th what an interesting question. So I I here's kind of my take on it, my thoughts on it. Um the the Bill of Rights, of course it starts with the uh the First Amendment, uh which it contains the the concept of Freedom of speech. Freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly, and freedom of the press. Four freedoms. Um and uh does not contain the phrase separation of church and state, but it's often thought that it does. In fact I'll tell you this funny little story. In in college I took a course in history that I really enjoyed just for fun. History of modern communism was the name of it. And um it was during the time when the Soviet Union had just retooled their constitution and so I had a copy of it. And in there there was this statement, and I will quote it to my friends and say, This is from a constitution. Tell me what constitution it's from. Quote The church shall be separate from the state, and the state shall be separate from the church. My friends, well I guess that's our constitution, right? No, that's the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Ours doesn't say that. It says um um Congress sh shall make no law st a stab Establishing religion, I think I left out a a phrase there, or uh restricting the free uh free exercise thereof. And the phrase separation of church is a very good thing. Yeah. That's that that's the phrase. That's the establishment phrase. Right. Um and and that's what uh Thomas Jefferson wrote about it. But that phrase separation of church and state actually had does have a biblical origin uh conceptually. It it goes back, interestingly enough, to the Song of Solomon, which is a book uh uh that um um Uh as I've heard it, uh apparently uh Jewish people didn't have their uh young men read it until racy. Yeah, a little rac. Okay, that's a good way. Thank you, Troy. Um but uh but there's imagery in there about when Solomon and his bride are having physical intimacy, the place they were was in a high walled garden, protected from the world around them. So the wall of separation was protecting them for marital intimacy. That that uh illustration uh made its way into church state uh uh uh concepts in Christian circles by illustrating that the church needs a high wall of separation or should have a high wall of separation to keep the world or the state from influencing the church. That's it. It was a it was a one way wall to keep the world out. But the church was to go out and influence the world in good and godly ways, not to rule the world. So the separation of church and state, it's not a high wall to keep the church inside its walls. It's the high wall to keep the state outside of the of the uh of of the church being in becoming worldly. Um so that's in the Bible. Uh let me say uh I'm gonna define the term up front, uh hermeneutic is uh an interpretation tool for under theologians to use how they interpret scripture, the what's their hermeneutic for unlocking the the meaning. So I say that to say this What an odd hermeneutic it seems to me. Well that's that's simply an analogy. That's not a Because, you know, the Song of Solomon's Old Testament, the Old Testament context would be the people of Israel, the nation of Israel, where the church and the state were clearly one at that point. So for the seems a little bit revisionist. for the Christian to want to pluck that out of its uh Israelite context and say that should be a separation of church and state. I don't know how much you've uh maybe study some of this, but there's definitely a whole school of uh theological interpretation dealing with the Old Testament that will uh reinterpret much of the uh both the prophets and uh Song of Solomon different places allegorically as referring to the church, not referring to uh Israel in particular, but that but that they were always pointing forward to the time when Christ was going to come. and and make everything right when he was going to bring the most glorious, you know, and that Israel was the shadow and the church was the reality that was to come. And so uh so it's actually very common in that and that allegorical approach to uh to theologically theologically interpret Song of Solomon as representing the church. Yeah, I'm just telling you where the phrase comes from. Yeah. Uh not using it as as a hermeneutic per se. But uh people like Montesquieu and John Locke and other uh Christian writers of of uh about government, they borrowed that terminology. So I'm not saying Solomon Solomon Yeah, you go that's not what it's teaching, but that's where that phrase comes from. Okay, but before we we do that, I want to say I'm not uh disagreeing with the con and I do um in fact my uh Uh my understanding of how to understand the Old Testament would be th would be through that lens. An allegorical lens. So it's well through the idea that uh things in the Old Testament that might not Uh at first blush seem to be speaking of the church and being were speaking by the church. Interesting. Yeah, I think the whole Bible is about Jesus. And uh and the church that he was. So anyway, so uh but why don't we why wouldn't well maybe the You're saying there's a phrase in Song of Solomon that says separation of church and state? Oh no no the the idea of the garden, the the illustration. Well couldn't we also use Jesus saying, Give unto Caesar what is Caesar's and give unto God what is God's? I mean isn't that an idea that there's a separation Well that's a good thing. And I don't know how far to take this 'cause uh 'cause I would argue that separation of church and state is uh is probably a very appropriate uh biblical um conclusion uh for uh a young nation. But the Bill of Rights that says that we're gonna give people these rights you know, in this nation, instead of saying that we're not gonna give people rights, but what we're gonna do is we're gonna have the rule of law. And what we're gonna do is we're gonna tell people what they're not supposed to be doing, not uh not not giving people these rights that, you know, um, you know, even even life, liberty and the pursuit of happy happiness is a you know, are interesting phrases that don't necessarily come right out of a uh scriptural orientation, but they come out of out of a little bit more of an enlightenment orientation that says Well, happiness for you might be one thing and happiness for you might be another thing, and so so therefore, you know, we'll let everybody do what they want to do, which is a little bit of a moral relativism. uh there from the very beginning that was that was built into our constitution that says that when it comes to religious things that you know that we're gonna leave enough space that if you know uh in to in fact Tokaville said it himself, Alexis de Tolcaville, the great f French observer of the American democratic uh experiment said that, you know, when America ceases to be good, America will cease to be great. He recognized that there's nothing built into our governmental structures that would somehow uh require us to still be Christian uh down the road. And and in fact he was right. He was quite the prophet. But isn't that a good terms of anticipation. Christ himself says his kingdom is not of this world, so we shouldn't be trying to establish a Christian kingdom within our nation, should we? Well, this is part of what I'm arguing for, is that they never did in the first place. In fact they argued in the context of the Treaty of Tripoli. that we have not endeavored to create a Christian nation, but rather to create a c a nation where d Jew, Mahatmutan, which was the word for Muslim of the day, and Christian could live side by side. And uh and the point is that being the case is that uh for us to attempt to somehow make the nation Christian again, uh we would be fighting against the very thing that the Founding Fathers attempted to do, which is different from saying that we want our our legal system and and our our constitution to be based on the the twin pillars of the Enlightenment and the Judeo Christian worldview. Let me clarify you said that do we want to fight to make America Christian again. Did you mean to say again? Or are you aren't you arguing that we never really were? Yeah, in quotes, yes. I didn't, yes. A way to think about that is uh sometimes if I'm at an event and people are trying to save seats by putting a piece of paper down. You ever been like that? And didn't it always kind of bug you? And and I would look at him and say, You can't save a seat unless there's a soul in it. Now think about a nation. You know, nations aren't going to stand before God. people are going to stand before God. You know the judgment isn't going to be in eternity for nations. Nations are going to be judged in the year and present because a nation or a government uh doesn't have a soul. It's made up of with people who have a soul. And so I think of as John is talking about here, our founding fathers gave us a government, it's like building a house, a foundation, and in which Um, I think uh you know, the way they talked of the day that that all uh you know all good men could repair here. You know, meaning come and and uh Thomas Jefferson wrote the letter to the Danbury Baptist uh about giving this idea of you're gonna be safe. Yeah, that's where the concept separation of church and state, the phrase was in that that letter. It wasn't that much. But the point of what the point was was to keep the the state out of the church. Because there was an established church in their state, meaning their local state. Um, and in fact there was in Maryland too. There was quite a few states back at the founding of the nation that w that had an established church And in fact where the state collected the tithes in in a in taxes to give to the uh the uh church in order to build buildings and and do their ministry. In fact some people would argue that that's the reason why the Episcopalians and the Presbyterians and um uh Catholics, other other church denominations uh tended to either one go liberal and two to weaken was because th they had it easy because literally they were getting all of their tithes through people's taxes at the time and so uh they didn't have to go out and win adherence. They they the state automatically gave that to 'em and so as with many monopolies they tended to lose their uh their intensity, their edge. And uh as a result then they lost their relevance as well. And the point is is that, you know, that's very interesting that that the different states had you know, had uh a requirement like that, but that the Constitution federally uh did not have anything like that. Well th that was the great desire of the Founding Fathers. that there would be no federal uh established church because we've got ours in our state is kind of the attitude. Uh in fact it wasn't until I think the early nineteen hundreds that those uh uh those various states began to uh kind of dethrone the church of the state Yeah. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. That last voice you just heard was that of Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And the other voice you hear is that of Bernie Beale, founder of Great Commission Families. He's he's an expert on uh American history. I mean, well He doesn't like me saying that but in this room. If you listen to him talk long enough, you won't disagree with that statement. He conducts tours all around the region in uh areas of historical interest that tourists like to to travel down in D C and uh well down from where we are right now. uh up from where we are right now in Gettysburg, uh Antietam Battlefield. I mean all all the the the really cool historic that we live in a really cool place. Francis got keys home. Yeah, you drive you drive an hour in any direction and anywhere within that radius. I mean there's so much cool stuff here. And uh Bernie knows an awful lot about that stuff. And so we're talking about uh things American. I want to make sure that I understand uh I think I think I know where Jonathan's uh stands. I'm not sure I know if you're agreeing or disagreeing. Jonathan says, look We're clearly not a Christian nation at our core today, and a lot of people will bell ache about that, so we should we should become that once again. And then in quotes. And Jonathan's saying, but we're missing the point because we never were really a Christian nation at our core. That was never the intent. Are you agreeing with that, Bernie, or disagreeing? It's a terminology thing. We were never a Christian nation in the sense that, um, a theocracy. But I would say you could change the phrase a little bit and say we w we were and and are a Christian nation in the sense that the principles that our government is based on uh are are biblical principles. Um and it's it's just like anything if the principles are useful and helpful, whether you believe or or honor the source If if it's helpful to you, you'll do it. I think it was Madison that said our our government was d uh was designed for a a righteous people. Um and then so as long as we have a righteous people, this will work. Uh last week I described the idea of our government being like a three-legged chair, the three branches of the federal government, uh legislative, executive and and um Judicial. Judicial. Yeah, the legislative executive and judicial. Um Freudian, that you forgot the judicial. Yeah, because I was gonna say as long as one leg doesn't get too long You know, it won't fall over. But but maybe what we're move have moved towards in our our culture, an oligarchy of the judicial. Yeah, without a doubt. The uh the three branches, the idea was checks and balances that uh none was supreme over the other. And unfortunately we have one that has the word supreme The question is how did we go that way though? In uh it like it meaning how did we get to where we are today where clear where there's a clear sense that uh that the nation is not Christian that uh kids are not taught anything having to do with Christianity uh that's positive in in the forty hours, you know, that they spend in school every week or however many hours that that they actually spend in school every week You know, um so many at least in my generation are leaving the church in greater numbers than they're coming into the church. How do we get to this uh particular place, you know, in history in It seems to me like that's the question is is you know, were we at one point a Christian nation and then we w we we've kind of slid into where we're not or Is it I think I've I'm going to anticipate Bernie's answer and I will see see if I've been paying attention. I'm a good student of the expertise I have uh available to me. All right Our nation doesn't have a soul, so our nation isn't of in and of itself Christian, right? It's not saved, it can't be. It's it's not uh it's not a person. It's a collection of souls. Yes. So if our nation has lost its way, it's because the collection of souls have steadily over time lost their way. Go to the head of the class. There's been a breakdown in our society that what has its has its roots in the family? Okay, let me give you let me let me let me give you a quote from Ben Franklin about George Washington's generation. Ben Franklin was a generation older than George Washington's penny errors? No, that's a different quote one. Yeah. Ben Franklin. Ben Franklin said of George Washington's generation that they were good for nothing, that they were greedy immoral gamblers and uh and he wondered if there was any hope for him. Uh which is part of the reason why George Washington stood head and shoulders above most of his generation because at the time, uh and and if you think about it, many of his generals were scallywags. They were uh they they weren't uh uh great men. Uh a lot of them were uh were kind of known for being, you know, not so great. Uh but in the context of the war they ended up fighting for the freedom and and fighting together with George Washington and Uh but the point is is that from Ben Franklin's perspective, George Washington's generation, I I mean, I feel like Ben Franklin could be describing my generation. And as far as Ben Franklin goes from what I hear, he would know a scallywag when he saw one. Right, right, right. Bringing us to the Treaty of Tripoli, where he argued that we have not endeavored to create a Christian nation, but a nation where the three religions could uh could live together. And so th so my point is is that like i the same thing was true around the time of the Civil War uh whatever awakenings we had had or not had, they had awakenings because there were there were cycles of increased spirituality and decreased spirituality and in the context of those time frames It was pretty ugly, you know, and and at least as bad that people were thinking, you know, claiming that that the millennium was gonna come or you know, that that these were the end times You know, because uh things got so bad that they were like, Wow, this kinda looks like revelation and things are getting really ugly and none of us is new. I mean, right I mean Adam and Eve sinned almost out of the gate. Yes. Abraham lies and says that his wife is his sister, although it's a half lie because she was his half sister. Uh uh I mean right through the Yeah, th Israel, the chosen nation, uh as as soon as they're uh set free from Egypt they wine and want to go back into slavery, and then they they as soon as they're given the as soon as Moses is given the commands, don't create any idols for yourself, they make a golden calf. I mean so you could ha you could always have the context of there's some sort of great spiritual happening going on while the individuals involved are still sinful, wretched people. That's not anything new. So I'm not I'm gonna I'm gonna concede the point and we'll see if uh Bernie will agree I'm gonna concede the point that there are a bunch of just hypocrites and jerks around two three hundred years ago. Okay. And there are a bunch of hypocrites and jerks around today. Okay. And yet We seem to want to say that things aren't as good now. The moral fabric of our nation isn't as good. The path that we're on isn't as strong as it was two or three hundred years ago. So what's c what's caused that? What's the difference? What's the difference? Why are we going off on the are you are you suggesting we're not really a Are you being devil's advocate here or are you really arguing that you don't think there are any other things? I'll tell you honestly, um I feel like I'm still trying to work this out uh in my own study. I d I don't know that I've come to conclusions and I'm I'm I'm kind of seeing uh how much of what Bernie's saying that I can that I can poke holes in because uh for a couple of reasons. One, it's clear to me that that it was both the Enlightenment and Judeo-Christian values that our nation was built on. That being the case, it's also clear to me that the Enlightenment part of it uh was was very individualistic and uh very geared towards things that led to the breakdown of society. I know this is something that's very big on uh Bernie's heart, you know, uh with his great commission, families, that families you know, should be together, they should be a building block of society. And what led to that, I believe, was uh was the the enlightenment teachings that were were built on a scientific naturalistic you know, I'm not just saying science. I I agree with science uh that that science is a good thing. I I think we should use it as much as we can. But but there are plenty of people, even at the time of our founding whose whose commitment to science as their reigning worldview, which I think could be argued that was true with Thomas Jefferson and Very uh possibly Ben Franklin. That that their commitment to that was way more than their commitment to the revelation that we have in Scripture And that being the case, their their commitment to science created this atomistic, you know, uh Newton had just you know told the world that everything's made up of atoms and molecules and so even Adam Smith and and John Locke as they're writing um very powerful descriptions of capitalism and and uh and how we should uh run our economic system or political systems built into their whole thought processes this idea that of the the uh the great noble savage that somehow you could be separated Bernie from every other attachment in your life And you could just choose by your own will which involvements that you're going to be a part of, whether it's your church, whether it's your country Whether it's uh marriage, you know, whatever it is, this this individualistic orientation that w that uh that has actually pervaded our entire last two, three hundred years, and so much so that there were some Baptist um evangelists right after the founding of our country that that were going around preaching a Jeffersonian gospel that was all about liberty, liberty, liberty and that was that that was actually claiming that we needed to declare our independence of churches. So that, you know, and and many people would claim that even the Great Awak Awakenings were this great um m moving away from churches it so that people could make their own decision as a as an individual, but they didn't really have to be a part of a communal church environment. And so the Great Awakening, you would go off to the to the guy that's coming into town You know, and you listen to what he preached about and you come to this personal uh uh you know experience of conversion But it was not any longer in the context of a church that loved you and that was important to growing, you know, into what it meant to be a believer and and it seems like that that autonomy, that individualism is very pervasive and was there from the very beginning. And this is my concern. Bernie, you already mentioned earlier that you do believe things are worse now than they were. Which so there's an area of disagreement here. W how is how is Jonathan wrong? Let me say this, I don't worry I I'm not saying I wouldn't argue that things And this probably is gonna sound like I'm I'm waffling. I don't know that because I'm still trying to figure it out, that I'm arguing that things are actually worse than they were then. Just that that the things that were built into our Constitution and our founding fathers, their ideas, uh are are why we are where we are today. in that that i had we been more discerning, it's possible things could be in a different place today. Well in w about sixty seconds or so then my question is, you know, how is if how Jonathan has presented the idea, how is he wrong? Or is the way he's printed presented the idea not really wrong and somehow can fit in with what you think is the case. Okay, he quoted De Tocqueville but America is good as long as America's people are good. I want to give you a historical example from uh Maryland's history of uh of what's on our state shield Uh there's actually a Bible verse, half of a Bible verse on our State Shield. It's in Latin, that's why probably no one's ever noticed or complained about it. But uh it's around the State Shield it says, you shall surround him with favor as with a shield. Now you notice I mentioned to you that it's half of a Bible verse. So the question may pop in your head, well what's the other half? Yeah, what is the other half? Oh here you go. The first half is For it is you, as referring to God, for it is you who blesses the righteous man, O Lord. You surround him with favor as with a shield. And so the promise of being surrounded and protected by God is uh for those who are who are seeking to be righteous. No man is righteous ultimately in and of himself. Uh but but that's the the intent of I think of that that verse which is again the verse on the Maryland State Shield. So the the founding fathers, uh there's sinners in every age. Boy that's clear. And every age those uh the the remnant of the church, whoever it might be, and we're not usually uh necessarily talking about institutional uh church, uh the remnant of the church has a responsibility in in the their generation. So us in our generation to uh be faithful, salt and light in the culture we have. What happened around the time of the Founding Fathers wasn't because these were unusually righteous men. But these were were men that were unusually willing to stand against a tyranny, as they saw it, and to establish a government that was different than ever before. I used the t the term earlier uh in in the other program. about the American experiment. That's how that's how the Europeans looked at us. You know, today if you ask them average guy on the street, what do we have? What kind of government do we have? Uh democracy? The founding fathers feared a democracy because they believed man was evil because they looked around and saw other men and they saw their own heart. That's why they created a democratic republic. That's right. A representative uh democracy or a republic. Okay. Well, and on that history lesson note, we're gonna wrap up the show. Bernie Beale, founder of Great Commission Families, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Frederick Fate debate On Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating, how can we make you smile? Thanks for listening. God bless