Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty. WFMD brought to us by Putman Ploving and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And the owner of the Owl Nest, Tamar Bradley, uh Jonathan will be on the show today representing, believe it or not, the Christian point of view. And representing the believe it or not pagan point of view is Tamar. We're going to talk about what uh what Tamar would mean by that word pagan in just a second. But first I want to set the record straight. Yes, I'm an idiot. But I'm not a complete, utter, total idiot. That's nice to know. Yeah, because I was uh uh listening back to a show that we recently did and I Realized uh for some who knows why reason, I referred to Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee as Tom Huckabee. Hilarious. I don't know why. Tom Tom and Huck Finn, of course, right? Probably it was some sort of weird finally some weird schoolyard connection in my brain. And I referred to him as Tom Huckabee and I heard it back later and I was like What did I say? Yeah, the question is whether or not any of you guys out there heard the same thing too. So uh like I said, I am an idiot, just not a complete, total, utter idiot. I know who the presidential candidates are. So anyway. Um anyway. If this is your first time listening to the show, the the point of the show is to have an an an open and honest dialogue about um Really what I hold are the most important issues for us to face, and that is, you know, the the the big picture worldview things, the the things of a of a spiritual, eternal kind of a nature. are much more important than presidential elections, even, right? So we're not going to talk about presidential politics unless of course there's some sort of a bigger picture version of that that we would want to talk about. Um, and it's funny this topic that we're having so often we were joking off the air a little bit, so often you t you know, in in Christian circles or if you if you read some Christian materials, it's you know the Christians and the pagans. It's like there's Christian and there's everything else which is pagan. Right. And and it has become like this catch-all phrase for so many things that Orthodox uh certainly Western European type Christians uh would want to call that what do we mean by pagan? What do we mean by Well more importantly I guess for today's show, what does tomorrow mean? by pagan. And then so once we have a sense of what that is about, we can figure out where we might agree or disagree and we can begin the discussion. So somebody comes to you and says, Tomar, you're like, you're a pagan? And you say, Yes I am But what does that mean? And you say? I'll give you one of two answers. You can look it up. Um Pegan is Often referred to as a country dweller or a pagan is somebody who is not of the Abrahamic faith, somebody that is not a Christian, Muslim, or Jew And I kind of fall into both those categories. Live in the country and I have a definite affinity to nature, the land. And I'm not a Christian, Muslim, or a Jew. So could I be a pagan Christian, meaning I'm a country gr country dwelling Christian? I have come across people in the community that say that they are a pagan Christian or a Wiccan Christ Christian. Which kind of blows me out of the water a little bit because I'm like, hmm, that might offend two groups of people you know. But um it it's such a a broad term sure for so many other belief systems because I know Buddhists if I went up and said, hey, you're a pagan. They would beg to differ. No, I am Buddhist So it's it's a very broad definition and you can definitions end up being in people as opposed to being objective like Absolutely. Obviously for today we'll try to figure out what you mean by it. Yeah. Definitely. So the Buddhist in that example might not agree with you characterizing them as pagan, but do you consider them uh what's the right word, kindred spirits? Do you think of them as being part of what your belief system is? Or is it so? I think of humanity in whole as kindred spirits. I respect them as Buddhists. And I I definitely say that we're more in the same circles just by what society labels us. So in that sense, I think that I would be I don't even know really how I would explain that. Okay. Do you do you tap into in any way in your life into the the teachings of the Buddha? And and those sorts of things. I hope we're all looking for enlightenment. I I think that's something that we're all searching for is that connection with God. But some of the practices that would be Buddhist, like the fourfold path or the eightfold path or the four great truths. Well, there's a lot of pagans that would have Buddhist overlays. Uh they might incorporate some of Buddhist traditions in their ceremonies and in their daily practices. I find Buddhists uh to to not really resonate with my spiritual philosophies. I'm definitely more um Western pagan where I pull a lot of of Celtic spirituality. Druid stuff. More Druid, um, specifically working with Welsh deities. Sure. But you know, I mean if it if it all boils down to lighting a stick of incense and saying a prayer, then that's something Buddhists and I would have in common. Now uh you said that pay one of the definitions of pagan was having to do with You know, being a country dweller, could you live in the city and be a pagan? Oh absolutely. Absolutely. I I think I wish I had a dictionary with me. I think that's what the dictionary Yeah, no, I agree. Because in fact, um I think that that was the uh general understanding in the time of early Christianity was that pagans were those that that were more the country dwellers in that in fact Um even like the Greeks and the Romans considered the country dwellers to be pagans, you know, that worship the you know, the the gods of And they meant it pejoratively, right? Like they were uneducated backwards kind of it was a negative word, wasn't it? Is that correct? That's my understanding of it. Now if we're gonna bring Christianity into that scenario, they moved from the more city area where Christianity was taking over because they didn't want to give up their practices with their gods and goddesses. Sure. And so that's kind of where the heathen, the pagan, and they kind of seemed the the uneducated poor folk, but they were just really getting out of trying to get out of Christianity's grasp. Sure. But so that would be after Christianity c came, but i I I I'm pretty sure that pre-Christianity there was there was still the sense that the ones that were called pagans were considered to be something, you know, that there was a certain uh perception, at least that we get when we study history, that the pagans represented something even to the pre-Christian Romans and Greeks, that that the pagans, you know, represented the the uneducated, you know, that that were uh more superstitious and not as sophisticated you know, out in in uh in the countryside. But then of course when Christianity came along, then uh all the definitions took on a uniquely Christian character to them. So that um the pagans came to represent for the Christians everybody that rejected Christianity, right? And so then you had the Christians and then you had the pagans that were worship worshiping what Christians claimed to be false gods. And so in that sense there was a pre-Christian understanding of pagan, then a then a Christian understanding of pagan. And now we might even have what could be considered like a like a post-Christian or a You know, like like the neopaganism, right. Uh is uh is the i I mean, you would consider yourselves pretty sophisticated at this point. You know, and not not not an uneducated. In fact, even talking with you ahead of time, you have a pretty strong commitment to reading widely and to knowing and to to thinking things through. Absolutely. And I would say even now, I mean Wouldn't you say Rome 2,000 years ago was a a a pagan place? Uh we're having the temples to Artemis, Athena. Yeah, Christianity now would claim that, but I think again, pre Christian, two thousand years ago before Christ, um, I don't think that that would have been the case. I don't think any I don't think the word pagan was really flying around. Oh then from my understanding it was. Though I'd have to do some research and I'd you know I'd be happy to. In fact I'll do some research on that and throw that on my website Um, you know, at some point. I'm not gonna claim that I know everything about paganism because it is Right, right. But um from going Like it sounds like you don't use it necessarily in a very precise way You're using it in more of a broad way, you know, a broad umbrella. You know, like like for example, Republican or Democrat could mean very broad things. Absolutely. And then you gotta hone that in and refine it down and pinpoint what you're looking for. So at this point you use it in a very broad way as opposed to a specific way. Right. And for me when you ask me, you know, straight off the bat, what are you? Again, I kind of maintain that I'm a spirit having a human experience. That's something that we as people love to do. We love to label everything. Sure. Now where do you believe spirits came from? Why I believe that spirits God created everything. So I believe that So you believe in a creator God. Absolutely. I I believe in a duality. I believe in a balanced male-female energy. Okay. So whatever God is He's neuter or he's both and he's both female and male for that sense. Like in Christianity, uh in Genesis chapter one it says God created man in his image, male and female he created them in many would claim that that that's a um an indication that that in order to have the full image of God you really need the male and the female together, you know, as opposed to to it just being the one or the other. Growing up I went to a Southern Baptist church and one thing I I realized very? Okay. Probably somewhere around in early teens. Yeah Very quickly, I discovered that there was no mother aspect in the Southern Baptist Church. It was one God And this God was male. And I visited my cousin's church who were Catholic and there was Mary. And putting it together It takes a man and a woman to make a baby, so how can God be just male? So you kind of felt like the Southern Baptist didn't represent an ideal of womanhood. you know, for for you to participate in worship of. And so uh at that point you were kinda like, whoa, what's up with that? And being a woman, I prefer to speak to God as a woman. Okay. Very interesting. Um what uh about what age would you say that uh no I was gonna ask this question, not what age you just said about till fourteen. Uh uh would you say that your family was pretty strongly Southern Baptist? No. No. My father didn't go to church, was very atheist actually until I opened up my shop. Okay. And my mom, I think we went to church because that's what you did back in the seventies Okay. So but there wasn't a sense like that your mom did it because she was really convicted that this was uh that that, you know, she needed a relationship with God or some of those kinds of things that that would classically be said, but but uh you f you feel like looking back that it was more of a just a thing that you were supposed to do? I think it was more community. We did it to A place to connect. Okay. But my mom also was um a Sunday school teacher for many, many years. She's an artist. She did a lot of artwork for the church. Now is she still Southern Baptist? No. She's very pagan as well. Okay. And your dad is also now? I think he's more agnostic. He went from atheist to Yeah, because nobody's really atheist. You know, the big bang and once you're dead, that's it, you're gone, you're dust. And a story to going, hm, there's something else out there, I don't know what that is. Sure, sure. So I think that's pretty cool that a sixty-five year old man can change his beliefs. Sure. From nothing to wow, there is something. Yeah, now you you you uh you seem to really celebrate the emphasis on there being uh openness and freedom, do you kind of feel like well early on that there was not a lot of that in the Southern Baptist environment or you know, like there was just ri rigidity or I definitely felt trapped inside the church. Yeah. Um sense of being trapped. When we would sing and the energy that you c that I felt when I raised music has always been a big influence. I felt so connected Yeah. Or when I would see somebody go up to the front amazing grace. Absolutely absolutely and and my my piano teacher was the the church uh music minister. Okay. And she was amazing and I learned a lot of amazing songs and that connected me to God. But it was the the the fire brimstone, the damnation. Everything you do is dirty and sinful and you must repent. And then in the next breath They're bringing wheelbarrels down the center aisles of the church as offering plates. Wheelbarrows. Wheelbarrows. Like literal wheelbarrels. walking down with it couldn't it wasn't just the offering plate anymore, it was wheelbarrows. And so the wheel the the the j like they actually brought wheelbarrows. Like so so that kind of represented to you uh control Uh did you feel like it was greed? Like did you feel like the pastor was a little bit greedy? Being so young at that time, I didn't know, I just knew that it didn't seem right. That something about it felt weird. God shouldn't cost money. God shouldn't cost money. I felt pretty confident putting my little envelope with my quarter that I would put into it. They start bringing those wheelbarrows down. I felt like I needed as a child to just throw Stacks of money in the middle of the yeah. It doesn't count. You know, you're just a little child inside the church. Now I got a question for you. Um do you run a store? Yes. That's a pagan store Shouldn't you give all your stuff away? No. Why to make a living? I have a mortgage. Well, what about what about pastors? Are they supposed to make a living? I think they should. Yeah. I think that I I I'll be honest, I believe that's a good idea. Do they have as much right to make a living as you do? Oh absolutely. I I kind of feel that there's a problem, you know, when the pastor rolls up in a a Cadillac. Oh. I think that there's I think that that if if you if I look at the rest of the thing. And so it wasn't like he was uh his his the tithes and offerings were giving him a lifestyle that was equal to what everybody in his congregation was. You felt like it ended up setting him above everybody else and there was something wrong with that. You know, again, I I don't entirely remember. That was twenty years ago. Oh. But I do feel I believe the pastor has a right to make a living and live comfortably just like everybody else. Okay. I also believe that The church also if if I'm giving my offerings to the church, I want to see that money being put into the church. I want to see programs. I want to see upgrades. So you want to bang for your buck, you want to see that go into something that's really making a big difference. And I think, you know, also I'm influenced a lot by media. Sure. The way that a lot of people get bad tastes in their mouth on pagans and Wiccans. It's a lot of it is the media. Sure. And you see the movies of the little ghetto town with the little ghetto church and the pastor coming in with the really nice suit and the big fancy car. Sure, yeah. And I'm like I wish I could be that kind of pastor. That'd be kinda nice I I I just think that um there's a bounce. So it's not wrong you're saying for a church necessarily to take offerings, but but Um there there should be accountability and there should be a sense that he's not just lining his pockets, but that he's genuinely doing his job, ministering to the sheep. Right. You know, whatever it might be. And I left the church a long time ago and it might change. Every b every church is run differently. I think it's important the congregation knows where their money's going to. Sure. Because otherwise you don't see it and you just see pastor Right, right. And you're like, hmm, I wonder where my money's going to. Is there a lot of things that you're going to do? Most churches have like once or twice a year, they have what they call like a community meeting where they talk about where the finances go How much comes in, you know, what ministries they go out to. And I don't know I don't know that I know of any churches that I've been a part of that don't do that. In fact I would say if anybody is going to a church where that's not going on, then then they definitely should, you know, absolutely raise the question and and appeal for, you know, some kind of accountability along those lines. But also Let me remind you that I left the church as a teenager, so my mind is very different. It very well could have been. But as a child you don't think about finances and things like that. I just see the wheelbarrow and Yeah, back then I was just thinking about, you know, sports and girls and that kind of thing. That's Jonathan admit that on the side. Uh Owner of the Owl Nest, Tamar Bradley, uh who describes herself as a pagan, and I want to get more into that. We kinda drifted from that a little bit, but it was a good background. This is the first show in in what we hope will be a series of shows, and I want to kind of provide a little bit of a of a platform for us to spring from in future shows. Um by the way, Jonathan mentioned he was going to post some research on his website. It's JonathanSweitzer. com. com and if you forget that or you're not sure how to spell Jonathan Sweitzer, you can go to WFMD. com, find the Faith Debate page, and you can link to Jonathan's page from the Faith Debate page. Um that's pretty easy. Wfmd. com. I have to admit, by the way, I had been updating the blog on on that page every weekday, limit limit limiting myself to one update per day, every day. But uh of late I I was getting deluged with all these emails and just to clear out my ebo uh my inbox I'd post like four or five of them in a row. Okay, that's done for a week now. Well, I got into that habit, so several weeks in a row I kind of did that. So we'll get back to posting once once a day. It's a little easier for you to keep up if if you like to do that sort of thing Anyway, you're listening to the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. And uh tomorrow earlier in the show, my probably like ten minutes ago now Uh we were talking about how to define and understand paganism and and what that used to mean two thousand years ago, fifteen hundred years ago, you know, whatever. How is that received? How is that word received now? When somebody says, oh, you know, what what religion are you? Or however they would ask the question, say, oh, well, I'm a pagan. How is that received? Very, very well. I haven't had anybody shriek and scream and run away or tell me, you know Going to hell or anywhere else that's bad for the thing. But do they ask you questions like what is it me? Oh, Peggy, that's interesting, and they move on with their lives. A lot of times I get that and then Some people are interested and want to go a little deeper in the conversation and then, you know, I kind of ask them, you know, whatever questions you have for me. I'm more than willing to answer them for you. Knowledge is power. Now would you say that you know because you earlier in the show were talking about the different circles that you share with you know everything that's not uh uh Christian, Jewish or or Islam, anything other than that you would broadly define as pagan. Uh, but you don't define you don't describe yourself as a Buddhist or a Hindu or a b of the Baha'i faith or anything like that. So what is it th that is either distinctive about what they're doing or distinctive about what you believe that causes you to not call yourself a Buddhist, for example, or pick one? I don't like labels. I I don't like labels and I'm very eclectic in what I believe in and I'm forever searching. And I think it's great that if a Buddhist is very devout and strictly Buddhist, that's their niche, that's their faith. I have respect for that I found throughout the years that I I've studied Wicco witchcraft for several years, took the knowledge that I could get out of that, said, you know, I respect that, but that's not entirely for me. And then I moved on. And so I just kinda go wherever spirit meets. You were you were very clear to be specific that I'm not Wiccan because people think of pagan as being Wiccan. Um what is it about uh being Wiccan that you want that you want to make sure that you're clear with people that that's not me? Like what is it that the Wiccans do or believe that doesn't doesn't fit with what your view is? Again, to me it's a label. And to from my from my experience and the the the witches that I have met, people that are older than me, I I almost feel that it's it's a title that you have to earn And I haven't earned it yet. It it's something it's it's so easy just to say I'm a witch because Oh so it's something to aspire to Right. Right. I it to me it's something that that comes with age and with knowledge and I would no way feel that I am that adept in my spiritual life. I think I was. I was just looking at that point and the goddess movement is heavily saturated in the Wiccan community and So I decided to explore that. I want to know more about the goddess. I went to another New Age shop several years ago, took a Wicca 101 class. Said, hey, this is kinda cool. Let me check this out. Yeah. And I went with that and then I found that not everything matched up to exactly what I believe in. So I took the meat that was good for me and left the rest. Maybe it'd be good to start with, you know, you said that there's a couple of core things that are really important to you. Maybe we should hit that and then define like how you know, the the wicked things that that come away from that. What do you think? Yeah, well and we're not gonna have time to do that now because the show we're running down the home stretch here. We've got uh I don't know about two minutes or or so left and I have a feeling that you would be about a tenth of the way into a stop. That'd be very frustrating. Sure. Um A couple of uh of thoughts. These aren't really questions, just thoughts that occurred to me as we as the show was unfolding. It was uh my understanding is anyway that it was a pejorative thing, that these were the country backwater folks. They you know they did they just didn't get it, and someday they would get it and they'd be more sophisticated like us, and then they won't be pagan anymore It seems like there's almost a twist on that now where it's sometimes it's the opposite. You have those that are more of the new agey uh, you know, what what tomorrow might call Peg and others might call New Age or you know the feminine divine or whatever. And there are all these all these PhD types that are teaching at Princeton and And whatever. And they're the educated elite and the Christians are the backwater hicks who don't know any better. It's interesting how there's you know, culturally there's been this shift it seems, at least the beginnings of a shift. So that's that was uh an interesting uh Well let me ask you guys. Um blan uh uh using pagan as a blanket term. Yeah. Um I don't know a lot about Native American spirituality. I know a little bit just about shamanism in general. I definitely feel more connected to the the Celtic world of paganism, would you consider the Native Americans backward hick pagans? Uh backward hic. Um I think that that I would define the religion um what I know of it, and I don't know that I know a whole lot of it. I would define it as being uh non-Christian and uh and superstitious and as um uh uh as having a part of it many answering that too but we don't have time i've got to wrap this up but uh yeah we've got like thirty seconds anyway. Next week we'll continue. We'll try to pick up there. Hold the thought and remind me to bring up this thought early in next week's show. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Tamar Bradley, owner of the Owl Nest, thank you. Thank you. Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, thank you, I guess. And uh our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? Thank you, definitely, and thank you for listening. God bless