Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMB brought to us by Putman. Swimming and heating, how can we make you smile? This is a show where people come together and talk about things that I want to hear them talk about. Thomas Thomason. I'm making up names. Last week I made up words. As Thomas Jefferson once said, the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom, and we're going to hear some freedom this morning on the Faith Debate. Joining us on the panel this week is Dr. Cynthia Calla. She is the Executive Director of Life Rise AIDS Resources and the Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Schweitzer. And we've been talking the last few weeks about the work that Dr. Khaled does in ministering to those who have AIDS, primarily those in African nations, and um we touched on an issue late in the show last week about you know the issue of shame and and all that sort of stuff and after the show was over we talked about it a little bit more and I I um I have a a thought w which might be a thought-provoking type uh comment, but before I share that, I wanted to give Dr. Calla and Pastor Schweitzer two very formal Yeah. A chance to kind of speak what was on their mind uh regarding the issue of of shame. And grace and truth and all that sort of stuff because I think we left it kind of unfinished. So I think Jonathan particularly has something on his mind. I think it's change, isn't it? Change ch change. Change. Yeah. See that's how much I'm worried about saying my in case you don't know that after listening to the show for over three years Jonathan knows more about most things than anybody I've ever met. However, when it comes to popular music, he has a hole in his reference law. He is not a Troy Skinner is here. He is not strong on the old uh popular music uh pop culture references. Not a strength. Except I like Bono Yeah, okay. But you only like Vono because of the non right Pop culture stuff. Right, right. So yeah. Anyway. So what would you like to share with us? No, we should start with her. Okay Yeah, yeah, yeah. About grace and truth and shame and how to get past it. Uh well, um I think that uh stigma in AIDS is something external, you know, that the community puts on a person Um whereas shame is taking that stigma and internalizing it. Mm. And then they feel ashamed and they, you know, have no reason to be ashamed. Yeah. Uh so um you know, when you look at Christ, he experienced stigma and shame. He was ostracized, you know, he So, you know, he is uh and he so it's his unconditional love that's the that's the remedy for that stigma and shame that people are feeling. You know, I feel like this is the greatest idea in all of Christendom. this this idea that that um that sh that sin produces guilt and shame And that that we in no way minimize that reality, but that at the same time God has made a way for all of that shame and that guilt to be completely done away with so that we can come boldly into the presence of God. And I feel like Christendom uh fails most at expressing the the amazing truth that's at the center of that. And uh and and in fact sometimes when we're even really good at at communicating it what people hear is is either the the shame and the guilt because of sin side or that God loves us unconditionally. But that that even it even when we're really, really good at communicating the the the glory at the center of of how those two things are kept in balance and and not minimized or or over maximized, but you know, in a righteous balance. Even when we're great at communicating those things, that Well, let me own it. When when that's been communicated really well to me, I sometimes can't hear what's being said and I can only hear part of it, you know, and that that even when it's communicated well, that we as hum humanity can't even hear the message, you know, for the for the wonder of what's being communicated. And And yet that's what we're trying to do is to help people to overcome the shame of sin, to come to Christ, to accept the forgiveness of sins, and to move into the awesome blessings that He intends for us. And you said this uh um uh b right before we went on on uh the air, you said that that it seems like Christianity ends up always saying the things that are negative. Right. We We focus on, you know, the negative part of uh people's sin and the consequences And what we fail to do sometimes is to focus on the positive of what God really has for us. The grace. The grace, the health, the love of Jesus And yeah. Reconciliation. Right. All of that. We we tend to bash bash people uh regarding their sin. Yeah. But we fail to communicate. We we're very negative on how would you get it? How you know the different ways that people can get it in terms of uh you know, sex outside of marriage or Uh but we we fail to really ha focus on the positive part of God's design for marriage and family. God wants to heal. And how this is a good plan that He has. And it's meant for our good and it's a real blessing, you know, if we follow his design and his plan. And so, you know, I think people would respond more if we were more positive about w w we always say what we're against, but we don't say what we're for. We're better at what saying what we're against. There's a church out in Aurora, Illinois, I I used to uh pastor out there, um that that had a sign out front and it said Pray to End Abortion God forgives and heals. And I and and I I I would always go by there and I'm like, you know what? That's the right orientation. Let's pray to end AIDS. God forgives and heals. You know, okay, fine. However people have have have gotten to it, we want to medically figure out what causes it. We want to avoid dangerous activities But you know, let's let's pray that AIDS would be eradicated, that all disease would be eradicated. Let's pray for the end of those things and magnify the healing and forgiveness that you know that is available in Christ. And you talked about also the difference between dealing with the individual and dealing with the The corporate. What were you saying about that? That was very interesting. Important distinction. Well, I think there's two levels to engage in AIDS. Yeah. One is what you were talking about before in terms of the UN and the whole political situation, the whole global situation. That was last week that we were talking about. And that's a that's a level that's not really on an individual level. That's on a transforming culture level. Yeah, yeah. That's on a aggregate level. That's For politicians and for experts and for PhDs to to come up with, you know, the best long term solutions, but on the everyday level you're saying Well, so the church should definitely have a voice in that arena. We should speak to the truth that we know about God's design for marriage and family. We shouldn't be compromising on that. We we shouldn't be uh, you know, negative about that, but we should uh we should be c we should be stating that and we should be strong to stand on that and we're not That's not on an individual level, that's on trying to transform a culture. Yeah, because we want to persuade people to have the best possible lives. And so that so that means that at the highest levels of of politics in UN, you know, whatever whatever policies are being made, wherever they're being made. that we're persuading for the best policies to be made to keep people and help people to be healthy and to live long. And that's where the chur where how you know, this whole issue of how does the church respond to a big global issue like AIDS. Yeah, yeah. And that's one way that we engage, we have a voice, we have influence, we want to speak to the truth. Yeah, we got to do it. But the other level is the individual. And for the level of the individual, that's very different. That's really where more of the grace we want to really emphasize the grace and the care because You know, that person is hurting and that person is broken and you know they're lost and they don't know the Lord. And so, you know, on that level it's it's the so there's two different levels to work and AIDS. I agree. And and it's it it's difficult often, I think, for us to to move between those two different areas, but we have to You know, it's a it's a high calling, it's a noble calling, we gotta we gotta do both those things, we gotta press into those things. I think that outside the context of of Christ and everybody in in on this panel this week happens to be a Christian, so I'm wondering what somebody who isn't a Christian. By the way, uh next week's show, we will have somebody on the panel who's not a Christian. We'll have somebody on the show who is a uh practicing uh practicing uh pagan. So meaning the actual you they actually call themselves a pagan. That's how they self identify their their religious beliefs. So we'll Have a chance. Maybe we'll th maybe this issue will come up next week. I don't know. That's funny, I've always thought that you were a good example of a pagan and so, you know, now I'll get to, you know, set you off against a real pagan. I am all too good an example of a real pagan. From way back when God sees me if he doesn't see what you see, he he sees Christ. So But outside the context of Christ, I'm not sure how well this works for me. If somebody if if you're talking to somebody who is in Christ and you can talk about yes, there's no need for you to feel any sort of shame for the activities you've engaged in, the choices you've made, the sin you sinful behavior that you have uh you know uh immersed yourself in maybe, or even if you just committed it one time. certain acts are shameful and shameful acts should make one ashamed and so you should feel a sense of shame. And uh a a Christian pastor was once that I uh uh was once under uh in his congregation, you know, was was fond of saying, you know, big sinner, big savior. So if you amplify the sense of shame, you amplify the need for a savior and you have maybe more success in drawing somebody to the truth of the gospel and you have eternal benefits for that. So I'm not sure. And the other thing the 'Cause I don't I I know how Jonathan is and I might not get another chance to talk. Yeah, he's he's getting his computer ready, so this could be the last you'll hear of me for the next twenty minutes. But The Bible does. God speaks to us in both positives and negatives. I mean the Ten Commandments are uh more negative than positive. You know, it's set up as like this treaty with with his chosen people and he starts out by saying, You're gonna have no other gods before me. You'll worship no false idols. You will not commit adultery, you will not steal, you will not murder, you will not covet You will not do any of so there's a lot of negatives. Now the problem though is we've if if you haven't been under six hundred and thirty plus of those negatives. Okay. Wow. Yeah. That many? Yeah. Okay It seems to me the problem is if you haven't been under the right kind of teaching, and I would say that those that are under Jonathan's uh teaching are are are uh in my estimation under the generally speaking the right kind of teaching. That's so kind of you. I'm gonna give you some You know, a piece of candy after we're done here. That's so kind. So but I don't think we always hear the emphasis and I'm not sure that Jonathan has gone out of his way to emphasize this, but I think he'll agree with me. That all of those negatives are really blessing statements. It starts out with, you know, I have brought you out up out of the land of Egypt. You are now my chosen people. You are in blessing. And if you're going to stay in that place of blessing, you're going to avoid these things. So they're all parts of the promise. They're all meant as positives. They're stated as negatives, but it's really a positive message. So I think that we can share things in the negative like, look, you don't want to engage in homosexual activity. That is wrong. Don't do it. But it's what's the what is the message behind the words? Is the message one of this negative judgmental you're damned to hell and I can't stand you and you're gonna die of AIDS because of your sin And this really mean, vindictive kind of a thing, I think that might be what you're talking about uh when you talk about we need to not be so negative. But I think it is okay to tell somebody, look These shameful acts that make you ashamed, make you ashamed for a reason, they're wrong. They're not God's best for you. You need to avoid those at all costs. And by the way, here's the proper model The example that we're given in the Bible is that, you know, man woman was made for man and the two shall be joined together as one flesh. And, you know, and that's the biblical model for marriage, and you need to be monogamous. Although there are those that's a different show too that would argue that the Old Testament doesn't speak s um at all or certainly strongly enough against uh polygamy. But that that's a different uh kind of an issue. But the the the point is I think that we don't want to get so lost on the grace side that we stop speaking the truth in a forthright confident manner and say, look, certain things are right, certain things are wrong, and these are some of the things that are wrong. And there are consequences to our wrong choices. Now that's not to say that everybody who has AIDS has AIDS because of some negative choices they've made. They're not all drug users, uh, they're not all homosexual, they're not all um you know, um what's the word I'm looking for when you sleep around? Uh promiscuous promiscuous, thank you. They're they're not any of those things sometimes and they still have AIDS through no fault of their own. It's one of the problems we have. We live in a fallen, sinful world and there is disease and illness and sickness. But that's why the message of truth is so important. And the message of truth is a message of grace. Which is why they don't see So anyway, I just want to make sure that we're not you know that we're not gonna handcuff ourselves and put ourselves in a straitjacket and say, you know, as Christians we really need to just just say positive things. And just the, you know, Joel Olstein, um you know, who's the smiling preacher uh on on television. You could do Joel. I'm telling you, you can do it I once told Jonathan that if I were ever a preacher, I'd want to be like Joel Olstein. Yes. In the sense that Yeah. That was that was his way of saying that I needed to be more like Joel Lan. No, it wasn't. No. Because he's he's he is very positive and he's got a good way of Telling stories and connecting with his audience and yeah, I think that he's not as hard hitting enough. I think he might be potentially guilty of what I'm t what I'm talking about here not being willing to go quite communicate the full truth. Uh we can't go there. That's kinda negative and that might take the smile off my face and people might not come to my church here in Houston and I got like fifteen thousand of them coming. You know, and so I am concerned about that and if you're a big Joel Olstein fan listening to the show right now, I love Joel Olsteen. Yeah Um and I'm hoping that if I were a member of his church I would see different aspects and and elements of what his pastorate is all about. I have a feeling that we get a pretty limited I'm hoping anyway, a prim pretty limited view of what he's all about by watching his TV show and reading his books. But anyway I said everything I had to say, so now Jonathan, you can jump into your computer. Okay, Dr. Cowell's up. Yeah, it's true, because once Jonathan goes, you won't get a chance to talk anymore either. Well, I think generally we're pretty good at the negatives I don't think we need to work on those so much. I think we need to work on the positive. So we need to give that aspect too. Well, I think it depends on the church you're in. Yeah. I feel it depends on the person too. I think some people are naturally grace, gracious, gracious, gracious, and would never say anything negative And they get themselves in trouble because they don't know how to speak the truth. But there's a lot of churches out there of this seeker sensitive movement, you know, and you you you gotta make sure that you don't talk about sin. You know, they don't preach on sin because well that might turn people off and they might not come to church anymore. That's a pretty huge And the reality is we don't know the church background necessarily that you're coming from. Like we're not necessarily coming out of the you know that same kind of background as possible, you know, that that even comes to play as well, that you're trying to balance out Well, I'm just looking at HIV AIDS and I think in general in that regard and in regard to homosexuality we're pretty good at the negatives. Yeah. Um, you know, we're not so good at the at the positives. But the other thing I would I would add here is that I think uh we need to try to see if we can um not not focus on people's actions as much as we do. As much as we focus on what is their relationship with the Lord. You know, have they come into that reconciliation, relationship with God. And, you know, but what we tend to do is we focus on people's actions. We focus on their sin. where we you know other actions that people have. And so it's important that we mention sin and sin is repentance of sin is part of coming to the Lord. It's part of salvation. It's right there But what we tend to do is really focus on on you know, what people are doing rather than what they are what they are believing. And what is their faith? And what's the relationship with the Lord behind, you know, that I agree with that. And so that's that's what I try to focus on because that's what the good news of the gospel is. It's the good news is, you know, that Jesus l loved you so much despite your sin, despite your shame, that y you know, he he loved you so much that he died for you. While you are yet sinners. Yeah, and so that's the that's the good news. And so I think we need to share the good news of the gospel. It occurs to me, I was I was just looking it up I can't find any place in the Bible where it says that we are to shame another person. And I think you were getting at this. Shame was something that that from my experience People live under it. And they might act like they're trying to not live under it If they they might try to act like they're not ashamed, but I've yet to to meet somebody that if I didn't hang out with them long enough uh, you know, and and have an opportunity to genuinely get to know, like you're saying, what's going on in their heart past just their actions that that I don't find that that it's a wrong approach to shame that is driving their actions. They don't know how to deal with their shame. And they put up all kinds of facades, they put up all kinds of of uh protective barriers to to to try to act like they're not ashamed. But uh but the let me put it this way if I if I found somebody that genuinely there was no shame whatsoever I'd I think I just have to say that that then they'd already committed the unforgivable sin, that they blasphemed the Holy Spirit 'cause 'cause shame has to do with that that that sense of that conscience, that some sense of s of something that that you know that you know that that something's not right and m just about every person that I interact with, if if I'm able to To uh by the grace of God, encourage them to open up and reveal to me the things that they're ashamed about I find that inevitably they are so grateful that I don't shame them in the midst of that, that I accept them for who they are, and and that that act of kindness is sufficient to to draw them to to Christ, to draw them to a sense of righteousness, that that there's an overwhelming sense of of wanting to to to please if that that shame is handled in a gentle and forthright way. And so um How to get there with people is very hard because we all put up so many uh barriers and walls with one another. That was Jonathan Schweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, also on the panel This week is Dr. Cynthia Callow, the Executive Director of Life Rise AIDS Resources. I'm Troy Sinner, and I've got to take a little bit of exception. Yeah, you know I figured you would you know why? Because y you realize what you brought us into, Dr. Kalla. The age old Calvin Arminian debate whether or not there's anything good in us Or whether or not it's only by the grace of God. I mean, is that where you're gonna get a little bit more? I was gonna do l less of uh of that approach and maybe more of a biblical studies kind of approach, if you will I don't know that it was being a Bible word. If you did a I mean you got your computer and I think you probably were trying to do a word search for shame or something. And I don't think you would I I would ag I would concede the point. I don't think you're gonna find a verse where we're said, go shame somebody But it does say preach the truth, but call people to righteousness. I don't know. I read First Corinthians and it sounds to me like Paul is trying to shame those people back to righteousness. He's telling you one says you're following Cephas, the other says you're following Apollos, somebody says you're following Paul. I thought we were all following Christ What he the unsaid implied point there is, you ought to be ashamed of yourselves. I'm glad I didn't baptize any of you because otherwise I'd be in the middle of this mess. You guys ought to be ashamed Come to your senses. But but you do agree he doesn't quite come out and say that. He doesn't use the word shame, but he is he is Shaming them? You don't think he's shaming them? I would I would argue that if we could learn the way that Paul does it in First Corinthians and Second Corinthians that that that if we could genuinely catch 'cause 'cause he is uh you know, I read through his stuff and and and he has a balance of this grace and truth. that is, you know, I think it's inspired. I think God himself uh enabled Paul to do that. And and yes, yes, he moves in the directions of what you're talking about without without actually shaming. In fact at one point he even says this. He says, look, um uh it might be in second Corinthians that he says this he says he says please Forgive one another and accept one another back into into favor because we're not unaware of the devil's schemes that he'll try to use the overabundance of shame to just cause us to be divided and just fall apart from one another You don't think of Jesus when he's talking to the religious leaders? This is good and he calls the religious leadership. This is the difference that we're talking about. And he calls them a brood of vipers. Yes You don't think that he's trying that there's a level of you ought to be ashamed, you brood of vipers. You have to answer for all those babies that are dead because of you, for for all those people that got those diseases, because you claim that that safe sex meant s sex with a condom. You guys should be ashamed for uh uh for teaching something that was uh so ungodly. But when it comes down well let me put it this way, though I I would agree with you that there are certain people that if they're not responsive, that there comes a time to look them in the eye and and to call them on it. And you know, it's only by the grace of God that we that we walk the balance of knowing when to and when not to. So, yeah, I have to agree with you. Well, I think I think there's a difference between a general feeling of shame about everything about your life Which is what people with HIV AIDS tend to feel. You know, a they feel ashamed of just their whole entire they feel ashamed of just even living. Yeah. And that's a general kind of shame and that's the most damaging c you know, kind of shame. I think what what I see in what you're talking about is more of a conviction. You know, when the Holy Spirit convicts us of sin, he these are Christians, you know. He well, and and also matters of conscience for non Christians, um That would be a question whether the Holy Spirit convicts non-Christians of sin. But anyway, um when the Holy Spirit convicts a Christian of sin, it's not a good thing. Something really specific. Yeah. You know, it's something specific. You need to deal with it. You need to a ask forgiveness. and move on. You know, and then the Bible says, you know, the Lord takes our sin as far as the east is from the west. He gives us a clean slate. When we come to the Lord, He forgives us for everything we've, you know, all our past. So Uh it's a question of sh general shame versus specific conviction. And that's as good a place to end as any, right? Thank you. Dr. Cynthia Calla, the Executive Director of Life Rise AIDS Resources Jonathan Sweisser, the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Did I say my name? I'm Troy Skinner. I don't know. Uh email me, Troy at WFMD. com. Go to the website, wfmd. com, and check out the Faith Debate page. Update it. And pretty much daily. Thanks for listening, God bless