Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debates on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator. Joined this week by Jenny Dixon, the Executive Director of CareNet Pregnancy Center of Frederick, online at FrederickPregnancy. com, and John Schweitzer. The senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel online at uh well the easiest way is just go to WFMD. com, go to the faith debate page, keyword faith debate. Or actually it's just keyword faith, I guess. If you put faith debate that'll work, but you can just view Keyword faith, it'll take you to the page. Yeah, can you do like spirituality or like Jehovah's Witnesses or like you know all that other stuff you get there too? I'm not sure about that. W we're asking somebody out there to try all the different ways that you can get to the faith debate page uh from WFMD site. But anyway, from that page there is a link to Jonathan's uh blog and uh his church's website I believe from there. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But you'll get there eventually. You could always just do a search for Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick and find it that way too. Professor Link. So Anyway, we're talking about the issue of abortion and uh the last uh couple of weeks I've been taking the position of of pardon playing words for those who would agree with the position I have been taking with devil's advocate Um Jonathan is a uh Protestant pastor in town, so guess where he stands on the issue of abortion? I protested. And Jenny Dixon is the executive director of the CareNet Pregnancy Center of Frederick's, but guess where she would stand on the issue? She cares. Right. She yeah. So uh and uh if you listen to the show for the what is it, about four years almost we've been doing the show, then you know kinda where I'm gonna stand. However, in the interest of having a faith debate I'm gonna try to take on and wear the other colors. So everybody whenever choice speaks up today just say boo at your radio. No, that's what they usually do. Uh that would be no different. Right, right, right. But before we get into that Uh off air we're talking a little bit about the Fatherhood Initiative and I want to make sure that we have an opportunity for Jenny to share what that is all about. So, you know, and looking forward to that. In a few seconds or less, why don't you uh share what that's the one that's hey? It's an important initiative. Well we begin to realize at the Pregnancy Center that it's just not the girl we need to serve. We're missing half of our clients. the man, her partner, um that um she made this baby with. And we've also came to realize that about Seventy percent of a woman's decision is based upon whether or not that partner will support her through her pregnancy. We also begin to understand that men feel like the choice has been taken away from them, that they've been uh emasculated and been told that they just need to tell this woman whatever she decides is fine with them. And so that's kind of the status quo quo reaction from men whose girlfriends are pregnant. So we decided we needed to work with men and we launched a fatherhood initiative to help young men Find out how to be responsible, involved, and committed fathers, how to be a good partner to that woman, whether he marries her or not, and how to be a parent to that child, how to nurture that child, how to financially support them. How do you get in touch with the men then? Because I mean do they come into the side of the side of the side of the side of the side of the side of the side of the side of the side of the Three points of entry at the pregnancy center. Sometimes they come with their girlfriends for the pregnancy test. A lot of them will come to see the ultrasound and through our childbirth and parent Right. So those are the ways that we're able to reach men. We do one-on-one mentoring. We also do a program called 24-7 DAD, which teaches a man how to be a good Father and and addresses the issues of fatherhood and also the issues he may have if he's been raised without a father. No. program. And we also do a program called Dr. Dad at the end of our parenting and childbirth classes that help men who are taking care of their babies to know if there's sick when they need medical attention and for minor emergencies. So they're real practical. We want men to come to our center and we want to be able to reach Excellent. Wow. And so you're just kicking that off now? We are just kicking that off. John Armstrong actually who's been a part of this program is a part of that and Dan Lehman and we've just had three men go to the Hello, Dan. Are you out there today? Good to see you. Dan has been providing someone to do it. I went to school with his daughter back in high school way back when, yes. Okay, and we are looking for more men. We'd like to have men available the days that we perform ultrasounds because we think it's important at that point when that that's a crucial decision making time to be able to present to him. Yes, they are. In fact, it's interesting. I'm also a consultant for National Care Net. And so we dropped a grant on Um two different areas. One was starting ultrasound and pregnancy centers, the other was starting uh a fatherhood initiative. We only got three applications for ultrasound. We got over sixty-five for pregnancy centers to start fatherhood. So it is just multiplying We did. I'm really thrilled. I was asked with Youth for Christ to do a study down in Montgomery County uh about where the needs were in terms of pregnancy and in uh uh women and that kind of thing. And as we did the study what we found was that was that there was a whole lot for the women, but there's nothing for the men and all of Montgomery County. And I don't I I didn't do the study for Frederick, but uh you know, the point was is that there's there's a whole lot that can be done and and once the man is brought back into the situation What what's the percentage? There's like seventy-five percent of those situations that move out of poverty, you know, into its lower middle class, but but because they've got the potential for, you know, a breadwinner or two breadwinners in the situation, they end up having way more executive. If you go to the National Fatherhood Initiative and it's um fatherhood. org is the website. Which is actually based down in Rockville, is that right? Um Gathersburg. And it's Roland Warren as the president there, but they have a book that everybody should own. It's called Fatherhood Facts, but it addresses those issues. Just basically how children are exposed to crime, poverty, mental illness, lack of education um if they don't have a father in the home and that twenty-four million children in the United States go to bed every night without a father. That we have the highest percentage of fatherlessness in any developed country And is that the case? That's the case. We do here in the United States. Yes. It is a sad, sad situation. But they have great resources on this website for fathers and many pregnancy centers across the United States are utilizing So the message for all you young men out there that are in these kinds of situations is Do not feel intimidated by the situation, and don't be afraid to step up and to participate in the entire process to be there to be available and there are resources for you too that that you can uh take advantage of and be a part of things. Exactly. This is your child too. This is your life too. It will affect you. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I'm Froy Skinner. I'm going to uh play the role of devil's advocate here for the duration of the program. You sound so calm as you're saying at this particular time. Buckle up and enjoy the ride. We expect to be in our destination in about forty-eight minutes. Uh stewardesses, take your seats. Okay. We've talked about some of the uh arguments that you have to probably face pretty regularly, I imagine, Jenny, and maybe you a little less regularly, uh Jonathan. But you know we've left some out and I don't want to go rapid fire through all of them, but I I want to try to touch on at least some other significant ones. And one of them was sparked by something you were just talking about. If we have an absence of fatherhood and there's this clear problem that's posed by the children that are raised in such an environment. Couldn't it be said that the mother is actually doing a favor to a child if she doesn't have a father in the home to abort You wanna try that? I'm gonna say the same thing that I've been saying. Go ahead, I'll let you try first. Well, I mean I'm just saying absolutely not. I mean there are children that grow up With single parent families th that are wonderful, normal, and even besides that, everybody has the right to life, to be born. So Um definitely Do you hear the elitism in in your comment? If you say that somehow that child is is it's not even worth it for that child to live? I mean, I I I see I see the nose hairs, you know, as you as you stick your nose up in the air, you know, and look down your nose as you drive by a neighborhood and you and you see a child that that's being raised by a single mom. you know, as as if somehow their life is less than valuable. Instead of us saying, No, we're not gonna have a despair mentality But we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna say, you know what? If they're in a tough situation, then we're gonna honor them, we're gonna care for them, we're gonna show love for them, we're gonna step into the situation instead of saying snobbishly that somehow they're pulling all of society down, we should say, no, they're not pulling society down. Let's work together with them because they might be the next president. They might be the future And instead of us saying that their life is not worth living, say, No, your life is worth living and we care so much that that we're willing to sacrifice our own standard of living, we're we're w willing to sacrifice our own resources to help that to be the case in every sense of the term. I don't know that it's an argument well, I mean I understand your argument, trust me. Sure. Yeah. Understand it more than you could even know. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes. But there is an argument to be made um on I mean I was using that as an example of a lack of resources and the impact that can have. If we have a lack of fatherhood to go around, then maybe we're better off not having a lot of people. We we have a l uh uh we have a despair mentality where these men are told that they're no good, that they're worthless, that they're not a part of the decision that it's just the woman in her body and and where we're told that sex is outside of marriage instead of breeding a mentality that says that there's plenty of men, there's plenty of women, let's let's let's do this thing together. There's plenty of resources. We don't need to think that somehow there's not enough out there, but as soon as we buy into the mentality there's not enough out there, it's a uh it's a smaller world. It's a it's a colder world. It's a more bitter and resentful world. And and uh you know, as soon as you go, isn't it a small world after all? I'm sorry, I couldn't help. So okay, but we're looking at this primarily through a a Frederick, Maryland, you know, American view. Okay. In China, Africa, where there's You know, and there's an argument made that there's overpopulation, they they can't feed themselves off of their own land, there are people starving to death. I mean, bring in your elitism. The elite ism of that statement is so shocking that we as Americans would impose on China and say, Well, you're right, it's not good enough over there. We should go ahead and sterilize half the population. We should go ahead and make sure that they have fewer babies because they might just actually tilt the world in the direction of not being sustainable. I mean I the it's a small mentality and it's a zero sum mentality as if There's not plenty of resources and plenty of creativity. Instead it's a despair mentality that says that we don't have enough and so we might as well just give up and just start, you know cutting off the population in every place possible, start in Sudan, start in China, you know, maybe go over to m to Myanmar since you know they're They're just in war and it's a totalitarian system over there. Maybe it's a good thing that Cyclone went through and killed those hundred and twenty thousand. I mean the elite is of that kind of a statement, the callousness is shocking and it's unacceptable. If are you not human If you and your wife l somehow some way, you know, Al Gore is right and the climate changes and Maryland turns into a vast wasteland. Okay. All right. And there's no food to be found for miles and miles and miles. That would be an inconvenient truth. And you already have I don't know, what do you got, like seventy-three kids, the Schweitzer clan? Something like that? Four seventy-three, call the name, right? So you got these seventy-three kids and you can barely feed them as it is, and now this blight is upon us and you really can't feed 'em and you find yourself in a difficult situation, your wife is is is pregnant and your the kids you have are starving. Yes. You're gonna bring another another child in just to ha see them starve to death. Yeah, see this why why would you do that? Precisely why the the Christian worldview, the biblical worldview is so different from a humanistic uh Darwinian worldview because the the Christian worldview is of the opinion That God is up there, He's paying attention, He's active and He can work miracles to be with us. And so we don't spend our time We spend our days with a genuine sense of being cared for and watched over by a loving God that has stepped into history and proved through Moses, Abraham, uh David, you know, all through the prophets, all the way to Jesus, all the way through. He stepped into history. He's a historical fact that there's a loving God that cares for us, you know, why would we throw that out? You know, and so so to to believe what you're believing, I would have to be a Darwinist that believes there's no purpose to life whatsoever, and and that for that matter if I were to if I were to just kill you right now it would mean nothing because your life means nothing anyways. And and I just cannot come anywhere close to accepting that kind of a worldview. Well that can't be true. I mean there are there are professing Christians that are uh quote unquote pro-choice. They're not Darwinists. In fact, there are those that argue that God is the author of of abortion. I mean there are miscarriages that happen naturally. God caused an abortion, so to speak. You you're going theological here and I'm willing to go there with you. Um the the pastors who would lean in that direction are the exact same pastors that in general believe that the miracles of the Bible are not true. We've actually had some of those people on this radio show. We've debated with them about whether or not you can trust the Bible as an accurate historical record And as something that's that's uh uh that can be uh accepted and uh trusted as being true. And uh the fact of the matter is that those pastors that reject the idea that Christ actually died and rose from the dead, that reject the idea that um that there is a God in heaven right now who is actively involved with our lives You're right. They do believe that abortion is the more humane approach, but they do so not because they have more faith, but because they have less faith, because they believe that science has proven that there's no such thing as God And that at that point again the the argument is on a totally different uh foundation and that's precisely my concern is that in the name of science They have thrown God completely out and I think it's to their detriment, it's to s to society's detriment, and it's part of the reason why we see the ugliness of a racist uh a statist approach to uh something like abortion, those kinds of things. Well let me throw some names out. All right. There's there is the a a group called the Religious Coalition for Abortion Rights. represents thirty-five what are described as thirty five mainline denominations. Now here are some names. Good. All right. You've got the um the Episcopal Church. So the devil did his homework? The Presbyterian Church USA. Not to be confused with the Presbyterian Church PSA uh PCA, which uh John Armstrong was on the show a couple of weeks ago. Right. Uh he represents the PCA, not the USA. Um The United Methodist Church, yes, is willing to take a pro abortion stance in certain circumstances. Mm-hmm. I think that Methodists are open to the idea of the supernatural. I think we've had Methodists on the show. Of course the Unitarian Universalists argued that way. um in favor of abortion in particular circumstances. I mean Union for Reformed Judaism, it's not just Christianity, it's other um, you know, quote unquote Bible believing folk. out there. I mean the list goes on. There's thirty-five of them. And I would like to invite pastors from all of those denominations to come on the show and have a discussion. That's what we're all about, because we want to have that discussion. It's going to be a little one sided right now because you've only got Troy in your corner. Oh what more need you? I had to say that. Go ahead, Jenny. Well I also want to say we have uh many of those denominations mentioned. The pregnancy center receives support from individual churches Yeah. So you know, the church itself can make a stance. And and it uh even though the denomination may say they're pro choice Um I I really believe a lot of that stems from the amount of women that sit in their pews that have had abortion, so that they just don't want to be political or they don't want women to feel judged or condemned. But I will say a lot of the individual churches will stand and say they're pro-life or support a pro-life ministry like pregnancy. And I think it's right, Jenny, for you to uh believe the best um about uh those churches. Um I know for a fact that there's a whole theological perspective that came down through the the the German theologians, um some some of the greats, you know, Karl Barth, Immanuel Kant, some of these guys that that uh were were in the nineteen hundreds, late eighteen hundreds Hunters that argued persuasively that the Bible is no longer true, and this is what's taught at Yale Theological Seminary, Harvard Theological Seminary, that science has has proven that you can no longer trust the Bible. Now of course their science is uh has been proven wrong since then again and again and again uh in uh and there's a whole debate that direction but my point is is that uh that the majority of these mainline denominations have been um uh infused with a whole theological perspective that no longer believes the Bible to be true, that no longer believes that Christ is the way, the truth, and the life, and that no man comes to the Father but by him. And many in the in the in the pews are are totally unaware that that that's what their pastors believe because the language that they use is a language that says, well we believe that God that Christ lives inside of all And what they're saying is that that that's the only way that Christ lives, that Christ is not actually resurrected, but that Christ just lives on in our memories and He's a nice feel-good thing. And uh and the the point is is that All of us, no matter what church we're going to, need to pay close attention to whether I I believe to whether or not our pastors genuine b genuinely believe that the Bible is true And if that's not the case, I think you'll find that they increasingly embrace homosexuality, you know, alternative uh marriages, you know, abortion, all those kinds of things. There's a whole laundry list of things that they tend than in the direction of uh as a result of their throwing out the authority of scripture and as a result throwing out the morals that are uh at the root of what scripture is all about. Well let's talk about what the Bible does and doesn't say on the issue then. You know let's let's concede that argument for the sake of argument. And say, okay, you know what, I'll meet you where you are. You want to talk about what the Bible says? It seems the Bible's, you know, you could argue is silent on the issue of abortion. Nowhere does it say, you know, don't kill the fetuses. You know, I don't think that You know, the eleventh c commandment is uh thou shalt not kill a fetus. You know? So although it does say thou shalt not commit murder. I mean you can just use the first ten, can't you? But then it becomes a question as to when you know life begins and what does the Bible say about when life begins. I'll let you go ahead, Jenny. I mean there's just so many beautiful passages on the sanctity of life and that promote the inherent value and worth of all human life. And of course, I think the most noted passage is Psalms 139 which is my favorite. And um it does talk about how God forms the N-word part And if you look at the King James Version, it says, Thou possess my inward parts. And I love that because transferred into Hebrew, that's the word Kana, and it's used 84 time in the Old Testament. It's used in the book of Ruth in reference to discovering or purchasing a field. So in essence what God is saying is, you know, I not only formed you but I owned you. I purchased you. And um I think when we really look deep into the scriptures, we can just gather all kinds of rich um meaning from these verses on the sanctity of life. Yeah. That's where I was going to go as well as uh Psalm thirty uh one thirty nine is probably the The key. But just because he formed something doesn't necessarily make it um human. I mean And in that case God is speaking specifically to one of his prophets who was called to a special purpose, is it fair for us to extend what he might say about and to one of his prophets to all of us? Uh we're definitely Left with the impression again that there would be an elite, isn't there, that somehow one man is better than another man. Or told that God is no respecter of persons. And if God is no respecter of persons, then if he says it to a prophet that I knit you together in your mother's womb, that you knew all my days ordained for me were written in your book before one of them came to be uh then then we're definitely left with the impression that that would be true for everybody, that God clearly has a plan and He has a purpose for each and every life and that no life is to be considered an accident. Yes, I think we have to even look at how Jesus I mean, that's amazing. All the stories, the parables. I mean, and even in the Psalms, the Old Testament, Psalms 127, 3 through 5 says, Behold, children are a gift Matthew eighteen verse ten See, for I tell you that their angels in heaven always see the same thing. face of my Father in heaven. You know, we're clearly left with this with this this massive impression that that no life is is uh just throwaway or somehow less than valuable. You know that God Himself, he starts out in that passage, he says, whoever humbles himself like a child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven Whoever welcomes a little child like this in my name welcomes me. If anyone causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a large millstone hung around his neck and to be drowned in the depths of the sea. You know, the this impression that we would protect and value every little child, every little life that's out there Well then what do you do with all the numerous passages with the you know, the angry God of the old testament uh who talks about this is angry in the New Testament, I'm sure dashing babies against the rocks and and killing babies while they're suckling at their mother's breast for crime. out loud. I mean the But that wasn't by God's hand. That was by war and and you and I may disagree on that. Okay. Well I'd like to point out something really nice. And that's the first story of a crisis pregnancy. And that was with um Sarah and Hager. And if you remember, you know, Hager ran out in the desert shy 'cause Sarah was treating her so harshly. And if we remember the story Hager conceived by Abraham because Sarah sent Hager her her servant to sleep with her husband so she could s can see the child. And I I find it fascinating that when Hager's out in the desert and and she's about ready she's parched and she's given up hope and she's probably gonna die 'cause there's nothing out there, she looks up to God and God sends an angel. And says the Lord has heard the cries of your distress and then begins to tell her about the son that shall bear. And so there's a prophecy. And so you can see the heart of God and you can see Hagar cry out to God and call him El Shaddai. You are the God whose sees. Do you see my circumstance? And I love that story because I believe that's God's compassion on women. And I believe um that's a woman acknowledging that God hears her cries. And of course she goes back and has Ishmael. But I I find that a fascinating story. I know you're looking kind of puzzled, Troy. But you talk about God's wrath. I also want to talk about God's compassion. And the interesting thing is, Hager wasn't even a Hebrew uh child. She was an Egyptian slave girl, a complete pagan. And yet that was um the first woman that God revealed himself to. The first place the sword shows up anywhere in scripture. is to protect the way to the tree of life. And wherever the sword or disease is allowed by God, it's it's because God is making a decision that who who it is that is becoming as it were a cancer to society and who it is that's not and that's precisely the point is that those that want to uh uh promote abortion are making themselves to be God. And they're taking divine prerogatives upon themselves that they have the right to be God and to decide who lives and decide who doesn't live. And the point is is that God that's the point. That's That's the very definition of God. He's God. He's the judge, and he's he's the one that that gives the rationale and the basis for who lives And the fact of the matter is that he gets very angry at sin and at those things that destroy people, so angry that he will wipe out whole groups of people because they have given themselves over to sin. But he's God and He's the one that's allowed to do that. You're not God, I'm not God. You might be the devil for a day, but that doesn't give either of us the the you know the right to to be God and to choose who who lives and who dies. And he he has that right, and I trust him to do it. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. She's Jenny Dixon, Executive Director of Care Net Pregnancy Center. Frederick. I'm Troy Skidder, the Devil's Advocate. On the Frederick Faith debate on the Frederick's Newsburg. That's right. You can't be the level's advocate and shave. It just doesn't work. So anyway. It's inherent. Thank you to our sponsor, Pum and Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you for listening. God bless