Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and Bernie Beale, the founder of Great Commission Families. You can uh Check out the Faith Debate online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Our show is brought to us by Putman Flooming and Heating. How can we make you smile? We've talked about a whole popheria subjects the last uh few weeks with this panel. And uh last week we we talked um about something I want to pick up on uh this week And without rehashing a whole lot of history what we talked about last week, if you want to hear last week's show, go online and listen to the podcast for crying out loud. Um Uh Bernie says something in between shows and I'm gonna see if he can rem he he doesn't say it exactly the same. I'm sure the the spirit of the idea will be the same. So if you want to bring great revival, you do what, Bernie? Oh. Um There are s well the greatest untapped field for evangelism in America, it could be said, is simply the children in Christian homes now, because some statistics have it as high as eighty-eight, ninety percent of those kids walk away from the church, well then there's a missed opportunity evangelistically. So if Christian parents would disciple their own children and then be a ministry team together under the leadership of the church that they're in a community of Um it well think of it like the metaphor that Paul uses. We are ambassadors for Christ, so every little home is an embassy of a foreign kingdom, the kingdom of God. And we're not of this world. Well, think of how spread around Christians are in communities. Well if every one of those homes was a lighthouse for the gospel right where they are then uh that w that would bring the kind of revival where um you wouldn't be mass evangelism, it wouldn't be uh you know televangelism It would simply be what happened honestly in the first three centuries of Christianity. There were a few big name guys like Paul and Augustine and people like that, but uh um It was mostly Christians that were going about their life. Even the Great Commission could be translated, as you are going Make disciples of all nations. And I'm emphasizing the part as you're going. If if you're a carpenter and you're you're going to some place to get more wood, well then you know as you're coming and going, uh that's where we can be witnesses for Christ. So, uh Christian parents with their children in the context of a community of believers. And you talked uh last week about the you know, the the fading percentages going back to the builder generation, uh earliest part of the last century or the middle part of the last century I guess. Um and their their faith ratio, their their Christianity ratio was I forget what the percentage was, it was high. Sixty five percent. And it was thirty five percent for the boomers or thereabouts, right? And then it was about fifteen percent for the So the busters and then the current generation, the which I think you called mosaic and something else, I forget. Bridger. Bridger, to keep the uh is four percent Is that what you said? Uh yeah, that's what Tom Rayner said in his book, which is uh it's I don't know if the percentages are right, but the the it feels like okay, that sounds like the slide that we we would acknowledge. Whether or not it's as drastic as that uh that's gone from sixty five uh percent to four percent, I'm not sure, but it seems like it was higher and now it's lower. We can argue about the percentages later. If that's true, is part of the problem that we have parents who are ill equipped to do that job. If fifteen percent of of uh the families of Those four percent, let me figure out how to do this in reverse. Those four percent, they enter adulthood, they have kids, they come to uh Christ. They have they come to a place of salvation and they start attending church. They didn't have the benefit, odds are, of being raised in a Christian family. In fact, odds are they didn't have the benefit of even having their grandparents. be Christian. In fact, odds are their great grandparents probably weren't even Christian or maybe fifty fifty chance or whatever. So they have no They have nothing behind them. So they they want to disciple their kids. But they're babes in Christ themselves. They're just figuring this out. I just became a Christian six months ago. How the heck am I going to disciple my kids? I know what I'll do. I'll go to the church that has the big youth group and then Sunday school and the children's church during the worship service for the adults. and I'll let them do it. In fact, that's how the state does it with public education. I mean is that is that kind of what's happening? And what how do you extricate yourself from that? How do you expect uh a babe in Christ to disciple their children who are not only babes in Christ, but babes period. Yeah, but isn't that the soft discrimination of low expectations? You know, the point is the point is is that if if you have low expectations, you know, somebody gets saved and you tell 'em, you know what, you're probably gonna need somebody else to, you know, take care of your kids for you. Well then that new believer is probably gonna have that expectation. But if you let them know, look, your kids are your responsibility first and foremost, we're gonna be a a a church family together. you know, and and and we're going to um uh encourage one another and we're gonna be there for one another. But, you know, you really wanna wanna make this a a high priority to you know, to reach your kids and to you know to connect with your kids. You know, then people are going to be more likely to step up because that's a part of their expectations. You know, husbands love your wives. Wives respect your husbands. You know, parents uh train up your kids in the way they should go and and and teach 'em, you know, the to to to walk in the ways of the Lord, the Shema, you know. Uh talking about it as you walk along the streets and as you uh you know are in your house. The point is is that all of these expectations, if we build those high expectations, then we're gonna uh we're gonna get what what we expect. And I think that's what you're referring to is we gotta do things totally differently from how we've done it. Two things. First of all a um We we are responsible as Christians for the authority, spiritual authorities we place ourselves under, you know, because we have the freedom of of being able to choose what church we go to. So there's a re there's a responsibility. And the uh qualifications for elders in the New Testament include uh elders who are the husband of one wife and uh manage their households Um and uh and have children who who fear the Lord or walk with the Lord. So that's that's a pretty that's a pretty high standard. Um Yeah, I can't think what the second thing was. Sorry about that. But the point is is once you once you begin to uh to set the standards right, then then that's the whole paradigm shift that needs to happen. When you make the shift in the first place instead of just, you know, buying into these low expectations. And unfortunately it seems like the church across the board has said We're just gonna bind to these low expectations. We're gonna we're gonna take a worldly system that is um you know, we will have the education experts you know, take care of the responsibility of training kids, you know, to be believers, uh, which is a very worldly perspective instead instead of saying no, the parents are the experts that are supposed to uh train their kids to believe. Here's the second thought, go ahead. Here's that second thought. Um And uh if if you would present to a a person or a group of people, okay we've got plan A and plan B. Plan E plan A is gonna be really hard. Um and it's gonna be a high call and it's gonna be difficult. It's a gr it's a great challenge for you to personally disciple your own children So we uh let me rephrase that. To prime be the primary person to disciple your own children. Not the only, but the primary. Um that's plan A. But because that's so hard, we're gonna offer plan B um for now Well if that's a discounted rate. Yeah, a discounted rate. Yeah. Where you this isn't gonna cost you much. Well, with that kind of scenario, you're gonna always be in plan B. You know, there's uh there's gonna be very few people that are gonna make the leap to plan A. So how do we end up drawing the line then? 'Cause I'm not in disagreement. I'm just kinda asking the questions to get the conversations going questions. Yeah, but where does the line get drawn? Uh VVS, uh Vacation Bible School Good thing, I think. Uh Sunday school, good thing, I think. Children's church? I don't know. Maybe a good thing, maybe not. Uh so you have somebody who that those would be the plan B things though, right? So you'd not allow somebody to participate in plan B if remember doing plan A? Yeah, but remember VBS in Sunday school Both of those were uh were started. In fact I was talking to you about this earlier today. They were started as outreach things to reach unsaved kids, not to be a tool for discipleship, and only down the road did they become tools for discipleship, you know, after they kinda as it were, maybe lost their sense of focus and purpose. And Sunday school originally was this way to, you know, to reach out to kids that, you know, just were unchurched, that were uh basically that were in the West where there were no churches, so this is a way to get, you know, uh kids into some kind of a uh educational environment, you know, and to draw the parents in as well. But the point is then then these things turned into like, oh well this is how we disciple and now it's not even that hardly. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm sorry to interrupt. No, it's not. Uh a friend of mine says uh Sunday school originally was a fishing net It actually started in England among um uh children that weren't didn't have enough money to go to school and a Christian got the idea, I'm gonna bring him in on Sunday, 'cause they were y you know, child workers. Uh so they couldn't go to school at all. And he was going to teach them how to read and write and teach them the Bible. It was a fishing net to lost children. But eventually it it became a safety net. for the parents who weren't discipling their children or or children who didn't have Christian parents. So this is you know this is this is a real issue. Uh but for the most part today it's a hammock. So it's gone from a fishing net, a safety net, to a hammock. It's just comfortable It's it's all we know. It's easier to do than the hard thing of getting up in the morning, reading the Bible together with my family and talking about it and praying. That is in fact that is if there was one thing that if um is is pretty idealistic. But if there was one thing that what if every Christian family in America did this? That that would be it uh read the Bible together as a family. Perhaps around a meal, perhaps in the morning. But uh look at the Bible together, talk about it and pray. About the needs that they're aware of. I think the analogy is good and I'm gonna play off of your analogy um and and add something. It's a twist, so it's I'm not disagreeing, but it's a twist in a different direction on the analogy. Yeah, the fishing net to catch the fish, these schools of children. Right, and you have the and then the safety net and that was your analogy. Seems like we've also decided to use it as a marketing tool and now we take those the the fish that have been caught in that original uh net and we use them as bait to go catch the parents. It becomes this mechanism for growth in the church. We want to grow our church. Well let's get the kids, the parents will follow. And if you're using it primarily for that reason, then what do you do? Hey little Johnny and little Lulu, it's good to see ya. Oh, your parents are here this week. Well, little Johnny and little Lulu, now that your parents are here, you can't go to Sunday school anymore because now it's their responsibility. Well you can't do that because the thing that drew the parents was the fact that kids were loving it, and what the kids were loving was the Sunday school. You take Sunday school away, you lose the parents. Yeah, the crazy classic phrase is that what it takes to draw 'em is what it's going to take to keep 'em And so if you have to have this this high powered seeker sensitive service where you got where you got the best music in town and you got the best drama in town, you got the best kids program in town, that if that's what it takes to get 'em there, then that's what it's going to take to keep 'em. And so it's uh in in evangelistic circles they say the point is is that you have to preach the cross in repentance in the context of preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. And and and you can't kinda say, well, you know, if you get saved then you get this. You know, if i otherwise then that's the very thing that it's going to take to keep them each step of the way and that's the danger I think that you're referring to. What's the biblical uh guidance on this? I mean is the church is the part of the problem that the church has overstepped its bounds? If the Bible teaches the parents are responsible for the spiritual upbringing of the children, is the church supposed to step in and fill that void if the parents aren't doing their job? Is that how we get into this weird cycle, this catch twenty two? You know, there's a whole slew of ministries out there. Campus Crusade would be a good example. Um Young Life, Youth for Christ. uh, you know, the the Sunday school movement, you know, that were all basically uh uh uh parachurch organizations that were created to step into these evangelistic gaps that that the church, as it were, wasn't getting it done. You know, the Salvation Army was another example, you know, for young or YMCA, young men, you know, that were in a uh now in a urban environment. And so the question is, have we stepped into the wrong uh I don't I don't know what the answer to that is, but Depending on who you talk to, some people would say, No, the point is that we can't wait for the church and so we just gotta get out there and get it done because the church isn't getting it done. And that's where a lot of these parishurch organizations come from. So that doesn't answer your question. Well those are a little that's a little bit different because I'm not talking about pragmatism. Yeah, I'm not talking about organizations that the Christian individuals decide to put together an organization to serve the needy or to reach to young adults who uh are outside of their home now and they're living their own lives. Campus Crusade is is is college age. Sure. You know, so well you so that might be a little bit school yeah, I'm not sure what the age of accountability is. I guess we could debate uh that in a future show, but uh certainly the institutional church itself Not the parachurch organizations. The institutional church itself has decided to step in and provide Sunday school and youth groups and children's church. uh to accommodate for parents who either aren't there or aren't up to the task and are allowed to go lay in their hammock to play upon that Uh I hadn't really thought about it until this show, but is that a f is that a failing of the church? I would say it's a it's the church following the world. The world in the late eighteen hundreds, early nineteen hundreds began to advocate a model of education based on Dewey and who's the other guy? Horseman. Horseman that said that we need to have these educational specialists that would be the teachers that w that were the forerunners of today's public school system. And I think the church has has basically said, huh, maybe we should do the same thing so that we could keep up with the world, so that we could be as, you know, as uh professional as the world. you know, or look as good as the world. And and unfortunately I think it's it was a downhill thing. Looking as good as the world actually makes us look worse. And and here we sit in two thousand and eight. The the the church is not monolithic and uh uh I I know some seminaries that are that are really thinking very biblically and creatively about this and the and uh you know like the this the Titanic or large ship you don't turn on a dime. And and and in any case there's not one ship. Uh you know, we dri if I drive from from here to uh let's say Fairmont. There's uh from Frederick to Thurmont, I wonder how many churches I pass. I wonder how many churches I pass if I just take a a cut through Frederick. You know, there there's a lot of different kinds of churches and churches are basically a a collection of families making choices about here's how we're gonna do it. And um and and and furthermore, I'd I'd want to make the point, having been um, you know, twenty-three years with Campus Crusade for Christ, now our own ministry the last few years Uh the the term is often used parachurch, which is a a good and fair term. Uh para like a paratrooper, you're alongside the troopers, or a paramedic, you're alongside the doctor Parachurch alongside the church. However, I would point out that every member of a parachurch ministry is himself in a church. Often a literal local church. But uh biblically in the church of Jesus Christ, uh in the b the universal body of Christ. So uh it's it's you always have to be careful to say those people have gone outside the church. They are the church. Uh you know, even uh Um, you know, a seminary that's a part of a denomination. A denomination is extra biblical. A seminary is uh for the most part extra biblical. There's the school of Tyrannus. Uh actually in the book of Acts. But and that's why I was careful to use the word i institutional when I talked about the church before. The institutional church, this structure, this thing that we think of uh this entity rather than the the the body. So there'll there'll be ebbs and flows in the coming I'm really curious as g what's going to happen the next hundred years. Not I'm not going to live a hundred years from now, but Oh you don't know? Yeah, we don't know. Well just the next few decades. If God wills it, you'll live another nine hundred years, right? It could happen, I guess. I'm not wishing that on you though, really. Um but I'm trying to disciple my children to uh have a long term multi-generational view. Um there's the um the Rechabites in I think it's Jeremiah thirty-five Uh they were a tribe that um that were faithful to the Lord for generations, and when the Assyrians came and took the northern kingdom away They were the remnant that was saved because they did what their great great great great great grandfather said. Don't build houses. Don't drink wine. Right. The point is that we can do that. We can set we we can train up our kids to train up their kids to train up their kids. Right. So that when the time comes that there's a shift you know, is lived out, uh but the doing is reading the Bible together as a family. And when a dad has to do that, that causes him to wrestle with God's word and to seek God to say, what does this mean for me and my family? But it's so much easier to go to plan B. Let someone else do it. I've seen situations where you know this is an interesting question, where will we be a hundred years from now? I've seen situations where it's uh it's a wedding service or it's a funeral service or something like that and it's become the culturally accepted norm that there's going to be a scripture reading in those settings usually. You know, you feel like there's something missing if somebody doesn't read a passage from the Bible. But love chat. So So they spend a a few hours figuring out where the Bible is and they dig it out from under the socks and they blow the dust off and then they Then they go out to all their friends that that they think are more Christian and be like, Hey, you know any good verses? What should we read? Yeah. And you always end up reading something the wedding, something from Corinthians. And if it's uh uh uh if it's a uh if it's a funeral, it's gonna be Psalm twenty-three or it's gonna be or it's gonna be something from Ecclesiastes, you know, there's a time for time to die, time to live. So you have these classics that you hear over if you never go to church but you go to weddings and funerals, you know those passages. Um but how often are those passages read by children? Right. Well I've been in situations where the children are the ones reading them because the adults are afraid to touch that stuff. My kids they they go to Sunday school. Maybe they maybe they'll read this or Oh you mean at the wedding and at the funeral. Yeah, and oh yeah. And the the cop out excuses. Well let's get the kids involved. It'll make them feel special. And the truth of the matter is Oh, I don't want to read that. What if I mispronounce a word? Then everybody will know I don't really read the Bible. All those sorts of things. And so these kids, uh almost de facto become the spiritual head of the house, right? They're the ones reading the scripture. Well even as they're I'm sitting here saying uh this is what you do. uh you know, read the Bible together. It's a challenge for me. You know, I'm in full time ministry, have been for a quarter quarter century. It's a challenge for me. And so I God's blessed me with a A loving and godly wife who encourages me and and uh and our our kids are you know that are on board with us. Um So what I need is others that are running the same race. And this is the idea of a church as a family of families, a community of believers. uh ambassadors that come together to say what what is our sovereign saying and how do we live it out in this culture which is ever changing. How old are your kids? Twenty-five, twenty-three, twenty-one, and eighteen. The oldest is married. Do they have children yet? The our oldest is is married in just last week, or I guess two weeks ago now. uh had uh this our second granddaughter. Okay. And and their nuclear family is on the same path in what how you raised Yes. And part of the story is is how we came to that because this is uh uh you know, each generation chooses for himself, you know, the uh each person. There's the old saying that God has no grandchildren. He only has children. Because uh your children need to become God's children on their own, under your care and and love and encouragement, edification, and discipleship. Uh but uh yeah, uh our our son is the the one who's married is is just a great dad reading the Bible to his family and discipling. uh his family. And were you raised in a similar context as well? Uh yes I was. My wife wasn't. Well she became a Christian uh through one of uh one of these random flyer kinds of things uh that someone gave to her and then sat and talked with her about it so she didn't just pick it up and read it. Um but uh uh yes, my father uh saw his father come to Christ in the depression and my dad was number ten in his family. And uh so uh the the story ones back then. Yeah they did. Yeah Uh the the story goes that in that uh my granddad, my dad's dad was a tobacco farmer and then he got uh radically saved at a Methodist uh little church down in near Damascus, Maryland. and uh came home and told his wife as the story goes, you know, we got all these boys, six boys, four girls, four and a half dozen kids, four girls, half dozen boys. We need to plow into the tobacco and plant corn. You know, so they've been corn farmers Uh you know, well not ever since. I've gone out of farming since then, but uh yes, so I I was raised in a Christian home, but I had to personally decide to become a Christian at one point, which happened to be on April Fool's Day, is interesting enough. Interesting. Well you know it another thing that's interesting is, you know, Jonathan, I don't know how much you know about Jonathan's uh history. We've talked about a little bit on the show, Jonathan's uh Fathers, pastors, grandfather, you know, pastor, church planner, you know. And the first six all never came to Christ, but the second six, because they had that many, all came to Christ. And uh my grandfather was one of those and and uh ended up going into the ministry. Wow. So you know Jonathan comes from that line in that context and now here he is, he's in a kind of you know, he's in a leadership position Um and you kinda come from that line. You're in a leadership uh position of sorts, you're you're uh out on the mission field and and uh d doing uh the work of the kingdom kind of a thing Outside of that, well you're I guess uh this answers that question, I guess. Your great grandfather wasn't raised in that context. Um He didn't get into leadership himself, correct? But his one of his sons went on to become a church planter and a pastor in a leadership position, correct? Yeah, but you don't have to be You can be a first generation. Does the person who's kinda entering for the first time are they at any sort of possible badge or not? Well, they were all first generation Christians back then. Well, it could be it could be argued that Peter and uh John were Or even for that matter. Paul was raised uh very religious, so they were raised in a religious context. I don't I don't think that it would be appropriate to say that you're at a disadvantage if you're not born into a Christian family. In fact I heard it said almost in the other other extreme, um our our pastor Gary Cox, who Jonathan knows Uh he's made the observation. He's first generation Christian himself. He's made the observation when he goes to of events where there's a lot of Christians that have come together for some enthusiastic reason, so these are people passionate about their faith And the question is asked, how many of you are first generation Christians? And it seems to be a high percentage of them. So first generation Christians tend to be more enthusiastic about their faith. as a whole, but it doesn't have to be that way. So I think it can go either way. Well I kind of asked the question because I feel you know, I I'm a first generation Christian in my family. And I feel like, you know, I'm playing a lot of catch up you know, over the last number of years, learning a lot of ketchup, learning things that maybe I would have known already when I was twelve years old that, you know, I I didn't get exposed to and didn't know. So I'm just Yeah, just kind of more of a curiosity question than anything else. But anyway. Jonathan Sweisser, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, thank you. Um Bernie Beale, founder of Great Commission Families. And if somebody wanted to learn more about the tours and stuff that you do, you have a website I'm assuming, right? Sure do. G GC as in great commission. Families. org. com. So the Be careful there, I guess. I wonder what happens if you go to Calm. Anything? I I I'm not sure, but uh my two older sons are highly web tech savvy, and so they probably got that domain and it just bounces over. Gotcha. Okay. Well good for them, good for you for having them. Uh we planned ahead. Twenty-five years ago. Anyway, and thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I want to encourage you to check us out online, WFMB. com Keyword Faith. I have a weekday daily blog. You can link there to Jonathan's blog page. Uh there's all sorts of links. If you're curious about different aspects of of religion, all the various religions, uh every major and even some minor uh world religions that I could think of, I did some research a while back to try to find what I thought were good uh representative websites for that worldview. So if you're curious about what Buddhists think, uh Muslims, um Jews the the the vast mosaic of Christianity. Um there are a number of links there that make it easy for you to try to do that. So I would encourage you if you're curious to check that out. And if you have a question, a comment, a thought, or if you're a faith community leader and you'd like to be on the show, email me, Troy T-R-O-Y at WFMD. com. Thanks again for listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. God bless.