Welcome to the Frederick Bay debate at Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skin. Joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, the Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and my wife, Dina Skinner. And our show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Last couple of weeks we've kind of discovered a variety of pop free topics. We're going to continue that this week just because I think it's kind of fun every once in a while for us to let our hair down and and do things a little bit different than the the normal structured way of doing the show. If you were listening last week, you heard us end. We're talking about euthanasia and it kinda ended up talking about the Terry Shrivo case, which is old news by this point, right? But I think everybody still remembers that story. The woman was in a vegetative state. Uh the husband wanted to uh uh, let me put this politely, wanted to allow her to die and her uh her parents wanted to keep her alive. Uh they were willing to take on all the responsibility and the cost as I as I recall from that story to to do just that and he was insistent that no we need to uh uh end the the was it intravenous feeding by that point or was it tube feeding? I don't know whether it's tube feeding. We need to end the the tube feeding and uh allow her to pass. Well if you starve somebody long enough they will They will be allowed to pass through. So we're talking about that. And then uh in between shows we continue to talk just a little bit about that and a different question besides the euthanasia question. is the authority question. Who is it that has the authority to make that judgment call? And your first response when we talked about this, Jonathan, was you remember what you said? Yeah, the authority call, um Well, I feel like the authority call i in a situation like that should go to the husband first, but in this particular situation the husband had given up on her a long time ago and the family was the one that was the meaning the mother and brother and sisters, you know, the father were the ones that were wanting to keep her alive. And so we're asking the question legally who has the most right? And even even according to biblical legal um distinction, who would have the most right to make that decision And I guess I feel like, yes, it's true that the husband has the most right to make that decision, uh, but I I feel like somehow I feel like there's a higher principle that if the rest of the family really wanted to keep her alive then then there's a higher principle that the husband before God should have allowed the family to keep fighting for her. I believe and let it let it go. did indicate that he did it before God. He openly abandoned her by dating other women. Oh, so you're saying that that that before God he had given up the right. Yeah, not in a very Oh yeah. No, I would agree with you on that. Not in a very uh godly way, but he certainly didn't hide it. And so it was only the papers that kept him in any way attached to her in terms of the biblical oneness and so him having to the right to make that decision. Yeah, I would agree with that. I think Moses would have issued a divorce immediately. He heard about the story. He'd be like, here's the divorce paper. You didn't ask me for one, but you're divorced In God's sight your divorce, you abandoned her, you're you um uh committed cheated on her committed adultery. You know what I mean? So in that respect, he no longer had any right in her life. Yeah. Any right in her life at all. But he held on to it and he and legally according to the laws of our country he was able to hang on to it because we don't define uh you know, for that matter I guess her parents could have sued him or you know, for divorce, claiming that, hey, you know, you're already you know, but to do that they would have had to have some kind of proof that he's, you know, sleeping around and that kind of thing and, you know, that gets even more salacious. And so what they what they did was they took the high road, which is, you know, is probably the better way that that said, look, just let us, you know Keep her alive and you do whatever, you know, but because there was money issues involved and everything. position doesn't agree with God's position. Well, but there was no way to prove that he had been sleeping around. How are you gonna how are you gonna prove that in some kind of a court of law, that was pretty pretty public. He had girlfriends. And he actually had My recollection is that he had like a permanent So did they just approach it wrong? 'Cause it seems to me that the law would give a certain amount of standing to somebody that wants to defend her and s the problem is you can't get her, yes, I want to divorce him for being unfaithful. And so maybe the law is uh is very possible on that. One of the other issues I recall coming up was the d the debate over whether or not Terry Schibo herself had said to him privately, if I'm ever in a vegetative state, I want Right, she claimed that he had said that. Yeah, he was claiming that that was her position. To me that's irrelevant. I don't care what the individual says. If if you feel like If Jonathan says, look, if this ever happens, I want you to you know take me out back and chop my head off, well if God tells me that that's wrong, I don't care what Jonathan thinks. So it's irrelevant what Terry Schivo herself said one way or the other Yeah, what's the right thing to do here? It's possible that Terry w would have made the wrong decision for herself. Sometimes you can have to protect somebody from themselves, maybe, I don't know. But anyway I just wanna kinda finish that conversation and provide a little bit of a segue. Yeah. You know, Terry's what was do you remember his name? I don't know what Terry's husband's name. Do you remember? I don't remember. Was it Mr. Shibo? Yeah, well yeah there's all sorts of those, right? Scott Peterson, of course. Yeah, these are all the the uh Hollywood eyes, soap operas. So that sort of stuff raises these kinds of questions in the email that was sent out. How do you decide who to marry? And there's there's a bunch of tips here. How do you make sure you don't marry a Scott Peterson or a Mr. Shivo, right? How do you keep those ideas? This is this is how you do that apparently. A checklist, eh? Yeah. Hm. You got to find now you know this is a legitimate when they use got you. Yeah. Right. You got to find somebody who likes the same stuff. Like if you like sports. She should like it that you like sports. Did this come from our daughter's email or something? Oh, I'm scared. This is clearly written by a woman, right? No, it was written by a ten year old boy. Ah, see? No, I knew. I mean that's what I was saying. I was trying to be ironic. No person really decides before they grow up who they're going to marry. God decides it all way before, and you get to find out later who you're stuck with. Is a ten year old girl? Yeah. Okay, keep it going. She's going in the right direction. What is the right age to get married? By the way, do you have a serious thought on that? Is there such a thing as a right age to get married? Um yeah, okay. Alright, my serious thought on that is that it is um extremely uh cruel for us as a society to introduce sex younger and younger and younger and then encourage people to not get married till after they get out of college and they have a Establish themselves in business. You know, if uh if we're gonna enter you know what what it says in Song of Solomon that says do not arouse or awaken love until it's so desired. We arouse it and awaken it at You know, nine, ten, eleven as a society, and then we tell people don't get married to way later and I think that that is ungodly, rude, and wicked that we would do that. I agree. And uh and so either we need to stop introducing them to it until later on or we need to encourage them to go ahead and get married You know, I wouldn't say before the end of high school, uh, but the fact that we introduced it to 'em for six years before they get out of high school Uh I just think is unconscionable. And it wasn't uncommon, you know, and uh my mother was married at eighteen. Yeah, and it yeah, yeah. She got married when they're eighteen, nineteen it seems to me. And had my brother when she was nineteen. In many cultures, marry kids off, you know, once they come through puberty. Right. Right. Thirteen years old, they're getting married. And I don't know that we could say beyond a shadow of doubt that that's absolutely uh immoral to do or or uh inappropriate to do. Like this Mormon this the the big Mormon compound compound that was raided down in Texas You know, we made a big deal about it, you know, that this is statutory rape and this kind of a thing, and yet the same people that are claiming that this is statutory rape uh for them to involve themselves in this kind of stuff are the same people that will argue that we need to introduce kids to sex ed, you know, in sixth grade, fifth grade, you know, younger and younger and And hand out condoms in seventh grade. Yeah, and the hypocrisy there is Again, it's unconscionable. It's just out of control. Exactly. The same people. And and then say, oh, and by the way, there's also a vaccine now, so you won't get a HPV disease. Right, right. And so here's what a ten year old girl had to say to the question, what is the right age to get married? Twenty three is the best age because you know the person forever by then. We've lived it for a couple of forever. Six year old uh boy's answer is no age is good to get married at. You gotta be a fool to get married. That's how old? Ten six. Six year old boy? That's right. You gotta be a fool. Yeah. Well these kids say it got. He's got he's got six to eight years before he's gonna start realizing that there's anything valuable in a girl. Alright. How can a stranger tell if two people are married? Okay How can you tell? That's just the answer. Well they might be wearing a wedding ring, right? Holding hands. Holding hands. They might have kids surrounding them that appear to be theirs, right? They're saying handicap, right? Well, here's an eight-year-old boy's response. You might have to guess based on whether they seem to be yelling at the same kids. That's good That's that's oh yeah, that's a little sad, right? Come on, but we all live there at some level. Yeah. What do you think your mom and dad have in common? Here's an eight-year-old girl. This is kinda sad too What do your k parents have in common? Both don't want any more kids. She feels loved. Everybody in the room right now is married Okay. So do we even know anymore the answer to this question? What do most people do on a date? I don't know Go to a movie, go out to share uh beverage or some food No, no, no. It's a question of what kind of single they are. If they're single that's not necessarily looking for a long term love uh then they're going to do a lot of, you know, racy kinds of things on dates, you know. But if they're a single that's looking for long term love, they're probably gonna find a way to sit down and get to know one another. You know, something that will help them to enjoy being with one another, you know, like a group date where they go serve somebody or whether you know, those kinds of things. So Uh so what is our what do our two contestants say? Here's an eight-year-old girl. Yeah. She says that what most people do on a date, her answer is dates are for having fun, and people should use them to get to know each other Even boys has something to say if you listen long enough. Oh yeah. That's good. That's true. It starts early, right? This this weird Of course you and I are, you know That starts when you're eight, ten years old apparently. That that mentality Yes, but that's just bred into us culturally. I was gonna say that's the world. You know, we were talking recently. I disagree. Come on, go there with me. That's what everybody says is that gender is culturally defined And so therefore if somebody's if a girl's acting girlish, it's because her culture tells us that sh she's supposed to act girlish and the g if a guy acts guy It's because it's culture telling you know but we can change that and we could teach girls to act like guys and guys, you know, because it might be natural that they want to do that so they can change genders, you know, that's a big part of what people say out there these days. And so my point is that is that I think that Girls act like girls and they know that boys are different and at a young age it's not it's not like a cultural sin pro yeah, well it's a sin problem, but it's not like a a big negative. I think it's good for girls and guys to recognize at a young age that they're different and that and being different that It's good for them to come to terms with, well, I wouldn't want to be a girl. I want to be what I am. I want to be a guy or I wouldn't want to be a guy I want to be gr I want to be what I already. And so some of that I don't think is necessarily a big evil thing. It's just guys and girls growing up, coming to terms with who they are and accepting the fact that they are that gender in this day and age Um, you know, anything that smacks of of saying that the culture is o is the only thing that defines those things or somehow automatically creates the male-female Um uh miss I think is uh is we have to we have to handle that very dangerously. Oh no, I was going down carefully rather down the road of Isn't it a shame that at such a young age they choose their words to tear down as opposed to build up? Yeah, I think that's kind of where I was going with that. But I don't think that's automatically a sign that our kids are like just going bad, bad, bad. I mean, as parents we help them to learn you you know, just because they're not the same doesn't mean, you know, and you can You can play with girls and you know and guys, you know, like like that kind of thing. But I I don't view it as a necessarily. uh you know like a pre teen, early teenage uh child telling them not to worry about the opposite sex because they're not worth it. Oh yeah. And that really plants a negative kind of attitude for You know, and so there's a lot of that was uh I I would argue that they were probably talking to a girl. Yes. Yeah. Which that does reflect a cultural orientation that is anti-man By the way, here's another computer um what do most people do on a date? This was a ten year old boy. On the first date they just tell each other lies. And that usually gets them interested enough to go for a second date. Yeah, the problem is that's too much of the truth. Hence the reason why so many marriages end up falling apart. We don't know how to be honest with one another and shoot straight. Alright, before we move on to the next question here, I'm gonna r remind everyone, or the one who's probably listening this morning. You're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and she's Dina Skinner. She's uh stuck with me. She's learned that I finally have something interesting to say if she listens long enough. And she's bought into all my lies and it's roped her into a whole series of dates all of life together. Uh Here's a question. When is it okay to kiss someone? When you're married. Are you wanting my answer to that? I'm gonna argue more extensively. I think the point is anything physical uh that uh that you cannot say no to, you have no business doing. Anything physical that is arousing uh in any way whatsoever, uh automatically and inherently is rude to the person that you're doing it to. And I think uh I think it's possible that a uh a peck Kiss would not do that, I think anything much beyond that, I think even a hug could be very dangerous along those lines because you you know you start uh causing there to be desires that have no way to be righteously fulfilled. And so a rule of no kissing I think ultimately is until you get married is wise. Um but uh in this day and age I think it's better to teach kids the deeper heart issue that you don't wanna cause the other person to have desires that cannot be righteously fulfilled. That's rude and and cruel. Why would you do it to yourself? Yet we do, and then we wonder why it is that we go from that to the next thing to the next thing and before we know it we're uh you know define the what the definition of is is in the context of sex. But we love each other. Well there's a seven year old girl who disagrees with you both. She said it's okay to s kiss someone when they're rich. Oh. Oh my. The seven year old girl. Oh. The feature of America right there. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh is it might never have gotten married if that was the case. Is it better? Is it better to be single or married? Married. Well, scripture says single, actually. Paul says it. But if you if you can't, then get married for crying out loud. If you if you don't have the gift of singleness, then just go ahead and get it. Well can we still say that? Solomon says that uh you know uh Hugh finds a wife, finds what is good, and receives favor from the Lord. But then Paul says that uh I wish you all could be single like I am because the times are so bad. Right. You know, but then he said it's better to marry than to burn. Uhhuh. So so pray about it. Yeah. Let's see if the uh nine year old girl could do better. She says it's better for girls to be single but not for boys. Boys need someone to clean up after them. Do you know the word for help easer the Hebrew word for help and helpmate is always used for God coming and helping the nation of Israel and saving them and surrounding them with uh with support. It's a very, very strong word for help. Everywhere else that it shows up uh in in the Old Testament is super strong. And I think that's very important for us to remember that that uh we're not talking about like a second class citizen, this helpmate. This helpmate was, you know, a major player. you know, in this thing called marriage and I think it's important for us to keep that perspective. If you read the Proverbs thirty one Yes, right She is not a whimsical fly by night type of a gal. Absolutely. She is a woman. I mean, in every sense of the word. She truly is a big thing. I desire that for myself. I do. I truly, truly, truly do. Especially the part where it says uh Her children rise a rise up and call her blessed. Her husband too. Okay, and that's sets you up perfectly to respond. Well, I think it ties into Picked up on it. Well, I'm sorry, I was I was looking at the clock. That's right. Well, I'm trying to that was your chance. All right, I'm sorry. Well it was like that up I thought she was saying that she longs to have her children rise up and call her blessed and her husband to call her blessed. Oh and it was a total Well she's married to me, obviously she's out in the world. Remains. I'm sorry, glancing at the clock, figuring out what we're gonna do. Yes. Well we have time, but I just want to uh make sure we time this right. Okay. Uh and I thought you were segueing it, that's why uh I was distracted. 'Cause I think that that idea of the woman really uh desiring to be the helpmate and the husband truly recognizing the value of that and appreciating the wife and going out of his way e even though I've just demonstrated an inability to do so. Uh uh to to show for that. Yeah. Uh is really important. And it kinda segues into this last question on this uh little questionnaire of uh about marriage How would you make a marriage work? Okay? And that's kind of the way, right? I mean, is there i would you amplify that anymore? Um the way is uh no, say it again, the way is what? Well, for the woman to do what a woman's supposed to do, to support and be there to help the man to be all that he can and should be. And the man then is supposed to be uh what he needs to be as the man to show appreciation for and build up and help at some level his his wife as well. You know, I think uh I think there's enough like uh grist for the mill there that we could even you know discuss this next week as well. I mean um The husband is to lay down his life. I mean clearly you have a bigger calling, I believe, than I do. Um I I wouldn't want your calling too. It's nice of you to argue that, but I'd argue that the point is that both need to lay down their lives Which is a laying down of too. But it also says you're to submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. So it's not just one party that's submitting, you know, and even the language of respect, you know, that the wife should respect her husband really is dealing with a weakness in the man that the man struggles, you know, with insecurity inside to such an extent that if he's not receiving respect, it totally undercuts and undermines his ability to be what he's supposed to be in the in the relationship, but in the same way, you know, uh if a woman doesn't feel loved, it'll totally undercut and undermine her ability, you know, and so So he uses that language not to say, well, the man's the only one that's supposed to get the respect in the relationship or the woman's the only one that's supposed to get the love, but to identify the facet that tends to be most needed you know, so that the woman can minister to a husband and the husband can minister to the wife and unfortunately it turns into so often this man demand you know, demanding you know, control and authority and power and and uh and you know, the woman on the other hand, um, you know, feeling like she's just a nag nag nag and you know, and so I think working that relationship out is profoundly complex and to uh to not be uh diligent to clarify those kinds of things lead to tyranny, breakdown and you know, and all aspects of marriage, unfortunately. And they do they it's there's so many cliches that kind of mind I try to avoid them all. But it it's it's so important is that both sides of the of the marriage, you know, both sides of the equation are uh are seeking to be there for each other the way that they need to be there for each other. Totally. For example, the husband if he is feeling respected yeah because men are insecure I think in in general, feeling respected, he's then more able to make himself vulnerable enough to demonstrate loving, tender care for the wife and that's what she's craving from the husband. But uh the husband if he doesn't do that, now she has an excuse not to have respect for her husband because he's not doing what she needs And he's not feeling respected, so he can't give her what she needs and you know it's it's this it's a s it's a crazy circle either way. Either both sides are kinda functioning and make making it work. or both sides aren't. It's it's it's impossible for one side to carry all the water by themselves. Yeah. However if there's a relationship where only one side's carrying the water then that individual must uh be in a intimate place with the Lord, you know, in terms of being in the Word of God and uh, you know, just receiving strength from God to move forward. in everything that she does cause or he does, you know, 'cause sometimes it's a man, sometimes it's a woman. Uh, 'cause it is I just can't imagine how difficult it is in that kind of a situation. And clearly scripture supports that you need to do that and that God will through the unbelieving spouse or through the believing spouse cause perhaps the unbelieving spouse to be saved. Yeah. I mean that's in I I believe it's Corinthians that talks about that. Uh yep. Peter is what talks about the unbelieving spouse might be won over by Right. Yeah. Right. I mean and so there's great blessing in that and knowing that God is on your side for that. If God is for you, then who can be against you? Even your unbelieving spouse has nothing on you. Yeah, in fact I I'd say the the struggle in the married relationship always has to do with one person being a stronger believer than the other. You know, in pressing in and then the other one not pressing in uneven walk. And so that y you have that that imbalance that makes it so difficult. And that's where I think uh it gets the most difficult. Well, I appreciate both of your very heady insights, but I'm not sure that this young ten year old boy doesn't have you beat. His answer to how would you make a marriage work is to tell your wife that she looks pretty. Even if she looks like a truck. A mat truck. Anyway, thank you, Jonathan Schweitzer, who doesn't look well, not so much like a truck today anyway. My wife, Dita Skinner. I'm Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks for listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD.