Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMT. Brought to us by Putin. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator. Check out the Faith Debate Online. If you missed the show or you caught part of a show or you heard the whole show and you want to hear it again, all the shows are available via podcast, uh typically within twenty-four to forty-eight hours of airing. So if it's not there right away, just wait a day or two and try again. Last week we had on the show Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel, John Armstrong from Faith Reformed Presbyterian. And Jenny Dixon, Executive Director of the Care Net Pregnancy Center of Frederick, and what do you know? They're back this week for not exactly more of the same. Last week on the show we were z uh kinda setting the groundwork. Uh it's been in the news the last several months anyway, or uh I don't know if it's been in the news the last month or two, but it was in the news before that about a uh a a state bill that was being considered that would put some uh uh rigorous requirements Some would argue unfair requirements on pregnancy centers in the state of Maryland. We learned some facts like the abortion rate is higher in Maryland than most other places in the country and unlike most other places in the country the abortion rate in Maryland is on the rise instead of on the decline. It's interesting. We did a show a while back on on divorce and we found that Divorce in Frederick County was higher than the national average and was on the rise rather than decline. We're doing something wrong it seems to me. What's with you, pastor guys? Come on. Yes, I feel the weight of it. They're shaking their heads like, I know, I've we're trying here. What can we do? Anyway, so what we're gonna now it's no secret. I uh uh I'm an uncloseted Christian, all right? I'm I'm out of the closet with my face. It's pretty clear to anybody who listens to this show where I stand on things. But in fairness We don't have somebody on the panel who's going to represent the quote-unquote pro-choice position. The three people sitting across from me right now would all fall into the pro-life category And isn't it true that last week y'all admitted to being Christian folk? So isn't it true that that would be kind of the motivation behind your pro life stance? It is motivation because I mean the scriptures basically are very clear on the sanctity of human life. But I think beyond that you you can also see some medical validation and scientific validation for being pro-life. But somebody else with a different worldview could also try to argue some scientific medical reasons uh that would support their position and they're going to be motivated by some non-Christian or non-Judeo-Christian worldview and they're going to say, Who are you? to impose your view, your religious view on me. I'm not trying to impose my religious view on you. I'm saying it should be up to the individual to choose what to do with his or her body Yes, but when you decide to make that particular argument, you are dec you know you are arguing from a decidedly humanist, atheist uh worldview and uh those uh are like the first major divide around the world is probably ten percent atheists and then all the rest uh if it's even that high are uh some some form of a more traditional religion, whether it's even Hindu, Buddhist Muslim, uh uh Jewish or Christian and every single one of those other religions is I is anti abortion and against abortion. It's only the humanist world perspective that is the most open to and most advocating for an abortion perspective. If what you say is true, I'm not sure that it is, but if what you say is true, then all the more reason why we should defend the rights of the minority. If only ten percent have this position, don't they deserve to have their position protected? Yeah, I would say uh they certainly do. The problem is that the roots again of those that are into the abortion movement comes from a eugenic background and the eugenicists uh advocated abortion or contraception not to fight for the rights of minorities, but specifically to stop them from reproducing because they weren't fit enough to be good for society. And their their whole orientation, in fact, it was just said You know, in uh two thousand five by a guy by the name of Ron Weddington, he said uh he says this, you can start immediately to eliminate the barely educated, unhealthy and poor segment of our country. No, I'm not advocating some sort of mass extinction, but crime, drug and disease are already doing that. The problem is that their numbers are not only replaced but increased by the birth of millions of b babies to people who can't afford to have babies. Even just three years ago they're still advocating a state-controlled approach to wiping out or or removing segments of the population that they deem as unhealthy. And that doesn't seem to me like anybody standing up for the rights of minorities. Sounds like a man speaking to me When's the last time you carried a baby in your womb? Yeah, easy for you to say. Wearing that purple shirt like you're wearing today. But but fair in fairness, you know, an argument has been made. uh numerous times that okay, forget the, you know, the conspiracy theory eugenics are trying to wipe out the minorities among us kind of thing. You know, this conspiratorial uh you know, rage against the machine thing that you have going on is is uh quite unbecoming. Uh what about the argument of an the individual who is struggling. Maybe they already have several kids. Maybe they have what they think is a happy but struggling impoverished family. They can't afford to feed another child. And so they think the best thing to do for them is to abort. Can I speak to that a little bit? I mean I wanna say a quote. This is from Frederica Matthews Green, a feminist for life. And I think in all my experiences of 25 years of working with women in unplanned pregnancies, this sums it up No woman wants an abortion like she wants an ice cream cone or a Porsche. She wants an abortion like an animal caught in a trap trying to gnaw off her own leg to survive. And that is very true. I think something that's so interesting. Interesting, Troy, is that women don't consider adoption as a valid option. And that's something as a pregnancy center and something as society that we need to do. There are 1. 3 million people in the United States wanting to adopt babies. There are 1. 3 million abortions for every couple wanting to adopt a child. Um there there's forty couples, I'm sorry, wanting to adopt a child for every child that is available for. But doesn't the raccoon caught in trap have a right to chew off its leg to get free? They do. But you know there's a better way and that's what we want to show women. There is a better way. There's pregnancy centers who are there and committed to help a woman throughout her pregnancy and get her the resources she needs to survive. And whether that's good medical care, financial help housing. Um, a woman will not be denied those things that she needs. I think most pregnancy centers will go all out to make sure that she has what she needs to be able to carry that baby to term. On what criteria are we going to say that it's better? It's better because what we see for women that avoid their babies is uh mental anguish. Um a a recent survey done um in Los Angeles, I think it was by the Los Angeles Times that interviewed multitudes of women that were post saboria, forty six percent that they said that they suffered guilt from their abortion. But pregnancy centers have long been um I think pioneers in the post abortion movement to provide care and support for women who have had abortions, to help put them in touch with those feelings of loss and shame and guilt and just basic consequences. Whether these women are believers or not, they still feel a loss. They still feel ashamed. still feel a regret from their past abortions. You spent you mentioned you know shame and and and the the mental anguish, emotional anguish that somebody could go through. Those are the same things that you could point to for somebody who's the victim of an incestuous relationship or a rape or something like that and they have to go through the uh the trauma of carrying to term uh uh you know for nine months carry You know, uh a fetus in their womb that is a constant reminder of this horrible tragedy. I mean, is that the loving Christian response? Okay, now now it seems to always go that direction. Do we have statistics for how many are actually two percent of all um crisis pregnancies fall in the category of rape or it's gonna be a bad loss. It it's it's very rare. But I can promise you the women that I've worked with through with that have been raped or are victims of incest, that have had abortions, have told me that the abortion with them is the second trauma that they felt like they were victimized again. That that would not have been their choice. That they felt imposed on by society and lacked the resources and support to continue their pregnancy. In fact isn't it true that the Roe of Roe v. Wade felt like she got used by the uh abortion movement to uh i and she actually came back right around and said that she wished she never would have uh would have had the abortion, is that correct? Well actually she didn't have the abortion. She ended up carrying the child and placing it for adoption by the time the law was passed already had the baby. Yes. But she'll testify that she felt like she was a pun. Totally a pun. But that's purely, you know, anecdotal and and a e emotive experience. You probably find somebody who's had a bunch of abortions and doesn't feel any sort of angst over it. That doesn't No, but I think the majority of women do. And it and if you look at statistics, forty per six uh percent of all abortions are performed on some type of professing Christian. So so you have to look at it Um, and that perspective too, these women do feel guilt and they need a place to find forgiveness and healing and to be able to validate validate the life of their unborn child. And what's interesting, if you're ever in Chattanooga, Tennessee, there is a National Memorial for the Unborn. And women from all over the United States make a pilgrimage down there to pay tribute to the loss of their aborted children. There are plaques all over the wall with names on them, with dates um pleas for forgiveness. And there's a statue of a woman holding her baby in the middle of all this in an eternal flame and it reads, I'll hold you in heaven. These women desperately need to validate that life, need to recognize that a life was taken, and need to find forgiveness. and restoration and a place where they can grieve the loss of that unborn child. One out of fifty abortions would fall into the category of being the result of a traumatic experience in incestuous situation, a rape, whatever. So I guess it's okay and that one out of fifty to have the abortion? Uh again, I would think that once that individual has been given all the facts, they've been able to see, you know, maybe a an ultrasound, they they they've been able to to see what happens, you know, when when ladies often feel like they're traumatized the second round if they if they're given all the facts. Um I I I don't know that I would encourage the abortion. I I think I'd be more inclined to let somebody still have a decision, you know, at that point. Um but the problem is that nobody's advocating for for them to to know all the facts except for care net pregnancy centers. Well i I think many women feel coerced into an abortion in that situation are never given the option of possibly you could carry this baby the term or you could place it for adoption. But I want to convey too that they would not receive anything but compassion and love at a pregnancy center. We would never judge them for the type of decision they make in any situation. but especially this situation. And we would make sure that they would get the mental health care that they would need. Um because it is a traumatic situation. They are a victim. It's not their fault and they need to to deal with Along those lines, I think it'd be healthy for us to say on the show on the air that Troy and I, those of you that listen to the show regularly, are a lot more inclined to be very uh uh politically minded and and culture clash about this. But um both Jenny Dixon and John Armstrong uh uh are a lot less inclined to go that way. And I I I wouldn't want to leave the impression with Troy and I going head to head on some of these issues with these guys here uh uh that that in any way they are. My my my sense is that they're they're loath to go in any of those directions. What they'd rather do is they'd rather talk about how they they show the compassion, they show the care and those kinds of things. And so even though obviously on this show we're we're we're digging into some of the more culturally clash type issues. Um I I just wanna just mention that my own testimony of these two as we've been talking with them is that they're not like me. You know, they're way better than Troy and I are along these lines. And that that when it comes time to interact with with uh with the genuinely hurting girls that that are in these situations that uh that it is compassion and it's kindness and it's gentleness uh that is being offered at at uh at Care National Thank you. And I'd like to put in a plug. We do have a wonderful um program called Yahweh's Grace. And if you go on afterabortionhealing. com, that's our post abortion website, you can find information. And we just want to encourage women out there who are post abortive. that are hurting who have maybe never told anyone or told few people but would like to talk to somebody. This is very, very confidential and we can promise confidentiality, but we can also help you. So please contact us. Okay, now my pastoral side has kicked in. I just want to say hey everybody out there as well, if you're in a situation like this, I apologize that it's such a cultural clash type situation and that that it's so politicized that you feel, you know like there's few people to talk to. If you're a young lady that's going through a situation like this, I apologize that you have to live in a culture that uh that makes it so hard to figure these kinds of decisions out and to find people that you can talk to genuinely. Uh I you know, I probably am part of the part of the problem along those lines. And And uh though I'm willing, obviously, and we say that it's important to s not just speak our minds, but to have the the uh the debate here in the United States. Um at the end of the day I uh I just I my prayer for you is that you'll find a place like Kernet where you're not gonna have to listen to somebody like me giving you a bunch of arguments, you know, about cultural issues, but but what you're gonna find is just this uh genuine compassion and that sort of thing. Yeah, thank you Jonathan. I think that's That's uh exactly what you'll find at Kiernet. And as a board member, I don't I'm not down in the trenches with the ladies that that are working, but um you know, just from from what I know and Uh one of the things that that is amazing to me is every year over the past couple of years we've had a a memorial service uh during the Sanctity of Life Week uh where the the volunteers come. And they grieve. Mm. And um it's powerful. It is powerful. They they carry grief for uh every every girl that walks in uh off the street with with the the hard the hard stories. Um some sometimes there there's great outcome and sometimes it's a tragic outcome. Um and it's hard and these ladies carry it day in and day out and um but it's a it's a beautiful thing to uh to give of yourself to help others. Uh and that's certainly what they're in the business of doing. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. That was John Armstrong, Senior Pastor at Faith Reform Presbyterian. Before that you heard John Schweitzer, who was the senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. And you're also hearing I don't know if where she fit into the mix, if she was before that or after that or whatever, but the female voice on the show today is that of Jenny Dixon, Executive Director of the CareNet Pregnancy Center. Frederick, I'm Froy Skinnard. Um today your host, moderator, and Devil's advocate. So So the devil comes back into the picture. I'm I'm I'm sensing a little bit of a of a wavering, a waffling, a an inconsistency. Uh-huh. And I'm also uh I I think you've opened yourself up to the the charge of blame on on the culture clash Um, if people like you wouldn't make such a big deal about it, then it wouldn't be such a culture clash and people wouldn't have to carry around so much guilt and grief perhaps. And you seemed to waver when I asked you about the you know the rape and incest. And you're like, well, you know, in that situation I talked through and I'd leave the choice up to them as a paraphrase. I mean maybe it's a a a Bad paraphrase, but it's basically a paraphrase. You weren't as firm there as you were earlier we were talking about this. So what gives there Uh the bottom line is that uh like uh Miss Dixon was referring to, a person in a situation like that is in a very tough situation. Um I bet that I don't know. My bet would be like mo nine out of ten ladies if they if they genuinely had time to make a decision, they're given space. to make a decision, to get all the facts, to to be surrounded with a supportive community that cares for them, uh that that will help them to see what possibilities and what potential uh is out there as well as the things that uh that that they might live with in terms of guilt. You know, uh one of the worst things that you can do is when you're in a crisis situation is to make a decision too quickly. And I think I think it's likely that the majority of the ladies out there that are uh you know this two percent, one out of fifty that comes from statutory rape or incestuous type situation, if they had a loving community surrounding them, if they had a place like Carnet to go Uh I I'd like to see that experiment done. The problem is is that we're not having that experiment done. They go to the r you know, another uh center somewhere and what they're told is, yep, just go down the hall, do this, you know, d do that. Uh there i if there's any statutory rape kind of stuff, it's kinda swept under the rug and there's no genuine support that's given. So how could we even know if we wouldn't see nine out of ten of those one out of fifty actually end up deciding to and so so am I waffling there? I don't know if I'm waffling or not. I think I'm actually uh arguing more persuasively uh for pro life because we're giving them the chance to genuinely make the decision. What if they end up making The decision that would be totally counterintuitive from your point of view. Do you think that your your sensibilities are given the space and the time they're gonna make the right decision? At the end of the day I would rather the law not allow them to uh to have an abortion. And if that was the case again that uh that the the uh community through organizations like care net would simply be a support every step of the way so that even if they had wanted to just do an abortion get rid of it and the law didn't allow them to that they still had a support structure that cared for them and that loved them and that walked them through and helped them to to come out down the road and who knows you know, then two, three years later if they if they wouldn't have said, you know what, I'm so glad that I didn't. I know that my child is alive right now and living, you know, either adopted in a family or because they have the support taken care of by them personally. I I think Jonathan I I would sum up what you're saying is resources equal hope. And if if you if you give if you give the woman in this situation the the information that she needs to make it an informed decision. And you show her that the resources are available and there are people who will love you unconditionally and will walk with you through this Um, you'll find I mean that that comes comes hope. Nobody wants to like going back to the analogy with the wild animal, no animal wants to chew off its leg. Yeah. And then You you see animals running around with without a leg. Well you know, they don't compete very well in nature. They don't do very well with with only three legs instead of four. Uh the same is true by and large with those women who, you know, feel coerced into having abortion or or whatever and they feel they have no options and therefore they feel they have no hope. And so they've got to do something desperate Um when in fact uh if the community would come along like you said and come along and support rather than hey let's just flush it down the toilet kind of thing and get rid of it. You know, let me make a comparison. We we just had all these uh Mormon children taken away from uh all their their parents down in Texas and Uh in in that situation you had all these social services that were coming around and were taking care of these kids, you know, trying to find ways to, you know, to take care of the kids. I personally felt like it wasn't handled all that well But the point is is that there are resources out there uh to be made available and yet our society goes to all this great length, you know, to to make a big deal about these these these Mormon kids in the situation, and yet we've got all these girls coming out of all these tough situations off of the streets, broken, you know, families and and why can't we spend our focus w with our social services with our social uh uh activities and institutions helping to provide support instead of just helping them just to cut their leg off you know if we if we keep the illustration going. And and I have to commend Frederick because I do think there's a lot of support coming out of the Special services of Frederick. And I'm very proud of Frederick. I've worked in a lot of communities and I have to say they are, but it's it's making these services visible to our clients and be able to connect the the the service to the client And making sure that she gets there. And you know, I just want to share one quick story. I don't know how much time we have, but I worked with a client basically who was fourteen who had w her parents um told her not to go to a party. She went to a party and while she was there somebody slipped Rohipanol, the drug rape pill into her Coke and she drank it and all she could remember all night long were different figures coming towards her and she woke up a mess. She knew what happened. She went home in tears, did not tell her parents. Wow. Um six weeks later her pregnancy test was positive. Told her mother her and and this was a Christian family and and they were completely torn up. But they went ahead and scheduled an abortion because they didn't know what else to do. Even though they were believers, even though they were pro life. They just felt like this little fourteen year old daughter was in the worst possible situation to ruin her reputation, to destroy her life, um, and to basically they they didn't know. But the Before um the abortion they came to the pregnancy center and scheduled an ultrasound. They needed to validate how far along she was before the abortion clinic would perform the abortion. And so, you know, you never forget those moments. But I can see this mother and this very young daughter and all of a sudden on the screen popped up a twelve week old baby and that baby was sucking its thumb and it was moving and kicking and it was a perfect profile of a child and that daughter just left in her mother's arms and you know now they have a four year old grandson who is absolutely the joy and love of their life. But this family came around this girl and supported her and um she's gotten through it. And she's able also, um, from this to give her testimony to a lot of other teenagers Um to prevent them from suffering the same thing. So you know, I know what Satan means for evil. God uses for good, even in situations like that. And I'm not saying that that's the conclusion of everybody's story. Certainly it is not. But certainly people, like John said, they deserve to know the information and they need to be connected to the resources and counseling services. that can give them hope and provide them a way to have this child or even place the child for adoption. I feel like hope versus despair is the the summary you know, concept, you know, even this idea that great you're in a horrendous situation, but there's still hope for you to make it through the situation instead of feeling like your life has been just destroyed beyond repair That's not true. There's you know, there's hope you know in your story for the other thing. Well, that's gonna have to put a wrap on the show. Believe it or not, another one is over. Yes. John Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, thank you. Jenny Dixon, the executive director of the Care Net Pregnancy Center of Frederick. Thank you And uh John Armstrong, who is a senior pastor of Faith Reformed Presbyterian. Thank you. It's rare that we have so many people on the panel at once. I'm running out of breath. I'm Frey Skinner. Thanks for listening to the show and thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I do want to extend an invitation. Check us out online, WFMD. com, keyword faith debate, or you can email me, Troy at WFMD. com If you have a suggestion on a topic, if you feel like I haven't asked all the questions I should have asked on a show, you know, I'll try to come swim back around and ask those questions. If you um are or know somebody who is a faith community leader that would be a a good guest on this show to talk about a particular area of interest for them, share that too, always looking to have different perspectives represented on the show Uh just email those thoughts to me again, Troy at WFMD. com. Thanks again so much for listening. Have a great week. God bless.