Welcome to the Frederick Fade debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 W WFMD brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Sweitzer And uh Pastor and Bishop Edward Ambush from Bread of Life Church in downtown Frederick. And um Jonathan just a moment ago said a very brief informal prayer to God asking that God please don't let us be boring. On today's show. Amen and amen to that. Can I get an amen? Yes, you can, but for the record it's not anywhere in scripture that we're supposed to pray that. In fact, the meek shall inherit the earth. And I've yet to see a good meek show uh radio show that is uh successful. In any way whatsoever Well that's a different show too on how to define the word meek and what is meant there. That's right. Let's debate that. Let's debate that. And I don't even say that jokingly. But anyway. Ooh. We've been talking uh for a little over a month now. The three of us. Yes. And I feel like we're close to a breakthrough. We almost got this solved. It's as if we have uh Jacob Arminius and John Calvin in the room right now. Yes, yes, it's a mind melt A meeting of the minds and they're they're also saying, yeah, yeah, you're you're you know what, Jacob? You're absolutely right. He talks with his hands. Did Augustine talk with his hands? He couldn't have written all that much I don't think it's Italian. Yeah, it's it's it's definitive. I thought you can tell the true Italian. Well, if if they talk with their hands, they're either Italian or Greek. Yeah. Mediterranean. Yeah, Mediterranean. Northern Mediterranean. Yeah. Anyway Uh we've been talking about predestination and whether or not God chooses us, we choose God, you know, what role does God play in our salvation versus our role in our own salvation? And for the most part, we did a little bit of a detour last week, but for the most part what we've been focusing on are our scriptural arguments for the position that we hold. And the positive implications of what that means. The Bible says this and therefore this good thing i is drawn from that. Yeah. We haven't really spent any time. Maybe we're gentlemen. I don't know. Well, that can't be true, so there's some other reason. Uh we haven't taken uh very much time to to talk about the negative implications. Somebody who is a strong sovereignty of God adherent, right? God's in control. He's the one who chooses. And this Bible says so, and here's how I'm going to support my point of view. We've done that. But now for In addition to having strong th belief in in our position, there's always going to be a little bit of a suspicion or a fear of the other position. My position is right, therefore the other position at some level must be wrong, and if it's wrong, it's therefore dangerous, it misses the mark, or therefore maybe it's sin to hold that position. What are some of the dangerous implications? What what What babies get thrown out with the bathwater if you throw out sovereignty? What babies get thrown out with the bathwater if you throw out uh human responsibility and and human free will? Hmm. Interesting. Well I guess I can uh try try to start here. I would say that uh if one believes uh that God is absolutely sovereign. Everything is predetermined by God. Uh and I've heard people talk like that. uh and try to cover their own shortcomings, their own uh lack of of obedience to God, because they say, well Well God knows everything anyway. Uh why should I He knows I'm gonna go out and sin right now, so I might as well go enjoy it. Uh that or or they'll say Uh well, he already knows whether I'm going to be saved or not. Why do I have to bother myself uh struggling with making the decision for or against salvation? That's precisely what Romans nine was grappling with. And that's called I think that's a stoic point of view, right? That's fate. Belief in fate and no matter what I do, it's up to the fates and it's just gonna happen. That's stoicism, I believe in fate. cast it totally on God when God really has not designed it that way. Uh as I've said all along, I believe that God uh does both at the same time. Uh God is in sovereign control but at the same time He gives a level of responsibility for the decision on us. So it's our decision along with his decision. Yeah, I I would agree. I I think that the danger with too much of an emphasis on the sovereignty of God can come down to me freeing myself of responsibility in terms of um how willing I am to be patient with people that I might uh uh pretty much just assume we're never gonna get saved, you know, so it's a waste of time. Or um right, why preach? Why go on missions? Uh yeah, then why evangelize? Missions evangelism Yeah. All of those, you know, there's a whole slew of things. Why pray even? Yeah, for that matter, why bother praying? Why bother pressing into to studying the Word of God? Why bother You know, with a whole slew of things that, you know, would end up seeming to be a lot less important because it's a done deal. I'm in. Yeah. Some people say why pay any more price? Right. Some people say, well the work was finished at the cross Therefore I don't have to do anything and I'm still going to heaven. In fact, uh the our Ahmadian Imam, uh Zaki Kowser, when he was on the show argued to us that the reason why the Christian West is so immoral is because they are guaranteed salvation And so why do they have to do anything else to earn it? Why should they even bother trying to be holy? They're still missing the point though, those that think that way, aren't they? Perfect Yeah, well well it's interesting that that we would argue that that uh that they're so missing the point, but that's that's kind of his point is that if if we're living with this opinion that it's all a done deal then why would we ever bother to do anything more? And uh I think in fact an overemphasis on the sovereignty of God leaves us wide open to that very argument. You know, that uh you know, for example, like apartheid. Apartheid was was um uh a a major part of apartheid was the Afrikaners who were had come from Germany and from um uh d uh Dutch uh uh Holland uh with this Genevan mentality, uh Calvinism mentality that was super um sure that God had had preordained that certain groups of people would be this way, certain groups of people would be this way, certain groups of people would be that way, and it put all the blacks down at the uh you know, at the bottom of the of the of the whole uh you know, uh thing. And so as a result of that, you know, there's some dangers there that if we if we get stuck into this orientation that God has set things in stone, it can lead in the direction of us accepting a certain um hierarchical society. A caste system that that is not godly. And and and and they're able to say that, well, it it's not our doing. It's just this is the way God did it. So th then that uh is a excuse or a rationale for people to accept. Yeah. Yeah, to accept the the status quo. But uh but see the Bible never says that we are are not called to good works. I mean scripture says the opposite. It says that we are called to good works. Uh it also says uh well in the book of James where James says, well He says, You say you have faith. He says, I will show you my faith by work by my works. So so then real faith is in God, which I believe uh according to predestination, God is the one that orchestrates the faith. God is the one that gives us the desire for the faith. He uh no man comes to the Lord or comes to salvation except the Lord draw him. So it it's God who is actually even behind fully behind the ability that we have to even desire to make a decision for salvation. He's the one that orchestrates it, he brings it to pass. uh he's the one by his spirit, his spirit dealing with our spirit, bringing us into salvation. Uh and there there's a responsibility on our part. And not only uh the responsibility on our part responsibility on our part to make the decision for salvation It's also a responsibility on our part to maintain the salvation once it's given to us, because the Bible says that we should work out our salvation. Not only make your election and salvation sure, but then also work it out. Be strong Calvinists would argue that if if you don't have works following along with your faith, then that's one way that we know that you're not truly elect Yeah. You know, that that that that God's grace hasn't actually won you over and transformed you. I think it's capable of first John it says, how do we know that they have been brought from darkness into life. It says because they have love for the brethren. See that that's a work. Uh w that's a decision of the mind that I'm going to give you respect, I'm going to uh treat you as though you hadn't sinned against me, even though I know you have uh I'm going to love you with God's kind of love. Uh that that work within itself because love is action. It it's a work. When we see the work, then we know that the faith is real. We see the changed life. We know that that God has done a miracle. So, you know, one serious danger of the uh of Focusing on the sovereignty of God is that one might focus solely on the sovereignty of God and not recognize any need for personal responsibility and and use it as a license to live a sin filled Uh licentious life. Right. And so you would need to guard against that if you if you're gonna emphasize God's sovereignty, be careful not to use it as an excuse to just do whatever you want. What is the danger to be guarded against somebody who holds strongly on the human responsibility, human free will side, what's the danger that that person should guard against? What what would be the negative tendency there? I think it could be boiled down to uh kind of a um martyr complex or messiah complex, a uh God complex that everything depends on my decision and you know, my family, uh y you know, my my husband or spouse, my wife uh in the way that they act. I didn't do the right thing and and it's all my fault. Yeah, yeah. Or if I don't preach to 'em they're not going to heaven. So therefore I'm I'm just going out trying to do everything I can, you know, and uh w with this harried You know, uh it is to be it's up to me. Totally. Right. Yeah. We had a phrase uh that was thrown around out at Or Roberts University, which would kind of be called a bastion of uh Arminianism, uh, that uh we need to chill and let God be God. And the reason for that is because, you know, in the charismatic world there can be a little bit of an orientation or a temptation that Everything depends on me praying more or me working more or me um you know just if I was just a l had just fasted a little bit more, maybe that person would have gotten saved if I had just you know, prayed a little bit more. Maybe we would have seen r revival break out in that particular town. You know, this kind of an orientation that can lead to a total imbalance and burnout. you know, where people are just, you know, uh losing their faith and getting tossed on the side because they're just, you know, not working hard enough. I don't know if I want to mention any denominations specifically, but there are some denominations that teach that if you don't go knocking on doors, if you don't uh do the work of the evangelist Yeah, those are called Mormons. Yeah. And um that's not here to defend themselves. Yes, that was uh sorry, that was yeah. Um but that that would be the the the the the downside of leaning too far in the direction of uh self works, works, works. Works. Yeah. Or that salvation is dependent totally on my decision, my works. Now, again, we have been called in the good works. But but the power to uh to receive salvation I believe comes from God. And the power to be sanctified and and live for God also comes comes From God. Now i does he require it? Yes. Uh in order to stay safe, I I would read uh Second Peter chapter one where it talks about well uh you know, add to your virtue uh faith and add to the faith knowledge and to you know tempers, patience, add all these things. And finally it comes down to the end And he says, uh, war for the rather brother and give diligence to make your calling and election sure. He says, For if you do all these things. See, now he's suggesting, he's he's recommending that you do all these things, that you that you do uh have virtue, you do operate in patience, you do have uh godliness, that you do these good works. He said, if you do all these good works, he said, ye shall never fall And what passage is that again? That would have been been a good one to bring up last week in the context of Whether or not our calling election is sure. You know, 'cause he's telling us there to be diligent to make sure it is. But um Philippians, is it chapter three? Paul talks about r you know, running the race the race through to its completion, complete the race You know, fight the good fight. Yeah. Yeah. Do what you need to do. Yeah, there's that sense that there's a possibility of not doing that. Yeah. Keep your eye on the prize. Yeah. Yeah. W which reminds me again, a and I'm probably saying the same thing maybe in another way, but this might shed a little bit more light on it. Uh I always say that there's God's part and then there's our part. And both parts work together. The another example would be like Moses, uh, when he was leading the people uh through the wilderness, and of course the people were hard-necked and stiff-necked and so forth, and God said, Okay. I will just wipe out all these folks and I'll start over with Moses, you, and your wife. Yeah. Now now um Does the will of man have any influence on the will of God? Well we know in that case it did. Because Moses said He said, Well, uh, Lord, you you can't do that. You can't just wipe out the people because then all the other nations will say that that you brought these people out and you couldn't lead them into the promised land So it kind of looks like there was an experience there where the will of Moses kind of blended in with and had an influence on the will of God. Some would argue though that God knew what Moses' response was and it was meant to be an illustration and a teaching point of the importance of intercessory prayer, that you know, God set it up to strengthen Moses' faith and to strengthen his relationship and his willingness to speak freely and openly with God. And that there's a l and there's a lesson there. That God never was going to be wiping the the people out, regardless of what Moses said. But that said, Moses said what God knew he was gonna say. Yeah, and and I would agree with that, which basically supports the position that I've been holding all along, and that is It is the will of God and the will of man working together. God doing his part, man doing his part. So when you apply that to destination or predestination Yes, God does predetermine, according to Romans eight twenty-nine, uh, you know, uh he says, for whom he did foreknow, he did predetermine or predestinate to become conform to his image. Uh and then of course who we conformed he he justified, who we justified and glorified. So in a sense that says yes, ever salvation is predetermined by God. But yet at the same time God makes creates a space there for man to do his part. Yes, man must believe. He must Trust God, he must obey. That's his part. If you continue in these things, yes, you won't fall. So yes, we have our part, along with God doing the major part. But as I said before Even when we do our part, it is God who gives us the ability to even do our part. So then I have to say it's it's all God. Pastor Edward Ambush from Bread of Life Church in Downtown Frederick. Senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Schweitzer, making up the panel today. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Is this going to fall into the category of one of those, you know, really unsolvable riddles that's one of the mysteries of God? Do we throw this in the category of the Trinity? One God, three persons, but that doesn't mean there's three gods. There's the Father, the Son, the Holy Ghost, or the Holy Spirit, your preference on phraseology there, but you've got these three persons. and yet they're all the same one God. How does that make sense? Uh Jesus, both fully God and fully man, how can you both fully both at the same time? That how does that make sense? Um, you know Jesus, fully God, dies on the cross. You know, there's a implication anyway that Jesus suffers uh uh the torment of separation from the Father uh at the cross. How could the Father and the Son uh be separated if they're unified as one God? I mean all these mysteries that we can't quite through our limited human intellect, you know, get our h get our arms all the way around to have some sort of cognitive rest uh on the issue. Is this one of those or Yeah, it's kind of both and, you know, the that's another one, both and, already not yet. You know, the idea of uh I've been saved, I'm being saved, I will be saved. Well, which one is it? Yes. All of the above. Is this one of those where you know we're just never going to quite fully be able to put to words how to explain this because it's a mystery of God That's a good point. I mean now of course First Corinthians thirteen says that we look to a glass darkly now. So there are some mysteries that we may not in this life fully understand until we come face to face with him. And of course First Corinthians thirteen follows by saying that uh when we see him we will know him as we are known. Well the question is how are we known? Well God knows everything about us. then if we know him the way he knows us, at some point when we see him face to face, when we go to heaven uh after the rapture, uh, we will know everything about him in the same way that he knows everything about us So yes, there are some mysteries. Uh we may not fully understand even this uh mystery of predestination. Yeah, I've been fond of saying that I feel like this argument is the most beautiful argument or debate in all of uh theology because it it's the bride saying, No, I love you more and the groom saying, No, I love you more you know, and sitting there arguing back and forth, No, I love you more, no, I love you more, no, I love Forrance You know, well, is it the sovereignty of God that he loves us more, or is it the you know, free will of man that we we we love him? You know, the point is somewhere it's gotta be a hundred percent of both. And uh and with uh you know abundant recognition that none of it could happen outside of the power and the grace of God. Right. Because we're the creature. Yeah, because we're the creature. It's the bride. He created us. Therefore, as I said before, anything that we decide, anything we do, since we are maintained by him, since we're created by him, maintained by him. uh any decision we make would have to be him working through us. Yeah. And it's a mystery the way of a man with a woman. You're just coming off a spouse little uh I was gonna say this too, that I feel like uh those on the more Arminian like free will side can even fall into the abuse of the discussion of faith itself, where they turn faith into something that is um uh that is different from what scripture would make it out to be that somehow, you know, if if if I believe in faith and I'm gonna have get a pink Cadillac, you know, and I'm gonna get this this great big house, that somehow my faith is so powerful that I can transcend the clear will of God that includes that the righteous are going to suffer persecution at the hands of the enemy. The word of faith movement. Speak positive words, positive things will happen if your faith is strong enough. Speak it into this into existence you want to Drive Mercedes, speak that Mercedes into existence the authority in order to to do that kind of thing, right? Yeah, yeah, and I think there's there's there's some truth in that particular lie that uh about faith that is valuable for us to really understand what scripture says about faith and to magnify you know, the the importance of faith, but to be careful to not so overmagnify that faith that we become presumptuous and we've started Um uh claiming in faith things that are outside of the will of God, you know, so that we're now praying not according to the will of God, but according to our point. The the will of God Uh verse uh well in chapter fourteen where Jesus said, He said, If you ask anything, but he says, According to my will. According to my will. He says I will do it. Not according to your will and your faith, but according to my will. Yeah, and he also says he says, uh if you ask anything in my name. Now of course when you asking your request in the name of Jesus, you're asking according to that name. According to what that name stands for the authority behind that name. According to his right, according to his authority, according to his will, according to his divine nature, according to what he wants to do, a plan you know, his plan for the earth Uh if we ask uh you see, w when we pray anyway, we should ask for things that we know are already his will. And and the reality is that even even when we're praying in the will of God, we can still get presumptuous like, okay, um uh you know, my son has diabetes and we're just gonna believe that he's healed, so we we refuse to give him any insulin whatsoever, even though the doctors have you know, have recommended it so then my son dies, you know, uh at a young age when he didn't have to, when God had given clear uh wisdom for us to know how to handle a situation that uh I think would also include, you know, because the will of God is healing for all of us. By his stripes we've been healed and we should pray believing, you know, lay hands on the sick. Nevertheless, there are situations where it would be presumptuous for us in the name of faith, you know, uh in our claiming something to uh feel like somehow we're more important than the sovereignty of God in that situation. Yeah, and some people uh presumptuously uh expect God to supernaturally heal when maybe God has already made a way in the natural through the doctors or through the medicine. But but they're just presuming that well no, I I'm I personally want to see God do a supernatural healing. Don't want to see the natural healing. And and that's presuming on God The dangers of these two points of view uh are really, you know, flip sides of the same coin, which shouldn't be any surprise. You know, God uh chooses to use means uh to accomplish his will. He chooses to use us and what we're gonna do in our life Um the danger with that would be to presume that God needs us to accomplish his will and he doesn't uh need us to accomplish his will. But the other danger, the flip side of that, is to presume that God is going to accomplish his will, whether I participate or not with Which is true, but then it leads us to not have a heart to participate in God's will and just leave it all on God. I'm going to stand on the sidelines. Both of those are dangerous and they're flip sides of the same issue. Um like to respond to that, but I don't know if we have enough time here. Okay. Or the idea of you know we pray to God in Jesus' name and therefore God somehow has to obey us as opposed to us obeying God. Right, right. Kind of a thing. That'd be very presumptuous. If you can uh respond in like thirty seconds you you I think he gives us the option to uh work along with him And uh with that option, uh, we get to experience uh uh a position of authority in the earth realm. just as he has authority in heaven. So ten seconds I'd say the point is God's will is that we would work with him. That is his will. Not that he needs us to, but that's his will that we would work with him. That's the point. I agree with that. Right, yeah. And I would agree too. I think uh my point is sometimes we fall prey to thinking that God needs us to. Which could be another whole show. Yeah, well I think we agree. God doesn't need us. Right. Or is that a debate in and of itself? Does God need us? Did he need the creation? what you mean by need and we probably don't have enough time to I think God does. For the most part I think I would say yes, God is sufficient in him in himself. He doesn't need humanity to be sufficient. I would argue that he does need some humanity in order to uh have a bride to love. I think he created us for his good pleasure. Not that he needed us, but just for his good pleasure. Right. I would side with him on that. I think we all need to God didn't need a bride. Right. Yes. But it's his will to have a bride. And so the will of God needs A bride. Well now we're in a situation where it's both my will and my need that we wrap up this year. We need to wrap this up. Thank you, Jonathan Schweitzer. Senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you. Uh thank you, Edward Ambush, pastor, bishop at uh Bread of Life Church in downtown Frederick. It's been a pleasure spending these uh past six weeks with you both, if you can believe that Um feel the love. Yeah, you know, it's hard to believe it's already October, isn't it? Wow. Where does the temperature change in? The clocks will be changing, right? There's a big feast of tabernacles that's coming uh downtown on the nineteenth Sunday two thirty to six thirty. We're gonna have to talk about like Halloween and evil spirits or something maybe in the next show. Anyway, thank you for listening to the show. Thank you to Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Check us out on the web, wfmd. com keyword faith. Send me an email with a question, an objection, a comment, a thought, uh, or if you want to be on the show and you're qualified do. Do so at Troy T R O Y at WFMD. com. That is the uh uh easiest way to email me. Thanks so much for listening. God bless.