So I'm contemplating in the back of my mind what's more important. My self-respect or allowing somebody to devil dare double dog dare me and Me not follow through on the dare. What do I do here now? I think everybody out there is dying to hear you sing the song that you just sang for Tamar and I. I gotta think about this. Should I sing it I think go for it. Alright. Oh my mama, fear for my life from the long arm of the law. See now see now everybody knows that you can't sing. Does that hurt you any That doesn't hurt you over here. Yes. No. You think I can't sing? No, no, no, no. Actually actually you hit some pretty good notes. Out of the eighteen or nineteen notes there are three of them I think are dead on. Spirit. I'll work on it. Yeah, but it's like a really I mean it's a sti stick song and it's about a guy who's on death row because he's, you know, done bad things. Bad things, mama. Yes. Bad things. Yeah. He needed his mama to help him more. Anyway, welcome to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. You've already heard the voices chime in The that of Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Tamar Bradley, the owner of the Owl Nest in Frederick, and our sponsor. We need to thank them, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Jonathan Sweitzer is a Protestant Christian pastor in town, and Tamar Bradley is a self-described pagan with an emphasis on the divine feminine, uh believes in reincarnation. Um Uh, what are some other things? I'm trying to give people a sense we haven't heard the last five shows in this series, a sense of what she's all about. Goddesses, reincarnation. Karma, dru a little bit of druidism thrown in there. Uh Gnosticism. Those are the things. Gotten an Nami pretty well. Yep, those are all good. He he has he has an increasing Gnostic understanding. Yes. Anyway, we uh last week we were talking a little the last five minutes or so of the show, we we ended up uh finally getting to an area that's probably a significant uh thing in your in your thinking on issues of faith and that is reincarnation. I asked the question of whether you believe that you know people come back as just people or other things and you clarify that in your point of view people just come back as people. Um and I don't know if I asked this question, but I know I thought it. So if I asked it already, just remind me that I asked this question already. There are more people on the planet now than there were, you know, a couple thousand years ago. So were there just a whole bunch of like spirit people kinda hanging out there waiting for their turn or how like how how do you understand that? That's a good way to look at it. I think that some uh spirit souls have stayed with the source as a source god, the light, whatever, and are coming in now because I definitely believe Now the earth is going through a lot of changes. The earth is in a place like it's never been before. And I think that they're here definitely for specific reasons. Now do you think that there are more out there waiting for their turn too or a an awful lot of the a high percentage of the the spirits that could be waiting for you to get finished with your body. So you would say but for example, like you would say that I maybe have been on the planet in a different life before. I might not realize it, but that would be true. And if I die tomorrow I might come back in a month and a half as somebody else. Kind of thing that well not in a month and a half but I'd have to go through the gestation period. You have to go, Whew, kinda glad to be out of there for now. That place is kinda crazy. Um And what's the point of coming back Why do I come back? To um finish learning what you're supposed to learn. To learn, maybe to right some wrongs that you've had. Do you ever finish that process? Do you ever write all of the wrongs and learn everything there is to learn? Like is there? I haven't met anybody so far. But I'd like to think that someday you've had Jonathan Schweitzer. Oh I'm sorry, he only thinks he's got the answer. He only thinks he's got all the answers. I'm sorry, never mind. I think it's some I think at some point we all will collectively go back together. I don't have the answers. I don't know. So do you buy into the the the the thinking, the the the understanding that there's this big collective consciousness and we're all just a piece of that and we'll ultimately ultimately return to this one collective consciousness or do you believe that we're all individual? I think that we all come from one collective consciousness, but that sounds just so textbook. to me. And I'd like to think that, you know, God wanted to know itself better. So it's separated and separated and separated. And going back to the diamond, we're all just little facets of that diamond. And going into past life regression It's it's wildly popular right now. I have an excellent past life hypnotherapist that takes appointments at the shop. Uh she is certified in hypnotherapy, so she's not just, you know, some stage quack. going out there and I myself certified? How do you get certified? Certified hypnotherapist? You go to school. Oh. You go to school. And I myself have done path life regression. Well she's uh therapist, she's not uh the client. No present company included. Yeah, okay look at me. Yeah. I've been schooled. Okay. So continue, I'm sorry. So she goes to school for hypnotherapy, gets her license, her specialty, she's ver she herself is fascinated by past life. There's an excellent author out there, Dr. Brian Weiss, who was a psychiatrist mainstream until he had one client come in and completely change his his viewpoints on the the human mind and past lives and possibly future lives. And I myself have gone through past life regression and for me it was very real. And I choose to believe that I have incarnated suffering Now you talked in an earlier show about the you know the idea of of human evolution, meaning c human culture evolving. Uh I mean we didn't get into the whole Darwin theory and I don't think that we will uh in this show. But the Uh this idea of of culture evolving, so do do the individual spirit beings evolve like each life you live a better life than the previous one, or can you regress? Like is it possible that you're making more mistakes and and doing more wrong to people now than you did in the last life. It could be. So have you lost knowledge then or like what what how do you explain I think that we all have it It's all within us. But if we all knew everything, what would be the purpose of being here? Jonathan, your purpose for being here is I'm sorry again he only thinks he knows everything. I have to stop doing that I'm gonna come back every week and watch you guys. We do. Guys are great. So if w if we all knew it all W m why would we need to be able to do that? Like the the logic, what's the hopefulness of the idea? If I'm if I'm not living my life well now and I leave this life and I go and I think about it for a while and I I talked to my uh my gurus and uh you know the different people, whatever you call them, I can't remember now. The spirit guides. And they give me some good advice. Okay, you know what, get back in there and you're gonna do a better job this time. and then I do a worse job of a I w actually would have been better off not coming back. Right, and then you have to come back again. And try to try it over again. And then because you have this idea of karma, so do I come do I come back maybe with a less privileged physician? Do I how does that work? Um, I was reading about it in uh Brian Weiss's book about the woman that he started having these sessions with and her fears and phobias that she had in the present. Going back through the hypnotherapy in past lives, you can see some of the root causes of for instance Um for for my personal self, I had a fear of drowning. In a past life, I've drowned. So once you you you don't really fear anything until you expand experience it and I was like, hey, I'm I don't want to drown again. That that was no good. So I'm gonna make it a point to be cautious in this life and not drown So do you think that uh I want to clarify uh something you said a second ago, do you think that there's anybody, whether it be a a a person spirit or the God spirit or however you would define that, that does know everything? 'Cause you mentioned that Okay, 'cause you mentioned that God wants to have all these spirit beings come down so that he so well you use the word it I guess so that uh God could learn more about itself. Mm-hmm. Does that mean that God doesn't know itself fully and needs to learn more about itself? That could be one definite possibility. God potentially could be lonely if God's only God and God is there by him, her itself. What about that question, Jonathan? I mean the you know the uh God being lonely and he you know, people provide some purpose for him to if not learn more about himself, although that's part maybe part of it. we one could argue, but also just needing some companionship and and feeling incomplete without having uh you know, without having us knuckleheads around to to laugh at with our uh with our soap opera lives Yeah, what's the what what's a Christian response to that idea? Um the Bible doesn't give us any clarification as to uh what God's original rationale for creating mankind was. But it does give us a perspective on the fulfillment of all things. And so I guess I would uh it could be argued that if God's desire uh was to uh bring things to a place of fulfillment, then that would give us a picture of what uh of why He made us in the first place. And the the picture of the fulfillment of all things is the Christ and his bride at uh the great wedding feast um at the end and uh living together in love for eternity and so um uh I guess I guess it could be argued that whatever it was, God seemed to want that. He chose that. He willed that. That's what he wanted. Um at the end of the day, what a man truly desires is unfailing love. I think that's what we're all looking for is for um unfailing love. And uh I think that's why I've spent so much time with you tomorrow uh trying to define how do we know what that love is and what that love isn't because uh at the end of the day, anything that falls short of unfailing love leaves us frustrated in uh So the question is how do we define what is unfailing love and how do we uh approach that and discover that and I think all of your searching, all of my searching, all of Troy's searching uh is is a genuine search not for more knowledge but for unfailing love. And uh in fact uh according to uh first Corinthians thirteen it says um it says tongues will pass away Prophecy will pass away. Knowledge itself will pass away. But these three remain faith, hope, and love. And the greatest of these is love. The point is that whatever knowledge we have is not for knowledge sake, but it's to show us what true love is. And um uh the purity of that I think is is what we're we're all seeking at the end of the day. Which is my concern for the God and Goddess worship because uh I I I feel like it it's muddied it muddies the waters. We haven't really discussed the the a big aspect of paganism. And I always like to say for me because I cannot speak for every single pagan out there. is we we also can look at the sun and the moon and their cycles. And when you were saying, you know, the divine bride and Christ, that's a lot of what the God goddess cycle is. is the marriage between them, that ultimate companionship, that love, when the two spirits meet and they come together. And then there's always the divine child that that comes into a play with that. So I when you said that that really struck something in me, 'cause you had I ne I haven't heard you say the divine the the bride or the wedding feast yet. And that's a lot about I think what the uh what you'd say the temple prostitutes were doing. They they learn these these mysteries and they they're trying to share this with people. But you're right, it's not going to be that fulfilling because it's one moment, it's fleeting and it ends. It's different between the marriage between a husband and a wife. Yeah. Yeah, so then you would agree that potentially uh potentially a temple prostitute scenario would uh limit Like for example, let's look at the Old Testament temple. It had the Holy of Holies, which was surrounded by what's called the Holy of Place. outside of which was the outer court where they did all the sacrifices. And I personally can think of no better um uh expression of divine uh relationship than that. We deal with all the sins outside before we ever get into the holy places. If I've lied to you, let's confess it, let's deal with it. If I've cheated against you, if I've slapped you, if I've uh stolen from you, let's deal with it, get all that dealt with, and then we go into the holy place where the relationship begins. Once we're into the holy place, um, you know, there's light, there's bread, and there's the aroma of prayer, you know, where we're appealing to one another on the basis of love, where we're not demanding things, but we're appealing to one another on the basis of love. All of which leads us to the holy of holies, where uh in why would we not want the most intimate part of our relationship with anybody to be profoundly holy? I wouldn't want it to be just a one-night stand with a temple prostitute. I would want it to be something that that that was profoundly sacred and holy that that that had been surrounded with righteousness and s and and because when I interact with God, I don't want Uh i I don't want him to be treated disrespectfully and and I don't want to be concerned that he's gonna treat me disrespectfully. And uh and so the ultimate union and that moment with God is a extremely holy thing. And so in the Old Testament, they couldn't go into the Holy of Holies except for once a year. Christ came, his blood made the way so that all of us could go into the Holy of Holies right now with it still being holy. with it not being less than holy, with it not being uh corrupted in different ways. And and my concern with other uh with other religions and approaches to g to to God is that like Buddhism and Hinduism uh that the fact that you want a personal relationship with anything as opposed to an impersonal God uh is is very um uh angering to them and and they want nothing to do with that. And uh and other gods and goddesses, you know, and all the all the like you were talking about the great soap opera in the sky. I don't want the great soap opera in the sky. I want unfailing love. I want the real thing. I want the holy and the pure. And I don't I don't want to watch a bunch of gods and goddesses trying to get this right and failing and trying to get that right and failing. There humanity fails enough. I see all the failures around me. I can watch the soap operas on television, you know, that reflect us as humanity. What I want to be drawn to is the ultimate that is holy and pure and righteous, because that's glorious. And uh and uh and so you know when you ask your question, what you know, what do I think You know, I I I think that that unfailing love is at the center of it. You're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And the other guest on the show today is Tamar Bradley, the owner of the Owl Nest in Frederick. And uh one thing I want to say before I uh launch in the last like eight or nine minutes of the show into uh into a question that's spurred by a gift that I was given. Um actually I was just doing that, wasn't I? And that is the the Well actually it's an interesting it would have been an interesting segue if I didn't have to kind of interrupt it with this with this thought Uh but my understanding of what uh what what Christian teaching is is that you know God and knowing himself. I believe that God, uh, according to the Bible knows himself fully. And that God never has to struggle with loneliness because of the the the idea of the Trinity, the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, and they commune together. It's one God, three persons, and so Uh because there are those that say, well God sometimes the answer is given, well why did God create? Because he was lonely, he needed to create men. And uh I don't think the Bible teaches that God needs anything outside of Himself. And the idea of things being fulfilled, I think that that's fulfilled in history as our relationship with God is fulfilled. Uh before God created history, created time and space. there was no need for that to get fulfilled kind of thing. So anyway, that's kind of a theological point, but for those that pay attention to these things and like to uh to judge me on the merits of the theological truth that's pontificated from this microphone, uh I share that. Tamar ha I had delivered to me a red and white bumper sticker that says on it Teach, don't preach And she likes that. And I don't dislike it, but I'm I want to make sure I understand what is it that that means to you, because I'm not sure that I'm understanding a whole lot of difference in the two words as I understand them. So what is the difference in the in those words for you? Like what Jonathan went into there. Then I could answer it for her. Jonathan was I think was trying to educate and was trying to teach from his point of view, anybody who's listening to the show, what the Christian point of view on a particular question is. And yet some would say that he sounded like he was preaching. But did that Don't be afraid to offend me because I uh it's not gonna bother me if you say that you think it was, you know. Say whatever, you know, it's good. Well, I think because you are a minister, that's what you do, and you are so devoted to your God, it's very hard to differentiate the two. But to me t the difference between teaching and preaching is when I have somebody come knocking on my door and saying, Hey, do you know Jesus Christ? And hey, come look at this and see what we have and this and that and this and that First of all, that's overstepping boundaries. I I have a Well you didn't have to let them into your house. Well and usually I don't let them in my house. I I don't they didn't overstep boundary. That that's great. Can we talk about that? I'm not a fan of proselytizing. And for me it's if nothing else. If I can when I c when I can get a word in. Yes. Um, because you are a very strong spirit when I can tell you definitely are into that. Um I like to tell you where I'm coming from and I don't expect you to believe what I believe or you I can walk out of here and you go, Oh my goodness, that was the craziest woman I've ever met in my life. But I don't think that you would disagree with that, right? But when one person comes up and says this is it and you you're damned and this and that if you don't follow this way What you're not teaching me anything. You're trying to instill fear. I. e. like I'm doing here that has a strong. I have a great respect for that. The but but what you're interested in is that I'm willing to take the time to understand where you're coming from. Like Proverbs says, good understanding wins favor, uh in that um but a fool, you know, just mouths off you know, and and says whatever he wants to say. The point is that if if if I take the time to understand you, f you feel like I'm taking the time to understand you, and then I'm interacting on the basis of that, then you're willing to let me share passionately what I believe without feeling like I'm preaching hellfire and brimstone and then I'm just closed minded. Exactly. And you're not saying, Well, come on tomorrow, let me you know, let me convert you and you know, then it's all gonna be good and you're gonna be saved and And you're getting into heaven Which by the way I do believe all that. That's great. That's great. I've been baptized. So if I'm wrong I still got my go to heaven free card. I might not get all the riches, but I still get in That's the same thing. As far as I know, you don't get take back. So John says though that those that you know we thought were amongst us but left never really were amongst us to begin with Yeah. I've always been with God. I've never been anti God. Right, right, right. But according to your understanding. But I'm saying that that scripturally it could be argued that that you have stepped away from Well absolutely. I'm no longer a a a Christian. Yeah. So You know, I can see how that kind of voids the whole thing. But when I have people come into my shop and they tell me where they who they are, what they're coming from, what they're doing I'm like, that's wonderful. I think that's wonderful. That's what you believe and I respect that. Please respect that I feel differently. Sure. Yeah, nobody can force you. Exactly. And I think we both have the one who could force you would be God and God's, you know, giving you s some sort of role in the matter. There's some debate over Exactly how that role is played out. That's where Jonathan and I spent hours. Dr. Spock back in the day taught parents that uh that they should just let their children just go wherever they will and no give them no boundaries, you know, don't spank them, don't ever You don't tell 'em w what's right or wrong, but let them just discover it for themselves. And as a result, uh our generation grew up with no boundaries and we hated that. And so you and I have turned around and we're like, no, we need to give our kids certain basic Children want boundaries. And my concern is that is that w we people come into your shop and they're discovering different things that you don't help them to to set up some uh adequate boundaries. for that. And so if they're you know, i if you're endeavoring to be a mentor or a spiritual parent, you know, in the taking the illustration to the to its farthest Um, I feel like you're you're uh doing a doctor Spock with them and uh that you're uh i that they come away feeling like, oh, isn't that nice, you know, she kinda feels warm toward us but that that you're not helping them to to establish the kinds of of solid uh uh things in their life that they'll be able to rely on the the rest of their life. You don't help them to feel loved uh out uh outside of uh solid. Well and again that I have a retail shop so I can provide you the books. And all the tchotchkis, the bells and whistles that go with it, candles, incense, statuary, you name it. I have endeavoring necess necessarily to be a good thing. Right, I'm not saying follow me. This this is really cool. What I'm doing But if somebody says, hey, you know, I kind of want to learn a little more more about Santaria, here's the books. I know people who are more versed and adept at it. I can refer you to them. So I'm kind of like a midwife, I'm kinda meet you in the middle and then I can direct you where you need to go. Yeah. Well I'm gonna I'm gonna have to kind of put a a bow on this, but How's this for a way to end the show? What if this is really unfair of me, I say this up front, okay? So please forgive me in advance. This is really unfair, but what if Jonathan and people who would agree with Jonathan have been through the reincarnation cycle a little bit more and they're further along in their Gnostic walk. And they have come to the realization that the truth of the matter is that there is one way, one truth, one life, and that way is through Jesus Christ, and everybody who doesn't buy into that truth is going to suffer great consequence And and they and the truth of the matter is that they need to share that truth in dramatic, powerful ways to try to shake the uh the the the dandruv out of people's hair to get them to realize and wake up. What if that is the truth? Heresy. Then what happens? I'll catch you next time. Anyway. Jonathan Schweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapter Pi. You don't really believe that and you would never believe that. What's that No. Well the end result, yes, but the whole process part I I I I admittedly I don't. No. But uh Um and well how much time do I have left? Good, I have time. Tamar Bradley. Thank you, sir. Owner of the Al Nest, thank you. I'm Frey Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can I, or we, somebody, make you smile? Yes, together I I'm getting tired. I'm a little punch drunk. Yes. I'm gonna go It was a good show. I'm gonna leave the show now and go get literally drunk, I'm sure. Anyway. Thanks for listening. God bless.