Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMG. Brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we Make you smile. Project Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for our uh local faith community leaders to get together and talk about things that uh we think would be interesting to have them talk about. And today Those local community leaders would be Jonathan Schweitzer. Hello. And my wife. Fine. Certainly not any sort of a leader. Well for today for today she's going to serve the role of local community leader in the faith community. Yes. All right. Yes, and she's gonna be interesting. Isn't that a command? Yes. Isn't that cool? Dina has been on the show before. Uh in fact she was on the show with uh once when Jonathan's wife Carol was on the show too. That's right. Maybe about a year ago or so and we had a couple a couple of testimonies about uh things that had happened with your son and in your family that uh were really, really Very important, valuable things. So to give you a sense of who's on the show today, Jonathan Sweitzer is pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, so he is a uh in a a well-lettered uh Christian. Uh I uh am unabashedly Christian and so is my wife. Um and she's been involved in leading Bible studies and that so she is a some level she's kind of a lay lead person, uh leader, sh in a lay leadership kind of a thing in some sort of way. So it's not totally inappropriate to have her on the show. At least that's my excuse and we're going with that one. So What we're going to talk about today is kind of a potpourri of of different topics. You know, when I see things uh in the news or a magazine article or somebody will s draw my attention to something or send me an email I have a tendency to put a lot of those things on the blog. On the website, go to wfmd. com. Faith deb uh keyword faith takes you to the faith debate page and um do a daily blog there that is almost always made up of things that others send to me. The chance to make the show kind of interactive a little bit since we don't take calls and have uh layperson guests on the show, you know, typically anyway. Um so we've got a kind of a smattering of those kinds of things. We do we take an opportunity every once in a while on the show to kind of work through some of those and sometimes we end up having fun with it Sometimes we get into a very serious heady discussion over it, uh and sometimes neither and we move on. So we'll we'll see what kind of a mix we get today. If as we're uh recording this show, we record the show um in advance because Jonathan has things to do on Sunday morning as you can imagine. So uh As we record this show, in in recent weeks there's been a little bit of an ongoing back and forth in the letter to the editors section of the Frederick News Post. on the the nature of God and who is God and why can't it's basically it's Rodney King all over again. Why can't we just all get along? And here's an example of one of those letters. Uh that they that the news post gave the the little headline in the letter should say the editor section of God Muslims bigots And the letter reads, Regardless of the conflicting beliefs, perspectives, and practices of a world of diverse worshipers, whatever and however God may be will never change. In this sense, we all worship the same God. The central message of all the world's great religions in their highest forms is faith. hope and love. May our beloved community warmly welcome all those who bring such light to the darkness of a fearful world's expressions of intolerance, division, violence, and hatred. Written by uh Nancy and Frederick. Okay. The gist there of course is is something you hear a lot. Right. We're all talking about the same God anyway, why can't we just, you know appreciate and have tolerance for other people's view. If you're a Muslim and I'm a Jew and uh that person over there is a Christian, we're all basically worshiping the same God. You know why all the division? Why all the strife? So, Mr. Christian Pastor, what do you say to these poor, unfortunate souls? Well I need to I I guess I feel like I need to uh get a little bit more of a sense for the discussion. So some people are basically saying that uh Christians or bigots, you know, or or anybody that's religious and that draws the line and says my way is the only way is a is a bigot. You know, and and uh and and then anybody that accepts any road to God is like that's the that's the gist of what the discussion has been between those who basically want all religions to be okay and those who want to claim that their route is uh the only way to heaven. Is that kind of the gist of the discussion? Yeah. Uh somebody who's intolerant being a bigot by definition. Is that how you're using the word bigot? 'Cause I don't know if that that this person, uh uh Nancy would automatically define bigot. Right, right. But she was saying, you know, hey, let's not be intolerant, let's not have division. Well interestingly the word bigot comes uh from a uh English derivation which basically means by God. And so if you if you make a claim for something and you're your authority is by God. I do this by God. And you know God told me to do it. Then you're a bigot. And so unfortunately it's I never knew that. It's turned into this negative, you know, uh uh you know, label that anybody that claims what they claim by God is automatically a bigot. Well, it's kinda true, but it's you know, it's kinda like saying you you white Anglo Saxon, you know, it's like i it's calling you what you are but using that as some some kind of a bad evangelical conservative right right it's the tone you right winger behind the word that makes the makes all the difference uh Protestants they used to say that about Protestants. You know, there's there's all kinds of history of this kind of thing. So anyways, uh what do I think? I think that in general Uh science has created a a world out there in the name of scientific naturalism where nobody any longer believes that you can discover absolute truth. about things that are spiritual because science is incapable of measuring anything that has to do with the spiritual world. Uh the the reigning world view of the day has basically come down to There's no way to know the difference between the different different religions. There's no way to know which one's right and which one's wrong. And that mentality has created this orientation that everybody says, oh well we can't know, so let's just all get along with one another And actually it's it's the most uneducated and unenlightened and unsophisticated way that you could go about religion. Basically it's just another way of saying, ah, religion doesn't really matter. It's not really all that important. So, you know, as long as you know, if you believe, you know, that it's Buddha and you believe that it's uh it's you know the force luke, use the force luke, you know, and another guy believes that it's, you know, Jesus Christ. Oh well whatever works for you. No, it's it it's become very pragmatic. And the reality is that um I don't know that people any longer even have the ability to get outside of that worldview. I mean when it comes to the health of our kids, when it comes to uh the health of a business or, you know, what we're gonna put into law uh uh at the political level. We do everything that we do based on some kind of a scientific sus You know, study sociological, study, survey something, you know, this or that. But when it comes to rel anything having to do with religion automatically it's only personal opinion. And it's unfortunate bas basically what it means is that we really don't care about things religious. uh and we really don't believe any of it. We just think, you know, that it's all unimportant. And so those people that say those things, like can't we just all get along? you know, are really missing the whole reality. They're they're they're writing off the r the the potential that you can discover any kind of truth You know, and having to do with anything spiritual and unfortunately, you know, it's it's very pervasive mentality out there. So honey, has Jonathan left anything unsaid? uh synopsis of what's going on in the world, the one thing I could add is We were meant for fellowship, scripture says that. And we claim to want that. And it's evident because this whole lackadaisical view of, well, why can't we just get along? We want a people please instead of God please. And that really is what it boils down to. We are so hung up on trying to get the approval of man that we will forsake the approval of God in order to obtain the approval of man. And that's unfortunate. You know, if you look at a lot of the talk shows, Oprah is one who is winning great approval of man and she's very, very lost. I've prayed for her. It's it's very sad. Um she would probably think I'm sure she thinks she's going to heaven. I don't know her heart But I know that she accepts ev uh more than just Jesus Christ as the way to get to heaven. And the standard is what Scripture says. I'm not saying that I'm right I'm saying that I believe what God says is right and I'm putting my faith in that. I'm not going to tell you you have to believe it, but I can certainly share it and present it and let that be the person's choice. And if that makes me a bigot I confess that I am. But I do it out of love. Yeah, the p the the point is the fact the fact that you, Dina, would in any way base your life on what God says means that basically you come to life by God. Mm-hmm. You know? And so so does that make you a bigot? Yes, but is bigot should bigot be a bad word? No, it shouldn't. You know, I don't think it should be. But the reality is that in this day and age nobody's willing to uh to deal honestly with those kinds of things. What Dina said about wanting to please men, it's not just that and wanting to uh be open minded to what others think and to be accepted by them so that you can have some sort of dialogue and fellowship with them. But also I think there's a pressure that people place on themselves that they don't want to be wrong. And how can I be wrong if everybody's right? You know, it takes all the pressure off of of really thinking through. Like you said, it's a pretty simplistic answer to say, well everything's okay. That's pretty simple. That that doesn't cause you to need to dig in deep and study through issues and have, you know, real honest grappling conversations with with friends, enemies, whatever, like kinda like what we do on the show I guess. And really go after it and try to discern and figure out what the truth is That c that's heavy lifting. That's a lot of hard work. And after all that hard work you still might end up being wrong. Well, who wants to go through that? It's a lot easier and safer to just say, well, everybody's got their own way and I'm part of everybody, so You know, we're all worshiping the same thing basically. So it's it's kind of a I don't mean this as mean spirited as it's gonna sound, but it's kind of a lazy way out. Well totally. I feel like that's that's precisely what's happened. Nobody holds their religious beliefs very strongly anymore. And so everybody throws out like all these comments about Christianity. Well how could Christianity be true, you know, when when God did what he did to Job. You know, and they'll throw out some kind of a comment like that totally misses the story of Job. Or you know you know, the Bible says you know that uh that Jonah was in the belly of a whale. You know, and and they you know they they they take these these few things here or there and instead of reading the Bible, instead of really grappling with theology and what the Bible says about the character of God, that He is righteous and holy and true, but He's full of grace and mercy and loving kindness, you know, and and and the the the balance of how those things work out. Instead of really dealing with it Instead we throw out all these things, you know, well, you know, it's uh it you know, Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, they all believe in the same God, but nobody's really being honest about the fact that, you know, one God looks totally different from another God. And if if they're all just the same God, then unfortunately, um Well, it just confuses the issue instead of taking the time to really look at what's going on and He's Jonathan Sweiss here, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, also on the panel this week, my wife, Dina Skinner. I'm Troy Skinner, host and moderator of the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's New Radio, 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. And uh I was gonna transition, but it sounded like you wanted to add something, no? All right. She's going to defer to the second half. Yes. Speaking of publications, we're talking about some things going on in the Frederick News Post. There's a a new publication in town. Frederick Christian Monthly. Have you seen this yet? Yes, I have. It's a free publication that you'll see in in different locations. I don't know if the grocery stores have it where like the real estate magazines are and that sort of thing or or whatever. It's only been out for a couple of months, two, three, four months maybe. And it it's interesting. I'm I'll be curious to kind of see where this ends up going and what kind of magazine this ends up being. And it's uh uh you know, I haven't completely got my head around exactly what their what their uh their point of view or the premise for the publication is yet, so you know, we'll see. Well it's interesting because I was invited to uh uh w as our church to uh advertise in this uh publication and uh ask some questions about it and um I think that they fall on the side of, you know, why can't we just all get along? Yeah. possibly the case, but I wasn't sure if that was just kind of the way they stumbled out of the gate or if that's kind of what they're really hoping to accomplish. Um If that's the case, then they maybe shouldn't call it Frederick Christian Monthly, they should call it Frederick Religion Monthly or something like that. Well, this is precisely the difficulty because there's over half the half of those people in the United States that call themselves Christians uh really don't believe that Christ is the way, the Savior, the way, the truth, and the life, that no man comes to the Father but by him, and yet And then l you know, like for example, you know, this uh this Jeremiah Wright, who was Obama's pastor, he has this whole theology where he he believes that there's many roads. to God. You know, it it it's built into his whole orientation and uh of course that fits Obama, that fits Oprah, and um unfortunately They do it in the name of Christ and it it's uh I feel like very uh it it's less than honest. It's uh it's deceptive in the end. Well and they include a lot of things, at least in in a in a couple of the editions that I've seen that aren't really that don't have anything to do with religion or Christianity. They have, you know, some some jokes, some recipes, things like that, make it more of a full service magazine I guess. Sure. And they have a whole section uh for this one edition I'm looking at that has that came out around Fourth of July, so they have a whole, you know, US government thing and uh rememb remembering Thomas Jefferson You know, which is interesting from a Christian's perspective. Thomas Jefferson is famous for cutting out cutting out all of the miraculous from his Bible. Well I felt for some time like Obama fits very firmly in the Christian uh religious tradition of the United States because he fits right in with uh Jeffersonian type of faith and And so to argue that somehow he doesn't uh fit in that, uh, I think is uh a a poor way to go for Christians 'cause he really Strongly fits with Jefferson. But then they do have some helpful things in here. I think this is helpful anyway. There's an article about how to raise your children Um and these are some of the bullet points in the article. See if you would have any issue with any of these and see if there's anything missing. Introduce your child to Jesus. Yes. Wear your faith on your sleeve. These are charges to parents. Parents should do these things. Pray with your children wherever you are. Mm-hmm. Admit when you make a mistake. Good. Teach your child about teach your child about Jesus. And not just introduce your child to Jesus, but teach him or her about Jesus. Excellent. Read the Bible to your children. Help your child to memorize scriptures. Point out the meaning of Bible stories. Okay. All those are good, right? Yeah. Uh oh. No, well I mean is there anything is there anything missing? Nothing nothing missing. Well I don't know if I was gonna try to be exhaustive. I might add a few things, but um I don't know off the top of my head what I might add. Those all sound excellent. So now let's go back and think about the person who's reading this would be something, oh, Frederick Christian magazine. Well I'm I consider myself a Christian. Let me pick this up and read it. Okay. How many of the people reading this self-identifying as a Christian would admit to themselves, do you think, I mean it's a guesstimate, right? But do you think would say, Introduce your child to Jesus? Yeah, I've done that. Most I think so. Most I would say so. Probably ninety something percent, right? Okay, yeah. Wear your faith on your sleeve. How many Christians wear their s faith on their sleeve? I think uh I think f a lot fewer than would have done the first one. Half, maybe? Not even half, right? Yeah, I think it would come down to how you define wearing your Christianity on your sleeve, you know? Like do you have a a fish, you know, on the back of your car. Do you go to church on Sunday? Or have you looked for opportunities to share your faith with people at work? Or does it sound like a lot of people, or some people are you like cramping your faith down people's throats, you know, everywhere that you go. I mean y you have to define I think what No the Excellent ties into with that as far as a group of people. It's you know, pray with your children wherever you are. Sure. So if you're comfortable at restaurants. Uh yeah, absolutely. So if you're comfortable wearing your faith on your sleeve, then you're likely you're more likely to be those who would also pray in a public place at a restaurant over a meal or or whatever, right? Yep. Admit when you make a mistake, how good are we at that? Well I'm getting very good at it. I'm making a lot of mistakes lately. I feel like that's one of the most important things for parents to do if they're going to when win their children to Christ and it strengthens with integrity that way the relationship between parent child immensely. There's such a deeper trust from the child because then they know what the per what what the parent says is going to be truth. Even if it was a mistake, it's Wow, I really was wrong on this. I missed the mark. My intent was to help you or whatever the situation is. It builds that trust because wow, mom really does have my back, which is what you know, it's it's a real reflection of what God the Father does 'cause God the Father has our back too. So it's a real great way to point your child to Christ in that respect and and to God. Yeah, I agree. So the first four, you know, a little bit of a mixed response on on those, but I could see more of those playing out. These last four are really more about discipling and training up and and teaching. Teach your child about Jesus. How many parents are taking the time to teach their children, how many Christian parents to teach their children about Jesus versus how many are just turning them over to their church's Sunday school and VBS program, uh the EVS's Vacation Bible School for the uninitiated, uh and letting and letting that take care of itself. Sure. Yeah, I would agree that uh um unfortunately I think a lot of parenting goes that way even. When it comes to education, when it comes to moral development, when it comes to, you know, uh coming to know Christ. we tend to want to pass it off to the experts. And I think that that is farm it out. Poor way to parent. You know, you need to take personal responsibility for all those things. Read your Bible to your children. How many people are reading their Bible, period, much less to their children, right? Right, right. Uh do you have a sense you've probably had conversations with people who feel like this need to kind of fess up to the pastor. Oh, you know I mean to, but I just can't ever seem to find the time or I don't or what how many what percentage of the the Christians that you you know again it's a it's kind of a rough guesstimate are Bible readers. What percentage of Christians are reading their Bible? Um I don't know. I think that would be hard to say. Uh I think it it would uh it would have a lot to do with whether or not their church uh is challenging them about the importance of reading their Bible. You know, one of the largest uh pastors in all the United States, Bill Heibel is the pastor of uh Willow Creek. uh community church uh came out and said that, you know, I we did a study and we haven't for thirty years discipled any of our people. We forgot to tell them that they need to be reading their Bible between services. You know, we we haven't told them, we haven't brought them up to speed on these things and go figure we should have. We should have had helped them to bring their Bible to church so that they can get to know their Bible a little bit better. And so Um, I think that there is very possibly um a large percentage out there that do not read their Bible and uh and study it and to the extent that that's the case, they are uh way less grounded in their faith than what they should be, what they need to be in order to uh stand strong for the Lord. The next one was help your child to memorize scriptures and I think that uh that's probably single digit percentage. Parents that help the children to actually memorize scripture, it's gotta be single digits. I think it probably follows right on the heels of those that value the Word of God. I think it's they they probably naturally find ways to get their kids into those kinds of programs. Mm-hmm. And the last was point out the meaning of Bible stories, which I find interesting, because how many average typical American Christians or Frederick Christians feel like they know the meaning of most of the Bible stories. You know? How you tell your p your children, oh well th what this story is really telling us here is if you don't know yourself. Yeah. You know, probab we probably feel very ill equipped. The thing is with those last four, the i if you're doing one of them you're probably doing all of them. But if you're not doing a bunch of them, you're probably not doing any of 'em at some level. Now we've got uh there we go. We've got one more little publication we're gonna talk about. We talked about the news post, we talked about the Frederick Christian Monthly, I think it's what's called, right? Frederick Christian Monthly? Frederick Christian Monthly You've seen these sorts of things before. I'm holding it up for Dina and for John. It has a title on it, Would you like to know more about the Bible? And then it's got a little trifold thing going on inside. Exactly. Right? How worthwhile are these things? For someone who is seeking God and seeking, they are very worthwhile. If someone is truly seeking God, Anything they can get their hands on they want. And so that would be beneficial. For the person who is just not interested That's just another piece of paper. Now I'm not saying that they're evil or bad or anything like that. I mean I understand that the certainly the motivation is good and all that, but I don't know. Okay, l let me ask it from a different direction. What mode of communication would get your attention? Well, personal one on one always is going to be the best, right? So um I guess in the in that context, sometimes these are handed out personally, so you get some of that. Uh something where you have a better opportunity to consider the source, I guess for me. Where I am now, yeah you know, I not that I'm in any great place, but I feel like I have a little more discernment than I did ten, fifteen years ago, let's say. Okay. So I'll see something, I'll look at and say, What is this all about? And I'll and I'll be kind of reading it and say, Okay, this seems like it's kind of on the money. Yeah. But I'm already there. Wait a minute, this is not the gospel as I understand it. Who put this darn thing out? Right. But again, I'm already there. I don't know that I you hear people give their testimony, I don't know any testimony that begins with one day I I read a track. Maybe they're out there. I'm not s But as a percentage, how a lot of resources and energy and time and money go into these darn things. How valuable are they really to the cause? I think nowadays mostly what you're gonna hear is uh you know, like, well I went to this one website, you know, and I got to reading about And the fact is that at one point tracks were like the cutting edge you know of communication, you know, and pass them out everywhere that you go, kind of a thing. Yeah, the web is a great yeah. I see what you when you're asking me the question you expect me maybe to say the internet. So the internet is a place. Internet like YouTube, you know, like somebody sends you a a snippet of some pastors, whatever and you hear it, you know, and so your heart's pricked. You know, and so it's mostly I think you like you saying from the context of friends, but um I think it's very likely for the most part. The internet offers the same danger. You don't know the context. Where's it coming from? Who w who are these people? Yeah. Which is a which is an a authority question, which brings us back to that question at the beginning, you know, what's the basis of our authority? Is it only the scientific method? You know, is there any authority that the world recognizes any longer that they will say, huh This is put out by Billy Graham. You know what? I'm looking for spiritual help. I'm going to read it. You know. These days, you know, if it's put out by Oprah or it's put out by the Dalai Lama or something like that, people are going to tend to say, oh well, I'll read that You know, he must be spiritual. You know, and so there's in a large sense, uh, the Christian world I think is lost there. I've come to not like that word spiritual anymore because it's such a loaded phrase. And I've been called spiritual and I've and I've come to resent it because it doesn't mean what scripture says it means to a lot of people. Yeah, we've had we've had our language co-opted from us and we've yeah, they've they've changed the meaning on us. You know, and I'll have to say, well what do you mean I'm spiritual Actually that started happening back in the early nineteen hundreds with the great German theologians. They started to empty the words like Jesus or Christ. or church or uh God, salvation, redemption, they began to empty the words of their meaning and there's whole books that are written using nothing but the Christian language, the biblical language, that that in no way whatsoever resemble the meaning of what Christ meant by it. And therein lies the problem. Pleasing man above pleasing God. Well thank you Jonathan Sweitzer, Pastor of Crosswitz Valley Chapel. My wife, Dina Skinner. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And thank you for listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD.