Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator. Troy Skinner, thanking our sponsor, Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I want to remind you to check us out on the web. Go to WFMD. com, keyword faith. Takes you right to the the link for the Credit Faith Debate. Updating my blog on that page every weekday pretty much. Jonathan updates his which is linked to uh l we linked to Jonathan's from the Faith Debate page. Uh And he updates his I don't know what It's been several weeks. Once a year or something like that. Yeah, yeah. Something like that. Though I try to put good stuff on it so if you go there's always something interesting, but it's you know Go like once every two weeks or so. Don't rush. Take your time. Yeah, that's a g that's that's a good web uh you know, message, isn't it? Don't rush, take your time. That's gonna get me a lot of hits. And uh also uh uh Jonathan Schweitzer is the uh co founder of the show and senior pastor of crossword valley chapel in Frederick. And also on the panel today is Alexander Hardy. I can call you Alex I'm assuming, right? Um he is the uh pastor, founder, overseer at uh New Dimension Worship Center. A lot of titles. Which one do you prefer? Okay And what we're going to talk about, at least to start the show today, is what the appropriate role of the church should be in serving the community around it And uh I'm not sure exactly uh what the answers I'm going to get are. So as we by the way, be careful when we grab that mic, we get tons of other noises on the on the show. So I have no idea why that is If you're listening right now and you heard all these other weird alien noises on the air, that's because Jonathan touched his microphone. That's right. There's something electric about the way that I touched his microphone So obviously, uh I say obviously, maybe it's not so obvious. To me it's obvious. Obviously, if you read your Bible You will find numerous examples where uh the believer is instructed to take care of the poor, to s take care of the widows, to serve the needy, to have a servant's heart and attitude. We need to be involved. Um so let me start there with how you would understand and define that. I don't know who wants to go first. Maybe I'll start with Jonathan. Jonathan, why don't you start with how you understand what that means for the church, what the role of the church is. Um I guess I would say that Uh I haven't always been super clear about it and I don't know that I'm super clear about it now, except to say that um we have Clearly a a call by God to love one another. And that loving one another, um, there's Uh the way I see it, there's two elements to it. One of those has to do with loving one another in the church, and it says that they'll know that we're Christians by our love for one another, and there's a Uh i in the early church in Acts there was a sense that they took care of their own. They took care of widows, they sold houses, you know, so that they can bring and lay the money at the apostles' feet, they distributed to widows But we're told in Timothy that only certain kinds of people are allowed to be on the widow's list. It's not like you could just a you know, you're not just automatically on the widows list if you know, your husband passes away, there there seem to be some standards or some uh some distinctions about who got on that list and who didn't. But then at the same time You know, uh outside of the church, we're clearly told by Christ in Matthew twenty-five that uh that when he comes and he sits in judgment, he's gonna separate out the sheep and the goats based on whether or not we visited those in the hospital, those in prison, you know, we took care of the poor, we helped those that that were needy. And so there there seems to be these two elements. One is just a society wide element that Christ clearly calls us to care for all of those that are hurting. We take the gospel to the poor and the hurting and the outcast. It's the good news for the poor. However, at the same time then there's a very significant responsibility for those in the church. to make sure that they're taking care of their own in the church in a context of a covenant community uh that that carries some standards with it. So Uh again, I don't know the balance between the two. And I think a lot of people in society, uh in the Christian world today, uh aren't quite sure about the balance in between the two. I guess I'm hoping maybe that won't uh discuss that through a little bit uh this morning. Alex has Jonathan said anything so far with which you would disagree? No Everything you said is I agree with him. Now can you help him find the balance? Yeah, what is that? I I think that uh you know as Jonathan was saying that we could help the the poor, the needy, but I also think that we should deal with the holistic man uh when I said the holistic man is is deals with more than just a spirituality. Uh there are some things that we have to teach him, uh finances, education, all these is part of being um um serving to the to community and loving Loving the people uh that comes to the church and providing for them not as spiritual but knowledge, you know. And so so your point is that we don't just give them food, as it were. We don't just give them a fish, but we teach 'em how to fish, meaning education, you know, working through the finances, those kinds of things. And uh and you're saying that that's not just preaching the gospel, but there's a preaching the gospel and a helping people to be raised up uh so that they can uh have a solid living, so that they can provide for themselves, so that they can um uh you know find their place as it were in society as a whole Absolutely, because the the Bible teaches us, you know, ignorance, you know. Part of someone be ignorance. So I think a lot of people um do things uh unaware because of lack of knowledge. Yeah, not understanding, not teaching them, you know, how to be a good parent or how to save how to be prayerful uh when you're poor, when you don't have food. You know, that's all part of the ministry to me. So just not doing the spirituality thing, it's it's protecting our kids in school and teaching them Preparing them for um the new generation, uh uh teaching how to do resumes, you know, to teach them a ports of education, health, all of that's a part of being in ministry. So just not coming to church on a Sunday, just give 'em the word But it's also information with application means nothing. Right. So all the information we get we have to apply it to to what we know. Because if they don't know it, they won't do it. Yeah, you know, it it's an interesting thing. If somebody comes to my church and uh they know how to do a resume, they know how to, you know, uh apply for a job, then uh they've gotten a good education or you know, they're they're that kind of person. There's not a need for me to sit down with them and work through those kinds of things. But there's plenty of other people that come to my congregation that uh that not only have spiritual needs, just like, you know, the educated person, you know, that has a sense of self-initiative, but but they not only have spiritual needs, but they also have these other needs that they face in their life as well. And uh what you're saying is that is that you see the church being holistic that, okay, well, yes, we deal with the spiritual, but we help to train them up in wisdom and prudence and then self-discipline and all those things, you know, that that are kind of corollaries to the spiritual and natural outworkings of the spiritual, you know, that go to the next level. And I I would agree with that Um and the point is I think it depends on what population you work with. Depending on the population that you work with, uh you're gonna have a greater need to, you know, to to dig into job and and job training and and resume and you know some of the basics of self-discipline whereas other populations that's not as much the case. You know, and so um you know the point is I think for me is whatever whatever needs are there you want to participate in helping those needs. You know, like if I go to if I go to Africa as a missionary or I'm supporting a a missionary over in Africa. If all he's doing is preaching the gospel but the people he's preaching the gospel to are starving to death, then uh you know, something needs to be done to help them, you know, to get food, whatever, you know, so that they can provide for themselves. And so the point is is that there's kind of a uh uh love your neighbor and preach the gospel to your neighbor kind of a thing. Absolutely, absolutely. I think before you know even before Jesus uh uh um I gave the five thousand uh the that he fed the the word, he met the need first. So I think a lot of times if you meet a person's need first then you can you can really, you know, focus on the spirituality In other words, if if my kid needs shoes. Yeah. Uh right now I need you to meet that need of my kids need shoes. Right. So if you come to me, you know, and you you you talk to me about being saved and the Lord and salvation, I'm not gonna hear you uh at that point because right now I need for you to meet my need. Yeah. And when you meet my need, my kids need shoes. So help me tell me how to get my kids shoes. Or if I run into a problem where I'm a a a person coming to my church is a drug addict. Okay Tell me how I'm gonna get to that drug at that diction. You know, you g you can give me scriptures. But but the scriptures at the point I'm at right now is not gonna get me through what I'm going through. So tell me how to get to the situation I'm going through. Um I find in my church that I have a lot of young people. When I say young people, uh normally in the thirties and forties, you know. But then you have a lot of young men that come to the church have never been fathers before. Right. They don't know how to be a father. And the reason they don't know how to be a father is because that was no father image in their life. Right. So how do you teach a young man how to do uh a budget or or how to father his child when he has not been taught himself? How to discipline, when to discipline, uh how harsh, how to not be harsh, you know, those kinds of things. Yeah, those are very important. Let me ask a chicken and egg question, you know. Which which comes first? You know, the if you're faced with the choice of meeting the the the the physical situation or the spiritual situation and you can't deal with You can't determine or or discern any way to deal with both of them at the exact same time, so you have to choose to do one first. Which one do you opt for first? Wow. You know, I I feel like um both in the Old Testament and the New Testament That what we see with God interacting like so like say God interacting with the Israelites, the first thing he did, it seems like the first thing he did was he rescued them out of Egypt. took 'em through the Red Sea, gave 'em food, gave them water in the desert, manna in the desert, and then and and for that matter I think even before they got to Mount Sinai, you know, with all the law in in the gospel of the day, as it were, you know, preaching the law to 'em. Uh before all that he actually brought in I think the uh the pigeons you know and gave them meat to eat as well. And then after about three months of of being in the desert, he brings them to Mount Sinai and they, you know, he he teaches them the law. And so uh there seems to be this sense that that God is is wanting to communicate that his grace started the whole thing. And it wasn't like that we just came to him in our own strength. But but he seems to want to communicate that it's his power 100% that has rescued mankind and brought mankind to himself and Part, you know, ab the the major part of that is that that we would believe and live according to his commands. But We couldn't even do that in the first place if he hadn't created the world, if he hadn't made us, if he hadn't given us life, given us food, given us breath And so for the church, you know, uh as well, even when Christ came, I feel like in the New Testament, that that Christ came proclaiming the kingdom of God, teaching and preaching, and healing the sick and and casting out demons. You know, and and then coupled with that, you know, the times that he m multiplied the loaves and the fishes. And so my sense is that um that it's really a both and in um that it's a little bit hard to to distinguish between the two, you know, like which one comes first, the chicken or the egg, because I could never hear the gospel if You know, I'm starving to death. It doesn't it doesn't do me any good to hear the gospel at that point. Because it won't meet your needs. Yeah. I I think it's meeting that need first because if you don't meet my need, I can't hear what you're saying. Yeah. You know, I can't once you meet my need You know, then I'm open for anything else you want to bring to me. But as long as I got that problem, that issue. Mm I must go back to my kids and these shoes. As long as my kids don't have any shoes That's my major problem right there. So if you get my if you get my kids' shoes, then I'm gonna have to listen to you. But uh until you meet my need. Now would you agree? I I'd say that I still see a a potential issue there. Like Definitely if if if you don't meet certain needs, that person's gonna feel like you don't care, you know. Uh as they say, you know, the the classic cliche, people don't know, don't care what you have to say, no, people don't care what you know until they know that you care. That's a cliche. I couldn't quite get it right there for a second. Uh but the point is uh is that even still, even when you show that you care I think the reality is that there's a whole lot of people that still won't listen. And that we see that with Christ, for that matter, we see that with uh with the nation of Israel. out in the desert that God met their needs, but they still didn't want to listen to him and so he left them out in the desert for forty years. Same thing with Christ. He met all these people's needs, but when push came to shove So many people left left them that he had to turn to his disciples and say, You can leave too. And so it seems to me that that yes, we we offer and and we meet their needs, but the reality is that we can't expect that if we meet their needs that they're automatically gonna listen. Absolutely, because a lot of times people will follow follow Jesus for different reasons. Right. You know, some of them just follow him for the need. You know. Right. You give me what I want, you know, as long as you give me what I want, I'm gonna hear your Jesus. But if you start giving me what I want, you know, hey, I don't want to hear it anymore. So some people f have their own agenda. Yeah. Some might have their own agenda while they do the things they do. That's that's presently today You'll find a lot of people uh won't come to the church until they get into a point of need. If I need something. Now in the in the season we're in right now specifically now, you know what's happening now, you go back to the nine elevens. Yeah. You know, the Katrina experiences. When the nine elevens happened, the church was full Yeah. Because it was a th it was something that scared them. That's a spirit of fear there. So because of the spirit of fear they ran to the church, right? But after a while now nine eleven is over so people get comfortable to go back and what they want to do. Okay. When the nine eleven they all had a spirit of fear but Now nine eleven is oh we're not gonna go back be my old self again. That's that's how that's how I believe that salvation comes into into play. Okay, because if you're sincere about what you're doing after God had met you need, then then you go to the source. Yeah. Then you go to the source. But a lot of people in this in this in this season now, they only come to church now because there's a need. And we're in a time right now where there's there's food shortage Right. The gas prices are out of whack. And the government can't do it all. I think the government and the church it should be a team. Yeah. Working together. Okay, I really believe that And uh but now the that's gonna be a point where the government can only go so far. Yeah. You know, beginning right now in my own church I have people already that are calling because they're getting evicted. Yeah. Uh the income is not meeting the needs Uh and they and they go to the government, a lot of time the government has programs, but the programs never even exhausting. Sure. You know, so what do they run to? They run directly back to the church and say, Hey help, I need help You know, about the whole time that that when it was was safe or when everything was on their way, you couldn't get them into the church. Yeah. Yeah. I I I feel like this issue of uh blessing versus um uh commitment to Christ, meaning that God blesses us. God bless the whole world. You know, uh some people call it prevenient grace, where he blessed the whole world and uh there's food and there's provision, you know, there's this the sun rises every day. you know, it rains on the righteous and on the unrighteous, you know, there's that sense of of God's blessing being out there for everybody. But the problem uh of mankind, of human race, of sin from the beginning has been that people take advantage of God's grace. and they don't pay attention to his kindness, you know, and they end up they end up abusing it and getting selfish and j and just demanding more, you know, but not being willing to to take their responsibility. And the point is is that the responsibility of the church is uh is number one first and foremost to make disciples. Um and you include a holistic element to that which um I I think there's more to explore there as well. But to to make disciples, but then also to represent Christ in all that we do and say. You know, the Matthew twenty-five represent representation of Christ that that we care about those that are in prison. We care about those that are sick and hurting. We you know we reach out and we uh we we play the Good Samaritan and help out those that are that are right now uh as we speak hurting not able to pay bills, you know, their electricity's been turned off, the phones turned off, they don't know how to uh how to get a job, you know, uh they they need somebody, anybody that that would come alongside of them and help them out The question is, and this is a big question, Troy. I'm even interested to hear what you think about this. The question is, how much do we tie that kind of help to people to them having to come to church. Like is there a point at which we can say, look, you know what, you're you're rejecting our message, and because you're rejecting our message, we're going to withhold the resources that we've been making available to you. You know, is there a point at which we're allowed to say that in the body of Christ or or are we responsible to keep on helping them out? even if they put the hand in our face and say, you know, don't talk to me about God, don't talk to me about Christ. I don't want to hear that anymore. And I know that there are people out there like that. In fact there's even some that would say that it's rude and uh unkind for us to tie our message to uh uh to people receiving uh the the social services and the kind things that we would offer them the charity, that if we tie the two together, then it means that our our love and our charity comes with an agenda that they have to embrace our message. You know, at what point Are we allowed to say, well, you you're rejecting the message, you know, if you don't want the message, the resources go with the message. Let's address that in a second. You will see the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and Uh Alex or Alexander Hardy, your preference. Uh Overseer at New Dimension Worship Center uh in Frederick on East Street Um yeah, there's so many different things we could do, so so many things came up in the last five, ten minutes of the show. Um pick one. I do want to start with an observation uh you know uh a way of looking at it because I I like your idea of the exile. Yeah using that as an example. But sure you know but you could have uh and they're they're they're being uh called out from exile and delivered to the promised land and all that That's the f the first half of the story and they eventually do enter the promised land. Uh but then, you know, they're disobedient And so they're sent back into exile. Yeah, right. And before they do do so, God sends famine, you know, and he sends hardship and sickness and and war and different things. I mean Like there were there were implications to their own. So I think there's a lesson in that cycle of of history from the Old Testament that's pointing to what happens uh for the for the New Testament believer, what happens in Christ You know, we're we're in spiritual exile. We need to be redeemed. Christ redeems us. And then if you're not if you don't uh live the life, if you're not if you're not uh demonstrating your faith by by fruit then you know you're gonna end up being cast back into exile because you never really were uh one of his true followers. Can I ask you a question about that? So sometimes you gotta wonder if Yeah, the lack of your physical needs being taken care of is is is something that God is using to bring you to a more important place in your life. I agree that that's the case. But then that brings us as believers into this place of of decision. As believers, do we have the right to make a discernment, a spiritual discernment about somebody that is rejecting the message of Christ And and therefore we would make the decision, like say, as pastors of a church, to withhold resources from them until such a time as they want to deal and get their life with Christ. Or is that something that we should only leave to God to make and we just keep loving everybody, keep loving everybody, keep loving everybody. Looks like Alex wants to talk about it. Yes, that that silence coming over the air. He's got something deep. wisdom, you know. Um and I believe that, you know, the Bible says that love and kindness have our drawn. Yeah. But if I keep drawing you, you know, and you keep doing the same thing, when am I going to cut you off? Because if I continue to let you come over and over and over and not do anything about it, am I really loving you? Yeah. Am I really helping you? Like okay, well let's take a classic example that happens all the time to every pastor that's got a church out there that has any kind of a reputation of being willing to help the poor. The phone call comes in, somebody that you've never met before, they give you their name and they say, I can't pay my bill, I'm about to get evicted. Can you help me to pay my mortgage? Okay, somebody that lo somebody like that comes along. There's a whole slew of people like that that happens all the time in Frederick. No condemnation, you know, is is is necessarily uh automatically uh you know, a part of the problem. They you know, sometimes just life happens. But the reality is that those churches in Frederick, and not all of them are necessarily willing to do this But those churches in Frederick that help out along those lines have have started calling each other when somebody calls in to say, hey, have you ever heard of so-and-so? Uh yes, yes, I have heard of so and so. Yeah, what have you heard about them? And they'll they'll give you the rest of the story that you know uh uh d one of two things. Either, you know what I've heard of this person, I think I think you should help them out They just came here. I give we I was able to give them a little bit, but I couldn't do everything. You know, I I think their story is legitimate. Let's help them out, help them get back on their feet and keep going. Or else it's the other story where it says, you know what, this person has come to me four or five times in the past year, you know, I b I don't know if they're on drugs, I don't know what's going on, but it's clear to me that they're not choosing to get their life right. And at that point I know that churches will will definitely withhold resources because the the person has a demonstrated history of not responding. But that's different from a situation where where somebody is receiving our resources and maybe even choosing to get their life in order. You know, and they get off the drugs, they get off the alcohol, but they reject our message And they still have some needs. The question is, if they reject our message, but they're still responding to some skills, basic life skills, uh uh training, uh then do we still offer them Help, even though they blatantly would say, You know what, I want nothing to do with your message, don't preach to me about Christ. Thank you for your help, I'll take it You know, which is a different story. True. Well Alex mentioned wisdom on you is a a s a a similar but different word, you know, discernment Uh to use a pop culture political term, you know, the vetting process needs to be in place. How much do you really know about this person? Is there really a need or are they playing the system? Yes. Which is what you're talking about. You call around, hey, has this guy tried to get money from you too? You know, how often and what's his real need and that sort of thing. Um, that's a little bit different than sorry you're not a believer, I'm not giving you any money. Right. But there is something to be said for I don't know you. Yeah I don't know that you really have why'd you call me? Right. Out of all the people you could have called, why why are you calling me? Are you just going through the phone book calling all the churches? Yeah, and they do. Yeah. But you don't belong to a church. Right. You know, the church is important enough that you're going to call them when you when you have a physical need, but you're not going to be involved in the church or in a position where you're going to give back. Right. I think it's appropriate for a pastor to say, you know what? I have no way of knowing for sure that you have a need and I have reasons to be suspicious. Sorry. I think that's okay. Yeah, it definitely is Yeah, go ahead. Yeah, I think it's okay, but then a lot of times I mean this happen that happened to me this week. You know, we get calls all the time. Yes, where people are calling and saying, I'm in a hotel, I'm over the travel lodge, I got five kids. Uh this is my last day. You know, I need some help. Can you help me Okay. What I do is the majority of the time if if I happen to get the phone call, you know, first of all I ask them, uh, where do you go to church? It it uh it's like do you have a pastor? You know, where have you been to get help You know, just besides calling church because you're absolutely right. What they do a lot of times they'll call from church to church to church. You know, tell somebody say, Okay, I'm gonna help you Now a lot of times of what I do with them is I refer them to the religious coalition. You know, because we get so many calls but pe especially now, it's just one after another uh eviction, uh gas and and and and gas. And what thing happened to me when I was at uh 9545 Liberty Road off this was a guy that was going around that was really taking advantage of the church And what he would do, he was he would have his kids in his car and he would come to the church and he will play well I I ran out of gas, I don't have no money, I got all these kids in the car and I need some help, okay? And the first time he came to me, guess what I helped him because I my compassion. Yeah. My compassion was seeing this man with all these kids here. Yeah. And the compassionate guy that I am, you know, I said, Well, I'm not gonna see this guy walk round around with all these kids and no place to go. Yeah. So I gave him the money, but then I found out But he had gone through the other churches, yeah, doing the same thing. And if you think about it, he's only got to succeed with you one time and then succeed with Jonathan one time and some other pets There's like two hundred churches in Frederick County. Okay. So so can I can I read a passage from uh from uh Luke where Christ is talking? How about a cliffhanger? Yeah, go ahead. We'll read the passage from Luke next week. Find out if Batman can get away. That's right. Willing the Frederick will the father with the six kids be helped or not? Tune in next week. Yeah, to the Frederick Fate debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. Thank you, Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads. Chapel and Alex Hardy from UV Dimension Worship Service, and thanks to our sponsor, uh Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile. God bless