Welcome to Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Footman Columbia. and heating how do we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Alex Hardy, the Overseer at New Dimension Worship Center in Frederick. Fred or Faith Debate is an open arms forum for our local religious leaders to get together and talk about things that I think would be interesting to hear them talk about. And We're going to pick up today where we left off last week and w we left you with a cliffhanger, but let me reset the stage a little bit. We were talking last week about what the uh appropriate role for the ch the Christian church is in serving the needs of the community. And we are talking uh primarily uh down the home stretch of the show last week, um about meeting the physical needs and how that's becoming an increasing issue for area pastors because gas prices are up and the housing issues and and food prices are up and there's a shortage of certain kinds of foods and you know it's it's getting tougher for certain people and so there's a legitimate need that's on the rise and then there are those scam artists that recognize, hey There's a there's an opportunity here. These pastors are more likely to believe me now than they were before, so I'm gonna work the system. And if Jonathan says no, that's all right, I'll call Alex. He'll say yes. You're starting to concern me. That smile on your face. You could play that part. I've got a whole new scam. So uh and then you hear these stories about the beggars in the streets of New York City, some of them make two, three hundred thousand dollars a year put their little tin cup out. That's real. That's out there. Anyway, on the the the heels of well, not on the heels, but in the midst of that conversation, Jonathan wanted to re a uh passage from the gospel of Luke. The question you had to wait, yes we I waited. That's great. Um the uh the the issue is Uh Troy, you had mentioned last week whether or not we should choose uh in that s in in situations like like whether or not we should just turn people away. And y and you were saying, look, you know, it seems to me like like if there's anything suspicious, you know, as it were that that a church has one hundred percent right to say, look, I don't know you from Adam. You only showed up at my doorstep to, you know, now that you want something, you obviously are not a part of a church anywhere, you know, and for you to turn ch to the church right now is just a little bit, you know, uh uh wrong headed for you to do, you know, and so I'm just gonna say no to you at this point. And I and you know Oftentimes I think that that I feel that way. Uh Christ says in in Luke chapter six and verse number twenty-seven, he uh he gives us a passage that uh that throws us off. He says, first of all, love your enemies, do good to those that hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who mistreat you. And then ver in verse 30 he says Give to everyone who asks you, and if anyone takes what belongs to you, do not demand it back. Do to others what you would have them do unto you. And then it says this if you love those who love you What credit is that to you? Even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who are good to you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners do that. If you lend to those from whom you expect repayment What credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, expecting to be repaid in full. But love your enemies, do good to them, and lend to them without expecting to be to get anything back. Then your reward will be get will be great and you will be sons of the most high. Because he is kind to the ungrateful and wicked Be merciful just as your uh Father is merciful. Alright, and so and then it and then it goes into do not judge and you will not be judged. I'm reading this whole passage here, sorry. Do not condemn and you will not be condemned. Forgive and you will for be forgiven. Give and it will be given to you a good measure, pressed down, shaking together, and running over, will be poured into your lap, for with the measure you lose use it will be measured to you. And so uh Christ seems to confront this very question, you know, like the the old question, if somebody comes up to you on the street You know, say when you go down to to Washington, D. C. , you're down there to visit, nice day with your family, you know, and a and a beggar comes up to you, should you give anything to them or should you go buy him, you know, uh uh some food and just give him food, you know, if you give him money, maybe you're you're you're paying for his habit. The point is is that Christ seems to say that we're supposed to give to those people even if we If we know that they're not going to be giving anything back to the church, if we know that they're using and abusing the church, Christ says, well that that person could be argued to be an enemy of the church. There's certainly somebody that's not going to repay. And Christ seems to directly answer that question that we're supposed to love those people and give freely to those people. Freely you have received, freely give. And I gotta tell you, that's hard for me because I want a return on my investment. I mean, I uh every time every time that that we as a church give I'm thinking to myself, okay, Lord, this is a strange economy that you put us into because I know that there's certain situations out there where we're going to get nothing back. You know, and you know, as a as a as a uh American that lives in the United States in in uh the new millennium here, you know, I'm a little bit more business savvy than that, you know, to say, what are we doing if we're just giving our money away? in places, you know, where there's no good return on the investment, people aren't going to come to the church, they're not going to become disciples. And yet I seem to get the sense there in that passage that Christ says that we're supposed to give anyways. I don't know if he's asking um Christians to be idiots, you know, and to be the doormats and just say if some smoke hey you're a Christian, give me all your money Okay, here it is. I don't think that that's what he's saying. I'm wondering if if I I I don't have a chance to try to read it through the context If if he's talking about those who ask something of you, if he's talking about those who would have some position of authority, that would have some right to ask. Yeah, I'm not sure I'd have to What do you mean by position of authority? Like they would have you know, if somebody asks you to do something and it's well within their rights to ask you something, that's different than some Schmo showing up and asking you to do something that's inappropriate or wrong or So you're saying that certain people uh by nature of how they ask have a right? It's kinda like give on to Caesars what is Caesar and give on to you know uh God what is God's kind of thing. Those that have some some position and they're gonna ask you to do something. If they ask you to walk a mile, walk two You know, kind of thing. So I'm I'm not sure. I d I d uh I'm studying that's totally off the fly here. I I didn't realize you were gonna read that passage until you read it, so I don't I don't know Yeah, no, no, no, no. I'll uh let me respond to that. I would agree with this part is important too. I mean that gets c Christians get beat up with that all the time. Don't judge, you're not supposed to judge. But you know but the context there is you should have a discerning heart when judging. It's be careful how you judge. Make sure you take care of the plank in your own eye before you try to remove the speck out of your brother's eye. It's not telling us not to have any sort of judgment. In fact we're supposed to have discernment. We're supposed to make good judgments. Yeah. Yeah. So we have to it's care we gotta be careful Exactly what the con I'm not sure I know what the context of that particular verse or those verses are. Anyway, you were gonna say. Well first bless I was just gonna say that that from what I can tell in this passage, this is the Luke passage that mimics the Sermon on the Mount Right. Some people call it the sermon on the plane. And uh in this passage it's where it says, you know, woe to those who are rich, you you've already received your com comfort What are those who are well fed now, you're going to go hungry. What are those who last now you're going to mourn and weak? What are men you know you the when men speak well of you? And then it says, I tell you, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you. And in that context He's talking about uh what does it mean to love those people, you know, that um uh if somebody takes what belongs to you, if somebody's an enemy, you're lending to those that that are not going to give anything back to you. Um it seems to me that certainly the principle applies that uh that we're dealing with people who uh are not able to give back to us. It's not just dealing with enemies there. There you know, he's he's dealing with this whole this whole sense of this is what the kingdom is about, and he's not just dealing with enemies, but it seems to me the passage is dealing with This is the type of people that I want you to be. Give freely of what you have. Which is different from being an idiot. I mean I appreciate that. I don't think we're just supposed to be idiots. Uh, though, you know, I am often enough as my wife and children can attest. But you know what though Jonathan I think sometimes when we give to people and we do it out of compassion and we do it out of love. Yeah. And a lot of times we say we're not receiving anything back, right? Right. But actually by showing love, you know, I think we're we're planning to see you there just by showing the love. And just because you show the love to a person could change the whole way that a person may think So actually what you do you plan it. Yeah. We plan it. You know, and somebody else may have come back and water. But Christ gets an increase. So I'm still sure on the law. I'm gonna be sort of conscious about you. But yes, I'm gonna do I'm gonna I wanna be in a in obedience to the word of God also. Sure. So if you get someone come to you, if it's the same person that's over and over and over coming to me then I'm gonna start to question you. You know, I'm gonna try and trust you. And like like Troy say, I think in this season, uh discernment is very important. Disernment is very important. A lot of times w when I'm confronted to a person like you and I sitting here now I can discern, but when you're on a telephone calling me, it's a compassion, it's a Christ enemy that sometimes gets us in trouble. You know, because because you can do people good and sometimes people will take advantage of you, but yet you still have to love 'em because this is what the Bible says to do. You know, so even even I've been burnt uh I use the terminology been burnt a couple of times, but that's not stop my love of them because even if my enemy came against me, I'm still gonna love him. Might not love what he did to me But I think I'm the loving, you know, so are are we really saying that if if people take advantage of us all the time, are we fulfilling the word of God? Yeah, this this is such a tough question. Um For example, when Christ heals the sick and casts out demons, you know, and and multiplies the loaves and the fishes, um Uh he he was cer he was certainly giving we're given the sense that he's just giving freely. You know, um he he does say that um that there seems to be an element of faith You know, those who come to him with faith, you know, uh he was able to heal. Those that didn't come with faith, he wasn't able to heal. Uh or or he, you know, he could do no miracles in certain towns because the the people had no faith, you know, that kind of phrase Uh point being is that is there there there does seem to be some responsibility that's on the person that's coming, but at the same time there seems to be a sense that there's a freely giving away. Almost like I guess the picture pops into my mind similar to the sun rises every day. Is God an idiot for letting the sun rise every day for all of those um uh agnostics and fools and and wicked people that have turned their backs on him or or is it just a part of prevenient grace? And in the same way, if the Church of Jesus Christ comes freely giving, just like the sunshine. The sun shines, you know, and and we freely give, but people still turn their back on the message. The point is is that God Himself is going to hold them accountable for that And they'll stand before him on the final day and he'll look them in the eye and you say, they'll say, Did you see what what that Troy Skinner did for you that one time? He gave that to you freely and And in fact he knew that you were never going to pay it back. And you not only didn't pay it back, but you turned you know, you you were like the pig, you know, that that uh uh y you know, do not give your pearls, you know, cast your pearls before swine you know, or else they'll trample them under their feet and then they'll turn on you. You were like that to tr you know, the point is that God's gonna hold those people accountable and so there's a You know, there's a there's a place somewhere between being an idiot uh or being an an individual that doesn't show any discernment whatsoever and somebody who even when he shows discernment he still gives, you know, and says, Look, I'm gonna give you give you this in the name of Jesus Christ and and I'm I'm leaving it to God to sort things out. uh as opposed to, you know, th then recognizing that we have a responsibility to preach the gospel and to uh you know to to to make disciples and to keep that as first and foremost. And so we seem to I don't know, I feel like we've got this balance here though. I'm not so sure necessarily that um, you know, Troy, you agree with me and uh in in but that's fine. I mean I'm I'm yeah, just see that there's a I'm I'm trying to think of, you know, some specific examples where, you know some somebody who was clearly a Christian uh in the Bible said no or whatever. And I know it's a little bit of a reach because it's not a physical need, but you know, certainly Christ himself. Right. He was asked to give a sign and he said no. Right. But certainly there's an example of something was asked and he said no because one, it w they had no right to ask that question. They weren't going to do anything proper with his what he gave them anyway. Actually I think that's a perfect uh uh use of scripture though because that they came to him. He had just multiplied the loaves and the fishes, he had been healing everybody. And then they say to him, Lord, give us a sign so that we can know that you're the Messiah. Well, duh, they just saw all these signs and so at that point, uh Y you're right, there's a discernment there that uh you know uh hey, I love you, I care for you, but you know You're you're missing it, you know. And he says uh he he doesn't just say you're missing it, he says a a wicked and adulterous generation asked for a sign. And and again I think that is a discernment because It wasn't like he had already refused to give to those people. He'd already given to them abundantly and now they're just coming back, you know, kinda you know, scam artist kind of a thing. So we're talking and we're talking primarily about by the way you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Also on the show is Alex Hardy from New Dimension Worship. uh center. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, show's broadcast for Putman Funding and Heating. Um we're talking about what the role of the Christian church is in uh serving the community. And we're talking almost entirely, you know, last week and so far uh this week, almost entirely about meeting, you know, the community's needs in a physical sense. Yes. You know, we talked last week about the need uh that certain elements of the population uh who haven't gotten proper training in how to conduct a job interview or put together a resume or how to cook or how to raise a family or some of these very practical important things are all things of this life. Uh you know, what about serving the community's needs at uh about, you know, the next life? Amen. You know, the eternal life kind of issue. Yep. Um certainly we want to meet the physical needs when we can, but sometimes you you gotta wonder if If the appropriate discerning response isn't to give them the sandwich when they're hungry, because maybe you don't have the sandwich to give, I don't know. Maybe that's the issue too sometimes. You only have so many resources to go around, right? But helping them to get through to understand that even though I don't have that sandwich, I know that God loves me, I know that Jesus died for me, I know that I'm saved, and from a in an internal perspective, I don't need the sandwich. You know, how how do we I don't know if you blend that in or that's kind of what I was trying to get at last week when I asked the chicken and egg question, like what comes first. It might not just be a timeline question of first comes the food, then comes the message Or first comes the message and then if they sat there and listened to it then comes the food. I'm not talking about necessarily a timeline and and not even a line of logic where logically this comes first or whatever. But maybe about the the motivation. What's the what's the what's the the first what's the prime directive to use a uh Star Trek? um term. You know, what's the prime directive there? And everything else supports that it seems to me. So if you're meeting with if you're talking to somebody on the phone. Yeah. And somehow by helping them pay their rent, you feel like I'm gonna be helping to lead them to Christ by doing this, then I think the right thing to do is you you help them pay their rent if you can. Right. If you feel like this is just gonna make my My Christ look foolish and me as a follower of Christ look like an idiot and I and I feel like he's playing me I'm not going to lead him closer to following Christ. I'm going to push him further away because he's going to think we're a bunch of saps or lay downs. Well I j I g I gotta say this, that if he's playing you, then clearly he's your enemy, not your friend, and that passage that we just read applies. Okay. I mean if he's playing you, he's not your friend. He's your enemy. He's setting himself up against you and he's using you. That's an enemy. That's that's not somebody that y I mean I I was even gonna say this earlier. I think we've lost the ability to identify what an enemy looks like. You're so intent on loving people. Say that again. You have to know them, that's the problem. Somebody calls you out of the blue on the phone. You don't know if they're a friend or foe. You have no way of knowing. And well I'm not okay, but let me ask you this. Um and this part this is I think a big part of the problem. Um how do you how does anybody get to know a poor person? I mean, we have all moved up in the world. I've seen some of the cars that you guys have been able to drive. Sorry, I don't mean to like expose anybody, you know, but but we're pretty well off, all three of us. You know, and and as a result, we've moved into suburbia and the houses. So we get up in the morning, we leave our house, we get in our car, we drive to work. We drive home afterwards. Many of us that we live in because they would have good school systems for our children that, you know, that are top notch. And so Where in the world are we going to interact with poor people? If somebody poor calls me up out of the blue and says, I need help That to me is the only opportunity I've had to interact with any poor person and you know what? That is the beginning of the relationship. And so maybe that time I help 'em But then the next time they come back, you know what, I've got a relationship and I can say to them, hey, you know what, how's things going? Uh why don't we go out and talk and see how things are really going? The point is is that is that in our society today we've we we've developed a way to never have to interact with the poor unless we go down to, you know, like the the soup or the food kitchen. Which again I I I feel like is a is a poor opportunity for us to express, you know, what Christ says in terms of caring for the poor and helping those that are hurting. I you know, when I get phone calls, normally what I do when I get phone calls, you know, I I I invite 'em to church or go to meet 'em first. I won't arbitrarily just say yes on the phone. You know, that's okay. Do you have a church That's one first question I asked, do you have a church? Do you have a pastor? If they say no, then I say, okay, where are you? And they tell me, well they are. Well let me come and meet you Yeah. Let me come and meet you. I'm not just gonna give you something because you call them on the telephone tell me you have an easy. I want to look you face to face. Because normally a lot of times when you see 'em face to face, then then that when that deserving come in, you can tell whether they're real or they're not for real. And then there are gonna be some people you just gonna get burnt. You know, just they're just gonna run you. But I when I get a phone call, I wanna meet 'em, you know. And if I can get 'em in the door Yeah. But I think the most important thing when they call churches to say, Okay, are you for real You know? Are you the man of God that you say you are because they they're coming to us because they know the church a givea lot. Right. And that's that that's the compassion that they're playing on us Yeah. And I have a lot of compassion. And sometimes my compassion gets me in trouble. Sure. Because I've I've I've had people that call me and I've actually had them in my home. Mm-hmm. Bring them in my home but they have no place to stay. Sure. Okay. And you can't keep feeding the money all the time, so you bring 'em in the house And then you direct them to the places in the community where they can get help. Right. You know, I think I'm doing them more good that way than than providing money for 'em loan you my house I'm gonna feed you. Yeah. But while you while I'm feeding you, I want to give you some knowledge to go out and say, hey, go down to an under office or go here and find a job, get a newspaper and and try to you know help yourself But then you find some people come and just say that some I don't feel like going out today, I'm just gonna sit here. Those are what you have to watch. will regularly go out and meet with people, we'll we'll we'll uh look them in the eye. What I found is that, you know what? It takes a ton of time to work with poor people. People want to come and help, you know, and and they're hurting and you you want to make the discernment, you know, there there's no easy way to make a discernment. The only way to make the discernment is to do what you just said is to sit down, look them in the eye, uh uh uh spend enough time with them that they don't feel like you're just running down a list, you know, and you're trying to you know, like a cop, you know, like make 'em feel like, Well what did you do this? Did you do this? Have you done this yet? You know? Uh 'cause that's very inhuman and it and it's uh It's a i it's rude, you know, to handle something like that. If if I'm gonna handle them in a personable way, in a way that humanizes and and recognizes the dignity that Christ gave them, that God gave them when he created them, then I gotta stop, I gotta say, Hey, how are you doing? Yeah, tell me what's going on. You know? Oh yeah? Uh so uh so do you mind if I ask a few questions, you know, well what happened here and what happened here and And uh, you know, are you going to church anywhere? Yeah, well, you know, I just gotta tell you that um that church has certain side benefits to it. And if you're not going to church anywhere anywhere it makes sense to me that that you're currently in a crisis like this because a church that is a is a community is is something that would have been helping you like way way before and I'm not saying that I'm not willing to help right now. I'm just saying that that that's part probably part of the problem right now is that you're not even in a place where you're being helped to grow and helped to do the right thing and they'll be like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah You know, and and the point is that there's a way to do it that's personable, but if you're gonna do that, it takes a good twenty, thirty minute conversation with somebody You get, you know, a couple of those phone calls a week, you know, it takes some time to try to keep up with those things. And so we've we've got somebody in the congregation, a lady that, you know, that that enjoys doing that kind of thing. that's willing to uh to ask the hard questions but is able to be personable at the same time. You know, and it requires discernment, it requir requires working that through. And sometimes she'll call me back up and she'll be like, you know what, Pastor John, I don't think that we should help him out I'll be like, alright, well that's your discernment. Another time she'll call me back and she'll be like, you know what, uh my husband and I are gonna go go meet with this person. I think that we should help him out You know, so again it comes down to discernment. You know, when do you help and when don't don't you help and and how do you have somebody mature enough that's responsible for that kind of ministry that can make those discernments. And how aggressively do you then preach the gospel there? Uh I I do it one hundred percent, I don't hesitate. Oh here, same here. Yeah. I mean aggressively like like look, you know, do you know that Jesus Christ has died on the cross for your sins? Do you know that that that he has died to make you right with the Father, you know, and that that you need to come to a place of repentance? And acknowledge that that you have sins. You do you have sins? I know I've got sins. Yeah, yeah, I've got sins. You know? Well, y you gotta deal with those sins and the only way to deal with that is you gotta come to a place of repentance for god before God, ask him for forgiveness And true repentance, not not the kind of where you repent one day and then you go out and do it the next day, but where you're really sincere that you want change And that's part of the issue here. Do you really want change or do you just want to keep on doing what you're doing? Absolutely right, but uh and then some people come honestly want change. They honestly won't change. They don't know how. You know. So the first place thought they're lost out there. And the first place they thought, let me call the church. And some people are looking for help. All of them are not phony, all of them are not fixed. So when those are coming in and that really seeking your help, you know, you gotta be able to let John say you gotta be able to deserve them. But normally when you sit down and talk to 'em And they begin to look at you and based on the answers that you give them, then they begin to open up. This is really what's happening to me right now. You know, they may have been divorced or they may have a dis disagreement, you know But only then when you do eye to eye contact. You know, you sit down and look at you because I've had it happen, you know, several times in my ministry. Well, they actually come to me and they talk to me and just when I look at me and hear what I say, my response to them You know, my response to them, they can normally feel if he's sincere or not. So if you're sincere, it's like going to jail when you minister to guys in c in jail, once you once they begin to trust you, they open up to you. Right. So if a person comes to you and say, look, try like an honest man You know, like he's he's really sincere about me, that he's cares about me. So now I'm gonna tell Troy this is what it's really about. I'm not here to rip 'em off. I'm just looking for a way out of this. I'm coming to you for help. Like for example, when people go to uh go to the welfare office My sense is they go to the welfare welfare office, they're treated like a number. And I I'm of the opinion that the church has no business treating anybody like a number. I think we're running out of time, but Um I'll end on that. You know, somehow the church needs to uh the way that they interact with these people, humanize them and do it in a godly you know, personable kind of way, whatever we do. And speaking about welfare and something that came up in last week's show about the idea of, you know, the the government and the church be working together. In next week's show we'll talk about that. At what level should the church be working with the government and uh you know are there lines that shouldn't be crossed there or you know, how how we how do we define the government's role in partnering with the church, not just the church's role in partnering with the government. So we'll do that next week on the Faith Debate. Thank you. Jonathan Sweitzer, Crossroads Valley Chapel. From New Dimension Worship Center, the overseer there, um Alexander Hardy, I'm Troy Skinner, and you've been listening to the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Check us out on the web, WFMD. com, keyword faith. God bless.