Welcome to the Frederick's Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, who is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and the Executive Director of Life Rise AIDS Resources, Dr. Cynthia Calla. In the last couple of weeks we've been talking about uh the role that the church does or sometimes doesn't play in uh in responding to the worldwide AIDS uh crisis. And uh I'm gonna start with a story and then we'll go from there. Okay. So someone's storytime with Troy Skinner. Speeding down the road, you know, listening to their tunes, be bopping their head back and forth. Little regard to the posted speed limit signs. Let's say the posted speed limit sign is forty-five, and you know they're they're not paying attention, so they're doing ninety-five. Uh Troy, I have people come to me with these kinds of stories all the time. And then Yeah, you just need to stop speeding. And so then Something jumps out in front of the car and the driver swerves to avoid it and you know, car smashes into a big telephone pole and, you know, his head hits the The uh the windshield ahead, and there's blood everywhere, and person's entrapped, and the car now is on fire, and the emergency responders are on the scene, and they have a choice to make. Listen, driver, you're obviously traveling at an excessive rate of speed. Do you realize there are laws against this sort of thing Let me explain to you. Let me get out the uh rules of the road here. See that sign over there 45? That means forty-five and no faster, buddy. You were going ninety-five. Now until you can explain to me how it is that you were traveling so fast and you allowed yourself to do that I don't think we can go any further. And you have somebody else who's going to arrive on the scene. Oh my goodness, this poor person, oh, I can't believe this happened. They're such a good person. I can't believe such a Such a horrible thing would happen to such a good law-abiding person. Let's take care of the head wound and rush him off to the hospital, get him out of that burning car, and everything's gonna be okay. Well you realize that person uh was uh speeding. Oh, don't be so judgmental. All right? So these are the two extremes t on how you can react to that situation. Yes. Both of them unhelpful, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. The caricatures unfortunately are, you know, are precisely uh The problem is that it's a caricature that you're under one or the other, that you don't can't uh have the nuance that you could you could do both of those. So how is the situation to be nuanced? What is the appropriate time to address the care issue versus what is the appropriate time to address the teaching of the truth issue. We kind of ended the show last week uh hinting at this idea of there being grace and truth I think I read that somewhere once. Um so how do grace and truth, as specifically related to the AIDS issue, how do they work together? How should the church be responding in both grace and truth? Let me let you go ahead first, yeah. Uh well I think the truth, you know, Jesus was full of grace and truth. Now somehow for Jesus they weren't contradictory. Amen. He was able to get the balance right there. So we should be able to too. That's what we should strive to do. And so it uh for truth I think, you know, it has to do with um sharing, you know, God's principles, God's design for m for marriage and the family in AIDS uh, which is, you know, that uh i you know, people should be apt abstinent until marriage and then you know, in marriage, which is between one man and one woman, um, that's where, you know, sexual relations take place and only there. Yeah. So that's the truth part that we need to share with people God's design and how that's a good design. Let me jump in for a second. Let's say somebody totally rejects that. That is a judgmental Christian thing. That's something that you and your Bible are all about, but that's not for me. I'm gonna have, you know, relations with whoever I want to, and I'm gonna have, you know, intravenous drug usage However and wherever and how you know whenever I want to. It's not for you to be so judgmental of me. What should the church's response be then when somebody is completely rejecting? The truth that you're offering. Well, you know, uh sometimes if people reject the truth, they are gonna face some consequences. And HIVAs or other sexually transmitted diseases are one of those consequences that they can face. And so at that point, that's where to me the grace part steps in, you know, to be able to say to people, look, we care about you. We don't really care what you've done in the past. What we care about is where you go from here. Where you go in the future. Christ was interested when he healed people, he was interested in where they went in the future. He didn't worry so much about where they were in the past. And I think, you know, that's the that's the gospel of grace. It's saying we can take you right here, however you are, however you got to this broken point that you are And the Lord has love for you and He has a future for you and He has a prov you know restoration a and salvation if people accept His the relationship with him and come into a relationship with Christ, then he has, you know, restoration for them, he has healing for them, he has hope for them, he has compassion for them. So all those things. So he looks for the future He doesn't really, you know, worry so much about what they did in the past. Now, I think you would agree with it. Well he doesn't leave the past totally unaddressed though, right? Because he does call us to repentance. Exactly. That's my point. I mean the future begins with repentance. And and if our future begins with uh us being stiff necked and unwilling to come to terms with the truth that my drunkenness puts my family and my kids in danger or that my drug use, you know, puts um you know, puts other kids in the neighborhood uh you know at danger. If I can't come to terms with the truth then uh then then there isn't any hope moving forward. But as soon as I come to terms with the truth There is total 100% hope. And so the question in my mind, like for example, we're talking about Christ and grace and truth, who was it that Christ got in the face of? the religious leaders that were leading other people astray. And so when we're dealing with the UN, somebody needs to look those guys in the eye. They're claiming to be leaders that are leading the world in the right direction, somebody needs to look those guys in the eye and say, look, you're going to be held accountable for what you're teaching and how you're leading people astray. And for me as a pastor to to say that to them, to look them in the eye and say that you will be responsible for thousands of people dying of AIDS, for thousands of people dying of STDs, for thousands of kids being aborted, because of your choice to not draw a line based on the truth and on what is truly righteous and moral, but to do it according uh to to your own selfish you know, uh uh desires to live as free as you want, uh, then then I would be remiss. But when I'm interacting with the person in front of me that's in the car dying, Dude, you don't sit there and talk about all that stuff you're gonna talk to the guys at the UN about. You're gonna rip them out of the car. You know, you might get burned while you're doing it You know, but you go ahead and do it and you get the guy out and and uh and you go to the hospital with him to get treated for your burns, you know, because you want to rescue him. But if that guy then turns around the next day g gets picked up from from the hospital and starts driving 95 again and you see him driving down the road doing that, I'm gonna be pretty ticked off because I've got the burns to to to show my willingness to sacrifice for this guy that's just gonna turn around and and and keep engaging in the the foolish Behavior. And so the point is that there's got to be a both and there. There's got to be a willingness to change. But as soon as there's a willingness to change, there's complete and total grace and favor. In fact, there's even grace and favor before that But if they respond wrong, if I if I rescue the guy from the car, if he's if he's wise, he's gonna come up to me and he's gonna say, Man, I'm so grateful for your help. I uh Man, uh I've I've learned my lesson. I'm gonna start doing the speed limit. If he's wise, if he's smart, you know, and from that time out he can you know he he could start to be a good driver. But if he if he doesn't then he's taken the grace that's been given to him and he's he's treating it as if it meant nothing. And you know But what does that mean then? Does that mean you don't rescue him from the car a second time? What does that mean? Uh no I'd probably rescue him again. I'd probably keep on rescuing him, but the point is at some point his foolish behavior is gonna gonna uh gonna get him into an accident where something happens where he's beyond the ability to be helped We keep on helping every step of the way as long as we can, but we're not going to spend our time with a GPS tracking him because he might go off the side of a road somewhere. We let him do his thing and if he goes off the side of the road somewhere and and and we're able to get there, we rush to get there. But you know We we all have to live our lives. We're not able to spend one hundred percent of our time tracking or trying to protect somebody who's living foolishly. In fact they don't want us to. That's the whole point. They want to be free to do their own thing without some nag over their shoulder trying to, you know, chase them around. Does that sound like a reasonable balance has been struck there to you, Doctor? Well, I think that God is what the hound of heaven. Yes, amen. And uh, you know, if even if we as people we have a threshold for where we tire of trying to reach out to people who continually, you know, just R end up I don't think God tires of it. I think that he's always there. He's will he's the nag, you know, over the shoulder He's always there. He's wanting people to come to him. He's wanting people he's wanting to save people. He doesn't want anybody to perish. So I think his love is so great that he is there all of the time with the person who's, you know, repeatedly Okay, so I'm gonna challenge that. Yeah. Even though even though I think that what you're doing is way overdue and that we need to do way more of it. We need to give we need to reach deep into our pockets and we need to give abundantly to the kind of thing that you're doing. But when I read the Old Testament, when I read Scripture, even after Christ, it's clear to me um that Christ considered the fall of Jerusalem in A. D. seventy uh with with what was arguably some of the ugliest uh warfare ever on the face of the planet, some of the ugliest uh uh consequences of warfare in and violence ever uh on the planet, um that that that was judgment on a group of people Uh at that point it was, you know, the Jewish nation that uh that had happened even after salvation and the fullness of the Spirit had been poured out. And so there's there's still the sense that even though we now have Christ and his forgiveness, uh and he's not willing that any should perish, but you know, but but desires all to to to be saved, there's still the sense that that God in his righteous judgment still gives it gives a point in time, you know It's pointed to man once to die and then the judgment. And that there are there are groups of people that that will come under judgment and will even be destroyed. You know, for that matter Hitler might represent a modern day uh evil man that that was destroyed by God and and his his grace had run out. So I feel like we have to biblically I feel like we have to uh we have to intellectually uh uh in order to be intellectually consistent, recognize that God too has a point at which his grace runs out. Nevertheless, in the meantime, we let him decide that and we go out of our way to love sacrificially. you know, to quit driving our cars, you know, and quit putting all the money into into the two car garage house and all that and give freely to people all over the planet. We don't need, you know, a Gucci tie You know, we don't need uh you know the Gucci handbag. Let let's let's give abundantly to people wherever they are. So that's I guess it's a good thing. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, host and my Of the Frederick Faith Debate program, and Dr. Cynthia Kalla, who is the executive director of LifeRise AIDS Resources, is on the program as well. And you know, something occurred to me while you were talking that complicates this. And I might be leading you down a path where you you might be forced to say something that would be unpopular. Yeah, yeah, well yeah. But Jesus instructs uh his disciples when they're when when the truth that they're sharing is rejected that he instructs them to leave and to shake the dust off their from their feet. So at some point even the Christian disciples are to Move on and Yeah, but that's in the name of peace. And um and with the kinds of things that Cynthia's doing She's i if if somebody were to reject her help and just say, Get get out of my face, get out of my life, I don't want you around obviously, you know, she would be free to move on But I think what we're what what what she's moving in to deal with is people that are needing help. They know they need help. They want the help. And for us to just abundantly be there and to help out is is the right thing to do. Okay, so that's helpful. So there are governments I as I understand it in Africa that are not um favorable to Christian involvement in trying to address the AIDS issue. They don't they they uh make it difficult, persecute even Christians, uh missionaries who try to go there and do the kind of work that you're doing. uh in the previous shows we've done with you, it seems clear to me that you've because you're working through grassroots church organizations, that you're only doing work where you're kind of invited and where the church is welcome to engage in trying to help Um Yeah, have you ever been in a situation where that wasn't the case or where you all of a sudden ran into resistance to coming in with medical missions or, you know, the help with the AIDS stuff? Um, you know, I think um the people usually in these countries are the people are suffering so much uh that they appreciate, you know, any help. Uh to come to to them. So um I would think so. But I think, you know, in general there is there is a resistance sometimes in the church to helping people with HIV AIDS. There are many stories like that about Stigma. Yeah. The stigmatization of those with HIV AIDS. Yeah. Some people call that the modern lep day leprosy. Right. And uh so, you know, there's many stories of people who've gotten kicked out of their churches because they had HIV. Um the rec our record hasn't been very very good in that regard. So it's it's something where we need to do better. Yeah. And uh again show the grace, the grace of the gospel. Um to try to um you know d w Jesus when he was having dinner with the sinners and the Far you know the Pharisees looked at him and questioned his disciples. This is good, yeah. You know, and they said, Why is your teacher having dinner with those scoundrels and tax collectors? They were hated. They were corrupt. But Jesus had dinner with them. He re he was relating to them. Mm-hmm. And so, um, what did Jesus say? He said, I haven't come to call the righteous. Uh. But sinners to repentance. you know, it's not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. So I think that that really is a good verse for HIV AIDS. That if we're gonna err We're gonna need to err on the side of mercy and compassion and grace. In fact, when I take off my uh prophetic hat, you know, as as I've kind of been hitting in terms of, you know, speaking to the to the UN and the powers that be and I and I go back to you know like like my congregation I'd say that um that for me you know, the leaders in my congregation, uh those people uh that are, you know, just uh a part of the congregation, uh learning to give freely And to not give up too quickly is one of the biggest things that we have to overcome. That that w that we are too quick to to say, well, you know, I tried to help, but, you know, they just rejected it and that from my experience when when all of us in the congregation that are going out of our way to help people when we when we go the extra mile and then go another extra mile and then go an extra another extra mile that that there's a um uh a response in those people that we're wanting to reach that we never would have known could have happened if it weren't for just keep keep on, keep on giving, keep on trying. Don't give up yet. Forgive seventy times, seven times, you know, and just keep on giving. And uh and and so once you get down to the grassroots level, um, I think that that prejudice and uh and bigotry and um judgmentalism is a huge, huge issue You know. Question is why do we get like that? We get that way because we are afraid that we're gonna get exposed as not being um good enough ourselves. So we developed all these defense mechanisms, you know, well I'm not like that. Well I'm not like that. And helping people to get past that so that they can just love freely and unconditionally, uh, I'd say is is uh the number one thing that we need to do. Well it's true and you know, Christ didn't have a problem with that. So why do we? You know, he Yeah Um, you know, Jesus never worried about sort of ministering to people who were sinners or uh he 'Cause he never worried about them contaminating him. Right? But he just imparted his goodness to the world. Yeah, we were talking about this before. How do you be in the world but not of it Right. And so he was in the world and he imparted his goodness wherever he went. Yeah. His grace and his goodness to people and his love. So he he never worried about being contaminated by them. And I think a lot of Christians uh somehow we feel like our association or relationship with people who, you know, are involved in sin. Yeah. Um, but somehow that taints us. Right. You know, it makes us less. Right. And Christ never worried about that, so why do we? Yeah. Somehow he was able to get it right. You know, if somebody has an elderly grandparent who is, you know, struggling with emphysema and has lung cancer and is dying because they were a chain smoker for seventy years. You know, we don't say, Oh, you know, I heard chain smoker for seventy years and if I care for them and help them in their in their uh last days here then I'm gonna somehow have guilt by association. occurs to us. So there's something about this particular ailment or illness AIDS because it's so closely aligned with the homosexual issue. that makes it more taboo. And then of course just sex outside of marriage that makes it taboo. Amen. Right. But I think it's really it's it's it's the the the gay part of it, you know Yeah. That's a gay person's disease. And if I'm gonna be seen helping people who have that disease, then somehow people are gonna think that I'm okay with people being homosexual And I don't want to give the impression that I think homosexuality is okay because clearly it is not, and by golly, I have to draw a line somewhere. So I think that's really what the struggle with Christians responding uh with some sort of a unified univide I I invented some sort of bizarre word there. Unifying for attention, you unifying a a unified front on on dealing with this. So So Right, somehow we make well first of all, we we make HIV AIDS a homosexual disease You know, in the in the sort of Zen diagram, you know, where they have the circles. Yeah. They're in our minds they're overlapped completely. Right. You know, one circle overlaps the other completely. But actually there's yang symbols, what you're talking about Well, just, you know, a circle, you know how you have inter intersecting circles. Yeah. But in actuality, most of the people in the world who have HIV AIDS are not h homosexual, they're heterosexual. You know, that's the majority of the people. That's not what we're used to in this country. But that's true o most of the world. So it's an o there's an overlap there. Okay, but it's not One and the same. Yeah. Right. And here's something that, you know, we f would be prone to forget. Maybe we need to be reminded. There are Christians. with AIDS. Well absolutely. I mean in the in the in the churches and I've been in a ch I remember doing an outreach with a local pastor in one African country and we tested people for HIV And many of the people in his church were positive. He was stunned. You know, he he didn't know who they were 'cause it was confidential. But he knew the numbers, you know. And Um so I he was surprised at that. So it it isn't just that's that hypocrisy and that self righteousness that somehow we think that we're above you know, uh, behaviors and at the end of the day the reality is that we're all sinners, you know, that all of us have fallen short of the glory of God. But imagine how isolated and alone, you know, those who are Christians and the struggling with you know, trying to to battle this disease this disease AIDS must feel. It's kind of like uh the the Palestinian Christians, right? They feel totally neglected and ignored by the body as a whole Yeah. And so our theology ends up creating a blind spot. That's another theological blind spot that we end up having. Uh is that because we believe s a certain something about AIDS then then we forget to notice those that are hurting and and blessing them anyways, yeah, yeah. Well and we we want to know how they got their AIDS. Amen. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. That's what we want to know. And does that matter, really? Not really. You know, for for the for that not for health in the it might it might matter in certain ways, you know, for for health professionals or whatever. But but for people in the church, in the body of Christ uh you know it's just help. Right. Serve 'em. You know, if they if that person has now come into a relationship with the Lord and they have, you know, come into a salvation relationship Does it really matter how they got their AIDS? Yeah, well some of it might be helpful if they understood because then they could help to teach others and help in the prevention cycle. Well that's true, if they're willing to to you know, sort of come out more publicly in the church and have a role like that, like an education role for others, yes. For example Pornography is so pervasive in our churches these days and yet yeah, it's one of those things that nobody wants to talk about and from my experience the more people can get that out in the open and talk about it openly and forthrightly, the better. as opposed to, you know, hiding it and acting like it's not there. I know plenty of pastors, leaders in the church that that are being beat up by this thing because we don't want everybody to know that we're just as sinful as they are and uh we we need to find ways to get that out in the open and that was part of the problem with the age thing as well is that the shame of it kept people from dealing with it and we gotta get past the shame so that we can deal honestly with things and move it forward. That's true, you know it it sh stigma puts something in the shadows, you know, it's in the shadows of shame and Shame is something where people internalize stigma. Yeah, profoundly so you know, it becomes an internal issue for them. So yeah, you know, we have to get way past that. I agree And for those who are willing to trust and believe in him, you know, Jesus took that shame upon himself. So there's no need for there to be any shame. Thank you so much. Jonathan Sweitzer. Thank you. Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel Dr. Cynthia Kalla. Thank you. Dr. Cynthia Kalla, Executive Director of Life Rise AIDS Resources. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? If you'd like to email us at the show, you can do that at Troy T-R-O-Y at W-F-M-D. That's spelled W-F-M-D. At clearchannel. Could you spell that phonetically for me? What? Could you spell that phonetically for me? Uh W uh D I can't. Anyway, Troy at WFMD. com You can go to uh WFMD's website and check out the Faith Debate page. There's it's updated just about every day. Links to John's Gives you a picture of John and his beautiful family and and all that sort of stuff. Yeah. So still be beautiful though, I assure you. Thanks for listening. God bless.