Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating Hell. Can we make you smile? Fredder Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for religious leaders in the community or those that just happen to stop by the community. To talk about things that we think are particularly important for you to hear about. On this week's show, the Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Jonathan Schweitzer And the founder of Impact Africa, uh Rich Franzen, uh he's based in Johannesburg, South Africa, but he happens to be in the States doing some itinerating. In other words, he's being a salesman going around getting some money to underwrite his ministry. In fact, can I tell you what he's currently raising for? Okay. This is a shameless pitch for uh for Impact Africa. Okay. He's looking to raise a million dollars so that they can put in uh some schools uh in some of these townships that are that they are interacting in. And so he's been uh particularly meeting with uh with uh wealthier businessmen um asking them to participate directly and uh so uh you know it's not like a small goal that he's shooting for right now. And how close are we? I don't want to go off on a whole big uh tangent here, but you know, every time we have somebody who has a a a missionary uh thing going on in their life or missionary background or whatever. I can't help but bring it up because it's I'm not sure what the answer is exactly, but I do know that there must be an answer and it's a pet peeve of mine that You have God fearing men and women who are trying to go out and preach the gospel and uh disciple people for Christ uh have to spend so much time raising money. uh my sense is that, you know, they aren't called to be fundraisers, they're called to be preachers of the gospel, to be light in the world, and it's frustrating to me. So I can emphasize that you have to spend all this time It's probably fun to network and reconnect with people that you know and and to share with them what you're doing and for them to to uh really get on board with what you're doing and to then dip into their pockets and give you money. I'm sure that that's incredibly rewarding at some level, but it's got to be so frustrating when yeah, h a billion, two supposedly two billion of uh the residents of this planet are Christian. Yeah. If those two billion would give you like a penny each, you can fill all the schools you want. Bring it on, yes. Yeah, it's just it's it's just it's crazy to me. But anyway, enough of Iran. That was a good soapbox. Yeah. So Last week we were talking at the end of the show about um the religious makeup in in Southern Africa. Yeah. And we're talking uh earlier in the middle part of the show you're talking about all the the tribal rituals and the and the the native religious practices. Right. And we talked about the the Anglican influence and and some of the and the different kinds of Christian denominations and the Roman Catholic influence uh that is that is there. And then I was going to ask the question and we kind of got into it before I could even ask it is you know how many other world religions are represented there in a strong way? And you already volunteered at the end of last week's show. f how uh Muslims as a percentage of the population are small, only about four percent, but as far as their their level of influence on government and their their uh influence on religious practices is much greater than their four percent would indicate. Absolutely. What are some other influences there? Is there a big Hindu presence, a big Jewish presence, a big Buddhist presence, uh or is it pretty much Muslim, Christian, and tribal African religion? And what about humanism for that matter? Right. Yeah, the environment, especially in South Africa, has the pendulum has swung drastically to the to the left where now apartheid is gone and there's freedom and dem democracy, basically it's a open door policy for everybody and everything. And they more or less have a kind of open door policy and you know, equal opportunity. So if the Christians come in, also the Muslims come in, the Hindus come in, the spiritualists come in, the African traditional religions come in. Hinduism's there. And so there's a kind of like our fate debate. It's a welcome all comers. That's right. Bring it all in. So there's a an aggressiveness to have more or less equal opportunity for every niche of life. And those that have a little bit more of a political slant, you know, many times ha get it the greater platform. Because they go for it, because they want it. And so whoever, you know, squeaky wheel gets the grease kind of a thing, whoever's pushing for those positions end up getting hence the reason why the Muslims you're saying have fifty percent of the governmental positions even though they're four percent of the population. Correct. Yeah much of the m Islam strategy is, you know Yeah, in many of the rural areas, they're going after rural Africa, all throughout the continent. And they'll come in, they'll build a school. They'll tell the kids they can come to school for free. And the you know, what's a single mom who's HIV positive gonna say, of course. And then the school buys the local bread from the Muslim bakery, who buys the grain from the Islam farmer and from borrows the money from the Muslim bank. And soon you got a whole economic center there in that whole town of Islam influence that's promoting their agenda, helping one another and uh Like is Islam a step up for them? They you know, that that their lives are genuinely improved, uh uh by you know, having Islam there? I mean obviously You and I know that they're losing their souls for eternity and and that's the bigger issue, but uh you know, is the sense that that those that that have Islam come in that they might view it as better than what they had previously They for a short time they feel, hey, there's some relief here. I can get fed or my child can get educated. But soon after that they feel the oppressive kind of ties uh and requirements. that are all of a sudden I didn't re read the fine prints of what's really required of me in my whole life. Sure. And generally they end up leaving it. uh, you know you know, maybe a few months or a year or two afterwards. Okay, now but I also seem to get the impression and and it I may be wrong that that a similar thing can happen even for those that come to Christ, that there's a sense that they come into it, but even like you've described, then they kind of fall back onto their you know, animistic religions, their occult religions, that kind of thing. Um i and so like I wonder again, like, in in terms of um uh staying power or you know like how many how much of the the the ones that are coming to Christ are are they retaining their Christianity or is there some slide there as well? There's obviously slide everywhere but uh African people in general are here in the United States. Yes. African people in general, just their spiritual makeup and DNA, they're very spiritual people throughout the whole continent. generally it's just the wrong spirits. And most of those backgrounds and their experience is, like I said, oppressive and controlling and fear based And when they get a taste of freedom, when they get a trace taste of God's grace and love and mercy and that God wants ultimately good things for you, His Jesus came to give life. Jesus came as a free gift and you don't have to earn God's love. Uh they gravitate to those that truth. Because they've tasted oppression, now they're tasting freedom, and something in your heart and your mind and your spirit jumps out and says, This is reality, this is truth, this is good news, this is the direction I want to go. Rich Franzen is the founder of Impact Africa. He's in the States for uh a few weeks uh raising money so he can build schools in s uh the southern I don't know if in South Africa or just the southern part of the African continent. Mostly in South Africa, yes. And Jonathan Schweitzer Uh not raising millions of dollars to build schools anywhere as far as I know is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. How can we make you smile? Yes. Uh I'm Troy Skinner and this is the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. Uh you talked about uh Rich uh a moment ago about these people, you know, they're they're leaving what they knew for f pragmatic practical reasons to gravitate towards Islam, but then they fall back to their their their uh tribal spiritual roots and their you said they were very spiritual people and But then he says something along the lines of, but you know, it depends on the spirit or what ki the wrong spirit or whatever. Let's talk about that wrong spirit. Yeah. What are some of the things that uh you've If you're merely left with telling us things that you've heard about, uh that's fine. But if you have some some specific examples of of uh of that dark spirit at work in the lives of people, whether it be, you know, demon possession or or uh you know actually watching a a witch doctor do his thing or whatever, those sorts of things Because that's so foreign to the American experience. It's so foreign in fact that most American Christians even uh kind of reject that as That's superstition. It's not real. There's no power there. But the science has shown us that that stuff's not really real. But uh I'll I'll put my cards on the table. Uh I'm not one of those. You know, I believe the Bible teaches us that you know there are uh evil powers and spirits out there and that there's a spiritual warfare going on. So I think that the devil is real and I think he has demons and I think that bad stuff happens. When the Bible tells us that Jesus cast out demons, I think he cast out demons So well I think it's it's both alive and well in Africa and all throughout Africa, as well as here in America as well. It's just tailored different here and packaged different here in America. Imagine if We're talking about s uh uh Satanism and and demonic activity. And just that you know, that oppression, that darkness. You know, can you imagine You know, where in the world would this scenario take place sitting in a room with just your four walls and sitting around a a metal box or a wooden box? And just being memorized by that box, waiting for images and messages to come to you to tell you what to think and what to do. Your news, your culture, it tells you what you should look like. Wait, wait, wait, so you're so on the t saying the television is just a box of demons? Is that what you're telling me? No, I'm saying your radio. Stay away from the television. That's right. spirits, you know, in Africa are here in America as well today. Without a doubt. We were talking to a uh m uh guy that uh used to that grew up Muslim, Shia Muslim and And uh he was telling us how around the world and the Muslim community views Christianity as being equal to Hollywood. and uh all the all the immorality that they see on the television screen and and even for that matter that comes across much of the radio uh through songs and that kind of thing. And so uh I think that's what you're referring to is that kind of a thing Yeah, and it just takes different forms here in America, whether it's, you know, being bound by materialism, have to go to work so I have so I can pay my mortgage and my two cars and my y you know, my my kids tuition and the next keep up with the Joneses. There's such a bondage of that whole spirit here. And um You know, in in Christ there is freedom from that as well. That uh you don't have to live to keep up with the Joneses. And that's one of the you know, attractions of doing missions work. Some people think missionaries are all these poor guys that couldn't make it somewhere else. But I'm telling you it's it's living on the cutting edge. or with your faith, with your you know, trust in the Lord and with adventure and life and places you're going. And I'll tell you, you know, missions and evangelism, that's should be the heartbeat and the real DNA of every believer out there You know, hundreds of years ago there's great stories of some of the great missionaries like Hudson Taylor who rallied thousand, over a thousand families to go to China. um totally lost China to give their life to s reach the people there and to help start Christian work, to translate the gospels there Most of them all died there, given their life for the gospel. But even today, some of the foundations that and the price they paid Even today Christianity in China is one of the fastest growing places in the w in the world. Even today, right now, there's over a hundred and ten million born-again believing Chinese and it's growing faster. That's larger than most countries around the world. And part of it's through the price that many of these f you know, you know, forefathers and missions paid to you know, a price for many years ago. So you do run into then there in Africa, uh uh a an expression of what we'll call it demonic activity, occult activity that is that is pretty um uh uh different from here in the United States? Like how does it uh express itself there? Well, there is a lot of o oppressive stuff where th they go regularly to witch doctors for health and healing or curses and hexas. One of the biggest issues in Africa is HIV and AIDS. And uh there's a huge stigma with that. And uh instead of going to a hospital, they're sometimes very scared of going to a hospital or a white man's medicine kind of thing. They'll go to the traditional healers and they prescribe certain herbs and spices and curses and hexes or sacrifice a goat and think that's going to cure them of uh Okay, so what's the big deal? I mean Hex I mean, I live here in the United States. A hex can't be that bad. I see movies about it all the time, you know. Is is a hex really that bad? Like how does that affect somebody? I mean I mean how does that play out in the lives of people like you come in to minister to them and you're gonna set 'em free, but you know, like like what's the how does the hex affect them in a way that that is so bad? Well part of it they're being bound to fear. You know, I have to get help. I don't really have any money 'cause, you know, the unemployment rate is astronomical there. And yet they're being bound to the fear of these spirits are after me. And so I need to pay the witch doctor whatever little I have or whatever food I have or animal I have. So the witch doctor ends up being like a mafia kind of guy, like you know, he's he's he's gonna hit you up, you know, and you have to come back and give his give him his Is due kinds of yes. Well it's you know, they're the medium of the spirit. So the witch doctor is the anointed one that will Do a hex or a curse and keep the evil spirits away from you. Or bless y you know, you pay him and he'll initiate blessings on your crops or to heal your child. And so they're they're constantly driven by fear. I'm afraid of you know my child's sick so I have to go get help. You know, my crops need help, so I have to go get help. And, you know, I got headaches or I'm sick, and they think it's their aunt ancestors cursing them. So they go to the witch doctor. So they're in constant fear, constant bondage Now it's interesting to me because um and I'm kinda playing devil's advocate today, you know, just because you know we're in so much agreement about so many so many things. Uh but um like wouldn't you say that Christianity, I mean kind of come to Christianity for help, you know, you come to Christ for help and you know there's a tithe, you know, uh associated with that. There is a sense of, you know, of of learning to to be a giver, you know, and generosity that that is promised in that context I mean, i fr from the perspective of the average African, how's Christianity all that much different? I mean, you come in like you're saying to to a lot of these communities on a regular basis and you keep coming back and and when they come I mean you know are offerings taken, you know, and in in the various churches that they go to. Like how how how do they discern Like where's the f the sense of freedom different? I mean I know that that Christ is love and all that, but it but do you do you find that that maybe they might view it as just another You know, it looks just like all the other religions that come through kind of a thing. Well, there's such a distinguishing factor inside of a person when they give their whole heart and life in commitment to the Lord. And the you know, and that's finding peace in your heart, in your life, in your soul. You know, even the richest of the rich here in America, you know, their wealth is not making them happy. You can have all the money in the world and prosperity in the world, and it's still not you may not find happiness. It's the same thing. You might have all the poverty and the issues of the world and you know might not be happy. But even in your poverty you can have peace. Even in your wealth you can find peace. You know, and it's that peace in your heart and your life and your soul, knowing that I'm accepted and that God's got good plans for me. You know, he doesn't want me to be oppressed. And when they start getting this new principles and godly biblical principles, we've seen them pull themselves out of those environments and those situations. Now, uh, Troy, you and I have often often had had discussions about, you know, meeting needs versus versus people coming to a place of just, you know, glorifying God in their life and And the emphasis being back on God. Um, you know, and uh you know, our Calvinist friends would would say, look, it's about the glory of God. You know, there's a there's a little bit of an emphasis on meeting needs here. And uh in and their needs at a at a level that you and I just can't even imagine. I mean uh the the poverty, the the sickness, the illness, the the breakdown of society, the the outbreak of age, these kinds of things. Um like w what is your sense? Uh i is is there a w what's the balance there for for a minister coming in? Should he you know, should he preach, you know, pe peace and and these kinds of th do you get see what I'm getting at? Like what what what exactly uh would be the the uh right mix in a setting like that. Well p part of uh my answer might end up leading into a question so you know if that's the case and I do feel like I'm evading it we can come back to it But um I'll call you on it. Yeah, you can call me out. I'm I'm thinking is the guy's name Jim Ryan? Is that the guy I'm thinking of that uh there's this famous story about some missionary who's dealing with African tribal strife and and the the two tribes are at war with each other and he's having a hard time getting the gospel message out because of the distraction of the battle. Yeah, and there's the covenant there's the child, it's the the the written by Um Don Richardson. Don Richardson that's the only thing I'm sorry. Thank you. So this idea of in that context of you know trying to meet their needs and trying to help them end the battle, he's searching for some d some Tied to the dynamic equivalent. Something that he can uh you know as an analogy of the term. And say, okay, wait a minute. This uh uh peace child Jesus is the peace trial on a totally different level, on this cosmic level. So do you do you have you had opportunity uh to try to find where they have these needs, where they have this this belief in hexes which I'm not sure if I'm understanding your response by the way to the question is if you're buying into the reality of those hexes or if you think it's just in their own minds and they're they're being oppressed by something that isn't real I think that there truly could be hexes that black magic I think is real and all that sort of thing. So I just want to clarify that. See how these people that are running in fear, they're worried about that and they have this This they need to be delivered from the hex. And so they go to the witch doctor. Have have you ever tried to make this really odd analogy that Jesus is the ultimate witch doctor? He's a guy that can re can you know you know what I mean? Sure. I'm surprised we didn't go that way. Yes that they have to click over to that there is one mediator between God and man and it is Jesus. Not your pastor, not your priest, not the witch doctor. And many times as the new believers in Africa, you know, they come into Christianity, they also sometimes carry over some of those old philosophies of you know, go to the the village chief for direction or go to the witch doctor for direction. Many times they carry over that same philosophy, even to their Christian pastors and leaders and elders, like Let me go have the pastor pray for me. Let me see what the pastor says about this. And so it's again really And yes, so much we do that here in the United States. You know, well the pastor is the the one that I want to pray for me instead of, you know, anybody in the body of Christ has power and authority, you know, wherever two are gathered. You really always drive in and focusing them on them and Jesus so that they go to Jesus directly. And once they learn that, man, they they thrive on it. And see and and s in case it was a little bit oblique, there's a nice word for a Sunday morning. Yes. Uh What what I'm trying to say in in in asking my question, I was hoping to answer your question. I'm not sure if that came across or not. Sure, go ahead. So my point of view on that is You meet the need, you point out the need, you meet the need, uh, and you meet them in their context and try to speak to them in their language as best as possible, but at all times you're seeking to bring it around and tie it through Christ. Yeah. So it's not it's not me uh Pastor Rich who's bringing you these blankets and food. It's exactly the loving God The one and only God who has has sacrificed his son for me, and in loving obedience out of that sacrifice, I am now empowered by his Holy Spirit to do these loving acts for you. It's not me doing it It's the power of the Holy Spirit made possible by the blood of Christ. So it's not an either-or, it's a both and. When I get frustrated, and this is what Jonathan and I have talked about, is when it becomes an either-or We can't worry about preaching the gospel to them because they have these real physical needs we have to address. Right. Or there's this dark spirituality there that we have to we've got to meet them where they are, and you know, Jesus will come later And Jesus doesn't come later. Jesus is from the beginning to the end. Jesus is right now. Jesus is everything in between. When we end up going straight to the practical application of, okay, here's here's a biblical truth, let's apply it directly And we do it absent of Christ, I think we're not behaving as a church. So if we excellent point if we do it through Christ, then we're doing it on behalf of Christ. It's not us doing it, it's Him doing it. So uh does uh uh hopefully that more amplifies the the uh the question. Yeah, the question being like when you're dealing with with situations that have such massive needs and you know even like you're talking about uh basic um uh discipline lack, you know, in terms of work ethic, you know, and education and and these kinds of things and and so much so that that everything that you bring into their lives is is is automatically helping them to to to be at a at a higher level of living, you know, a a better level of living. How you know, making sure that each and every step away, obviously that Christ is at the center of that and that there's no sense that the education is what's saving them or The the drugs that you're bringing in or saving them are the food or the blanket. Absolutely. Or else we wouldn't be no different than any other socialistic program out there. And you can't feed everyone, you can't heal everyone, you can't put a blanket in everyone's hand. But you can do what you can for the few. And the main thing is introduce them to the answer. And I can't feed 'em forever, but you know what? I can feed 'em a little bit. And during that relationship building time, introduce them to the answer. And we've seen it time and time again as they learn biblical principles in their heart turns. When they make a commitment to the Lord, then they're in a condition where they can receive biblical truths and principles and start turning their life around. They can learn how to get a better work ethic, how to be healthier, how to be more moral and how to have favor and initiate God's favor in their life and pull themselves out of that situation. Time and time again, it's the truth that it worked every time. Sure. On that note, I think we'll draw the program to a close. Yes, it's been good to have you here. Thank you again. Thank you so much. Rich Franzen with his wife, Michelle Uh is she in the States too or is she still in South Africa? Still in Africa at the moment. Three of his kids. Man. Well she's got the hard job this uh several weeks then. You got the easy job going out there and asking people lots of money. Anyway, uh Rich is founder of Impact Africa. Thanks for being on the show. Jonathan Sweitzer is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator. You can Email me a thought or question, something you might have heard sparked on today's show or a suggested topic or guest for a future show. It's simple enough. It's Troy T-R-O-I at WFMD. com I encourage you to visit the WFMD website. It's simple enough to find that too, WFMD. com. You can find the Faith Ebate page by clicking on the on air tab. A little drop-down menu will appear. Click on Faith Evayate takes you right to our page. I update my uh my page on that every day, so there's something there for you, fresh and new, every weekday anyway. And there's a link to Jonathan's page. Um What was the other thing I wanted to say? There was something else I wanted to say and it just escaped my mind. Did it have something to do with uh Rich's wife having the harder job? No. But I'll end with this. Yes. 'Cause I'm always picking on Jonathan, but I gotta tell you, Jonathan, uh oh, you're looking good today. So are you, Troy. I love you, my brother. Yes, God bless you. All right, thanks to Putman Plemming. But heating, how can we make you smile? Thanks for listening. The Frederick Baith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD.