Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. By the way, make sure you check us out on the web. Go to WFMD. com. You can find the Faith Debate page by hitting on the on-air tab. There's a little drop-down menu. Among the shows that drop down is a click-through to the Faith Debate page. On that page you'll find a daily blog. Well, it's daily during the week anyway. I take the weekends off There's a link to Jonathan's uh blog which isn't quite daily, but is usually a little bit more in depth and more involved with some bigger international type things and that sort of thing. He's a little more into the the news stuff. I'm a little bit more into just trying to keep it interactive and people who send me emails or things that catch my interest, I'll just throw them up on my blog kind of quick and interestingly. So you can email me. There's a little an additional little plug Email me rather easily at Troy at WFMD. com. Troy is T R O Y at WFMD. On the panel this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Rich Franzen, founder of impact Africa and he's uh in the States just for a short period of time because he's gotta do what uh missionaries have to do all too often, and that is uh go on the sales circuit and raise some funding. Well maybe we'll talk about that a little bit because that's uh a source of aggravation for me on your behalf. Uh I can commiserate with you on that. Uh but first of all, I gotta say The most fascinating part of this show is gonna be these first few moments. Rich uh apparently knows Jonathan going back to like 1988. I see how you know. He's known Jonathan for like twenty years, which is, you know, fourteen more years than I've known Jonathan. So Tell me about him. There's lots of history. You know, lots of black male material and uh things maybe not too prevy for the radio audience at the moment. The fact of the matter is is that Rich is the one that I went skydiving with, that I went bungee jumping with. uh the the the whole crowd that I was hanging with at the time, uh wa the teen mania crowd was kind of a um a go for it, you know, going on these mission trips to all these different uh countries and uh you know, real cutting edge, you know, just just, you know, uh kind of do whatever it takes, you know, and and nothing's too difficult, you know, nothing's too hard. And that was that was kind of the thrust a lot of the things. So and you end up going to school together and stuff and so and you've stayed in touch throughout the years, even though for the last twenty years or so, right? Correct. Rich and his wife Was she your wife twenty years ago? Not quite. Okay. Well, for simplicity's sake, Rich and his wife for the last twenty years have been going back and forth between the states. And uh South Africa, but for the last uh was it four years? Correct. You have been living full time with these brief excursions to the States to raise money in South Africa. Uh so the first question, you know, I ask somebody who ends up going overseas to do missions is, why go overseas to do missions? There, you know, I mean there are people in America who need to hear the gospel. It would be a lot easier and cheaper to to do it here. What is the the the calling Uh that you know, could you describe your calling that has you feeling, you know what, I need to be away from America and in fact I need to be in South Africa. Sure. How how does that happen? Well, I believe everyone has their role and their niche and part to play in world missions. You know, many are called for here in America. But uh my heart and passion and my wife's heart and passion, specifically we fell in love with the continent of Africa during a short-term mission trip. And we we felt that hey, America has plenty of opportunity. There's 24 hours, 24-7, TV stations, radio stations, churches on every corner. The culture here is saturated with the potential of a passionate Christian message. And so we wanted to spend our life and our energy and our passions in communities that may not have that, you know, you know, availability to churches, to the message, to the discipleship, and even to the the heart of God that um we take for granted here in America, many places around the world never even heard the name of Jesus. Now they estimate that over two point three billion people still have never even heard the gospel for the first time And yet many times we get uh oversaturated here in America and so Africa was uh a place where we felt we would spend a good long season of our life and help reach the folks of Africa and train them up to continue to minister and share amongst their own selves throughout the continent. Now nearly four out of five Americans would identify themselves as Christian. Uh w what percentage would you say of people in South Africa would identify themselves as Christian? That's a good question. And part of it def you know goes back to defining the word Christian. You know, even here in America, four out of five, you know, say that in title. But if you break it down to really define a lifestyle of Christianity, you know, actively going to church, a moral lifestyle, and uh following biblical principles, those percentages are extremely different However, in South Africa, it's it's very similar. You know, they say um you know percentage-wise, you know, about sixty percent of the population is uh termed Christian But uh you know, and Christianity in South Africa is is very unique where it's you know, many say it's a mile wide but only an inch deep. Just like America. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, hello? Same thing here as there, you know. Now where where you're uh doing your ministry, is it set up as like you have a local church that you pastor? Is that how it works? Or you you travel to different churches throughout South Africa or what is the What's the practical application of your ministry there? Sure. We're based in Johannesburg, South Africa, which has been a very strategic location for us as far as travel and um you know, with a lot of the ministry that we do and airports and stuff. But uh, you know, we're an a registered nonprofit organization there in Johannesburg and we work with all kinds of different churches throughout the country, also into uh Zimbabwe, Zambia, Namibia, Madagascar, Ethiopia, I just got back from Botswana and uh many different trips uh throughout the continent. So Any trips Mostly yes. They're not driving trips, right? Uh some are driving. Some of the neighboring countries are are drive trips generally. And now you mentioned to me before the show that you've you know you're in the United States for like three or four weeks. to to raise money to support the ministry. And you've been traveling all over the country. You're in Texas, you're in Maryland now. So you must have like just gobs of frequent frequent flyer miles. We're getting there, yeah. I feel like uh a politician here in campaign season, kind of going from state to state and sh you know, sharing the vision, raising funds and uh trying to rally support Now when you're out uh doing your traveling, you're going out on itinerant preaching opportunities, is that what you're doing? You're you're jumping on a plane Heading to some other part of Africa and then preaching on a Sunday or what is it you're doing when you do that? Yeah Impact Africa we have a few different uh main emphasis that we do. One of them is You know, the gospel is has been in Africa, but there's still a huge, wide open door for evangelism Left and right, we're seeing thousands and thousands give their life to the Lord through open-air gospel crusades. We have our own kind of lights and sound and portable stage and generators. And we go out into the most rural areas, the most densely populated, um, you know, squatter camps is what they refer 'em to, and bring the gospel to remote locations that don't have regular access to it. And we're We'll share the gospel there in creative ways. Uh sometimes we're using lots of different uh you know, visual aids and skits or movies and soccer festivals, all kinds of different ways to relate the gospel in a relative manner. And we're seeing thousands give their life to the Lord still and healings and left and right. And so evangelism's a big thrust of what we do. Yeah, I s in Africa, you know, many people say the harvest is ripe, but I we really feel that the it's not ripe, it is actually rotting away. We can't get to these locations fast enough. People in many of these situations are desperate and dying and waiting and looking for hope, but uh because of the reputation or the risk factor. No one wants to go in there and share the gospel. And so uh that's where we come in to help bring the gospel into some of those areas that aren't as uh comfortable to go to. And when you go in, I'm pres presuming that almost everybody you're speaking to would be uh of African lineage, so they would be uh black I can't call them African Americans, they're African. They're they're black. They're dark-skinned people. They're African Africans. They're African A Forgiveness. So given the history uh in in South Africa particularly with apartheid Uh you ever run any to issues of, you know, who's this white guy coming to talk to us about hope? Absolutely, yeah. There's still Even apartheid's been gone for the last thirteen or so years, so it's still relatively new democracy and um healing that's still taken place in the country. And so trust and mistrust is the biggest issues to overcome there between cultures and denominations, all those kind of things. But anything that the main thing that transcends cultural and history issues is getting down to uh talking to people and and meeting their needs. You know, they they know when Pastor Rich comes in the community, I'm not there to push a political agenda. We're there feeding them, we're there giving them blankets in the wintertime, we're there playing with their children, we're there when the fires and the shacks burn down to help 'em with you know new clothes or materials. And so that transcends the com true compassion transcends you know those cultural issues. Now when you show up with you know the food and the blankets and and the and and the big stage show preaching the gospel and all those sorts of things that will attract them for the one time event And then you've obviously got to fly out and go somewhere else. Uh what is left behind? Are you involved in church planting and building discipleship so that there will be leaders there to help train these people up after Yeah, and that's uh another you know, whole foundation of the ministry of what we do. We do come in with the crusades, but we also are strategic in working with those local churches that are involved with these events on um you know lots of follow-up and discipleship. We're planting some Bible schools and many of them. But we also one of the other things we do is host groups from North America, many church groups, many mission organizations, and help organize a a positive, passionate, effective you know, mission trip experience for them. And for the next few years we'll target these communities and we'll go back in there with these teams and do door to door evangelism, children's programs on the streets, you know, gifts of hospitality. and all kinds of different programs over a number of years to really saturate that community and to follow up with that discipleship that it's it's really happening. So we do do a big event and make a big splash But even over the next few years we're saturating wave after wave of groups and teams and through that we're seeing uh translators from the local church that are working w alongside of us and with us. We're modeling for them you know, how to do door-to-door evangelism, how to pray for salvations, how to pray for the sick, how to cast out devils and demons, how to give gifts of hospitality so the nationals are learning and growing, getting stronger And immediately those translators are able to invite those locals right to their local church right there across the field. And so the churches are getting stronger and mature. and the churches are growing in size, as well as we can provide a powerful experience for North American groups that come to Africa and want to get their hands dirty and not just kick around and m you know, paint a building, but see people face to face, nose to nose, and listen to their stories and hear their heartache. but and be able to share the good news with them. Now if I heard correctly, uh at least in some cases there are some local churches that that are helping you to facilitate and pull this off. Is that my understanding that uh that's a sometimes occasion or is it always there's some f at least fragment of a church somewhere that's asking you to come in and have a crusade and help them have this big experience? Or are you going there sometimes like Unannounced and just pop up a stage and hey everybody, come and gather around. Let's listen about Jesus. Two or three. Sometimes it may be ten or twelve. It it varies community by community and locations. Is there significant language barrier? Absolutely, you know. South Africa has over thirty-three official languages and uh even more than that throughout the rural areas. And so uh Yeah, it's a challenge so uh English is very prominent, which thankfully we get by with that, but we always have translators and sometimes two translators. Or 33 translators. Yeah, exactly. Where's the bathroom? Exactly. I'm hungry. Exactly. Things like that. Uh you're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, uh speaking with uh Rich Franzen, founder of Impact Africa, and also on the panel, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We haven't engaged in a whole lot of the debate stuff yet. I'm not sure where that would. So Jonathan's just kind of sitting by and listening to the interview portion. Um I do want to add talk about the language barrier. What are some of the other big barriers that you've I think you alluded to when you talked about demon possession and that sort of thing. Things that I've heard, and I haven't been to Africa, so I'm only going based on what I've heard, and a few people who have been there that tell me that one of the big struggles in sharing the gospel and preaching Christ uh in Africa, and I'm not sure if it's as true in the southern parts as it is in the central and and uh western parts of the continent, is that they've been exposed to Christianity But they have this really weird amalgam of Christianity and I don't know if they would call it voodoo, but this tribal ritual kind of stuff. And so that Christianity is very confused. Absolutely. Is that A significant part of what you're trying to do is to clarify what Christianity is or is or uh do you just kind of bicep that and just go straight to preaching the gospel? No, absolutely. There's a lot of clarity that needs to be you know brought there and And that's why we're doing lots of the teaching and discipleship and follow up. That's why I was saying uh, you know, sometimes it's a mile wide but a inch deep. So it's very common in some of these communities. to have a born again believing pastor, uh, you know, pastoring a small church, but also still maybe adding a second or third or fourth wife. still going maybe to the local witch doctor for some, you know, blessings on his crops or healing or things like that. And it's not out of evil intent, it's mostly totally out of ignorance. There's a huge mixture of, you know, their African traditional religions with their Christianity. And so there n a lot of education is needed. And some of the bigger occults throughout uh Africa capitalize on that African traditions and Bible and mixing it together and some of those occultic relation or you know religions are growing very rapidly because it's appealing Now how how does that play out like uh when you're when you're preaching your message or or just you know in general uh uh educating about these other other religions and And I mean, 'cause basically your message is those other religions are are wrong, that they need to repent from those religions. Like how what what's the basic approach to that? Do you just uh like like do you do you hit it in a very public, you know, uh You know, where you just stand up and you say, this God is wrong, or this God is wrong, or or do you like like how do you how do you move into addressing you know the false religions that are there? Well I tell you, uh people are able to recognize the truth when they feel it and see it and sense it. You know, they've tried most of them been in those religions all their life and it look where it's gotten them so far. And so when you come and you emphasize the truth, and the truth transcends a lot of different issues and share the good news And not a not a controversial gospel necessarily, but share the good news. They're they are open to be s you know, set free from thoughts of bondage or fear. Most all African religions and many world religions all have a more of a fear based uh foundation to it. You have to appease your gods to so that bad things don't happen to you. You have to earn this. You have to pay for this blessing, pay for this curse, or pay for this thing. And your ancestors or the spirits are mad at you. Which is alive from the pit of hell. Sure. And it keeps people down in control. So will you use that kind of language, you know, that that that we shouldn't have to appease g app pease gods? At times, yes, but we emphasize on the good news. There's a loving God who loves you for who you are And you don't have to appease him. He died for your sins and he wants better things for you. And as you open that door with the good news, I tell you the truth inside of their hearts and their eyes gravitates towards truth and they can they come and they want to hear more and they want to get prayed for and they're willing to listen and to follow you. And you get 'em in the door and then obviously that's where the follow up and discipleship happens. Get 'em to come to the church. And I tell you, miracles are a big eye opener as well. When you have a person in the community that's been lame for the last ten, twelve years and miraculously God heals them, that sends a sign that's hey something is true here, something is real here and Wow, I mean I knew this guy and now he's was sick and now he's not and something's happening here. Yeah, so much of the uh the New Testament gospel and even the ministry of Christ was uh w rest uh th his authority rested on the miracles uh that he did and the the signs that he did and and uh so much of um uh the response of the people, you know, in Israel at the time. we're certainly grounded in those things. Um I'm very interested, like is it often that you end up running into a pastor? Like like how would you handle a pastor who uh happens to be uh going to a witch doctor to bless his crops and and have a couple of wives, like like do you do you continue to work with them or or is there a point at which you you have to look 'em in the eye and say, um Yeah, there's definitely a point of accountability when you get there, but it's it's generally a good amount of time. You don't expect them to uh learn and grow and know everything as an adult right away. They grow into it. And it's the same a little bit with their Christianity and their maturity in the Lord. They grow into those things And as you see a heart that's diligent to learn, uh you're always going to work with them. Now if they're not willing to learn and to follow and just go back and forth, back and forth and just come when they want some good stuff and uh really not apply it, then there's a point of where you can get a little more stern with them and say, you know, you know, buck up or buck out kind of thing. And uh you know, now's the time for that. What is the um uh predominant Christian flavor for those that are already Christians? I'm thinking in that it might be Anglican because of the strong British presence down there for so long. Is is that kind of where their theological Where they're more orthodox, where they're more on the money, are they leaning more in an Anglican tradition, or have there been a lot of non-denominational or other Protestant or maybe Roman uh Roman Catholic missionaries down there or something that it's it's uh kind of fractured like in the American landscape where there's so many different kinds of Christianity. Is it the is it like that's fairly fractured. There is a a very strong you know Dutch Reform church uh amongst especially amongst the you know the white communities throughout South Africa. The non-denominational independent churches have been very strong the last, you know, twenty, twenty-five years. Um And so those would be you know, two of the some more of the top ones there. But most denominations are still there as well. In fact, wasn't Desmond Tutu, wasn't he Anglican? I think he was. I think he was a large part of uh Anglican, more Catholic. He's Catholic? Yeah. Oh okay. I was unsure. Yeah, I'm not sure. I was thinking of Anglican. Yeah, that was dealing with just the the denominations that are in Africa and dealing with their uh their orthodoxy and how they approach religion and and you know Desmond was one of those guys that really emphasized social justice and those kinds of issues. And so um uh he he and the Anglicans uh from what I understand haven't necessarily been as gospel oriented. And I'm wondering how much that's the case. Like how much do you get like a social gospel, you know, as opposed to uh i in some of those denominations. There's a big thrust for social initiatives. Uh you know, throughout the government and in some of the major religions, uh you know, it's give back to the people and kind of help kind of thing. Uh but it's not going to be a big thing. Which isn't necessarily wrong. No, and it's actually one of the s the strongest strategies that the Muslims are using right now. South Africa currently has a s you know, only a small about four or five percent. population of your Muslim believers. But they are going after that nation extremely aggressive, already You know, extreme Muslims hold about fifty percent of the government positions throughout South Africa. So they're four percent of the population, but they hold fifty percent of the governmental positions. They're passing laws favorable for Muslim initiatives. They come in and they'll go to these, you know, smaller towns or and build schools and uh they'll share with the people, Hey, w we'll let your kids come to school for free and we'll feed 'em twice a day. Do you ever get the sense that like everybody's trying to go in there and buy 'em off? You know, like you're coming in with uh with with blankets and food and all this, and they're coming in with blankets and food and you're trying to build schools and orphan orphanages and And they're trying to build schools and orphanages, you feel like it's almost like a race to see who can buy them off first? I mean I hate I hate to go so cynical on the whole thing, but it comes down to the spirit and the motives of the thing Where you know Christianity has a sense of freedom and liberation where even in the Muslim communities, yeah, yeah, I'll feed you, but you have to learn my ways. But you have to pray this, but you have to buy from this vendor and this vendor, but this, this, this, and it becomes back into uh uh oppressive type of relationship You have to earn things, you have to do things, you have to perform, perform, perform. You know, I was uh I keep referring to this book on this show. I I read this book about Christianity around the world that uh in ten, fifteen years. The average Christian is gonna be uh uh Southern uh in more eastern, you know, like either African or South American or Asian, uh, in that there's a major shift of things in that direction and the w what the book argued was that the majority of those people are very, very conservative. Uh even though they might have a mix, like Rich is referring to here, that that they tend to be very conservative in their approach to um uh to God in general. And as a result, they tend to think more in terms of morality and and traditional morality. The interesting thing is that You know, here in the West, everybody would claim that you're going in and forcing them, you know, to to believe in this false religion, you know, or no not a false religion. but your religion, you're forcing them to to accept this alien religion and you're buying them off, you know, with with with these things that you bring in. You know, with with uh you know food or whatever it is and and why can't you just let them be themselves? You know, like how would you answer something like that? You know, because there there's quite a few in the West that that would say that in Europe and the United States you know, keep your keep your religion to yourself kind of a thing. Yeah, that's a big subject and a lot of complex kind of answers to it or, you know, a responses to it. But I tell you, you know, it comes back to one of the foundational things of is uh we're not buying people's hearts and souls. It's sharing the truth and people recognize freedom. They recognize truth. and they recognize liberation. You know, they've been in all these uh bondages and relationships over so many centuries And when they recognize truth, you feel it and you sense it. Well, on that note, believe it or not, the half hour's done. Yes, goes by so fast sometimes, doesn't it? Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you. Rich Franzen, founder of Impact Africa. Thank you for being on the show. Thank you. Um if you're agreeable, I'd like to have you on maybe one more time for next week's show. Absolutely. And uh and we'll pick up on a couple of things that occurred to me as I was listening to you uh answer mine and Jonathan's questions. So we'll have some fun A little teaser for you. I plan on talking a little bit a little bit about the occult next week's show. Thanks you. Thank you to Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile for sponsoring the show I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. God bless