Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make Make you smile. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner, joined this week again by Senior Pastor of Crossers Valley Chapel, Jonathan Sweitzer, and author, uh highly decorated author, Michael Zowd of Thank God For evolution. Thank you for being on the panel. Highly decorated. Meaning lots of people have said lots of good things about this book. Five Nobel Prize winners have recommended this book. Yeah. So Jonathan hates it already because he doesn't he doesn't have any Nobel Prize winners. My brother's got a book. Anyway, the title of the book might kind of give away a little bit what we're talking about. Thank God for evolution is the name of the book Um you might have to listen to shows in sequence to get a full sense of the the breadth of some of the things what we have talked about on the show so far. If you were listening at the end of last week's show, we kinda had a cliffhanger for you, a little teaser. Um kind we stole a page out of uh out of Michael Dowd's book. How you like that play on words. That was good. On his website you can get fifty the first fifty pages for free as a teaser. Well we kinda left you a teaser last week for this week's show. So Uh we were talking about trying to understand the terminology that that we use. We're we we're saying a lot of what on the face of it might seem like the same things with terms that sound kinda Uh it seems like it's a lot of the same things because the terms seem like they're the same. But what's behind the meaning of those terms seems to be pretty different. And one of the examples of that was that we came upon last week was the Kingdom of God. And so we thought we'd be a good idea to start this week's show with, hey, when we talk about the kingdom of God, what do we mean? Who wants to go first? The kingdom of God. Uh I guess I would define the kingdom of God, uh the word kingdom, in the context of the rule and reign of God, that God, who is in heaven, created the world to be uh to be a certain way. And uh and so that that shows up in our lives according to certain moral standards, you know, love. uh righteousness, don't kill, don't cheat, don't steal, don't commit adultery, uh these kinds of things that that moral law uh represents how God desires for us to live, but not just in a legalistic sense but that those are the principles that he intends uh to to use to show us how we can be most uh full of his glory, most full of uh his uh his love in our interactions with one another and with him. And so the the kingdom of God is those places where the reign of God exists. And I would limit that by saying that the kingdom of God is limited to those people uh who have accepted The way, the truth, and the life, no man comes to the Father but by Him, and that is Jesus Christ. That Jesus Christ is necessary for those people that are living under the rule and reign of Christ, because he is the Lord, the King of Kings. and that we live underneath of him as the King of Kings. Yeah, you're using a lot of very traditional religious uh uh Christian uh biblical uh language metaphor and I would agree with all of it in terms of the language. I would in I would interpret a lot of it in a r um in a naturalistic way as well. In other words, that that the language is speaking of the reign of God. Part of the way that I try to interpret that in my book is that that's the the the reign of integrity, the reign of love, the rein where where love is where where love and integrity and self Uh self-responsibility and humility and generosity reign supreme. God is Lord, where we think or Christ is Lord. where we try to profess that Christ is Lord and we are uh uh knowingly out of integrity when we are violating um God's will in that response. We are out of the kingdom of God in that in that moment or at that time. Is it would it be a fair characterization to think of a fundamental difference might be that when Jonathan talks about the kingdom, he started off right off the bat talking about a you know, a a a personal king, somebody who is the Lord and the uh and you have more of a a concept uh well no that would be a concept. I mean we don't we don't know of you know s The idea that God is king only emerged after we had kings in human existence. We didn't have any there was no concept of God as king before there were human kings. The metaphor of king is being used by this is my interpretation obviously, is is being used as a way of pointing to the fact that that that something else other than me and my ego is lore, is rules, is dominant, is is is the uh controlling reality. And we point to that reality in language and say, that is Lord, that is king, that rules. So I would say that um all religious language like that has a this world realistic m uh referent as well. Right. So but I guess my my point of my question is is it fair to say that your kingdom doesn't have a personal king? Is that I mean I'm trying to understand your point of view. Well I would say that you guys would agree the same thing. I mean i i okay, all kings that we know of Okay? Have penises, have balls, have beards, have uh they're male. Kings are male, okay? And they're male in a physical, natural, realistic sense Would you say that God has that stuff? Well, no. I mean it's right, but see that my point is that I'm not sure. Can I answer that question? Sure. Okay. I mean I it was it sounded rhetorical, but I I don't know. Um Because I'm of the opinion that Jesus Christ had come to the house. Yeah, but but but god as king is usually referred to as a father. Let me finish. Because I'm getting there. Okay. Uh that that he had all that Flesh and blood that he had a beard, uh, and that he still does, and that he is one like the Son of Man, and that God who is in heaven that that uh the language that that we have been given in the Bible is intended to uh uh to lead us to interact with him as our superior. as the one who is the initiator, i. e. , you know, the one the one that penetrates us if you want to get uh sexual in the connotations, the one that that that puts his seed in us, the one who who is the the progenitor of new life, the one that is more powerful, you know, and that that he intends for us to view him in that way. But not just to view them in that way, but to have a intimate relationship like you're married. Sounds to me like you've got a very loving relationship with with a with a bride. You you do a lot of stuff together. You know, the nature of that relationship is very dynamic. You don't refer to it like uh Richie uh uh guy Richie who referred to Madonna as it's angry today. You don't refer to her to your wife as it. Oh, there's there it goes. You know, uh oh, it's gonna get angry at me later on today. That would be the ultimate rudeness and slap in her face and she'd be like, uh You're gonna keep treating me like that, uh then we're done You know, whereas God in heaven doesn't want us to refer to him as an it, but he is God, and he wants us to refer to him as a personal God who is in the male uh uh uh orientation or the king orientation to us, but that but but that him being in that position doesn't mean that we are somehow less capable of having a very intimate, dynamic, uh personal communication with him on a regular basis. Yeah. Um even daily basis. The way that I I I like all the relational metaphors that you use. I I would say that One of the ways that I make sense from an evolutionary perspective of how it is that so many different cultures have different um ways of speaking about God is that um that Reality is motherlike. Reality is fatherlike. And it's easy to see that and experience that in different cultures. And for me, I relate to God in a deeply personal way. I w but I also relate to God not simply in in a in a transcendent sense. but is imminent in and through all creation. I've also Connie and I have have have entered a personal relationship with North America. I mean we've been traveling North America for seven years. So we've named North America Nora. So we have a personal, intimate relationship with Nora. We say we're falling ever more in love with Nora. Now, is do we believe that this continent actually as of has a personality? No. But Do we have a deeply intimate, do we have a more meaningful relationship with this continent than most people do because we've we now have a personal relationship with this continent? I would say probably so. Yeah, no, I think that I illustration is very helpful for understanding uh you know how you approach God and who God is. And so when you think of the kingdom of God Again, you think it's it's like having a relationship No no it is relationship, but it's a right relationship with in with integrity. With ultimate integrity. Like for example, I would say that um that you don't have a relationship with every single person in the in the North America. Of course not. Of course not. But you do have a relationship with the ideas. and and and the the people that that uh the the groups of people that you interact with. There there's an uh uh Well in the land forms. I mean I'm not sure if you're not gonna be able to do it. In fact you probably be because you're a speaker and people come to listen to you speak and read your book, there's probably times they come up to you And they think you know them and you're like, Man, I don't know you. Quit talking to me so intimately. You know, I'm sure I'm sure you run into that kind of a scenario. And what I'm saying is that is that that God is is so far beyond that that God actually does have a personal relationship with every single individual. And that that personal and r in uh relationship is not a corporate because you're you're referring to a very real corporate relationship that you have with North America. And and all I'm saying is that I think you would agree that that that my perception of of God's relationship with us is different from that. It's similar, we use similar language and ideology, but for you it's still more of a metaphor. even though it's very real, uh where whereas I'm saying that there's a there's an intimate personal God who knows me personally and I can talk to He talks back to me because he's big enough to do that. Whereas you're not God, you can't be everywhere at once, you can't talk to everybody He is God, he's able to, you know, he's omniscient, um omnipresent, and and that you would agree that there's that difference in our perceptions of God. To the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Michael Dowd, author of Thank God for Evolution, and the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Jonathan Schweitzer. It it is helpful actually because now I I I think I can get a sense of why it would be important for somebody who uh you know calls themselves a Christian, anybody listening to the show calls them a Christian, why would it be important for them to consider How can I make evolution work? And it's it's helpful to understand your perspective a little bit because and correct me if I'm getting this wrong But it sounds like Jonathan's idea of God is God is a revealer and you have an idea that God is revealed through science and through f What we find through facts and discoveries and that sort of thing. No, that's actually not accurate. Have you you all seen nesting dolls? Like Russian nesting dolls? You've never seen Russian nesting dolls or dolls with the dolls? Is that the word? Babo Bababushka. That's something like that. I'm probably wrong, but that's what we're doing. Yeah, but for Americans. Right, exactly. But but but the next thing That understanding, for me, God is a proper sacred name, a personification of ultimate reality, th the the only nesting the the the all the only nesting doll that's not a part of some larger creativity. N I mean the the analogy of nesting gals all of course breaks down because you have to imagine that larger nesting infinite in all directions. Right. But that's the way I would understand it. So God is the ultimate revealer, but but it's not personal. No. Well I relate to God personally. Yeah. But I also allow for other people to not relate to to relate to God. I mean, okay, think about it. Does God relate to you personally? Absolutely. But there's only four ways to w to relate to anything that w that's meaningful in my experience. We relate to things uh think about any everything that's meaningful in your life. My hunch is your it's it's a he, a she, or living it We don't tend to have meaningful relationships with non living it's. I mean I'm sitting on a chair. I don't have a meaningful relationship with this. And the the and the non living it's that I actually do have meaningful relationships with my chairs. Maybe you've made it I mean I've got a meaningful relationship. But I hear you, I'm sorry, my Van. We call our van angels. And we've got the Jesus and Darwin fish kissing with hearts between them. That's on the van. Okay. On the side of the van, right? Okay. And and so we've personified angel. Yeah. Okay. So it's a non-living it, but we've but we've made it meaningful by giving it a got a a name. Gotcha. And so And you're not saying that God's that I'm not saying that God's dead. I'm saying God is living. God is the God is a sacred name for ultimate reality, for the whole of reality. Measurable and non-measurable. So I would say that God is God is the ultimate revealer, but everything that we discover about the natural world I mean everything that we discover about the natural world is God's revealing. St. Thomas Aquinas said it about like 750 or 780 years ago. He said A mistake about creation will necessarily result in a mistake about God. Now he was one of the greatest Christian theologians. If that's true, if a mistake about creation results in a mistake about God. then the more we learn about the nature of creation, the more we learn about the nature of the universe, we need to be updating what we mean by the word God. Because we may be using very outdated ways of talking about God. So that's what my book is an attempt to do, is show people how God can be understood in an evolutionarily realized way. So, do you believe that you can offend God the way that you offend your wife? I believe that I can believe I can do that. No, I don't believe can offend God. You can do something that God would be like, man, I really wish you hadn't have done that. No, I don't believe that. I don't believe God has those limitations. of of of human personalities. Which again you would you would agree that I'm a naturalist. I'm a Christian naturalist. I'm a Pentecostal naturalist. I'm an evolutionary b yeah, I mean it's not would you agree that that puts you uh in opposition then to the the general sense of what uh you know like all through the prophets uh God is referred to very personably and he's uh you know he's repeatedly offended at Israel for for their oppression of the poor, for their uh oppression of the sick, for their not taking uh not being equitable and just, for their uh pursuing other gods uh for their um uh lack of integrity and their lying and cheating with one another. He's he's continually uh in fact we're told that he's so angry that he he brings in armies to kill Yeah here would how here's how I would interpret that. Because I agree that th that those biblical texts say that. How I would interpret that is not just in the Bible But in every culture, without exception, every time that that we read in any scripture in the world that God said this, thought this, or did that Any of those. What we're in fact actually reading about is what some person or group of people thought or felt or wished or wanted God to say or do. If CNN or ABC News was there to cover it for the nightly news. They wouldn't have anything more they wouldn't have a a a disembodied voice coming from the sky. They wouldn't have anything to show on the nightly news other than what was coming out of someone's pen or or or you know mouth Or whatever, you know. And so so yes, g people, prophets had a deep sense that this is unjust, this is wrong, and they vote they wrote with the voice of God. God condemns this, God is jealous That happened. They believed that. They felt that. Yeah, yeah. But you're saying not because there actually is a God out there that does that, but just that that that it's okay to speak in that way when there's severe injustice. I'd go a little bit further than that. I would say that that that it's most useful. In owes, to to to to use any other language would not be pointing to the nature of reality, that reality is offended by injustice. The reality that there is a place where it's a violation of the way life actually works. Okay, so how's that different? Because a second ago Um I felt like I heard you saying that that God is not offended like your wife would be. But now you're saying that that there is a sense that reality offended the uh okay I would say that God is not offended in the same way that my wife is. Yes, that's true. I'm also saying, however, that to think that way To voice it that way. To believe that God is offended is probably exactly that may be the most important thing for a culture to believe. Because I think that that this this approach to understanding God uh finds its um you know uh its roots in um I guess it would be uh you know the eighteen hundreds, uh mid eighteen hundreds the the theologians of the day they started talking about leaps of faith Uh they they started talking about how how it's not so important that there actually is a God there, but that we believe that there is a God there. that is that is what's most important. And then Hegel came along and wrote this phenomenal, brilliant treatise on uh even though I find myself in disagreement with it with its basic premise that the phenomenology of the spirit, which I think is what you're you're describing, that that that spirit is a phenomenon, a natural phenomenon, that that is so pervasive that all cultures interact with it with different language or whatever, but but they're all interacting with the phenomenon uh that uh that is not a personal God, but that for us to view it as a personal God helps us to be to to live in a deeply meaningful way or an inspired way. Which which sounds a little bit to me like, you know, religion is the opiate of the masses. I'm not saying that. I don't say it anywhere in my book. I'd be coming from a diametrically opposite persecution. But I am saying that religion is natural to the human being. Religion is inherent in our nature. And what I mean by religion is to have some sense of what gives us trust for the future, what gives us gratitude for the past and what it inspires us to be in integrity in the moment. Yeah, integrity, you use that word a couple of times. What do you mean by by By integrity, because that that seems to be a central important uh term in in your approach to right spirituality. Or even a Jewish and Muslim talk way of talking about. That's our nature is to be out of integrity. And that and and and part of the reason is is that. But given what does that mean to be out of integrity? Given uh uh well Given our nature, okay, given the given the way our brain is designed or the way it it actually is, we will naturally pursue ends, we will pursue goals, we will we will drive we will follow instinctual patterns that are not designed to serve us in the way that we live today. For example, we now know, scientific fact, that when there's a rise in status, there's a rise in testosterone. And we also know that with a rise in testosterone, for men and women both. There's a rise in risk taking and there's also a rise in the in how much that person thinks about sex. And so it's not a surprise. When you understand people can believe in original sin until they're blue in the face, but when we know that we have an unchosen nature We have inherited proclivities. We have aspects of ourselves that we didn't choose. We just find ourselves this way for really good evolutionary reasons. We then can have greater freedom to be in Christ, to be in integrity. That's what I was trying to say earlier. all of humanity to best live with one another and to live their best possible lives. Yes, if you use religious language, that would be the kingdom of God. Or or or pursuing thy kingdom come, thy will be done. Okay but does that change? Like was that different 8,000 years ago than it is now, meaning meaning for them to live in integrity back then. It would have been a different scale. There's a different set of principles that would come into play. The Ten Commandments. I mean, according to the Bible, if you break any of the first six commandments, death is the prescribed penalty penalty. Well, we don't go with that today. We would say that's immoral. Can I can I describe why I think that that we say that Yeah, but there's one other really important point that I'm going to do. No, please, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Just come back to me after the other. Okay, okay, yeah, go ahead. There's uh what I call the f the DNA of of Christ-like integrity, the d the four essential components as I see Christ embodying or incarnating is Humility or faith. Authenticity, responsibility, and service, serving God's will, serving the larger purpose. And the without any one of those, humility or faith, Trust, I mean authenticity, responsibility, and service. We are not in integrity. We uh we cannot we are not in Christ. We're not living in Christ, abiding in Christ when we are um full of arrogance, self-righteousness, when we're out of integrity, when we are uh uh uh um oppressing someone else, when we're engaged in unjust uh practices, um when we're pursuing our own self-interest at the expense of the larger or smaller hold on. So that's that's why I place a lot of emphasis in my book on the necessity to experience heaven, to experience the joy that passes all understanding. um of being in Christ, of being in integrity. And I'm I try to define that in terms of an evolutionary way of of thinking. What was it that I was going to come back to? He mentioned that the uh first six commandments, if you violate them the it's supposed to be death and we don't believe it anymore. Yeah. I would say that the classic Christian absolutely believes that that's true. And they say it all the time. The wages of sin is death. But the gift of God is eternal life. And that the point is not that we believe that it's that it's uh that it would be wrong for people to die for that. In fact, we believe that that it that people will die for those things. That that if they do not confess Christ as Lord, that that they do not come into a living relationship with God through repentance and and integrity and service and all these things that you're referring to. that they will um that they will die for their sins and eternally so. But the point is is that is that we don't look to society to do that anymore because we know that Christ has paid the price And so we don't stone the adulterer, we don't stone the idolater any longer because we don't need to, because we know that Christ is going to deal with that. because the the the standard of righteousness has been uh has been uh uh established that all idolatry is wrong, that all adultery is wrong, that all worship of other gods is wrong. And so because that's effectively established And we know now that that that God's going to hold everybody accountable, then uh then it's not to s society to do that because Israel's laws and their role as a nation was not to rule the whole earth, but to be a an example So that when Christ came, we would say, Wow, there's the Christ, and then we would follow him and be caught up in the fullness of of what that represents. And so so Nothing's changed. Uh it's just that except that Christ has come to pay the price for sin. Yeah. Uh I i i I guess the last thing I'd like to say, because this is gonna have to be my last show, and I really thank the both of you for for the invitation to Jesus. is that uh if if if somebody i if if if you have anybody in your life that already embraces evolution or that already embraces science that doesn't have a faith relationship, I think my book would be a good bridge. But if you yourself only read two chapters in my book, if you're already a devout committed Christian. I was going to say start at page fifty one, no you can't get that online. Because all eleven and twelve are are exercises, practical exercises. They don't require anybody to believe in anything. You can be a young earth creationist and completely reject evolution. But chapters eleven and twelve will are practices that will help you abide in Christ, abide in deepest integrity, and the fruit, you will experience more fruit in your relationships. Um you'll experience the heavenly joy that Pastor Johnson and twelve. It's the seven habits of highly effective evolutionary thesis. In integrity and have the fruit of it, the heavenly joy in your family and your relationship. Interesting. Very uh Very good to have the chance to talk with you and and uh get a sense for kinda the you know, where where you come from with your uh worldview and and the uh where your book is going to fit. for us as a nation, this relationship that you have with us as a nation, it's definitely going to have a s I I I would imagine a significant impact, though I probably find myself, you know in disagreement with various elements of it. That uh I I don't doubt that it's one of those books that uh, you know, will influence the structure of our conversations across the nation. Well time will tell. It's in God's hands. But thank you. And blessings on your ministry and on this ongoing program. It's great that you've got this locally here like this. Well, I appreciate having you on. Uh Michael Dowd, author of Thank God for Evolution. You can go online and learn more about it at thank Godfore. com They can even read the first fifty or so uh it's exactly the first fifty pages. First fifty pages. First fifty pages of the book and uh once you're hooked you can uh go find it at your favorite books. Or pray about it and decide you're not interested Oh or that too. Page fifty one talks about greater diversity. Jonathan, just start reading page fifty one. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Our free bonus for listening to the program. That's right, that's right. Jonathan Sweitzer, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Froy Skinner. You've been listening to the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Again, I encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com KeywordFaith. It's a daily blog there. It links to Jonathan's blog, which he updates uh sporadically, not every day, but And also if you've uh missed part of this show or want to hear other shows from the past, go to our website and go to the audio vault section of WFMD. com. And there's, I don't know, more than a hundred shows uh archived there. Way too many for you to choose from. Anyway, thanks again for listening. God bless.