Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plum. Plumbing and heating, how can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner this week joined by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel And Michael Payne with uh Take a Stand Ministries. And he's too humble for me to say founder of, so I won't say that too often, but founder of Take a Stand Ministries. And we've had a chance to t to visit with each other before uh coming on the air for the show today and uh you don't get the benefit of all of that, but hopefully you'll catch some nuggets because we've we've actually had a fascinating time right before we come on the air. So Um I don't want to get bogged down and be and be labor, you know. You ask somebody, hey, what's your testimony and that could be four hours, or tell me a little bit about the work you do, and that could be a day and a half, or you know, so Uh being sensitive to time, I would like kind of a a a general uh lay of the land. You have a pretty powerful testimony um and then and then there's a pretty powerful journey from that point forward. So if you can like give us a thirty second version of your you know, or s or something close to your testimony, then talk about some of the things you've done over the last decade or so since Uh since you become a Christian. Well thank you. I'm uh fifty nine years old. Obviously I was a teenager during the uh sixties, which was the sex drugs And rock and roll generation and I um Is that what that was? I uh I've been wondering what that was. Uh huh whims and the hopes of all that lie because that's exactly what it was. It was a lie and I participated fully to the fullest of my ability to that. So um I worked hard. I was brought up to um to uh live a a good, honest life and in retrospect I can look back and it wasn't much honest about it at all. But the I worked hard, I was self employed for uh thirty years Drank hard, drugged, did the coke, did the smoking and um all of that drinking from the time I was fifteen until I was forty-nine and um And just many um very sexually thirty four years of drinking and doing drugs. And it wouldn't have any effect on me. Look how look how good I look. You're sharp, you can read, you can talk about it and I can still talk without slurring. Thank you. Well, I shaved that off. I don't have some of it fell out, some of it was pulled out and uh so I shaved the rest before I went to Iraq five years ago. But and I keep it there. Don't have to worry about being accused of having a comb over. So the um but the so I did all the medications through all those years drinking and and trying to fill that void. You know, you hear a lot about a God shaped void Right. But God and I and we tried. And I tried, and as many who do not know Jesus do try because that's the nature of us. And so um at the age of forty nine, at the end of my second marriage and everything falling apart and my two children from my first marriage couldn't stand me Um the Lord I see his drawing in my life 'cause I had s quit drinking a year before that, still smoking the weed, but um uh the Lord took it uh moved out of the um I was thrown out of my house by my ex-wife and I took a farmhouse in the country. I was just led to go there and all I did was come home from work at night, read the Bible until I fell asleep three, four hours later, get up. This is ten years ago? Ten years ago and uh came to um there was a kind of a trauma in the middle of that when I thought The Lord was going to uh fix that marriage but then that didn't happen. So um at uh I was so despondent that I was contemplating uh taking my life at that moment and that's actually the devil working on your head, convincing you that it's never going to get better and that you have no hope. And I was at a place of um If this is the way it's gonna be the rest of my years, I'm I don't want any more of it, so I'm playing with my nine millimeter and at that night the Lord uh the devil's um Trying to draw me to pull the trigger and I really can say that the Spirit of the Lord drew me to him, saying, Come to me for uh my yoke is easy and my burden is light. So you were already at that point Just spending your days reading the Bible. Yeah. And and yet even after you're doing that, you're saying that you feel like the devil came in depression and you were ready to throw it all away. After you're already reading the Bible on a regular basis and and and there was a moment of decision there in the midst of that. There was a moment of decision, but I say to you again that None comes to the Father lest he is drawn of the Holy Spirit. And as I look back now that I know what that drawing of the Holy Spirit is, I can guarantee you that for at least Yes. Interesting. And I want to say to all out there that what I am here to tell you that everything that has been done in my life as far as being set free of drugs, alcohol, cigarettes, sexual immorality and etcetera, all of these things that are bondages, what God did for me, He will do for anyone who will but turn and look and ask. You don't have to know him, but you just say, here's what here's what happened. I'd done the drugs and the drinking and all. And I said I tried all these other things There's nothing left for me, but I'm gonna try this God thing and see if there's anything in there. So I started reading this resort You know how dry reading King James Bible is? Thou shalt not say such things. If you have no spiritual leading That is some dry reading, but I I just kind of delved into it. Especially when you get to like Leviticus and Numbers and But you know, God is faithful to his word and um he is faithful even to us when we are not faithful to him. And so he drew me and he saved my life And as we've been speaking, I just want to tell people that my zeal is the devil beat me so hard. And and this is who is doing it. Of course I was complicit in all this. But the devil was beating me so hard and was discouraging me so much and cutting and God allows these things, there's no doubt about it. But Paul says uh to us, he says, when I should I come for you with the whip? Or in a loving, kind, and gentle way? And I say to you that that was the whip. That the Lord was using that as a whip on me to bring it up. So wait you're telling me that the Lord was letting the devil come after you. And and now that that term the devil coming after you, like what do you mean by that? I mean that sounds pretty dramatic. Did you see horns? No, I didn't see any horns, but the depression is of the devil. Depression is of the devil. So if there's somebody out there that's depressed, you're saying that the devil is the cause of their depression. Yes, it's You know what they uh the Because in any situation the psychiatric world says the the medical world says that depression brings on uh or a lack of um uh improperly balanced uh vitamins and minerals and you brings on depression. Okay. Yeah, nutritionists say that. Right. I don't know. Psychiatrists psychiatrists say that? They might say that Well they give you they give you medication for it. They try to balance you out. They try to uh give you medi they give you medication. What I say to you and what and what I say there's been research done and your depression uh brings on this um this imbalance, chemical imbalance, that's the term I'm looking for. So you're saying that depression comes first, not the not the chemical imbalance. Okay, so if you want to do it in a nutritional manner that's not proper to stuff my face with with pizza? Well sure it is. I say to you that this depression is a tool of the devil to cause you to squeeze the trigger, cause you to leave your spouse, cause you to ignore your children. Cause you not to go to work cause you to be unproductive in many uh areas. You think depression is of the devil? I think that everything is um Yeah, I haven't really well thought it out, so I I might end up regretting something I I would say on the show. So I'll say that offline. But uh I would say that all things good are from God. Okay. Right? And all things bad are not of God. Now, just because it's not of God doesn't necessarily in my mind mean that it would have to be the devil. Uh I think that we're fully capable as follow um you know, those who aren't familiar with uh my my stand on things who haven't listened to the show before Um, you know, I believe that we're all fallen, we're all sin filled, mm, and uh our propensity is toward sin, even in our best moments, apart from The saving work of Christ and the work of the Holy Spirit in one's life. As the Bible says. Uh so I think that I am fully capable of doing horrible things and subjecting myself to bad places and bad mindsets without any aid from Satan or any of his his devil, you know, demons or whatever However, I also do believe, and that this is um there are more people that claim to believe in God than claim to believe in the devil. Right. That's true. Even in the church. Yeah, even in the church. You're putting yourself in the minority probably by saying that you believe that that there is a devil and he's active in the world and whatever. Uh but I do believe that that uh If somebody is depressed, is it possible that it's because you're being bombarded by thoughts from Satan? Yeah. Absolutely. But I was I think that it's also possible that you could because of your own fail your own frailties and your own failings as a fallen individual could probably bring yourself into a a place of depression without any aid from from the devil as well. So And my dad used to always say things like the world, the flesh and the devil Meaning like the world at large, because it's so given over to sin, uh, is likely to be depressing because the wages of sin is death. And so the devil could almost like leave, you know, go hang out on Saturn or something out, you know, for a period of time without you know, in and the world it has enough sin in it that it's depressing. You know, and and my flesh, I've got enough sin in me personally that you know it produces death in me or or you know in my relationships with other people and that's depressing Nevertheless, sin is, you know, can be traced back to the devil, and he is certainly actively uh endeavoring to tempt and to lead people astray even now in whatever demons you know are working with them. And so so in that sense I would say that that it's of the devil, but but that I don't That but in saying that, I don't think that, you know, every time that I'm personally depressed that the devil is right there himself doing it. Sometimes it's just, you know, that battle that I'm fighting through through myself. You're in so you it sounds like you generally agree with what kind of thing. Oh I totally agree we we have we're not in disagreement about this yet and I'm and I don't want to lead the anyone to think that I believe that the devil made me do it. The devil doesn't make you do anything. There is a there is an excuse There there's two words that are used a lot, reason and excuse. The reason I did it, the excuse I did it, and it's many times it's looked at the same thing. The reason that I did what I did is no excuse for what I did. Mm. Okay, so this is the reason that I drank. This is the reason that I chased the women. This is the reason that I smoked cigarettes. This is the reason that I snorted coke. This is But that is no excuse for having done this. Okay. Reasons that w are reasons that draw us to be rebellious or disobedient are no excuse for that. And the Um we are in a fallen world, yes. But the devil came in and spoke to Eve. Okay? And Adam was sitting right there. He's sitting right there and he watched all this go on. And you know, this isn't spoken about. But he wasn't in control of his house and he didn't he didn't keep Eve's in his eyes on the Lord. He even took a bite of the apple But so the devil didn't make Eve do this, but he sure came in and s messed with her head. And I'm not saying that I see a devil in a red tail, but here's what I'm saying the devil totally uh can put thoughts on your head. Yeah. And God put a spirit of depression on Saul. Correct? So all things, just because something in what we look at is bad doesn't mean God will not do it or allow it. He even said, How are we going to accomplish this? And someone there says I'll do it. And God said, Well how are you going to do it? He said, I'll be a lying spirit. Now that was God allowing, ordaining any came. Okay? of God a little bit, you know, like is is God the source then of evil? No, God no, he's not the source of evil. Those kinds of things. No, he's not the source of evil. There's nothing evil And the Bible says this, and we if we believe the Bible, we believe all of the Bible. Okay? But God does things for his purpose. Let us just take All e it says in the Bible, all governments are ordained of God. That doesn't mean they're all good. Or you know, I think that's a good thing. See God might not do things But it's like Job. Here comes the devil. He comes swooping in and God says, Where have you been all day? And he says, I've been going to and fro. And then God says to him, Look at look at my servant Job. Now God didn't do it, but he sure allowed the devil to do it. Okay Maybe uh on our next show we'll pick up with part two of the testimony to start off and see where that goes. Listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Um the one who would be more likely to say the devil made him do it, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor across the Valley Chapel, and the one less likely to say the devil made him do it Michael Payne. I'd be more likely from what we just said just a minute ago. I'd just take a stand you're the one wearing the red tie today. Maybe you're like the devil in a red tie. Michael Payne is with uh Take a Stand Ministries and uh part of what you'll hear as we as we march on through through a few shows, hopefully, uh with Michael is uh Take a Stand Ministries does a variety of things and one of the things Michael does is go overseas into uh areas of conflict in Afghanistan and Iraq and And that sort of thing. I'm sure we'll have a chance to talk about that a little bit. So but let's continue on this track a little bit. And one of the things that Michael said uh right before I kind of reset and reintroduce everybody. was talking about, you know, God allows this and he ordains that and and Jonathan kind of playfully said, Well does that mean God's, you know, the cause of evil? Is he the author of evil? And uh here we go. But that is a real even in Christian circles, the things that So far, there might be some nuanced things, there might be slightly different ways of phrasing it. Uh but in general, the three of us on this show today are, I think, in agreement with just about everything that's been said and how it's been generally represented. That doesn't mean that all of Christendom is in agreement on this. We've had shows on the faith debate where we've had Christian pastors who got very upset with what we're talking about. What do you like we were talking about uh the tsunami uh in Indonesia a number of years ago, was that two, three years ago now? Yep. Um and God allowed that. He certainly did. Well how could he have allowed that? He's a loving, merciful, gentle, kind God. There's no way he would allow that. So it's a it's a worldview question. Yeah. He's a loving, merciful, filled with grace. He loves us to no end. He sent his son down here to die for us on the cross, one of the most horrible deaths you can imagine. Okay. Okay. So how could he allow that? Yeah So you know, y everybody's seen the legal scales. You know, you got the balance one on each side. With the blindfolded lady, is that the one that's a good thing. Yeah, yeah, Supreme Court took that back off again. Anyways, keep keep going. Here's the point. God is all of these things. wicked little things I did to that the pain I brought on my sons and on other people around me. Okay? So this is interesting. So so you're saying that as somebody that came to to Christ after uh some thirty five years, thirty-four years of of drugs and alcohol, uh that that to your mindset something like a tsunami Would not be a reflection of God being a mean God. Well, let me finish the one, the balance on the scales, and then we'll go right into that. Oh, okay. But here's the thing. We got this scales and it's balanced. Right. Okay. And it's equally balanced. And what balances this scale? His wrath and his justice. God is a wrathful God. So so the balance on the one side is his love and his grace, and on the other side is his wrathful justice. And these are the things and and he is he is unable to be unjust So are you saying the tsunami was his judgment? I'm saying that uh it says in uh Matthew twenty-four or twenty-six, it says that in the in the last days there will be earthquakes There will be famine, there will be pestilence, there will be um there will be wickedness throughout the room. So does that mean that God's gonna send those? No, God doesn't send it. He said it's here. He d he allows it. God is sovereign or totally sovereign, correct? I believe that he is. If he is totally sovereign over everything in the universe, that means he had to allow it. It means he had to allow it. He couldn't have chosen to say, you know, I don't want to be I don't I don't want to be mean to those guys. I don't want to hurt those poor people that are living over there on the coast of India. His word says if you know so I'm gonna keep that earthquake from happening 'cause I don't want 'em, you know, to his word says that you die without com having confessed his son with your lips and believe in your heart that he rose from the grave in the flesh. then you'll spend eternity in hell. That's what his word says. So you're saying that so okay, so so then tell me what happened with the tsunami, that God allowed it. Why would God allow that? I don't have all the answers for you, brother, other than these are the end days and we are seeing uh many things in the middle of the year. It's also Mark and Luke that he that he prophesied this and so therefore it happened because it was prophesied, but you don't know that you understand exactly why the kind of is soon coming is what this says. Which doesn't necessarily explain then why it happens, just that you trust that if God allowed that, that there was a reason for him to do so. I I trust that because here this is something that the L I believe that the Lord has it's a it is a sweet gift that He has given me. And when I say gift I mean it's because I don't try to uh analyze in my carnal mind and justify everything that God does. God does what he does and I, if it lines up in the word of God Then I'm I'm gonna get on board with him. Like how could God allow you to suffer for so long doing drugs and alcohol and destroying marriages and and things falling apart? I mean W wouldn't it have been better for God to come along sooner in your life to help you out? Sure, but I don't know. See, I'm gonna tell you something. When I was uh draft age during Vietnam and was gonna be drafted and I was scared to death to go into that war zone and I went into the Air Force. uh to avoid going into combat service. 'Cause I was scared to death. I knew I was coming back in a body bag and I didn't want to go. And so I did what I did, but I didn't, you know, whatever But here's what the Lord did after I came to the Lord and he told me I was going to Iraq and be embedded with the first Calvary in Baghdad back in two thousand four and then I was in Fallujah Um in November of two thousand four at the battle I wasn't at the Battle of Fallujah, but I was r I was already booked to come in right in a and on the twentieth of November, well the military kicked it off on the eleventh, so the heavy duty stuff was You were late for the battle. Yeah, I was late for the battle, but that's okay. I'm not complaining. I'm just saying to you this. God spared my life for a time, okay? And He gave me the opp He gave me opportunity and opportunity and opportunity to um um time to turn and when the day came on December seventeenth, nineteen ninety nine, at the end of my pistol, thinking about ending my life I came and I will serve him the rest of my life, and I will tell everyone that I know, even my own relatives who believe in different things than I, that Jesus is the only way. See this this is interesting 'cause on this on this show we tend to have or try to get people to come on that that will give an an explanation for for various things. And and what what you are giving to us is is a confidence that God is is a good God and that that whatever the explanation is, you're confident that it's gonna be okay. Why are you so confident? Because that's what the Bible says. I mean I've just pitched several uh dilemmas at you. I'm confident because I've seen the peace that you and he brought into my life. He brought so so the point is because of the peace that he brought in your life through through what? Through salvation and through through the assurance of your uh of your eternal salvation, through preaching his word into your life and preaching the truth. in in helping you to to to deal honestly with what's going on. I mean is that like like is that the description? What what did he do for you? Okay, before I I mean you were on drugs and alcohol. You you've been in the church all thirty four years. Okay. Yes I have. Okay, well praise the Lord. I was out of the church. I didn't grow up in a house that reverence God one bit even acknowledged God. We had Christmas and that was For what? I mean w you know, Jesus the son of Jesus was born on Christmas Day, but it meant nothing to us. Okay? I mean we did the the little dinner gig and all that. But But the thing of it is the turmoil in our in my life up until the age of forty nine on December seventeenth. And the turmoil that so many people even listening to this program right now have going on in their life right now. Uh some contemplating suicide because they think it'll never get better. Some uh don't know how they're gonna pay their mortgage and they're gonna be out. Some their spouses is playing around on 'em and they they can't they don't know they're so ripped up they can't eat. Okay? I've been through all this stuff. And I'm telling you that th that the Lord save my sorry tail soul. Hm. for me to come and tell my brother and sister and their child that there is hope. 'Cause I know there's hope. But but here's my point. I had no pe I had no peace then. Yeah. I mean turmoil, drinking the to take the edge off, snortin' coke, drinking Jack Daniels to cool the edge on the Coke. Smoking s uh smoking dope uh from the time I got home until I went to sleep so I could sleep five hours before I would wake up in the middle of the night. That's how much turmoil was in my life. I couldn't sleep. There was no peace in me. Jesus is peace. And it is uh and it is something I can't explain to you. All I can say is he is peace. And that was that d and you're saying that's sufficient to to have totally changed your perspective and and to to make you feel like You can trust God with all the other major decisions that, you know, i. e. tsunami or whatever else is out there, you're content to trust him. I went to Iraq. And w before I went to Iraq this man comes up to me, said the Lord went to wrap it up in a second, so make it quick. And but I knew that I was hearing something that was going to happen. There was a and the next day the Lord said, I'm tak I am delivering you from the fear that the power that the fear of death had over your life. And I went to Iraq and I didn't walk in fear. I walked in confidence and I prayed confidence. Interesting shift. It was like a decade ago or so I think with John McCain had the straight talk express. But I think we've got our own version of the street. Uh Michael Payne with Take a Stand Ministries, Jonathan Sweitzer, uh Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating, Help and Make You Smile. St. Panel back next week with more of the same, only better, if that's possible. God bless you. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients needs. They make their life by how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's where the P has in your preferred plumbing. Pull and plumbings, how can we make you smile?