Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us again by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Teroy Skinner. I encourage you to visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith. There you will find a daily blog. uh well Monday through Friday daily anyway. Links to all sorts of cool stuff, including the uh blog site for d um for our co-founder and uh Frequent contributor, regular contributor to the panel, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross House Valley Chapel on the show again this week. And Jim Devereaux on for the fourth week in a row. Wow. We've tried to scare him away He refuses to leave. Yeah, yeah. Anyway. Uh Jim Neverot, well you might know him as a columnist with the Frederick News Post and uh he's Um also a lay Roman Catholic, so he's not speaking officially uh for the Roman Catholic position, but uh he speaks from his own understanding of what the Roman Catholic Church's teachings on things are. I hope I'm right. So you're probably more right than Jonathan is half the time, so we're we're gonna be okay. Yes. So everybody is. If you've been tracking these last few weeks, you know, and if you haven't, you can go back and listen. Available via podcast on WFMD. com Um you've heard us talk about a variety of things that led up to uh and through kind of an issue of marriage last week. Yeah. And at the very end of the show I said something along the lines of, you know, not everybody who claims to be a Christian is a Christian and that that skews statistics and all that stuff. And that got me thinking, Troy, what about you? Yeah, well again you've been claiming for all these years thinking actually, well, what about me? So Uh so and part of what we talked about in the marriage uh context was a good way to train people up and to have successful marriages is provide a mentor. Yeah. sent through the wars, they've been married for a long time, they've demonstrated they know how to how to do it, how to make a marriage work, and to allow them to to show the way to a young couple sort of thing and to kind of disciple them in their marriage sort of thing. And then I was talking about um, you know, whether or not everybody claims to be a Christian is a Christian or not and And Jim made the point out, it was on the air, off the air, about we need to uh treat them like they're Christian and disciple them and show them how to have a good marriage kind of thing. Okay. So let's use that as kind of a launching uh pad, uh and let's broaden it out a little bit beyond marriage. Uh last week I asked the question, what can should the church be doing to help people in their marriage? You know, what can should the church be doing to help people in their walk, in their life, to help disciple them to be Christian? Yeah, because like you were saying, the statistics are that a lot of people are claiming to be Christian that are not living like a Christian and and don't seem to be walking in you know, what is what is the v i the victory of Christ, you know, the sense of overcoming temptations and sins and those kinds of things. So this is such a vital question. Jim, what do you think? Well, I think one of the things is the height and the awareness of the problem. And one of the ways to do that, I know every Sunday, uh, and I've been watching this for years now and have other people watching it too, one of the things that we do in our liturgy is say prayers for different things. Okay. The President, the Congressman, the people in the wars and on and on and on and on for new vocations to the priesthood, for religious. We always forget, it seems to me to pray for good, solid Christian marriages in our community. And I I think, you know, one of the places to begin with is to be praying For what we see we need. Yeah. And so the point is that that's a great way to to bring attention to it. So we don't we don't face some of the r rigidness in terms of spontaneously introducing some of those topics as Protestants. And we're praying and and we're and we're like, oh you know, that man there's marriage problems, and we'll just go ahead and pray. We'll just go ahead and add it. Here's an example of of of what. Um uh we can do in our in our prayer life. And I'll use my wife as as an example because she prays uh you know on marriage related issues. I'm I'm reminded of this now But not just currently. Don't worry, there's hope she'll change you yet. Well God bless my wife. She has a litany I can tell you that is really quite quite extensive. Ah good. She prays me not for herself, but for other people. She prays for our daughter and she prays for her my our daughter's future husband. When I when I was eleven, ten, eleven, twelve years old, my mom started telling me I'm praying for your wife and for m every night. No Grace After Meals. No, it was Grace Before Meals. We were saying Grace Before Meals with all the kids around the table, all ten kids. And we would say, Okay, we're going to say three Hail Marys for your vocations. And we did that night after night after night. And then one day one of the kids says, When are we gonna take those vacations? Okay. But I gotta tell you When are we gonna take those vacations? Yeah. Yeah. But I gotta tell you, praying for their vocations. Uh you know, we we still pray for for nine of my ten children are married. Good marriages. Wonderful grandchildren. Okay. The they they have to work at all those marriages too. But to be praying for your children's vocation, whether it be marriage or priesthood or ministry or or whatever, I think, you know, it is a good starting point. We should be praying for our marriages within our within our faith communities. necessarily as a Protestant. That's one of the things I'm still protesting about. You have to forgive me. Go ahead. Nevertheless, um I think that that prayer is central to all discipleship in the church people taking the time to pray together, uh you know, in in and learning to pray, whether it's over meals or even a praying. No, they sure do. That's right, all the time. That's right. I'm not sure how uh saying rubba dub dub here comes the grub, yea god, amen helps people. I'm not what Well you're asking God to bless your food, yeah? Yeah. We always bowed our head and we went. Rubba dub dub, here comes the grub. Or that or that rub a dub dub thank God for the grub which which is a little bit more redeeming. He is present, right? Amen. I don't Yeah, whether it's a Hail Mary or just a freeform prayer, God bless us. Yeah. Uh I you know, I I'd have to to say I I think we better start believing. He's present there. And yeah, I take that even a step further because I believe the Holy Spirit dwells within us and so we're always walking around with somebody else present with us. There's always two or more gathered. Yeah. For the Christian. In my opinion. Well that was one of the things, the charismatic that stretches the passage. Stretches it a little bit, but still it it's a reminder that you know we're never outside of God's presence. He's he's I'm not prior to uh Vatican two, John the twenty third actually prayed for a new outpouring of the Holy Spirit on the church. This is Pope John the Twenty Third. Yes. Okay, I'm with you. Okay. He actually prayed that there would be a new outpouring, a renewal, of the Holy Spirit poured out on the church. And as a matter of fact, in the late sixties, early sixty I don't know, sixty seven, sixty eight, is when the charismatic renewal, interestingly enough, began sprouting up in the Catholic Church. Yeah. And you know, th this is all about God's presence in our life, the Holy Spirit's presence in our life, and people becoming more and more aware of of God's presence in our life. Uh it was a v very interesting outgrowth of Vatican two was the way the renewal began. Now some of the things that happened there I say went wrong but Nonetheless, I think we're a lot that we're right. The question on the table is how do we help people to be better disciples, to walk righteous? And um and it seems to me like like for you, you're you you give the testimony of being a cadle cr uh a cradle Catholic Sorry. And uh and and and yet coming later on into really really being converted to being a believer. Yeah, about the age of the city. Do you do you think that something could have been done differently Differently to help you to be to to respond and and be converted earlier since you were raised in the faith, or do you think that it was just that was your your time destined in God and And and you needed that time to the pre Vatican War interim is significantly different than what you see today. Sure. Significantly different. And so discipleship Uh or things that the church didn't have to be a little bit more than a little bit of a few years. Families were not as mobile. You're just coming out of the Great Depression. Okay. Okay. Right. Families were not as mobile. They they tended to be closer together. People work together You didn't have as much nuclear family as you have today. As much families split apart, some living in Oklahoma, some in California, some in Florida, some here. You know, you you're not sure. Mobility is huge. I was thinking about that the other day, how much that has affected tremendous infancy around the world on your on your extended family, which has hurt. So we have to somehow uh help bridge that lack of sense of extended family. And so so s so one of the things you're saying that the church needs to do to help people to walk correctly is to is to deal with the implications, the the the fallout from from society breaking down and losing that sense of community And so so building a community where people feel like they're a part of of an extended family is an important part of growing people. Part of that worshiping faith community. where I can I can fall and be picked up and help be picked up and taught to walk again if I need to. Yeah, it it's part of I think We we're gonna find it in that. I this this this is very much in keeping, I believe, with what the church does teach about this. You know, they they have we often talk about solidarity. We're all Yeah. But there's also another principle that's very important in in uh church teaching, and that's the principle of subsidiarity. And subsidiarity says all higher level structures other than family are there to support family So you begin with supporting the family and grow to church, community supporting family. Businesses are there to support the family structure. You know, ultimately you get up to the federal government. That's that's the last resort Okay. But the first resort should be within the local community, within the family as well. uh you know, chapter after chapter after chapter in Romans of of uh of you know what Christ has done for us. Ephesians, what Christ has done, Galatians, what Christ has done for us. He always comes back to these passages where he says, Now husbands Love your wives. Now wives respect your husbands. Now children, obey your parents. And then he moves out to to the workplace as it were, you know, give give, you know, masters submit to your slaves, submit to your masters, you know, and he works and and then he works out to to government structures. And there is the sense that Paul, when Paul goes to Living Righteous, he recognizes that the first most important thing has got to be to help people to have stronger families and get along inside of families. Yeah. And you're saying that fellowship is a big part of that, creating an environment where people Because we're such a mobile society, our families are so far away, we've been moved by our jobs, whatever, we have to that the a major important thing a church has to do is to develop a community where people can be helped when they when they fall down, when they get sick, you know, if they don't know what to do about something, where people can be there to be that extended family. One of the outgrowths of of the renewal was a greater sense of community among people. Okay? And what you see now today oftentimes, for example, we used to w might have just called Saint Ignatius Parish, but now it's called Saint Ignatius Parish Community. The word community is being recognized as as something that needs to to b help bind people together. Uh in you know the divorce rate in Frederick is worse than the rest of Maryland. And I think, you know nobody knows exactly why, but I think uh that it's because so many people commute so far for work, you know, but they m wanted to move farther and farther away from Baltimore, Frederick, so that they could buy a bigger house and raise a family that that by the time they get home at the end of the day they're exhausted because they spent all this money trying to, you know, have this perfect familial environment that they've got nothing left for family and then everything falls apart. Technology could potentially help this if more people could work at home. You know, the last few years technology is the cause of that certain that particular breakdown is the same. But the you know the last few years before I finally retired to just writing a column Uh all I could do was do everything that I needed to do from my from my home, my home office. Working on my laptop, using the internet, accessing other people's systems to provide software support for them It it I didn't really have to go anywhere except into my office with my laptop and get on the internet. So that can help. But then the other aspect it can also hurt. Technology can hurt. You kids can get so zapped into The good games that there's no communication. When we go visit our grandkids, we like to play games like Rummicube or something, get them, you know, around the table with others. And uh I can remember one experience we had on a summer vacation. Uh we were leaving and and one of my grandsons rode home with us and two weeks of vacationing, playing golf in Hilton Head, doing all these good things, tennis you know, parties, what have ice cream, you know. We asked Johnny what was the most em best thing you did on your vacation? He says the game night we had last night. Yeah. Yeah, now Trey, we're spending a lot of time talking about community as an important part of helping people to be discipled. Um, what do you think about that? How important do you think that is? Well first let me say this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. You're hearing on the panel this week Jim Devereaux, columnist with the Frederick News Post, and today speaking as a lay Roman Catholic. And the person posing the question to me, Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I think that there's certainly within a a a church and biblical context great support for it. You look at the the Acts Church. You know, the church as as uh described for us in the in the book of Acts. uh and this this community where everybody shared everything they had and they took care of each other, particularly the widows and orphans got taken care of and um Uh and then you see the importance with the church structure where the church recognizes that there are needs to be met and and the the the apostles and those who were sharing the the word were so busy sharing the word they couldn't help meet these these physical needs and so that's where the deacons come along and uh they're charged with taking care of those kinds of needs and the community is taking care of itself. I think that is hugely important. I think that that's part of what is a weakness for the modern, particularly uh anyway, America. That's the only context I have, the modern American church. Yeah. is an awful lot of the churches don't have a sense of community. It's you show up on Sunday and you show up the next Sunday and then you show up the next Sunday and there's no sense of getting together during the week. Uh some people will come for a Bible study, some people will go to the youth group thing on you know, whatever night of the week that might be. But there's not a strong sense of the church is a community, and I think that that There are a lot of little things you can do to help that. For example, I was mentioning, I think, offline here, you know, just starting a book club, reading some good Christian books that are related to your faith. you know, or whatever faith you are, but you sit down and talk about 'em. You talk about your faith together. A group of guys getting together, you know, for an hour and a half once a month. Uh it can make a tremendous impact on people's appetite to know more, to share with one another, to feel close to one another. Now how is what we're talking about different than something we talked about a little bit off air which was, you know, this whole idea of accountability and having an accountability partner or whatever. Uh how is what we're talking about different than Having accountability. It's because we weren't we weren't we weren't too fond of that idea, maybe. Uh in terms of uh me accountable to a another lay person? Uh no, I I have a confessor. I someone I go to to confess. He doesn't you know, what I what I see in my own conscience that convicts me of sin But I I think there's a lot of danger in feeling like somehow confessor priest? Yes. Okay, yeah. Yeah. Somehow uh You know, i uh um apart from parents who are have this specific charism to to teach their children, that's their responsibility uh trying for one adult to take over another person's spiritual life and give them direction, there are a lot of there may be some good can come out of it, but there are a lot of things that are bad that can come out of it. um if uh unless there's some special training involved and caretaking. Because it can go be both an ego trip for the giver of counsel as well as a demeaning trip for the individual constantly receiving it and never knowing for themselves, never making a decision for themselves. You can rob people of their dignity, um, through counseling, you know, if it gets to be too top downish. Yeah, I agree with that. Are you would you define is your would your understanding of accountability be the same understanding that Jim just shared? 'Cause that's I don't think that's what how I would probably define it. And yet I still have an issue and yet I still have an issue with the accountability structure for for different reasons which might share in a minute. Always saying you gotta be in some kind of an accountability group. Accountability group is where you get together, you know, and and you make yourself accountable to one another. How you doing in your thought life and how you doing with reading the Bible and how you're doing with different things And uh in in it it turns into I'm making myself accountable to you and oh yeah man I'm I'm falling into sin again, you know, I'm getting into pornography. I need to get back at my accountability group as if your accountability group is The only way for you to be held accountable when scripturally we're supposed to be accountable to God. But what Jim Jim is referring to is a different kind of accountability. that sh has shown up in different parts of the body of Christ at different times where where uh in and it's it's an abuse of authority where somebody is kind of your personal mentor. And because they're your personal mentor, you're accountable to them and uh they should have input in who you marry. and how to do it in a lot of different ways and it can be very abusive and really rob your dignity. And I think both of those things are wrong. You know, I think that an accountability group uh that emphasizes accountability to another person is unbiblical. Nowhere in scripture are we to make uh ourselves accountable to one another. We're supposed to make ourselves accountable to God, but there is fellowship to be had Right. Respecting each other's dignity. And so there is accountability around making your s I mean fellowship, you know, around making yourself accountable to God. And so I'm I'm not against small groups that that are m you know, helping to facilitate accountability to God, but I'm against it turning into I gotta be accountable to my brother as opposed to a you know, helping each other to genuinely be accountable to God because God's the one that we have to give an account to. So it's a question of who you're being if you have an accountability club, there's nothing wrong with that group. as long as the group is helping to be accountable to God. And as a point that you're as a Catholic, you know, we would be we you know, we would use confession uh sacrament of reconciliation in order to uh be accountable to God and to seek forgiveness for what we believe we've done wrong. So our conscience would be in effect And we would go to a priest, okay, to confess our sin before God and man and receive the blessing of the church to go and sin no more, in effect. We have a right We know it's wrong, we're a an amend a firm desire not to do it again. We walk away, you know, with a blessing of the church And of course I'm uncomfortable with that as a Protestant. Yeah, I can understand something we just says in James, uh it says that that we're to confess our sins to one another so that you may be healed. My sense is is that uh that it doesn't have to be a priest that it can th that that it but my recommendation would be, you know, that you're confessing your sins to one another, that there's a sense of of inside the body of Christ, you know, that the the uh people that are the family of God that that you're confessing, yes I I I had sinned about that. You're testifying about how I had been a sinner Yeah, we live our lives in the light, not just going into a booth somewhere, you know, confessing to a priest. I I I just don't see that anywhere in scripture and and I have a uh uh difficulty with well you know I I could see it in the context of whose sins you forgive are forgiven, whose sins they are retained are retained. Uh and Christ's you know, word to his apostles. So I might I'm not a scripture scholar, so I I I don't know if I could pull stuff out of my hat. But I think I think there's some basis y you know, you may have a basis for saying as long as I I go to somebody you know, who who I can trust. Uh and I might say yes, and I don't think that excludes a priest as being, you know, a good choice. No, I think a priest could be a good choice. I'm just saying priest uh you know, I don't like the idea of the priest ha uh having to have a priest as as the one that's see and perhaps it it has to do maybe with an understanding of just how a Catholic uh should view what a priest is. Uh and that's another whole discussion, but But it does deal with this question of how do we help people to walk right. Right. And confession of sin is an important part of it. It's an important part of it. Providing a place where people I I I say it's just like going to the bathroom Man, I fall into sin probably a couple times a day. Well, you know, and doggone it, it's an interesting thing. I go to the bathroom a couple times a day and and the stuff that comes out is pretty gross. For the record. I I know that yours is smells really sweet, Troy. I know I know that that's true. Keep in mind the time this show airs. But but the reality but the reality is that we have to confess what? Sin. We gotta get that crud out of us on a regular basis. So we need to have we need to regularly get out of the world in be confessing our sins to one another so that we can live They've righteous. One of the things that that certainly going to a priest or maybe going to someone else's you might uh could could provide is you know we we avoid the possibility of despair if we've got a good confessor Because he can help us not to despair of whatever our sin is. And despair, I think, leads to leads to sickness. You know how much how much ultimate sickness how much uh sickness is related to stress and carrying burdens that you don't have to carry, you know, and that kind of thing There's a certain amount of healing that comes when you're able to be free and receive the grace of God for what you're going through. That's right. And I think, you know, that's what the sacrament of reconciliation would would be recognized As as a provision. This is how the Catholic Church would provide that to his people. So I feel like fellowship is the environment and what you need inside of that is you need teaching of the Word of God, you need prayer, you need You need confession of sin. You need testif testimonies. You need, you know, the older men helping young younger men, older women helping younger women That that's the context where people grow up in and experience victory in Christ. And we need to encourage people to be in the Word, to be reading the Bible, and know what it says, what it teaches, that sort of thing. For what it's worth, uh you kind of threw a question at me before and uh I'm not sure if I fully ever finished answering it. So I'll take uh a moment here towards the end of the show to kind of give my thoughts on this. And unfortunately, probably won't have well if it'll be the last word, but we probably won't have a whole lot of time for you to to give a whole lot of uh of talk back. Um I think it is not only appropriate, but I expect the those who are in leadership, uh particularly my my pastor, to be among those that would hold me accountable. I expect that of them and I think they expect the congregation to hold them accountable to preaching the truth and the word and all that sort of stuff. Um I think that we should be confessing and if I sin against you I should confess and I sin against you and ask for forgiveness. Um and I think I should be confessing my sins before God in prayer. Uh I think that would be be like more of a Protestant bias, but I don't think I need to go to somebody else to confess my my sins. But um and I also think it's my job Um not in some sort of official, you know, let's get a group and I'm I'm gonna lord it over you kind of way. But I think it's uh it's it's A huge part of my responsibility as a Christian to hold you two as Christians accountable. So if I see, you know, Jim or John doing something that's not quite right, I need to pull them aside, hey Might not be my place to say, except, you know, I'm a Christian brother in Christ, and so it is my place to say, that's not honoring God and it's gonna destroy your marriage or it's gonna be bad for your kids or you know, you might you know I I think it's up to me to to hold you accountable. It's up to you to inserted. I feel like I need to disagree on this. Do I have enough time? Got like thirty uh fifteen seconds. Okay, I would say this. The word account is the word that that I have a problem with. Okay. I don't have to give an account to you, I have to give an account to God. However, it is your responsibility to rebuke me. And to call me on it. Which is totally different. And to help you be accountable to God, is my own. Exactly. So if I see it's an important distinction of God, I need to come to you and rebuke you so that you can be counted be accountable to God. Alright, anyway, well it is gonna be close to the last word. My apologies. I'm Froy Skinner, he's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Also on the panel, Jim Devereaux, a columnist with a news post, and also a uh a lay Uh Roman Catholic, our sponsor of Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can Make You Smile, visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Thank you for listening. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P has in your Preferred plumber. Pull and plumbings, how can we make you smile