Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Frey Skinner. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? On the panel again this week, uh Tim May, Pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren and Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick. And if it's your first time listening, welcome. Frederick Faith Debate is an honest and open forum where local religious leaders get together on a regular basis to talk about things that Well, they might not normally get to talk about unless they came on this show. You know, we uh sometimes we have uh a Christian and non Christian perspective. How often do they get a chance to really uh you know, match wits and and clash worldviews? Every day. And uh When Christian pastors get together, usually I would think it's more about how can we work together, what can we do to reach out to Frederick, that sort of thing. And probably not a ton of time is spent trying to understand some of the finer points of theological positions, splitting hairs and that sort of thing. And that's what we get to do. on this show. If you're listening last week, we frustratingly ran out of time. And between this week and last week, uh Tim's a powerful man, but he couldn't persuade John uh uh Frank Mitchell to give us more time this week than last week. Not yet, not yet. So we've got the same amount of time this week that we've had historically on the show. Yes. Uh we're talking about pietism. What does that mean? Well We went into a lengthy discussion of that, but let me give you the kernel of it. Basically it's uh uh it's a uh traditional view held in a a segment of the Protestant Christian uh uh tradition. that uh says something that some might describe as pacifism, although Tim has been very careful to say it's not pacifism exactly, but to try to get you to understand it's It's a a a nonviolent kind of approach to life. It's a not being immersed in the things of this world kind of thing, which might involve taking up arms to go fight in a war, for example, those sorts of things. And so that's kinda where we left off uh last week. And I want to uh pick up with that and change it just a little bit. Sure. Let's not put it in the war context. Okay. What is the Uh the brethren position, the the the Pietist position on serving in law enforcement and carrying a weapon. Uh all forward, uh no opposition. Uh understand that the uh first of all I I need to do a disclaimer. I I wish that I had the authority to speak on behalf of the Church of the Brethren. I speak on uh my behalf of my understanding of the faith. I don't want to mislead anyone Right. Right. Because if you if you missed a couple of shows ago That's where we came from. We're not there now. We're not pietists. Right. Um, yeah, there is no objection to that to owning weapons. We have some of the greatest hunters and fishermen and And uh in a in in our congregation it's uh it's wonderful. And uh so there's no it's not uh uh I I would hope that uh most faiths allow people to possess arms. I don't see a conflict with Christ in there at all If somebody in uh Remember I was a cop. I'm trying to make connect these dots. How do you think you're and you're a sergeant in the army? Yeah. Sergeant in the army. And you're a judge and you know and the position would be to not really be involved in I'm not a piratist. You see that already? I'm not a pietist. I have a disclaimer. I'm not a pietist. I'm a brother. Big difference. Yes. Good. But if somebody in your congregation uh was to enter the military, your advice to them would be that they sh That they should make an a point to say I don't want to be an uh one who's carrying arms or young Marine in the congregation My advice to that individual is to get on your knees and pray to your g to God, through Jesus Christ, and you talk with him and let him lead you, and you follow that direction. I'm not Christ, and I'm not God And I'm not telling you what to do, you do what the Lord tells you to do. If he chose to take up arms or anything and he felt that the Lord was a was leading him this way, then I would have no objection. Now would you point him in the direction of certain I would point him to the scriptures. Oh certainly. Sure. Like which passages would you encourage them to to consider an eye for an eye. Look, I've been here long enough that I can agitate now No, I I don't know. I I would think that uh the peacema I would go to the Sermon on the Mount and and something like that. Must be the peacemakers would be I would hand him love sermons or or love messages, but I would also respect uh as I told you before that I'm no closer to Christ than any of my members. So I don't want to be his answer machine. I will certainly guide him and point him. But I certainly won't make his decisions for him. It's it's you know, I have a young lady uh came to me in a in a former parish and says, Pastor, I'm pregnant. What should I do? Well, you know, I said Eat right, get plenty of rest, drink your food. And and and and pray a lot. But I I think she was you know and and and uh you know, not to make dramatics out of this, but uh she was looking to me for permission. And I said, You have my permission to have the most beautiful child you can have. And you know, the Lord will guide you in this. You you know, the fact that you've sinned is is is forgivable. But uh we're not gonna compound that. And I I can say she had a beautiful child. She was not able to keep it, it has been adopted out uh by a good family. Um, does she have regrets? Sure she has regrets. Uh but I I think she knows deep inside that she's been blessed by her Lord. Now it's interesting when Jonathan asked the question, actually he kinda sorta read my mind 'cause I was gonna ask Were the love are all the the love leaning towards a pacifist understanding. Would you also offer some Counterbalancing. Like Romans thirteen and No, I wouldn't. Uh I I I don't think I would because again Depending on the individual, depending on who am I speaking with, depending on their knowledge of the scripture, uh, I would answer questions more than I would would directly lead them to because I think you can pick and choose Which way you want to make a decision? You know, do I pick a love fashion, do I pick up and stand and fight for what's right? Do I do I face my oppressors or do uh or do I listen to Christ and and say, you know, don't don't swing the sword. There's so many pass it I could pick and choose and I think I could manipulate. And it's not my job to manipulate. I think I can lead them into the the passages. I can read Below Romans. I can uh put them in Luke I can put 'em anywhere What do you think about that, Jonathan? You think do you feel the same way about that, though you could kind of build a case depending on what your predisposition is on the ph or do you think that there's a way to harmonize those and come up with a something that's a little bit less subjective? Um well I would say that I like the idea of not just coming up with a policy that you know, where you say, Okay, I've studied out scripture in all the relevant passages and I came up with with this formula as it were, you know, in terms of where it stands. Even though you know that I'm inclined in that direction. I mean I'm I'm inclined to you know just Personally I I like to hash it out. Well what does scripture actually say? You know, and come to some kind of a conclusion. But uh but I like the orientation that says, okay, let's not just come up with a policy, yeah, let's study all the passages of scripture But at the end of the day, once we've studied all the passages of Scripture, let's get down on our knees and let's pray and say, ask the Lord, Lord, what is it that you want me to do here? Leave me You know, lead me personally. Lord, what's the next step that you want for me? And and to to really uh ask it to be a personal thing between you and the Lord. And I think he'll respond to that. And it'll respond with with giving you some clarity in in some direction as opposed to what you're warning against. And and I think uh You know, that the danger would be is that you could you could you could prove from scripture that God is a that God is a war god. Yeah. And he wants to drive the Canaanites out of uh you know out of the promised land and wants to drive them out of every place where they are around the world. You know, we're gonna drive the communists out, you know, we're gonna drive the socialists out and the atheists and and you know and and turn things. And I think it's also though possible to turn you know for people to to grab certain passages and come out and uh and say, you know what, uh I believe that you should never take up arms and that it's never okay to be inv involved in any war And again, I think that it would it would miss, you know, the clear teach tea teaching of scripture and more important for the for for uh Christian is what's God leading them to do? Based on their understanding of scripture, genuinely at their heart level, studying it out, what is God leading them to do? I think people misunderstand the role of a pastor. And I think pastors misunderstand the role of a pastor. I I believe I'm a shepherd. I I believe I'm there to to help to lead to people. I'm not really leading them to Christ. I'm leading Christ to them. And when I c when I start making decisions for them, I don't want someone that's in a war somewhere saying, Well, my pastor said don't shoot back and they get shot Uh it's not what I say, it's what the scripture says and what the Lord leads up with. the Pope saying do this or don't do this exactly you know all of which would be a hierarchical orientation that is a worldly orientation instead of going back to which is not biblical which is totally not biblical. Trust me I'm not saying that you as pastors or anybody in that sort of position should be telling people what to do. But aren't you if you say, well here's a really strong argument for this and here's a really strong argument for that and they seem to be polar opposites, go figure it out I mean for them somebody who's not already a Christian, this is one of the It'll drive him crazy. Well this is one of the things we're saying. It's a contradiction. Scripture is self-contradictory. How can you believe anything it says? Well I think that's what runs people away from Christianity or runs people away from the church is because it it it it is confusing and one of the things that you'll have a you'll have a new life come to your church, uh I don't mean a baby, but a new life And they want to learn. I and there's nothing more exciting for a pastor to see a new person who wants to get in the spirit, who wants to learn. And the pastor will say to her, Well, you've got to go read that Bible. And they go home and they read that Bible and they open it up in the beginning, God created heaven and earth, and earth oh, this is stupid. Let me go let me go Ex well that's makes no sense. Oh, Numbers, Chronicles. And you lose them. Whereas if you take someone and and you get 'em interested, you get the spirit And you say, all right, you want to start learning about Christ, let me go to John. Read something that makes sense, where you can where you can get meat out of it. So I think we're uh the biggest enemies in the church by By not bringing why more people don't adopt? By by people coming up with that question. Well, what's the answer? And you say, Well, it's in the Bible. Well, any answer that we know the answer is in the Bible says, What answer do you want? And I'm not copying out on the question here as much as I'm saying that it i once you become a Christian, once you understand and once you want to follow as a Christian, remember my words that Christianity is a verb It's a way of life. Then you then you must ing uh you must go into you must engross yourself in in the in the gospel. H here's what I think I would prefer more personally, you know, if if somebody comes and they they're seeking counsel Rather than saying, you know, go read your Bible or go read these passages or whatever. I'd think it'd be better if if if it's if you do really feel like it is a gray area and it's really an issue of their per personal conscience to figure out I think it's good to give them some meat to that counsel rather than just say, here are a couple of passages, go read and pray about offend for yourself. Mm-hmm Uh they don't have the training, the experience, the background, whatever that a a seasoned pastor like yourself would have. So it seems like it would be appropriate for you to say All right. This the these are the passages that would seem to point in one direction. Here are some of the meritorious arguments in that direction. Here's what Some people have said, here's what other people have said in reaction to that. And then here are some other passages that would seem to say the opposite. Here's what people have said, here's what other people have said. And obviously there are people out there trying to harmonize those because the Bible is not self-contradictory And here's how they try to parse that out. I'm not going to tell you what to do. I've just told you what the three main ways of trying to view this are. Now go pray about it. Now they're equipped and they're going to be able to do it. You know, yes, if you had a learned uh uh Christian, I think you're fine with what you just said. But what you just said to a to a young man who's eighteen years old, boo, I want an answer. I don't want all that. educated enough and thoughtful enough, even even not even biblically educated, but just the kind of person that's thoughtful and and and uh in uh is able mentally to go there. I think I think I'd be perfectly comfortable doing what you just described, Troy. If however I don't feel like the person is the kind of person that can keep with all of what you just walked through I think I would stop and I'd say, Well, why don't you tell me what you think? And and when they tell me what they think I can get a sense for where they may may not have a biblical perspective on what they're doing. I'll say, well now that's very interesting because I've you know I've heard that What I would recommend is is that you check out this passage in this passage. Here, let's go there together and let's read it together. And uh now what do you what do you see it saying? And they tell me what they see it saying. I say, well Yes, that's right. Or no, I I I think you know you also want to add this perspective in in terms of you know understanding that passage. And I I would handle a little handle it a little bit more less so didactic. I think with some people you're just gonna get lost. By the way, you're not gonna be able to do that. You're listening to the Frederick's Fate Debate on Fredericks News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, he's John Schweitzer, and he's Tim May. Uh I think that what um I think I'm saying the same thing. I'm just approaching it. is ends up coming around and ends up being the same thing, only in reverse. Does that make any sense? Tim was saying, I don't want to give them the answer. I just want to point them in a direction pointing out some passages. And you're saying it a little more firmly that by saying, well I'll ask them some questions, see what they think, and then I'll point out the passages. But in both cases, you're pointing them to passages that are going to lead them down the path you want them to go anyway. I I don't say that I don't want to give 'em the answer. Uh I want them to I want them to to reach the answer by by asking those questions. I think we've we've convoluted this question. If a man came to me and says, Can I pick up arms and go to the war, I want to join the Marine Corps. God bless you, we're gonna pray for you daily. Do you have any questions? Yeah, is it all right? Can I be a member of God's family if I kill someone? Uh not if you murder them, but if you you certainly there's there's texts that allow you to take up arms. The Bible doesn't say you can't kill, so you can't murder And I uh you know, so there's all kinds of arguments there. I I think it I think we've we've convoluted a very simple I I'm I've had these conversations with young men. It's never gone more than, okay, I feel right now. I pray the Lord has is telling me, is leading me, it's okay to do this. You know, you know, you live a Christian life in the military also. Um and and I I think we're we're convoluting an easier an easier to I think it's true. I think if somebody comes to you and asks Hey, should I do this? Is it okay to do this in God? You're dealing with a different question. Whereas if I've got a class where I'm teaching some people and I had the chance to dig in and to deal with it from different perspectives, um In either one of those situations, it is true that my basic approach to war is going to come out. And if they're young in the Lord, they may just choose to adopt what I say. And I'm not so opposed to that because I feel like I've worked hard enough that that's not going to lead them astray. However, my goal eventually, whether it's in a classroom with people where we can really think it through or somebody that's just trying to figure out for their own life to make a personal decision whether they should join uh the Marines or not. In both those situations, my goal if they're young in the Lord is to help them to grow up in the Lord. And to to to grow to the place where they can seek the Lord for themselves, where they can study scripture for themselves. In the meantime, they're probably going to end up swallowing a lot of John Schweitzer's personal convictions. And that may be ten ten years, maybe fifteen years before they even start to question whether or not what John Schweitzer taught them was right or wrong and really dig through those things in scripture. Uh that's fine. I understand that that you know that that's gonna happen. Nevertheless, the goal is that each individual is growing to l to be able to study and learn the scriptures for themselves and come to con conviction That's not my conviction but but is a personal conviction. That takes time. I recognize that takes time. area of more agreement because some of it's semantics, some of it's you didn't fully uh thought, you know, give voice to your thoughts or whatever. Um the one thing I was kind of arguing against, I guess, was to make it Really quick and simple and easy and say, Oh, you have this really important, life-changing decision to make. Here's two verses to read, go pray about it. And you gave him five seconds of your time to give them that quote unquote advice, if you want to call it that. Rather than getting more into it, well how are you feeling? Why do you feel that way? Yeah. What have you read in scripture that leads you to that? Or what are you feeling God's telling when you pray to feel that way? And Well have you and even to just play quote unquote devil's advocate sometimes and then say, Well, have you thought about this? What about that passage? To make sure they've thought it through and take the time. Well, I I think also, Jonathan uh Troy You're so much alike. Oh no, you didn't just say that. Oh ho Lord help us There's worse things in life than being like me. I think one of the the the pastoral things in my life is when you first of all, if you ever have the opportunity and and I I love the opportunity when anyone comes to me and says, Pastor, I need to talk to you. That's an opportunity not only to answer that one question, but that answer is is to really i i uh enthuse him, encourage him and and and and bless him with with so much that he g he's g going away with a lot more than he came in for. So it's not gonna be like go read these things, 'cause I'm not gonna do that to people because I don't think the Lord leads us to do that. I'm gonna take uh more time than he wants to take. Maybe I'm not the norm, but here's an example for you know there was a there was a while a while while back, you know, uh Jonathan and I hadn't known each other that long and we were in a context where there was discussion taking place about the death penalty. Yeah. And you know, I had uh a a view then that I don't have anymore. My view has modified as a result of that conversation. Yeah. And I think, to be honest with you, I think that Jonathan's view slightly shifted a little bit because of that conversation as well. But those shifts took place because it wasn't like, well here's a couple of verses, read 'em and see what you think. I would've stayed exactly where I was. But instead he was ch Well yeah, but what about this? Have you thought about this? What about this other passage? Have you thought this through? He wasn't telling me what to think, he was just challenging my thinking and making sure that whatever my thinking was rooted in the scripture. That's the job is to make you think. It's to make you make you get on your knees to pray. It is to make you and I think that's that's the greater job. Remember I'm just a I'm just a messenger and the message is way back there. So I think my dad used to always say that pedagogy has to do with the foot, you know, and you walk them into the truth You know, and and and you know, whether it's you know, sometimes I'll look at somebody I'll be like, All right, read this passage and you get you know, and then come back and talk to me. Some people I can do that because I read the person, I'm like, well that's what they need. Somebody else, you know, I might approach it. Well tell me how you're feeling about it, you know, and talk it out with them. You know, and so so your your point, Troy, is that A pastor's responsibility is to lead them into the truth, to help to lead them into understanding the will of God and understanding the voice of God. Yeah, and you you're just concerned to make sure that we're not just saying, okay, well go read this past or go read that past that. For for you know, here's it. Oh, here's a great book about that. Because more often than not, really what ends up happening is you might not be telling them what to do per se, but you really are by default. telling them what to do. Remember again, I I say it the other way. I'm saying you figure it back up. I say it backwards as as I'm not I'm not bringing that person to a decision. I'm bringing Christ to them to make that decision. And I know it may be semantics to you, but it means so much different to me. That's my responsibility. Do we have enough time to ask them about that? To bring Christ to somebody. has already come and made himself available. Well, I bridge the gap that the point is we need to help bring people to Christ. And so Well I I don't believe What do you mean by that? I because I think that uh my my thinking is uh in uh um religiously about this or uh that uh you made me think I don't know that I can bring anyone to Christ. Yeah. I don't have that power. I can't make anyone do anything or stop doing anything. Yeah, the power to bring Christ to people? Yes. I guess you're sent that's the point is that we're s see I am sent out from Christ. Okay. Bringing somebody to Christ feels more than like you're going to stick a ring on their nose and bring it to a drink. Or I was Christ himself. Right. You come with me. You come with me. I don't have that power. Right. But I do have the power. You do have the authority to make disciples. Oh yeah. Yeah. And calling them to come follow was definitely a disciple part of the disciple making process. Right, and it would become it it to minister and and I agree there. But I just see myself uh pragmatically or or or You're making a distinction in your heart. In my heart that I'm going out there and I'm saying, here's what Christ has for you. Every Sunday I preach. This is what the Lord has for you. This is what Jesus can do in your life. This is what's available to you. This is the food. This is the the meal. This you know, take it, you know. Here it is for you. And and I think that is I I well obviously it's working. I think it's very important to stay away from being manipulative and trying to strong arm people into things. Okay, I he I hear the heart of what you're saying on that. Yeah. Yeah, and bring Christ to people. Now once upon a time there was a position in the Pietist movement that it would have been this word. It would be wrong to uh to take up arms. Peter Py Rice. Don't hold that at all Um so this might be an unfair question. But anybody that's let's say the Amish, they probably maybe still still hold to that position. They do. Are they theologically wrong? No. Absolutely not. I I don't think it's a theological question. I think that if they choose not to p uh hold arms or if they choose to interpret the Bible in that way, I would not fault them for that. I don't think it's my I don't think I have Jonathan's words the power of the authority. But if they think you're wrong for taking up arms, would they be theologically wrong there? I think they would be closer to being right than I would be to being wrong. Right, because of saying that that don't take up arms unless Unless what? Well, I what would be a situation where you would say it's okay to. Well, I for example you said you carry a gun. Right. I I think one of the times I I was interviewed by uh church one time and uh issued a call to me and I was young and uh small children and they said, Well now would you if someone broke into your house and grabbed your wife and children hypodermically speaking and I said, Would you grow or as I said, yeah, I'd break 'em in half, they would be blood from one end to the other. He says, Well you're not qualified And I said, Show me In scripture. In scripture. And of course he went through several things that he felt would really make an impression upon me and after he finished preaching to me he says, Well what would you do now? I said I doubt if they got as far the second time as he would have the first. So I I think that uh again when you're defending your defending and your wife. When you're defending when you're defending Christ, I would take arms to defend Christ You would? I would. How so I don't know I don't know that I would. Here's how. What if as I see this nation uh I think Christ is under attack? I think Jesus Christ is is being uh attacked. Yeah. Uh and and it's hard not to admit that. I think Christianity Let me say Christ, but let me say Christianity. We're under fire right now. And I'm tak and I shouldn't say take up arms like rifles and things, but I'm taking up the call right now that I believe that we're in a c a war right now And I I see it as a major uh part of of the of the Christian faith. Okay, but what weapons do you use in that one? Well that one I would use the uh prayer Uh preaching of the word. Yes, sure. But that's the same thing. I mean I appreciate where you're going with that. I I think we all agree. We all agree of that. But the we're still dealing with the question. We didn't quite get to it, so maybe next time. Maybe next time. You guys up for one more show next week? Sure, why not? Yeah. All right. Thanks for listening to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty, WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor across Tim May, Pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren. Did I say I'm Troy Skinner? Well, I did just now. Now you are. Visit us online, WFMD. com keyword faith. And I can't remember if I thanked our sponsor again or not either. Some of you did. Yes. Putman, plumbing, and heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks for listening. God bless.